for those who prefer Linux this is
category 5 technology TV starring Ravi
Ferguson Eric kid Rachel's you Hillary
Rumble crystal walls broadcasting from
Barrie Ontario Canada get ready for a
unique and interactive viewing
experience here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to the show it's
episode number 234 of category 5
technology TV Tuesday March the 13 2012
happy st. Patrick's Day a little early
but happy st. Patrick's Day to you
alrighty one I was this couch out there
second alrighty so coming up in the
newsroom a new spectre ii 3d TV that
tracks movements of viewers faces has
hit UK shops and panda labs website was
hacked by members of the Anonymous
hacker group no dear and new privacy
settings in the upcoming release of
ubuntu 12.04 will give users out of
control over what activities are
recorded and a robotic cheetah has
broken speed the record four legged
robots the stick around these stories
are coming up later in the show rich
what's going on oh not too much not too
much nothing very exciting have won a
watery this week not this week good to
see everybody hey Dennis Kelly Chris
Reich Garvey pires rock incidentally
pires rock I heard it a little bit of
walking tonight to be here with us yeah
eight kilometers eight columba's his car
was in the auto shop and he just
couldn't miss the show so that works out
to 4.9 709 6595 for miles good stuff
case you don't know what a kilometer is
does he got any viewer points for being
that faithful I suppose now that you've
said it we kind of have to Reiki you owe
me Pyro's rod and fewer points
yeah oh boy we've got an exciting and
busy show tonight category 5 is now a
member of the tech podcast network find
out more about them at tech podcast com
also we have our mobile site up and
running it's mobile cat five dot TV
check out that site if you're using a
mobile device lots to talk about tonight
I have we're going to be talking about
smart device issues that you may have
with your Wi-Fi also we're going to be
talking about thank you PHP very excited
to be jumping into a new series how
we're gonna be taking you through
beginner and intermediate intermediate
PHP development to myself starting for
beginners what does PHP even stand for I
don't even know what it stands for yeah
it's a language it's a programming
language do you even know I don't know
what does it stand for I mean what does
it stand is it an acronym Chris Reich
says push here please yeah so Robbie's
new site he still wants you to be
sending in postcards definitely for his
a postcard map oh you make it sound so
exciting send in your postcards because
we love to receive your postcards look
at all these what's that 30 got more to
that's just that's just kind of what I
picked up there but anyway here's how
you can send in your postcard send it to
category 5 technology TV postal box 29
00 09 Barrie Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 we
would love to receive your postcards
it's a very cool thing anyways as I was
saying PHP we're going to be learning
we're gonna be starting a series tonight
and tonight we're looking at a raise and
the magic thereof so stick around we're
gonna be learning all about that stuff
also how to protect our our systems with
strong strong passwords
st. Patrick's Day is coming up this
weekend as you know my name is Robbie
Ferguson ok now the show was rated G so
I was like okay well we got it open a
can of ginger ale but here's just as
it's green no it's noah the screen can
yeah that's just that's irony no but
we're it's a g-rated show we're not
allowed to drink beer on the show right
so it looks like beer well this is the
thing chat room I want you to be very
very quiet this is our little secret
because you you know that this is ginger
ale but for the rest of the show there's
gonna be people coming in the chat room
hey what do they do and I they drinking
beer garbe I want you to name the first
word that comes to your head tell me
right now and I need everybody to be
very quiet in the chat room about this
Garvey's word is now okay so if anybody
comes into the chat room at all tonight
and says are they drinking beer or
anything with regards to that the word
of the day is now so shout that word out
in the chatroom flood it cereal a car I
man he'll never know our little secret
any fellow Irish out there okay good
evening happy st. Patrick's Day cheers
now when Eric's on the show and he's got
this it's probably not ginger oh boy oh
boy we've got some viewer testimonials
that came in this week and over the past
little while maybe I'll get you to bring
those up and we'll just give shouts out
we love receiving your viewer
testimonials and you can send those to
us at cat five dot TV / testimonials if
you'd like to tell us what you think of
the show can I get you to bring up those
viewer testimonials we've got a few
there Rachel alrighty let's see what our
viewers have to say all right which one
Rob there's like this massive lease I'll
start at the top we'll work our way down
will read three of them tonight alrighty
so from cyber Smurf I stumbled across
category 5 TV last week while web
smurfing for info on linux and virtual
box what a fantastic site the episode
notes and links multiply the value of
the site by a factor of 10 the emphasis
on community experience and episodes is
wonderful Ravi is a multi-faceted genius
did it really say that or did you just
add that in your cyber Smith thank you
for your vote of confidence is Robbie
and anything to do with a compliment in
that sense just laugh Eric Hilary
Kristen Rachel truly complements the
episodes with their individuals go home
looking forward to joining the chat room
for my first live show so maybe he'll be
there thanks I'm smirk hope you're able
to join us tonight but if not we'll
we'll certainly see you soon and next
ones from Erin he says I consider myself
a fairly tech savvy actor and jumped at
the microsoft lifecam studio when I
realized it did 1080p your post
completely helped me in figuring out why
the frame rate was so bad now I'm using
virtual dub and this webcam for taped
auditions and couldn't be more pleased
thank you so much Robert Oh awesome um
just as long mom do you still want me to
read it well I'll skim the top part
there is from Toby Toby nice to see you
from Wales starts by saying that they
were having some trouble on their
computer getting the chat room and
everything
couple weeks ago a second paragraph so I
took your advice from one of your
episodes and installed debian and the
speed I now have is amazing no bugs it's
perfect and I'm now ready for your next
episode on Tuesday bean and chat was
really awesome nice to have a show just
related to linux and geek questions I
like how you're always ahead the viewers
have a question you know the answers
without using google not no idea how you
remember everything hahaha anyways
thanks to you and everyone at category 5
we're giving us a great show you're all
awesome especially Rachel see you next
week and check thank you everybody for
your view testimonials we'd love to hear
from you we love when you lift us up and
tell us what you think of the show cat
five dot TV / testimonials to send yours
in we've got to take a quick break and
we will be right back and don't go away
because tonight again we're going to be
looking at PHP we've got lots of great
information and your questions I'll so
stick around see you in the chat room at
category five dot TV at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV and we're
online at triple w category five dot TV
send in your questions live at category
five dot TV how many times can i say
category five on TV and a sentence send
in your questions jump into the chat
room we'd love to have you there always
fun to interact all right so we do have
a question here from Raven Lord hey
Raven Lord he said hello Ravi f.category
five team what DD Wert is that a word DD
wrt just tell her it's wart do I need
award for my wnr 3500 el router okay
keep keep that up on the screen so I'm
probably gonna need those specs I'm
going to head over to dd-wrt DD wrt com
let's take a quick look here okay where
I want to go here is the router database
up at the top here see that okay hop in
there let's do a search for that
particular model of router sorry what
was that Rachel was a wnr 3500 l there
does the netgear wnr2000 it it's a
broadcom 4718 a that's the chipset it's
going to tell us everything that we need
to know and here are the files that we
need so you'll notice the first thing
here is a special file for initial
flashing because here's the thing
sometimes you run into this with these
with these routers when you want to
upgrade to dd-wrt as your firmware
that's an open source firmware that
gives you tons of commercial level
features for free sometimes you'll come
across this where there's an initial
file for flashing what that does is it
basically it wipes out your the flash
that's built in and then gives you the
ability to upgrade to one of the the
full-size basically the dd-wrt
installation so let's take a look so
first of all you're going to need that
file right netgear double about a
special file for initial flashing from
there it becomes up to you okay now it's
the any WD version and the database
tells us that's what we want so that's
good so what you want to know is what's
what scale of dd-wrt do you want because
this is an amazing you know excellent
router you can fit the big generic in
there so you might download that for the
most you know the biggest possibility as
far as feature set goes and then there
are other options as well VPN voice over
IP mini but i would say just go with the
big and then that gives you all the you
know the major features you can do the
comparison as per the f
sewed a couple weeks ago we were talking
about dd-wrt and and being able to
compare that so take a look at episode
number 232 I believe it was and if not
you can search our site as well for
dd-wrt alright i'll post a link for you
to the red or database but essentially
it's DD wrt com click on the red or
database and then do a search for your
particular model of router that's going
to make sure that you get the proper
files okay one quick mention as well
while I'm on this page for you you'll
notice that this router is supported by
multiple different versions different
builds of dd-wrt okay so if if necessary
or if you have trouble with a particular
build you can revert to an older build
or something like that you'll notice
that each of them is labeled as in betta
so you may encounter issues you may not
so give it a go let us know how it goes
do being be mindful that yeah you're
probably you know you're you want to be
careful when you do a flash like this
because you could damage the redder in
that you're wiping it out and putting in
a new software right so make sure you
follow the steps which is install the
the initial file for flashing and then
install from there and just follow the
prompts it's pretty straightforward and
then follow the big generic installation
so good luck let us know how it goes
okay we appreciate that this is category
5 technology TV and we're online a
triple w category five dot TV so
everyone's talking about how how can you
be wearing that sweater in such a warm
day but I'm saying it's not that warm
here yet it's not pretty soon we'll have
a central air though yeah Pyro's Rock
said it was 30 degrees when you walked
all the way serious watch the show yeah
it's nothing like that here it's kind of
comfortable under these lights tonight
working on our tans those in backstage
pass you know what I'm talking about
alright
no other questions in the chat room for
us tonight give a chance they're talking
about weather and we just we don't allow
that folks not when Christie is not here
what kind of exciting questions you have
asked something about rob e as something
to get him going I'm not Robbie with her
I'm rob dash ye I'm Rob and so he's Rafi
Rafi so I always forget the nidus daddy
I kick around the shins Ian does that
which which you know that's that's
appropriate when you whenever you're
setting up should we try that sentence
whenever you're installing software
setting yourself up on a website with a
login right you need to give a password
it's very important that that password
be something that's safe what we're
seeing a lot of these days is people
tend to and maybe you're guilty of this
as well we tend to think well I don't
want to have to remember a thousand
passwords so when i sign up for twitter
it's the same password is when i signed
up for facebook and here's the scary
thing it's the same password as when i
sign up for my online banking or paypal
hope you can see the problem with that
what we've been seeing a lot of is
hackers who are taking advantage of the
fact that they know that people are
doing this kind of thing so what they do
is they hack into some of the easier to
hack databases maybe you've signed up
for just some obscure website to
download a program it required you to
sign up and maybe you use that exact
same password well the hackers know well
this guy's email address is so-and-so at
hotmail com so they go to hotmail and
that you know they've hacked the
database they've gotten your pass where
they go to hotmail they log in as you
they change your password now you can't
login to your hotmail then they get all
your contacts and they can spam them
they can do whatever they want or they
can try to hack them but they now have
your email address so that maybe the
email address that's associated with
your paypal account so they go to your
paypal account and they say forgot
password and then all of a sudden they
check your hotmail account
they've got your password for paypal
even if it's different from the one that
they hacked so then they can log into
your paypal account they can transfer
funds and get into your twitter account
whatever they want to do they can do
identity theft financial theft make
purchases things like that so it's very
important not just to have strong
passwords but to have different
passwords for every service that you use
one of the sites that I'd like to show
you today is called simply safe password
dot-com I think it is yeah calm but it's
spelt a little different it's spelt kind
of the apache way SI fe4 safe pas swd
calm and here it is now you've seen
password generation tools before what
makes safe password really interesting
is that it makes them so that their
memorable to you so that it's easier for
you to remember the password but very
very hard for somebody to hack or guess
that brute force so you can select here
whether you like your password to be
easy to remember whether you'd like it
to be all characters which is the most
secure way to do it but let's say easy
to remember and we'll set the slider
here to as many characters as we would
like let's say just a little more than
10 use uppercase and lowercase is
recommended and I'll go new password and
that's what is created for me so me and
my head I can see that that is ? retro
Flair I can call that retro Flair 9 and
in my head now I've got a way to
remember that password even though it so
you know it's a little bit different
it's a little hard to yeah it'll take
you some time but that gives me some
some way to reference that password if I
try again or they say retrofire 9 let's
generate another one make it a little
bit longer new password 239 ? smartness
but look at the way that is laid out oh
and I messed it up by mousing over
because chrome can tend to do that so
you see how that works it creates these
easy to remember passwords will say
that's a state six dollar sign and that
one's strong so you can make them
stronger than that
now if we're going to create really
difficult passwords we can go all
characters most secure let's set it up a
fairly high number of these this is what
you would use when you're generating
databases for your website things like
that and you'll see that it generates a
password that is very strong those are
ones that you don't necessarily have to
remember you don't need them for your
online banking or things like that you
need them for a MySQL connection on your
PHP script or something more
sophisticated like that where you just
need to enter it once or if you're
keeping if you're using a password
memory program it's an opportunity for
you to use very strong passwords that
are going to protect you from those
kinds of exploits and people being able
to hack your password very important
stuff mm-hmm questions for us it's live
at category 5 TV or of course you can
join us in the chat room it's at
category five dot TV on our website or
if you're on freenode it's the IRC
server irc.freenode.net you can also
join us in the chat room its category 5
this is category 5 technology TV thanks
for joining us everybody my name is
Robbie Ferguson I don't think we got to
introduce ourselves yet tonight that's
what got me at the beginning cuz i'm so
used to I was sitting waiting on a loop
in your curveball waiting for that old
loop I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm reaches
your Sona dinner time I'm like I'm sorry
I didn't say on Robbie Ferguson says
she's like what do I do I don't even
know yeah my oh my yeah oh dear she
still didn't introduce herself does
anyone know who you are but Berta Bob
Berta it's interesting that we're
drinking spartacus ginger ale there we
go Spartacus yes ginger it anyway I was
in the chatroom you be Peter who just
came in do it saw a really interesting
kind of puzzling issue this week which I
wanted to share with you because it's
something that I've never really thought
of what
something how to spell your name or
something is that what I'm about to
share with the viewers I've never really
thought of how to do it it was really
interesting to learn Oh ah Rachel Rachel
Rachel already she's Rachel shoe MA
we've got a unique situation arising for
smartphone users and smart device users
I mean how many people use a device like
this or a tablet and what do we do we
set it so that it uses our Wi-Fi
bandwidth right these things are getting
smarter and smarter better and better
and these days for example the iphone
the ipod touch they actually synchronize
they use iCloud and they even get their
iOS updates as soon as you get access to
to Wi-Fi so you walk into the house and
all of a sudden oh great I'm sinking
fantastic interesting case that we
encountered this week I actually have a
bit of a screen grab here and and
thought you know the thought kind of
goes out about businesses and you know a
company where you know you've got let's
say a 1 Meg upstream connection right
and Joe Blow user who works at the
office walks into the office and all of
a sudden their iphone starts to sink to
the server they think nothing of it it's
in their pocket here we had a customer
who has a one meg internet service and
we didn't screen grab the whole thing
but you'll see here that their mountain
wall is reporting here's their one Meg
line up at the top there and you'll see
that they actually got some spikes that
approached that one Meg line this is
what happened when somebody walked in
with their iphone and it began to sink
to iCloud so I never really had thought
about that before but the reason that we
were put on to this is because the
customer actually contacted us and said
our internet is dreadfully slow right
now what is going on and we got looking
into it and couldn't believe that this
person actually literally just walked in
with your iphone and it started to sink
and it
maxed out their upstream bandwidth and
it was actually a flat line at the one
meg mark didn't know you know nobody has
the quality of service necessarily set
up for their I devices or their their
tablets and things like that so just
kind of made me think and and that you
know maybe makes you think about your
Wi-Fi at the office your Wi-Fi at home
when you actually enter the building you
want that device actually ended up
turning off my device tonight because I
just didn't want to risk it because I've
never really thought of that I haven't
either cuz i don't even know one so who
would happens wonder i wonder i'd be
interested to know and part me in the
chat room do you have a smart device
where you maybe have never thought of
this the fact that as soon as you get
access to Wi-Fi of a sudden it starts
doing something on your Wi-Fi network
what would happen if it maxed out your
broadband internet even just for you
know five minutes as it synchronizes
garbey ask ravi kant qos be set up for
everything not explicitly set up to be
set to the lowest priority sure quality
of service is a feature of some
commercial routers dd-wrt upgrades
better reber systems mono wall of course
but do you necessarily does everyone
necessarily have that set up it's a
great service for those in the know and
who want to set that up but in the
meantime when you're setting up your
Wi-Fi on your w on your device how is
that going to affect your internet
connection when you enter the building
just an interesting thought to me i am
through the roof geeky
oh boy any questions for us in the chat
room here we go Josh just summarize hey
John I was surprised I'm like this must
be the first recover he hasn't been here
mm-hmm any questions hello nerdlings of
Roberta wonders of live TV you did not
know that she was gonna say that you're
calling yourself a nerd all the time yes
alrighty well we've got news to head
into we've got lots of stuff to to get
to get rockin alrighty then so let's see
what kind of exciting stuff we've got
today already when i spec free 3d TV
that tracks movement of viewers faces is
now available in the UK the 55 inch
toshiba is the world's first large
screen glasses-free 3d TV available in
our shops start saving now though it'll
cost more than 7,000 pounds which is
about eleven thousand dollars Canadian
oh nothing i'll be buying any time soon
and like some digital cameras it can
recognize and follow faces so when you
move it adjust its picture to suit i
think that would be a bit annoying
though if the screens always what would
happen if their weekly but there are two
people watching like it's Super Bowl
Sunday come on over guys whoa trippy six
faces in front of this thing and it
doesn't know what to do but that said
yes Ben 11,000 the holders on something
that you know is gonna come so down in
price yeah but it says it does direct
different images to the left and right
eyes this creates the illusion that the
image is 3d and this isn't the world's
first back free 3d TV to relaunch at an
electronics show in Japan in October
2010 but had smudge smaller screens at
only about 12 inches and 20 inches but
these early models saw problems with
picture quality if you done angle and
now other manufacturers will be keen to
to the spec free battle with sony
displaying too impressive prototypes at
the Consumer Electronics Show back in
July so should be interesting to see
when that coming out I was just thinking
that see a CES was in January know if
that was yeah crazy thought it was
January that they announced it useless
thought using sorry will July in January
or two very different things like wait a
second ad all right so hackers
identifying themselves with anti sec
have attacked the website of panda lapse
anti-malware products it follows the
recent arrest of an alleged member of
the movement alongside others linked to
the loo SEC hacking collective the
site's front page was replaced with a
message saying love to loose a can t sec
fallen friends it accused the firm of
having helped police arrest other
hackers last month panda denies a claim
however pandas lab Spanish parent
company panda security so it was
investigating the intrusion but said it
could assure its customers that none of
their information had been compromised
it added that an external server hosting
some of panda lads content had been
targeted with the site being replaced by
an old Walczak video so and also your
computer's operating system keeps track
of what you do and Ubuntu is setting out
to give its users more control over what
the OS can record according to a
Thursday blog post from the Electronic
Frontier Foundation ubuntu linux 12.04
which is now embedded will introduce new
OS wide privacy settings that gives
users a way to delete portions of their
activity log to say blogging it all
together for certain files and
applications or completely disabled
activity logging across the board
Electronic Frontier Foundation web
designer michael e says you can now
delete your gnome activity log from the
past hour day week a specific date range
or everything's stored on your computer
and users can also choose to disable
Ubuntu's logging of activity on their
pigeon chat software I say though they'd
also have to disable pigeons own logging
to eliminate all their chat history Lee
writes to disable all activity logging
on the computer users can simply turn
off the record record activity switch
boon to 12 point oh four will be
released
on April 26 decide interest you at all
it does yeah it sure does and then also
a headless robot dub cheetah has set a
new world speed record according to its
owners the US Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency said the four-legged
machine achieved 18 miles per hour on a
laboratory treadmill that's nothing
compared to how fast pires rock walk to
get on the show do you have any like
video of that i know of it going guru
and the agency said the previous land
speed record by a leg drobot was 13.1
miles per hour DARPA said that the
project was part of efforts to develop
robots designed to more effectively
assist war fighters across a greater
range of missions what do you think if
that was coming towards you have 30
miles an hour 30 kilometers an hour hmm
8 that would be like what is that ok
yeah I've seen some of the other ones in
motion and they're quite ridiculous all
right get the full stories that category
5 TV news room the category 5 TV news
room is researched by roy w nash with
contributions for our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is where the Avani i mentioned
email newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room i'm rachel shoot
thanks Rachel tonight's episode of
category 5 technology TV is brought to
you by the official electrical company
of category 5 quarter electric find out
more at quarter eee electric com also
garden gate farms com for certified
organic broccoli sprout and wheatgrass
juice visit them online garden gate
farms com this is category 5 technology
TV i'm your host Robbie ferguson we've
got even through this how many times
John just got here he doesn't know who
you are poor jot I'm Rachel Shoojit in
case you didn't know yet Rachel she
Rachel shoot so what fabulous PHP things
do we have to you know today we are
learning about some fabulous PHP things
tonight I'm going to show you how to get
started on our well we're doing a series
we're going to be actually setting up a
PHP application and we're going to do it
live on the show but it's giving you an
opportunity as always I'm going to
provide for you the source code and
everything so that you can actually
follow along you don't need much all you
need as a server or a computer with PHP
installed an Apache to be able to
connect to that computer and we're going
to walk you through how to set up
tonight we're going to start with
basically setting up an image array do
you approve all right here's the thing
Rachel you are my proxy if you don't
learn something tonight I'm at fault
okay if I'm speaking over your head and
nobody stands up for you that's Rachel's
fault so Rachel you need to be my proxy
you need to oh I just wrote what's a
proxy is that a student let's just take
a moment drink do you fight its elite
ginger ale you're gonna have to really
layman's terms it Oh Rachel all the
information needs to flow through you
mm-hmm and if I'm not making any sense
you need to stop that information flow
and say hold up what does that mean wait
a second I don't understand that can you
explain that okay take quite a while
though Oh be here for 10 hours okay I
haven't even got past the first sentence
yet Rachel can you explain it for gonna
shake Rachel its echo hello world
semicolon please we're gonna get a
little more advanced than that tonight
I'm gonna make the assumption that you
know a little bit about PHP but or
especially a little bit about HTML but
it doesn't really matter because as long
as you follow along you're going to
understand what's going
on that's the hopes I've got a folder
here Rachel day there we go got a couple
of images here huh
you're so much more creative than I okay
it's not gimps fault that I can't draw
just so you know tonight we're going to
take that we're going to put it into an
image array and we're going to actually
cycle through that i'm going to show you
what that means so let's get started
first of all bring up our website cat
five dot TV / web dev that's where our
web development takes place and you will
see there there's a file called blank
index dot zip that's a helpful little
file that that you want to get your
hands on because it just gives you a
starting point it's just an index file
so when I open that it's got some of the
base stuff already set up for us so
we've gotta you know all the HTML tags
open and close so tonight we're going to
get started with creating our array
first of all you'll notice everything
here pretty much as HTML not PHP within
our body of the HTML that's where we're
going to actually put our PHP whenever
we open and close PHP that's how we do
it okay it's important to you know we're
going to try to stick to form tonight
and we're going to create an array for
these images so first of all what I'm
going to do let's get those images up on
our server and I'm going to give you a
place that you can look anytime that we
work on web development here category 5
you stick it up at demo dot cat5 TV and
create a folder called 0 11 so if you
want to go to demo cat five dot TV / 0
11 I'm going to upload those images here
we go there so those are up
there's a few people here saying that
the screen has paused when you opened up
PHP module okay there we are demo cat5
TV / 0 11 / images okay so there's our
images that we're going to be
incorporating into our PHP array okay so
what I'm going to do I'm going to save
this file that's going to be our index
file for this particular array I'm going
to save that I'll put that on my desktop
for the moment but we're going to
actually upload that to our server and
as I say you're going to need a spot to
host these files you can get that
through cat5 TV / web dev you'll see
there's a great deal there or of course
if you've got your own hosting or have
just installed php5 on your system now
what i've done is i've uploaded index
dot PHP so i can edit that directly on
the server all right so first things
first we know that we've got images in
the images folder we've got one two
three and four so we're going to create
an array and basically what an array is
it's a map of information that has
values associated with the keys of that
information so if i say i've got an
array called dollar sign Rachel and in
that array I've got Rachel image I've
got Rachel number I've got Rachel file
something like that you'll understand
that in just a minute you're ready to
understand that right yes yes just like
I've understood everything thus far you
you're my proxy remember okay so we're
going to go we're going to call this our
image images array so this is it looks
like a string right now but what we're
going to do is we're going to turn it
into an array like that okay watch what
happens here I'm going to go dollar sign
V is going to be our counter we're going
to start it at zero and we're going to
increment that so what we're going to do
is we're going to say images dollar sign
v
and at the bottom here let's say we go
incremental sang v equals B plus one
alright for short form V plus plus so
now don't copy that V equals zero
because we never want to reset that now
if I do this right then I've got null
values for images 0 images one because V
was incremented right here and then
images to at the bottom here because V
was already incremented here so let's go
file alright so we're going to go let's
create an association on that all right
a key so file equals images 1 dot jpg
okay so our first part of the array says
images dollar sign V which we know is
equal to 0 and the file is images 1 dot
PHP now let's do the same thing over
here images to jpg and Rachel if there
are questions in the chat room that are
applicable to this then feel free to
pass along if you have any questions
just get in the chat room there yeah is
so far ok I can copy this we're gonna go
for ok so now what I'm going to do is
I'm going to actually output that so
that you can see print our means i'm
going to show the values of that array
i'm going to save that to the server and
let's see what happens refresh
and you'll see that now we have an array
within our body and that's in fact what
it looks like so array 0 file images 1
jpg one file to jpg see where I'm
getting that ok so now we've got it
associations with these keys so if i
call the array which is called images
and I call this the key number three the
file in that key is going to be file
number four so watch what happens now if
I go echo which is basically to create
output image source look at the HTML
that I'm doing here good guy asked why
didn't you use the V variable as a
subscript and avoid duplicating the code
where because i want to show i want
we're starting with the bare minimums
here we're going to really get started
with the basics and we can grow from
there so what i'm doing here now let's
set something up that's static notice
what I let's pretend that I've got image
source equals quote quote all right and
our command with a set ' semicolon
notice that this output is within two
apostrophes okay and within here within
these two quotes I'm going to go ' dot '
and in here i'm going to go dollar sign
images let's say three file okay so you
understand what's going to happen there
is it's actually going to put in the
file name for dollar sign images three
which is not file three it's in fact 0 1
2 3 it's going to be the fourth image in
our set so if I save that refresh it's
the fourth image okay so what we can do
now here's what's amazing this is the
magic of a PHP array watch what we can
do now there's a couple we could get
into while statements and things but we
don't have time for
to understand the difference between
while and for each so we're going to
actually loop through that array now
that we've created it we're going to put
all four of those images dynamically so
we're going to go for each okay which is
basically a loop through this array and
we're saying the array is images we
don't really need to know what the key
is so the number the 0 1 2 3 so we'll
just go value let's say okay so what's
happening there is that I'm going to
loop through my array and I'm going to
assign value to what's found so if i'm
currently at images for three the value
is going to contain file equals images
for okay so watch what happens here i'm
going to go i'm going to comment this
out i'm going to go echo dollar sign
value let's do a print are so you can
really get what I'm saying here print
our dollar sign value okay and what
that's going to do I'm going to echo a
br as well no its echo a PR which is a
paid you know carriage return there we
go okay if i refresh that it's going to
give me the file names the through that
loop so you see it's created four
outputs because it's looping through
alright so what I can do with that and
once you grasp this it's it's so
incredibly powerful that you can do so
much with this and we're really really
starting basic here what I need to do is
I need to change this because we're no
longer looping through images we've got
dollar sign value so what we want to do
is we want to go image sources value
file okay let's save that upload and
refresh and you'll see that it's
actually loaded all four images
okay let's take a one step further so
that we can understand more how the
array associates itself how the values
are associated with the output of for
each if you have questions from the chat
room you just let me know okay so let's
go images this is where arrays get
exciting because watch this okay so now
I've created a second key within you
know the first time through that dollar
sign V so dollar sign v is equal to zero
at this point so the description that's
associated with this particular key in
the array is now image one and I've also
got a file so if i were to print our
that watch the difference here there it
is so now my array looks like this do
that but it's the only one that has a
description the rest do not so
we're going to take that we're going to
add a carriage return after every image
let's make it two just to keep things
real clean and simple so now it's going
to look like this okay and what we're
going to do is right after this image
output we're going to go echo carriage
return which is a br okay semicolon now
an if statement here's our first if
statement if is set dollar sign value
description' echo dollar sign value
description okay
our first image now has both the image
and the description below it the
subsequent images are just images
because we didn't assign descriptions to
those that's the very most basic kind of
look at how an array is going to work
for us but what we're going to be able
to do is we're going to be able to turn
this into kind of like a full gallery
component so that we can click on those
images and they're going to bring up a
bigger image for example so the power of
a PHP array allows us to do basically
like flat file database in the stew
cycle through data in such a way that we
can interpret it we can output it to our
website and it just it makes for a
really outstanding way to understand
data in PHP and also to be able to send
that data to two cookies be able to send
that to databases be able to interpret
data bases as arrays and it'll lead to
some pretty cool stuff yes it all makes
perfect sense now perfect sense
questions in the chat room at this point
again the source code for that is going
to be made available to you in the show
notes of episode number 234 and again
that is just the very quick entry level
of cycling through a PHP array so if
you're not even at entry level what
we're gonna get you there pre entry
level what about at this is how you turn
your computer on this big button here I
don't get it man any questions in the
chat room with regards to PHP at this
point getting things started didn't
catch anything nothing yet okay well
we'll move along then thank you very
much and I hope that I hope that you're
able to follow along with this series
and and enjoy what you're seeing I try
not to get too technical with with a lot
of the stuff that we do on the show but
there is a growing demand for this type
of not technical at all well like I say
the the the code is going to be made
available to you so hopefully using that
and then following along with the video
as well all of a sudden you're going to
realize that wow this stuff actually
makes sense and if you have questions I
mean next week maybe you will have
looked at that code maybe you will have
tried it for yourself and at that point
maybe that will raise some questions for
you so al ket has a question he said you
intend to continue with PHP especially
with 00 p PHP i I don't know how you
mean like am I going to continue
programming in PHP absolutely no
questions about the feature itself and
with that will say you know if you have
any other questions as far as object
oriented we're looking at a raise right
now tonight but we'll be looking at
objects as well for sure has anyone else
sent in the knees stop-motion animation
or anything they've done well we haven't
done stop motion in a while but we
haven't seen any yeah like I say Dave
may do we'll be looking at object
oriented PHP down the road if there's a
demand for that but I mean we need to
understand the bare minimums at the base
you know a razor kind of an entry level
compared to object orientation so cool
well I'd love to receive a couple
questions we got like 10 minutes here
folks and being a live show here's your
opportunity this is it any questions
what's new with you my question yeah we
haven't got really much time to chat
tonight not too much just doodling and
drying and we're on these days getting
ready ever more cartoons making a an
Easter cartoon for cat five excellent
the cartoon tonight that you saw that
Rachel created the one where she's
drawing in the GIMP and get that off of
our photo gallery category 5 TV just
follow the link all right so no
questions I can't believe it like I mean
real questions I there's a lot of
opinion questions in the chat room well
you're going to do is you're going to
try that or you can do that do you like
this do you like that but what we want
is your real genuine questions with
regards to you know what what what tech
questions do you have that are that are
troubling you or that you don't really
know the answer to or that I can help
you with I want to be more help than
just giving you opinion polls right so I
did the time change effect viewers who
wanted to watch a live show yeah but
that's a bit annoyed about that sorry
John follow me on that's why he was late
follow us on Twitter category 5 TV down
there on Twitter myself there I am
Robbie Ferguson no I'm short tonight and
you would have known and also folks we
do have a really cool feature on our
website category 5 TV / time zones dot
PHP that will show you what time we are
live every week in your area
hey Dave may do good guy I'll kit kit
you're a kid what's new in your life
with computers and everything I don't
have twitter Jameson yeah I don't I
don't know if anyone would want to
follow what I'm doing all day Atari man
5,000 wants to know what can you really
store in an array and and while we
started with very kind of basic you know
single level single tiered array tonight
it's pretty much limitless as far as
what you can put in there and the way
that you can structure than the way that
you can flow through that data even so
much is just creating you know a nice
output for kind of spreadsheet layouts
on your screen and stuff will kind of
look at that kind of stuff and we're
going to look at how looping through
that array is going to allow us to
manipulate the way that our site looks
also just data collection being able to
grab stuff from a like you think about
our website to put it into perspective
what an array can do when you go to the
show notes of our site each line of the
show notes is part of an array and it's
all output to you when you look at the
chat logs each line of the chat logs
that's all part of an array in its
output and colorized based on the the
array right Michael Iowa it says Robbie
can we play category 5 live on the boxee
box Boxey I don't think live you might
be able to add the RSS feed if you've
got the ability to add RSS feeds I we
don't have a specific app for the boxee
box I know now that we're part of the
the tech podcast network you're going to
see us on the roku and things like that
I'm not so sure I'm not sure about boxy
at this point I know unfortunately our
one of our syndicates blip TV is pulling
out of some of the syndication areas and
that is going to leave you know boxy in
the dust and things like that can you
you have the ability good guy says to
add an RSS feed to Boxxy so get
on to our website category 5 TV or if
you want to get straight to their it's
cat five dot TV / RSS and from there
you'll see a list of the different feeds
that are available to you and best one
to get would probably be well let's
bring it up it's going to be the h.264
cat5 TV / RSS is just a hot link that's
going to take you there there you go the
one that says recommended for non HD
that's going to give you a reasonable
quality file pardon me the HD h 264 is
going to give you the full 720p so you
may want that if you if you have an HDTV
if you're using like a CRT TV connected
your boxee box just go with the SD
because that's all your television can
handle anyways so be a slightly smaller
download and not refer us my pogoplug
loses his connection from time to time
after the 24 hour reconnect and doesn't
get it back ideas i normally unplug the
power and put back in yeah that's weird
is that a 24-hour reconnection what
what's causing that is that a part of
your ISP is that a part of your router
can you fill us in on that because
typically the pogoplug is going to stay
connected as long as it has an internet
connection if it's dropping out there's
something up with your internet or
something that's causing it to lose its
connection there let us know
are the cat five episodes downloadable
from the cat5 website they are are all
episodes available yes but here's here's
where it can get confusing because
people look at like for example you
bring up the HD feed and you say well I
can't find episode 10 or 11 that's a
little joke for garbey but the thing is
is that back then we didn't have HD
right so if you want some of those
really early episodes you need to step
away from the HD feed and get into one
of the low-quality feeds because that's
what they were broadcast in at that time
so they're on Nero internet TV we're
going to see syndication across multiple
different platforms coming up there on
youtube so you can search for them for
sure are they available streaming
directly off of our website on the
current website that's not the case we
are currently doing better testing on
the v3 website which is very very
exciting this is our new version of the
website which is coming out as soon as
it's ready and the intention is to have
every single episode that ever it was
available recorded episode 11 as the
exception due to a computer crash at
that time where we lost the files so
every episode except for one of the
entire you know 234 episodes are going
to be available for you on the new
website alright and a rapper just said
yes it is part of the ISP I guess your
is fine actually so we're backing up a
little bit to that compete with that
router restarting every 24 hours that is
annoying and and as far as that goes i
mean if you're in the middle of a
connection you lose your connection at
that time right can it does your isp
force that or can you request that they
stop that and can you confirm that is
not a feature of your your router i had
i was looking at a customer's site once
where they said that they were losing
connection on a regular basis and i went
into their router and it turned out that
they had a setting setup to
automatically restart the router once a
day so i would encourage you to double
check on that just in
case if if on the other hand it is your
isp ask them if they can stop doing that
but it may be they may be trying to
prevent people from doing the exact
thing that you're doing so tough to say
my friend and there's really if it's
locking things up there's really no way
around that right hmm sorry just
watching the chat room here folks for
those of you who are watching after the
fact it flies by thanks everybody has
fun tonight hope you had a good time I
certainly learned a lot did you mm-hmm
you're kind you're gonna know tons about
PHP when this is all said and done you
got to watch back though yeah I don't I
don't even know if watching I'll just
I'll just fine hey Jameson 55 79 says
well if you lost episode 11 you could
reenact it and that's exactly what
episode 12 is so go back and you'll see
and I probably talked about it as a time
or yeah maybe it was 14 or something
garbey is mentioning we didn't we did do
it make good so that was a long time ago
oh dude don't worry about it oh you need
to make a still mention it yeah that was
back in dost Linux 1.6 it was only that
boy oh boy that was back when lindos was
still in existence linds fire really
under there yeah well hey everybody
thanks do send in your questions we did
get a lot of questions tonight and and
trying to keep up with the chat room is
tough but you can email us through the
week live at category five dot TV this
here is an amazing device it's called a
telephone and we now have one
and it works it's got a dial tone you
can give us a call it's 2 545 cat5 TV
that rings in Texas and it gets
forwarded way up here so give us a call
to 545 cat5 TV and you have a great week
thanks for being here ray yeah nice
being here again have you seen Patty's
Day everybody and we'll see you next
Tuesday night
