[Music]
part of why I love the Raspberry Pi
computers the micro computers because I
love making I love tinkering I love
messing around and creating little
circuits and doing things I've been
working on this circuit where I've been
doing micro circuitry for the first time
ever and it's okay can you see that yes
can you see that can you see though yeah
yeah really really are you working on so
I'm building an LED strip that's going
to dance to music oh okay it's a fun
little project but they are one
millimeter resistors right the resistors
are super super tiny and I'm soldering
these with my helping hands so I've got
my helping hands it's got a nice little
light on it and it's got some
magnification but not a huge amount
so I'm actually soldering underneath of
this working like this I've got it in
the helping hands and I'm using a tip of
my soldering iron it's really tough
that's really tough but then along comes
this little guy over here which is a sub
$100 magnifying screen basically okay
but this has from one to six hundred
times optical zoom six hundred times
okay so it comes with this base I'll
show you this right over here you can
see the base and I can move this up and
down to get different focus and then
I've got a focus knob on the front here
so a couple of things that I love about
this first of all obviously this is I
think going to make things a lot easier
for me I'm gonna bring it up on the
screen for you in just a moment so that
you can see whether you agree but it
also records and that's how I'm going to
be able to do that it takes hor it takes
a micro SD card and you can record at
1080p so if you want to do a
demonstration or if you want to do a
vlog of your soldering or I using it for
soldering you can use this to look at
little critters with the kids whatever
you can do with a microscope right but
this is a video microscope if you will
so it's available for under $100 a cat5
dot TV slash microscope and let's let's
actually fire it up so that you can see
what it looks like so I just I'm gonna
turn it on and it does get about six
hours of battery life on a single charge
it comes with a lithium battery that
comes with the charger and you can just
plug it in charge it and it'll run for
six hours apparently okay on a single
charge so I'm gonna fire it up I'm gonna
hit record here alright and I'm
recording just like that so now look at
this guy's okay no I'm completely out of
focus yes you are I can move up look at
the hairs all not finger okay I'm gonna
adjust the focus there Wow isn't that
nuts and I'm recording this this is I
tend your hairs I can't grow hair look
at that okay so now I can get my little
soldering gig in here that I've been
working on and I'm gonna be able to see
and why am i showing you this
how bad my soldering job has been with
the helping hands let's get it in there
alright so now it starts to come clear
so you can see how difficult this would
have been for me without this kind of
magnification so now oh and I've got
some flux there I got to get this all
cleaned up now that I can look at those
so that's what I did so now I can put
that in just like that and then I've got
my soldering tools and I can get in
there and fix it up or do what I need to
do to do some really microscopic
soldering that's what I wanted this for
but for under a hundred bucks you could
I would find things to like sure I want
to get slides I want to get the kids in
yeah I want to show them what your blood
looks like looks like don't worry it's
only gonna hurt for a minute kids know
what magnification do you have on right
now well it's it's impossible for me to
know the exact magnification Jeff
because it's based on height okay no
okay so that's less magnification up
there so if I focus in right okay so now
if I if I move down roll it down I can
get right in there and then focus it see
if I can focus that close not quite so
let's bring it up just a bit
lock it still a little too far down okay
here we go
so that would be like the high end well
okay so looks like I can get in a little
closer yep there you go there we go that
is unreal that's a terrible soldering
joint right there so there's the
resistor that I've been soldering on and
you look at that blob of solder and
think okay well that is that's
microscopic by the human eye right those
are only one millimeter that's and that
is a terrible soldering job probably I'm
so embarrassed but there you have it
folks that's that is available at cap
five dot TV slash microscope it's gonna
take you to our shop and then you can
choose where you want to buy it from we
carry it on Amazon and everywhere else
it works fantastically well I'm
impressed it's going to make my solder
all the better and I'm looking forward
to you know getting some critters and
getting the kids to see hey what does a
fly look like let's get it let's get in
there put it in a little Tupperware
container and get a look from above yeah
and see what things look like your
soldering can't get worse like zero can
see Thank You us for that at this moment
in time but I'm thinking I will find
things for that
oh yes play oh look at my finger hairs
[Applause]
