welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 552 and tonight
oh boy if we got a fun show for you you
know why well Jeff decided that it's
it's important to work and so he's
working tonight and so we decided that
we need to make it so that we have so
much fun that he regrets that decision
for a very long time I hope you're
watching oh my friends my friends I want
can I can I show them am I allowed to
show them yeah yeah you can show them
we're gonna be looking at a retro pie
gaming system that will fit with any
decor
and will throw you back to the 1980s
we're gonna do it ourselves and we're
gonna do it on the cheap using a
Raspberry Pi 3 model B+ and free
software oh it's gonna be a lot of fun
Sasha before we get into the show Before
we jump into it happy birthday this
weekend
thank you just needed to say it happy
birthday thank you this for you no it's
not for me I can't wait to show you my
goodness
stick around this is category 5
technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit our website
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat 5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV /ia
i feet welcome to the show i have to put
that down for just a minute then i'm
gonna get it back out again
hey I'm Robbie I'm Sasha how are ya lots
to cover this week we've got a
jam-packed show for you just a reminder
category 5 TV shirts are still available
thank you to everyone who has purchased
one so far head on over to cap v dot TV
slash shirts to get yours and
incidentally we are just waiting to
receive your photographs right Yeah
right totally take a picture of yourself
you know what category you don't take a
picture of yourself in your new category
5 shirt and then when you're emailing
contest at category 5 dot TV o include
it yeah oh wow we're like we're cross
promoting the contest here because then
you would have the shirt on and also
you'd have a chance to win dat effect to
VR oh you would probably totally win
that you would win it immediately if you
yeah if you were wearing one of our
shirts we just be like you got it
you got it buddy also category 5 TV is
now on Google Play Music you can get
there through our website or you can
just search for category 5 on Google
Play of course but if you want to see
what other ways that you can tune into
the show if you go to category 5 dot TV
slash subscribe you'll be able to to see
that and there's a little Google Play
icon next to our show and you can tune
in through google play music which is
cool because it's like a podcast so you
can listen to it during the commute or
when you're when you're riding the train
or you can pre download it and prepare
yourself or for the sweet smooth tones
that's right now I don't have to do my
hair anymore I know we just turn off the
camera half of the half of the time
we're spending half hour before the show
trying to figure out how to make the
camera go so you know we just we'll just
turn it right off there that's the show
from here on in
welcome to category 5 TV thank you for
tuning in this see that's perfect
actually at my work they always say oh
you're you would be so great on the
radio which I don't know that that's
actually a compliment what people say
that yeah it seems a little bit not a
compliment that's that's that could be
taken two ways you you might want to try
kicking them and then see how they
respond and be like what there's a comp
what's wrong with my face
yeah yeah all right and everything
speaking of cable yeah or not cable but
definitely TV and entertainment have you
noticed that they have made a remake on
Netflix of lost in space I have noticed
you've noticed but you haven't watched
no how could I possibly notice that this
is the thing and not watched you've been
busy doing other things I have been busy
with with my VR headset from my awesome
computer right what Dave's awesome so
you're doing VR rather than watching
lost in space you need to you need to
budget your time in such a way that you
can do both it's a little bit ridiculous
it's very it's very hard and if any of
you are watching and you have a VR
headset it means you're doing a great
job budgeting your time by taking your
headset off to watch the show maybe
you're watching us in VR space that's
right we're on a TV in your pristine VR
living which you can do I have a VR
living room it is fantastic it's
beachside nice oceans I'm we're really
enjoying it anyways okay the one the one
mistake if you will that we made in
watching lost in space is that we
included one of my children in it and
she loves it and we all loved it but now
I feel like I have to wait until
Saturday when I can watch another
episode right I want to just sit down
and watch
the next episode well let's hope she
behaves all of the times I feel like TV
is one of the things as a parent you
take away when children are misbehaving
and now you cannot do that because
nobody sits we've watched the first two
episodes I've I've enjoyed it anyway
isn't and having watched the show as a
very young person like like my youngest
child's age yes seven eight years old
kind of idea it's definitely different
but I loved I wanted to see how they
would interpret the ideas the concepts
behind the show lost in space in a in a
technological world that we live in
where right CGI as a as a thing I am
really eared or watch it I'm very eager
it's been really good so far now two
episodes in really enjoying it if you've
seen it let us know what you think have
you binge tit have you watched the whole
thing no spoilers but tell us what you
think of the show another show that I'm
looking forward to that I have not
started yet is Legion season 2 I've
mentioned Legion before yes
we've tried kind of the superhero
spin-offs and and these kinds of shows
and never liked them like the flash was
I wanted it to be good but the dialogue
was vally like in the way that it's like
it's like written for kids it seems like
I don't know what the writers are what
the target demographic is but it felt
like the dialogue was like juvenile
juvenile that's a really good word and
so we couldn't get into it so this one
Legion really felt like hey they've
really done something cool here there's
a lot of character development which you
don't get in a lot of those kind of
action like fantasy shows with with
superheroes and things so and it's
trippy it's really tricky ah I need to
get myself into that cuz I never watched
Allegiant Season 1 and now that there's
2 seasons I really enjoyed season 1 I
really actually enjoy waiting I like to
binge watch right so I like to
accumulate a couple of seasons in a show
before I actually invest my time into it
there's nothing I dislike more now that
I have the ability there's nothing that
I dislike more than waiting week by week
our show so I like now that whole
season's get released right so now that
there's two seasons that actually is
more enticing to me okay yeah we don't
binge but we do like with lost in space
we watched the first two episodes in the
same night because that was like a
two-hour movie to do that so but then
it'll be like one a week kind of thing
that's that's the plan I think right
some something to look forward to yeah
let us know what you're watching what
you're enjoying lots of great shows
coming out this this season quickly yes
over the past few weeks there have been
some changes with cryptocurrency
like Manero and turtle coin if you've
been mining these coins the algorithm
has changed so what does that mean as
far as there's a thing called an ASIC
okay and I wrote it down so that I
wouldn't mess up what the acronym stands
for application-specific integrated
circuit okay and what an ASIC is is
manufacturers companies that want to
mine
lots of cryptocurrency will create chips
dedicated circuits that are designed to
mine specific currencies okay so this is
what happened to Bitcoin Bitcoin was
easy to mine at first for consumers like
us
and on traditional hardware on our CPUs
and GPUs but then the Asics came along
and because they are designed
specifically to mine that cryptocurrency
and they're so much faster at it and so
much more powerful than our consumer
gear because that's their one thing that
they do right now all of a sudden
Bitcoin is unattainable for someone like
myself so Manero and turtle coin both
are currencies that are trying to combat
the a second saying we do not want a six
on our network okay we want people to be
able to mine this currency on consumer
gear right turtle coin is very
particular about wanting to have people
like you and I able to mine turtle coin
right so when the Asics came out that
mined Monaro and turtle coin mm-hmm
which happened just recently like a few
weeks ago right
they changed the algorithm so that those
chips no longer work on the network so
because the question that the that the
minor has to answer will go unanswered
it just it doesn't interpret it exactly
okay so now what do we do that is it
just a simple update yeah you need to
reinstall your mining software reinstall
your wallet reinstalled like turtle coin
D and your Manero daemon if you're if
you're sinking the blockchain and
basically what it means to you is if
you've been mining in the past you have
to reinstall or upgrade your software
the easiest way like if you're using cap
v TV - miners for example it's a cool
way that you can support category 5 TV
because a portion of the mining that you
do goes to supporting us so you can get
that at cap 5 TV slash miners and
there's more information there there's a
great installer script that you just run
and it will remove the old version
install the new and upgrade and get you
up and running so if you're reinstalling
your wallet you're not losing the stuff
that was I'm talking minor minor right
now but the wallet oh is the Sun of what
I mean by that is reinstalling it is the
software that allows you to access your
wallet if you don't upgrade and you get
payments somebody pays you or you're
mining and you're getting payouts you
will not you will not see them in your
wallet you'll be like why am I not
getting any any turtle coins in an arrow
right so then it's because your wallet
the old version of the wallet can no
longer understand the current version of
the algorithm in the blockchain okay so
so it's important that you upgrade your
miner so that you can continue mining
and your wallet and your your blockchain
daemon if you want to be able to see
your currency to answer your question no
you won't lose anything you don't need
to you don't need to change anything
because your your wallet is just your
ability to access your crypto coin your
your how much you have but the
information itself is stored in the
blockchain right so even if you scrap
your entire computer reinstall
everything install the software from
scratch as long as you know your your
public and private keys for you
for your for your wallet you can
regenerate it because it will sync it
from the blockchain right so the
blockchain is like the ultimate backup
but you have to have your cue you have
to have your keys that I know yes okay
another quick one before we take a break
I wanted to share this because I know a
lot of you viewers run your own websites
maybe you even in business are in charge
of maintaining websites and there's a
really interesting and smart clever but
potentially dangerous piece of bot spam
malware that's going around right now
it's very very interesting when we build
a website we tend to link to other
websites right okay so category 5 TV for
example if somebody blogs about us or
talks about us I might if I know about
it I might link to it from category 5
TV's website so that our viewers can
find it and read it
right in a business you've got your
business site you're linking to your
partners you're linking to your
suppliers you're linking to your
customers maybe in testimonials and
things like that right right here's an
example think about that you're linking
to your customers so what this bot spam
does is it spiders through the internet
it finds your website and it looks for
two things okay one the title of your
website because the title of your
website quite often is what your company
name yeah right so category five TV
network mm-hmm that's the title of my
website and to all the exit links on my
website now with my title it goes to
every exit link on my website and it
finds the contact information on that
website be they emails
be they online forms that get submitted
to ok receptionist or whatever and what
it does now is so it has an association
that says category 5 TV network is
associated with this customer say ok so
say one of our customers say chubbies
alright so somebody that we've we've
worked with and done reviews for
so we link to their website so now it's
gone over to the jeebies website and
it's found all of the links to their
emails and it masked males a single
email to each contact and through the
contact us form and everything and looks
like it's coming from category five TV
network okay cuz member got that in the
first step it looks like it's coming
from the category five TV network they
say oh we know who that is right so all
automatically we've got some recognition
there and an automatic trust it says
that they owe this amount of money and
here's the invoice and if you do not pay
immediately we're gonna be putting you
through two collections which would work
sometimes which would work because then
that customer of mine is getting a pass
to invoice notice from me from category
five TV network that looks like looks
legit oh well I better forward this on
to the bookkeeper and get them to open
it and it's of course malware could be
any number of things ransomware or
whatever else so then how would you
easily spot that you wouldn't easily
spot it it looks legit you have the
trust you have the company name you
really really check your I guess your
receivables your we have two we're
living in a world right now where we all
in business and impersonal we have to be
a little bit untrusting of what is
coming to us right in such a way that if
I receive an invoice from somebody I
know and it looks legit and it looks
like they're gonna put me through two
collections hey if I don't if I'm not
expecting an invoice from them or I
can't think of what it is or maybe it
makes me go hmm don't open it
if if you need to look up your
receivables or whatever or payables or
pick up the phone or pop them an email
and say do I owe you any money
yeah what's happening yeah I got an
email here it could be a phishing scam
or some other thing but it looks like it
came from you is it legit or you know
could you just double check our account
and just make sure we're up to date yeah
I guess first things first pay all of
your bills on time that way no matter
that email and say whatever I don't owe
you nothing I owe nothing to no one so
watch out for that one folks is
dangerous because it can trick your
customers and it can trick you so be
careful and if you suspect that that
kind of thing has been happening on your
website or you know if you if you want
to even warn some of your customers feel
free to send them a copy of this video
and spread the word spread this video
and and let them know that this is a
very serious threat yeah thank you we've
got to take a really quick break when we
come back we are gonna be looking at
retro gaming but hey there's been an
upgrade not gonna tell you too much but
we're gonna get you a retro gaming
system that fits with any decor
stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV Network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV Sasha do you
remember when we tried to pilot a new
show called try it buy it that was a fun
one episode it was so much fun depending
on where you're located in this big ole
world of ours
you may remember it as either the Sega
Megadrive or the Sega Genesis and now
more than a quarter of a century after
its original release in Japan it's more
convenient than ever to take these
classic Sega games with you my review is
coming right up
try it buy it and I brought it with me
this is the app games Sega Genesis
portable unit and it has it's got it's
got the works
it has ton no man like if you want to
play Sonic the Hedgehog it's it's there
can you all see that classic right so
this is the portable that you reviewed I
had to bring it out because tonight is a
little bit of a retro gaming throwback
and bear with me I'll be a little while
one of the things that was really cool
about this though this device is not
only does it have a built in screen but
it also has an adapter that you can plug
into the jack and now you can plug it
into your standard old TV set right
perfect with the RCA right right but no
HDMI output so it doesn't work on a
modern TV unless it has a VN which a lot
of them do so we were still pretty good
to play this up on the big screen I
think you plugged it into your 60-inch
TV and tried it out so did you know that
the Raspberry Pi also supports this
cable so if you plug this into the
headphone jack of the Raspberry Pi it
automatically detects it and senses it
and says oh that's not headphones that'd
be an RCA cable let's switch over to AV
mode so now the the Raspberry Pi works
on a standard old-style CRT TV now that
I bring to your attention because there
is no more ultimate retro gaming
experience than sticking it up on a 22
inch CRT TV where hey you gotta admit
that's retro right that is right you're
out what else would be super retro oh I
want to tell you all about it I can't
wait to show you the case that we're
looking at tonight but first of all we
took it to the next level on episode
number 442 because we're so into retro
gaming and so we sat down and we built
the first retropie that we had ever
built
it is lovely and it works great and
they're still using that so you guys are
still enjoying this plugged in by HDMI
yeah on a 60-inch TV now this is a
Raspberry Pi 3 now I lied a little bit
this wasn't the first retropie we built
because we tried it on a Raspberry Pi 2
first right then you bought the
Raspberry Pi 3 for the upgrade and it
has run fantastically well but there was
one thing that didn't run well do you
remember what that was I'm putting you
on this body there was a particular
system that's built into the retro PI
and I retropie there were some games
that didn't work in the n64 yes the
Nintendo 64 was like yes copy yeah no so
unplayable basically what a retro PI is
and you can go back to episode number
442 if you want a retro throwback but
what it is now it's a distribution of
Linux that goes on to the micro SD card
on your Raspberry Pi microcomputer so
it's like this small and you can put any
number of game roms on there it supports
like a Nintendo Entertainment System
Sega Genesis mm-hmm a KA Master System
Atari Atari 2600 7800 Lynx it's got it's
got everything and then it does have the
n64 it's got Sony Playstation the
original yeah which does play very well
surprisingly and and all kinds of
support we're gonna look at it in just a
couple of minutes time one of the neat
things about it to Sasha if you want to
hold up your controller how do you
control it I control it with this with a
ps3 remote yep because the Raspberry Pi
3 has built-in bluetooth so we're able
to use that and sync it to the the
Raspberry Pi and it becomes a controller
for the retropie is what it's called
because that's the distribution of
raspbian that that we put on it and it's
got emulators out the wazoo and
everything else I use an Xbox controller
I don't know if it's is this an Xbox one
or Xbox 360 controller I don't know I
picked it up at a used game shop and it
is not bluetooth so I had to pick up
this little guy here off of Amazon it
was like 14
bucks nine bucks something like that and
it's just USB to receiver for the
Microsoft controllers oh that's perfect
yeah so retro gaming is it's funny that
retro gaming has come so far in the past
couple of years because now retropie the
distro has brought up version 4.4 so
what's new with 4.4 boy well let's say
what's new with the Raspberry Pi let's
just say the B+ how's that so the the
new Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ it came out
and it's 1.4 gigahertz processor it's
got its more powerful it's faster it
runs cooler and theoretically it should
be able to run our emulators better than
the original Raspberry Pi 3 which clocks
out as caps out at 1.2 gigahertz and
when it gets warm it clocks down to 900
megahertz like 0.9 gigahertz so this
one's a lot faster the Raspberry Pi 3 B
plus so the 4.4 release of retropie
introduces support for the Raspberry Pi
3 B+ that's what we're excited about now
it also brought in now not the image the
image file can only be burnt to a
Raspberry Pi card so you can only move
it from a Raspberry Pi however they've
also put a lot of effort into creating
scripts to allow you to install retropie
another platform so you know the Odroid
xu4 q that i have is a super powerful 8
core SBC it's available on that it's
available in the C 1 C 2 X u 2 X u 3x u
4 I don't know it's like all the OH
droids but then the new version brings
out the soos tinker board support as
well so if you're a tinker board
tinkerer then rudimentary support for
that now as well through the scripting
of that so performance is meant to be a
lot better on the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ now
because it's got a better processor
we're gonna put that to the test tonight
when we launched our Nintendo 64 stuff
shall we look at how we obtain retropie
we shall first of all back it up a
little bit how to get a PI a Raspberry
Pi go to cat five dot TV slash PI ice as
I move this stuff around I so badly want
to show you what our retro PI looks like
decide we're gonna take a look at that
in just a couple of minutes time okay so
I'm gonna bring up retro PI now we
talked about Raspberry Pi we're used to
p i rights but it's actually pi like
they took it one step further and said
no no this is the edible and so let's
bring it up on my screen
retro pi this is a weird one dot org dot
uk' not co dot uk' dot org dot uk'
that's going to bring you here tells you
all about retro pi and again so you buy
the Raspberry Pi unit and put it
together in whatever case you want make
it you know however you want tonight
we're taking it to the next level of
retro Ness with a very retro case but
you don't have to do that you can just
use the stock case that comes with the
kit if you like but here retro pi is the
distribution that we're gonna use so you
don't on a Raspberry Pi you don't have
to install raspy inner noobs and then
install retro pie that's a real
roundabout way to do it it can be quite
onerous so what you can do instead is
just download the complete image it's
ready to go it's ready to deploy you
just boot it up and it's done so that's
what I'm gonna show you tonight real
briefly so you can see retropie version
4.4 was released April 14th 2018 with
all of the bonuses that we mentioned and
we've got support for the zero and the
one which you know I don't know how the
gaming would be on there maybe NES
classic would be fantastic but certainly
the the Atari stuff and then there's
these supported the Raspberry Pi two and
three which includes the B+ so when you
click on that it's going to download you
an image dot GZ file so if you're on
Microsoft Windows you're going to need a
program called 7-zip in order to to
extract that file because you need the
image file if you're on Linux or Mac OS
you
to be able to extract that just by
right-clicking on it and go extract her
here something like that
so once you've downloaded that now
here's where some folks actually you
know find this a little bit almost
confusing because you know what how do I
install this now I've I've got my SD
card and I've copied that image file on
to it and I don't understand why it
won't boot and that's because we
remember how we used to have to boot
burn CDs yes when you burned a CD then
you could boot it but you had to burn it
using special software that would create
the boot loaders and everything else so
same thing goes for your SD card it's
actually a very similar process but
we're gonna use a program that is freely
available and all this stuff is free
other than the hardware but we're gonna
go to at your dot i/o and when we go
there this is available on Windows Mac
and Linux and you're gonna download this
program and just follow the prompts nice
and simple there it is for Windows Mac
and Linux this is a great tool for
burning your stuff and I say burning we
still use that term even though and that
comes from the laser that's edging into
a write there's no real burnin you're
not actually burning your but the term
still exists and and it still applies so
so what you do is you you then browse to
the image that you downloaded this is a
screenshot here so with select image you
browse to the image then you plug in
your SD card for your Raspberry Pi and
it will automatically select it and then
you hit flash and just make sure that
that second step that you have indeed
selected the correct card it's probably
best I always recommend unplug all your
like USB flash drives and everything
else before you do this because you
wouldn't want to accidentally overwrite
the wrong exactly that way there's no
messing around you know exactly what it
is
exactly I would do the wrong thing first
no now I would do the right thing and I
want to show you everything else that
we've got to show you here so that shows
you a little bit about how to get this
that's retropie get four point four or
higher when we come back I'm gonna show
you what I think is probably the
ultimate retro geek case for the retro
pie system because we got a totally
retro it out right check it out this is
Spence oh don't go anywhere whether you
shop on ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo
video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category 5 TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching welcome back this
is category 5 technology TV tonight is
retro gaming night and that's because
retropie four-point-four has been
released with support for the Raspberry
Pi 3 model b+ tonight we're going to put
it to the test we're gonna fire it up
live on the show and the rest of the
show is just gonna be us playing super
mario bros so first of all if you want
to get yourself a really cool retro case
for your retro pie head on over to cat5
dot TV slash high are you ready for this
yes ok first of all with my brand new
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ the first thing I want
to do is I want to put some heat sinks
on it now these are available
Amazon you can grab heatsinks they
probably know in my case they came with
the the kit that I bought from Kanak
it's so catfight TV /pha you buy the kit
it comes with heat sinks so I need to
put on the CPU heatsink just to keep
that nice and cool that's going to
dissipate the the heat even better than
the the improved cooling kind of metal
cover that's on the Raspberry Pi 3 B+
and then there's one for this little
chip over here I don't know if that's
the math coprocessor - I'm not sure what
that is but it's cute and this will keep
it cool because it does get hot real
simple there's stickers you don't need
any frosting or anything like that
just push down on it a little bit give
it a little bit of pressure and now we
are ready to install it in our new retro
case and this ladies and gentlemen is
just the Box they went all out and I I
would pay somebody I would ask them how
can I send you money just to buy that
box and inside the box is is really what
it's all about folks and we talk about
mini game systems like the mini and like
the SNES mini and look at this a
Nintendo Entertainment System
miniaturized it's got USB and Ethernet
there it's got HDMI port on the back the
SD card and there incidentally on the
bottom here where there normally was the
GPIO or the connection is a little
storage case they even got that detail
to put your SD cards in it's got two USB
ports on the front and a working power
button that operates just like the
original NES like it holds in it's not
like just a momentary switch it stays in
it came with a fan as well
a screwdriver some screws and just a
quick little instruction set look at
that if we need to okay so we're gonna
actually put this together for you
tonight so let's let's get started cool
I guess the fan is just going to officer
dross
the heat out of there and there's some
screws to mount that to the case so what
I like about this if you notice the USB
ports on the front and everything and
they it actually has circuitry like it's
not your typical Raspberry Pi case that
you just stick the PI in and then plug
everything into the PI it has these
connectors that plug into the PI and
then it has its own headers that make it
so that you're not restricted to the
form factor of the pie itself so with my
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ I'm just going to
insert that with the HDMI at the back
but first we'll connect in Ethernet and
that will make live the ethernet port on
the front of the what's called an S PI
case plus so this is the next generation
of the nest PI case and this one is
slightly larger than the original with
better cooling and a little bit more
airflow and certainly less cramped and I
think it looks more legitimately like a
real Nintendo Entertainment System than
the original case so it just kind of
goes in there just line up the headers
at the back because it is going to
you're gonna plug your HDMI directly
into the PI and then we've just got a
little pack of screws most of those six
of those are for the case itself because
this is a case that we're gonna assemble
and leave assembled it's not something
you're going to be swapping your board
in and out of but then there are two
screws to actually mount the Raspberry
Pi board to this case now keep in mind
this is compatible with B model boards
so you're looking at the Raspberry Pi 2
raspberry Pi 3 Raspberry Pi 3 model B+
so you can you can mount other system
boards in here as well and presumably
future-ready as well as long as the form
factor on the new raspberry PI's stay
the same so with these two screws it's
just gonna mount that in scene I have to
make interesting Sasha we're putting in
two screws so you're doing a great job
thanks tiny tiny screws yep look at how
tiny they are they're tinier than a PI
everything on the PI is so cute oh and
this is just the cutest
it's nice and snug it feels real snug
there you go
now this header here is gonna give you
the fan so we just plug that in make
sure you put it in the right way the the
pins are on the outside of the Raspberry
Pi and that enables the header on the
top there and gives it power for the fan
as well as whatever other power is
needed now there's no designator here
which way the fan is blowing I know from
experience that usually the the sticker
side is where it's going to be blowing
out of so I'm gonna put that down so
that we're drawing the heat out of the
case we're not gonna be drawing air into
it we want to push the air out of it and
it just snaps in there and then there
are three screws that that just hold the
fan in place so it's not going to fall
out
some good TV right here folks riveting
look at that look at the way I turned
the screw and and note the screwdriver
was even included so I didn't even have
to buy buy or find a tiny enough
screwdriver it's it's included so now
you've got an extra screwdriver for
that's actually very considerate yeah
you know until you end up with with 300
of these screwdrivers you're happy that
they included it yeah now you can also
fix glasses I feel like I'm thinking
that this is gonna be a perfect size for
changing motors in my drone oh that's
perfect nice simple installation folks I
think if you give yourself ten minutes
time now we're not going to take that
much time tonight because I have the
power to accelerate the video a little
bit but ten minutes time is all you need
and then you're gonna be up and running
with your retro pie so I'm not sure
which way to to put this cable on to the
this is the fan header not sure which
way it goes and there's no like one way
you can put it on either way I don't see
anything in the instructions about the
fan either it's only about the case and
the installation of the pie so I could
plug it in with the positive on the left
and you can always change the polarity
and that's going to change the direction
of the fan but actually the the red
I'm just looking and there is a marking
that says the positive is on the right
my right so that should be the correct
way to put that fan in there okay so now
the next step is just to close it up and
I'm just I'm making sure that the cable
there is not gonna there's a quite a bit
of slack on that cable I don't want it
to obstruct the fan I don't want it to
get into the fan I guess I could put a
twist tie on that or something like that
but I think it looks like it's gonna
stay out of the way it's not gonna nudge
its way over to the fan so shouldn't be
a problem and that should just snap
right together there we go doesn't that
look awesome my goodness I can't wait to
show this to my family because we grew
up with that
the SD card slot on the side - all right
so now we've got those six screws we've
got to put in this is where you know
this is this is way too much for you so
I'm gonna speed this up a little bit
what was your first retro gaming system
Sasha growing up I played well I played
Atari games and then I had I think I
skipped right - Super Nintendo really to
be honest you went from Atari 2600 to a
Super Nintendo yeah
I had an Atari 2600 and then when the
NES came out so the Atari 2600 was like
when I was born mm-hmm and then I got
the Nintendo Entertainment System when
it came out so there it is folks so this
really is a throwback for me
I'm so proud and excited about this just
this case that's gonna sit under our TV
in full sight it's got HDMI on the back
you'll notice that the header for the
power has been offset using their
built-in header and it looks astonishing
it is sharp it is so cool
the ultimate retropie retropie case and
there it is are we ready to fire this
out yes we are all right it feels good I
you know people are gonna ask like is it
flimsy and cheap no it feels like
substantial it feels really solid it is
solid and you feel that button
yeah it's click click click click yeah
momentary so it's just like the original
and I guess you know folks are wondering
about the SD card slot over here so
there it is I've already put in our
retropie SD slot card and it just it
goes in and out nice and easy it's not
gonna fall out there you go there we go
okay so let's fire it up sash all right
here we go now I can plug in power
because remember it has a power poor
power button on the front it's not going
to turn on until I hit that button
I'm gonna go HDMI output so it supports
HDMI but it does have access to the the
AV port as well so if you
you can use one of these cables right
and plug that in here and then you've
got RCA output for an old-style TV right
or if you're real retro want to go
completely retro absolutely okay and
then I mentioned a little bit earlier
that I'm using an Xbox controller so I
do need to use an Xbox receiver because
it's not bluetooth if we wanted to we
could use Sony Playstation three remotes
which are bluetooth and that I would not
need a receiver and I could play it just
like that so no no extra wires coming
out of the front I think that would be
cool so I'm going to get myself some
PlayStation controllers but it does have
two USB ports on the front two and then
another two under here so but you see
the ones there you can plug those that
you can get USB retro NES controllers
that look exactly like the originals but
their USB anyway that is that's the next
that's if you're completely obsessed
with retro okay so I'm gonna plug in my
receiver here and I'm just gonna push
the power button there it goes and just
so you know she's a Putin and I can feel
that there is wind coming out of the top
of the retropie so you went in the right
direction so I did go in the right
direction and the correct polarity there
it is and ladies and gentlemen retropie
is booting on our Raspberry Pi 3 model D
plus in an NES Pi case plus case I'm
just gonna leave this running all the
time connect it to my TV what it just
reminds me so much I just already player
1 the movie yes and in the mood I don't
know if you've seen the movie yet no I
have not I feel like you should okay but
in it the creator of the Oasis which is
the virtual reality alternate universe
that everybody lives in and plays in but
the creator of it was very obsessed with
retro games oh yeah so all of the little
Easter eggs and everything in the
accurate it's all retro so there you go
you're ready to jump in if yes ready
player one okay so no game pads detected
so on my xbox control
I just holding the power button just
like I was connecting to an Xbox and it
will and then I press a and there I am
then so welcome to version 4.4 of retro
pie so we've got Atari 2600 Atari 2070
eight hundred links mega drive which is
the plate the oh now I'm why do they
name them differently what do we call it
the Genesis Genesis Genesis here in the
western world that's the one that we we
had a Genesis growing up as well
Nintendo 64 Nintendo Entertainment
System
I feel honor bound being that we are
running in an NES kit to click on works
I support this decision do you know idea
I played NES with my grandma and you'll
notice see how it says unknown at the
right that's because this is a fresh
install and I have not synced all the
artwork yet now it will go out onto the
internet and get all the graphics the
covers the reviews the description of
every game but we have not yet done that
you can do that should we like to skip
down to like Super Mario Bros I believe
so yes oh and the chat room seems to
agree
Super Mario says tollbooth yeah okay
I'll get there I'll get there amazing
okay Oh what did I do
I clicked right sorry I jumped into the
PlayStation Nintendo Entertainment
super super mario bros okay now you'll
notice it says to twice cuz I think I
selected the wrong artwork oh one of
these is Super Mario Bros one and one of
them is Super Mario Bros 2 do you think
the first one is right let's try it yeah
okay don't press anything here folks oh
I got it I got it okay and it's
widescreen it is so cool
oh my goodness
did it didn't do now I don't think I
have I don't think I have audio piping
out from the retropie right now but
there you have it ha ha see my phone
ring oh yeah Mario Brothers yeah so I am
literally right now playing Super Mario
Bros on an Xbox controller on mini nes
over here dudu now if I press Start and
select at the same time that gets me
back to the main menu right okay so now
I can go I can go back with B and now I
can scroll over to other systems and see
what I want to do so we had talked about
the Nintendo 64 being poor performance
on retropie in the past right yeah mine
Mario Kart was like good good good good
good not worth it I couldn't do it and I
think Mario Kart is probably a really
good test
ok everybody wants to play Mario Kart
every day all the time so let's let's go
there it's fine now just for the record
retropie is an operating system for your
retro gaming system raspberry pi it does
not come with any games ok so the games
you you have to find them you might find
abandoned ware which is you know
software that's so old that presumably
it's free yeah they don't sell it
anymore
yeah companies companies are starting to
do this where they're bringing back out
retro games so that they can rebirth the
copyrights on those games
oh and so it's a little bit so do it now
so just keep that in mind so you are not
gonna see all these games on there out
of the box it's gonna be empty
you'll need to get those yourself where
am I headed yeah Mario Kart yes I need
to go out yeah
I'm going the wrong way here I skipped
over it while I was talking okay Mario
Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Kart 64
okay this is literally a moment of truth
we've tried running this before and it
was so stuttery that you could not play
it right let's see how smooth you are
let's see how smooth we are again we
don't push anything during this because
that's gonna customize your controls
which I don't everything by as defaults
I've done that have you accidentally and
then got stuck and had to restart I
don't even understand okay that screen
did not fly like that it looks so good
oh and like I'm pushing the start button
on my controller I wish I had a second
game controller here for you Sasha but
what I'll do is I'll start the game and
let you drive I feel like that's been a
bad idea have you seen me drive this is
this doesn't end well ever okay you
start okay and then also go 150cc okay
here we go
Luigi do we want mushroom cup flour Cup
star Cup or special Cup special Cup yeah
oh oh and I think I could have I could
have actually chosen a track underneath
it's been a long time Sasha the
performance so far is out of this world
like I'm hard-pressed to think I'm not
playing on a Nintendo 64 let's see how
it performs in game oh oh it's not like
your way okay Robbie sucks
bye I'd say this actually plays as well
as I sweat oh do you yeah and this place
as well as yours I think so $400 switch
it just ruffles my pack just rumbled it
has haptic feedback no way that's cool
sorry I got a little excited there I did
not realize it even had that how do I
get out of here oh no I'm stuck forever
I got excited and I crashed into a wall
uh-oh come on Robbie you're an
eighth-place come on man how do I back
up
is there a reverse no you can reverse
the camera yeah oh come on no it can't
go down like that
what we can my it's yeah we'll just
we'll speed it up for you
yeah the performance is great they're
gonna be just matching into that wall
yeah I'm serious how do I back up Sasha
oh oh thank you did you
I pressed Y okay I'm on it remember I'm
on an Xbox controller and I'm terrible
but look at that performance folks I
love that that is exquisite I'm gonna
jump to a larger screen for you folks at
home I'm gonna give that to you I don't
know that that's the best choice okay
okay I found B B is to like make it go
okay controller is your left analog okay
remember everyone I ride a bike I don't
drive a car 150cc little Mario Kart so
far I haven't seen any lag
chat room what do you think so far oh
yeah we got paperboy come on all the
classics oh I'm in the wrong eyes you're
going the wrong way sighs okay okay it's
cuz okay I still I'm goin the wrong way
I thought I did reverse what's happening
I know we have to go to the news room
soon I would rather just play this you
know this could be the show folks ah
there we go
Oh see it's not all me I'm not I'm not
it's it's difficult it's challenging
because we haven't played in so long
folks head on over to cap five dot TV
/pi get your gear and then hook yourself
up with retropie 4.4 and I'm
flabbergasted I anytime we do a feature
like this on the show it's like how is
it going to perform is it gonna is this
gonna be impressive or is it gonna be
disappointing or is it gonna crash
what's the opposite of a flop this is
the obvious is like the ultimate Oh
amazing like this is going to be the
best gift you buy whomever you love
Sasha my kids are going to adore this
see and this sitting on under the TV
like when I have family over and we all
grew up with the Nintendo Entertainment
that's amazing and it's not overly
expensive either I mean we're so cost
you know raspberry pie kit all the all
the peripherals SD card power cable the
board itself the heat sinks you're
looking about a hundred dollars Canadian
70 $79 us kind of idea and in this case
is like 25 bucks Canadian so that's like
four dollars u.s. it's it's not a huge
investment but as you can see we can
load it up chock full of games and it is
still a Raspberry Pi so keep that in
mind because you can install other
things on it you can pack it as a full
computer if you just want the retro look
and you want to use a wireless keyboard
and mouse and turn it into your home
theater PC or
or use it as a computer you can do that
that would just throw everybody off that
you absolutely would be awesome
that is the retropie gaming system
version 4.4 from cap 5 TV /pi this is
category 5 technology TV oh that was
awesome
Sasha I know you've got some some great
news and some stuff to cover you wanted
you want to take controls tonight oh I
it's better when you do it is it better
when I do that it is but let's see yeah
you do it you want me to do I do
sorry we didn't we didn't mean to fight
right here on the air that was a very
Canadian fight you know please please
you do it better
Thank You Sasha thank you here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom the future of
electric cars could look a lot like slot
car tracks Amazon claims it doesn't
eavesdrop on customers conversations to
target advertising at them after the
merge that it had patented voice
sniffing tech a US federal judge ruled
on Monday that Facebook must face a
class-action lawsuit alleging that the
social network unlawfully used a facial
recognition process on photos without
users permission and veteran game maker
Sega announces getting back into the
hardware game at the Sega FES 2018 event
over the weekend with a shrunken version
of its classic Mega Drive or Genesis
console these stories are coming right
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play I
don't know I think you're supposed to
act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash DreamHost this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here the top stories for following this
week the world's first electric road
that recharges the batteries of cars and
trucks driving on it has been opened in
Sweden about two kilometers or 2.1 miles
of electric rail has been embedded in a
public road near Stockholm but the
government's Road agency has already
drafted a national map for future
expansion Sweden's target of achieving
independence from fossil fuels by 2030
requires a 70% reduction in the
transport sector the technology behind
the electrification of the road linking
Stockholm Arlanda Airport to a logistic
site outside the capital city aims to
solve the thorny problems of keeping
electric vehicles charged and the
manufacturer of their batteries
affordable energy is transferred from
two tracks of rail in the road via a
movable arm attached to the bottom of a
vehicle the design is not dissimilar to
that of a slot car track the electrified
Road is divided into 50 meter sections
within an individual section powered
only when a vehicle is above it
when a vehicle stops the current is
disconnected the system is able to
calculate the vehicles energy
consumption which enables electricity
costs to be debited per vehicle and user
there is no electricity on the surface
there are just two tracks just like the
outlet in a wall five or six centimeters
down is where the electricity is but if
the road is flooded with salt water they
found that the electricity level at the
surface is only one volt so you could
walk on it barefoot the dynamic charging
as opposed to the use of roadside
charging posts means that the vehicles
batteries can be smaller along with
their manufacturing costs national grids
are increasingly moving away from coal
and oil and battery storage is seen as
crucial to changing the source of energy
used for transportation how interesting
is that
amazing amazing in a place that doesn't
have snow though don't they know they do
do they do think so it's like
I don't even know does
Sweden get snow gets I guess they do I
see come on most people think of winter
when they hear us that's the first
that's Sweden dot se nature because of
the warm Gulf Stream the climate here
can be much milder than you might expect
spring summer fall and winter each have
their own unique personalities however
in the winter months snow is rare near
the southern coast okay so they do have
some snow oh yeah that's good okay cuz
that would be my one thing you know
what's neat about it though is because
of the way this thing attaches to the
track
we're not attached as I guess touches
the track to get its power
it works like a snow plow on the track
itself so if it did have snow or ice
built up it is self maintaining
essentially it cleans itself
I wonder cuz I love this idea and I
would love to see it implemented like
internationally but how do they power
the actual road right is it solar that
they're using or are they using are they
using fossil fuels to actually create
the electricity well and I think this is
where sweetness is kind of separating
themselves from the rest of the world if
you will in that they so it's powered by
the grid right so the electrical system
the the electrical power that's
available to the communities that that
it's a part of but their grid is
predominantly produce like producing
energy through renewable resources so
we're we're you know you may think about
you know of coal and and fossil fuels
being used to generate electricity well
they've got a lot of well for one thing
nuclear plants a few of them but that
generates a lot of power and cleanly and
also hydroelectric so water power as
well so so it comes out of the grid so
there it works because it is clean
energy coming out of the grid because
the grid is clean we're here I would
think that if they wanted to install
something like that they the company
installing it would also have to create
their own power so
if they wanted to be green right a long
time ago I saw a video about solar
roadways right and I do did you see the
same one it was the tile I haven't seen
the video but I read the story and I'm
imagining it in the newsroom right
because I loved it so much it was very
well produced yeah it pitched an idea
that's implanted in my brain if they had
a solar roadway even solar sidewalks or
something then it would it would not
only power that but then also it could
keep a temperature to the point where he
wouldn't need plows Canada yeah that
could be amazing
yeah you know but they didn't have that
solar roadway didn't have a way of
charging it did not this was before
these cars were invented right yeah so
it'll be interesting is very very well I
mean from my perspective it seems
expensive to implement right it's
costing them about a million euros per
kilometer to lay this track but it's
saving the earth and there is no good in
that regard but and I guess it's a
little bit of an experiment at this
point like will this work will it be
adopted by car manufacturers can cars be
manipulated and in fact one of the the
vehicles that they're using in the test
process is an old diesel truck we've
converted to be able to use this type of
energy right so so that's pretty neat
well to be honest they're doing this
road way close to an airport right now
and it actually does make sense to me
that they would do roads like this close
to places where a car could be sitting
for a long time and perhaps this charge
right this is going to charge a lot of
highways in Spain
- right so a lot of people are on the go
for long periods of time and if that's
the case then wouldn't it be good to
have it on those straight stretches
where the autonomous vehicle can line
you up lock you in charge your vehicle
and then move aside for the next guy
mm-hmm that to me makes a lot of sense
when you're sitting though like if
you're parked at an airport you can plug
in right so maybe you can park you could
park on like key sensors you know how
you can use well you know you you um you
charge your phone isn't it with qi when
you put your phone down
yes can you imagine G like like you know
the old sense of the term
now it's Qi spelling yes so if you like
parked your car and all of a sudden it
just connected and you would just Park
on a charging spot I wonder how much
energy would be wasted by that type of a
technology because that would be really
neat would take that would be really
cool huh oh yes here that's right love
ideas
love before I mute my microphone still
getting used to the switching Amazon
claims it does not eavesdrop on
customers conversations to target
advertising at them after it emerged
that it had patented voice sniffing tack
the patent describes listening to
conversations in building a profile of
customers likes and dislikes reports
speculated that Amazon would deploy the
technology and it's voice-activated
echo speakers but Amazon said it did not
listen to customers conversations to
target advertising at them launched in
2014
Amazon's echo speakers can play music
set a timer or read the news when
addressed with the wake word Alexa
however the patent describes an
algorithm that can listen to entire
conversations using trigger words such
as liked or loved to build a profile of
customers the document states that the
system could then offer targeted
advertising and product recommendations
but Amazon said it did not use customers
voice recordings for targeted at
advertising in a statement it said we
take privacy seriously and have built
multiple layers of privacy into our echo
devices like many companies we file a
number of Ford looking patent
applications that explore the full
possibilities of new technology patents
take multiple years to receive and do
not necessarily reflect current
developments to products and services ok
so you buy a speaker you can elect a
device you put it into your house you
plug it in you turn it on and then you
don't want it to listen to you we we
live in an interesting world don't we
where people sign up for Facebook and
then complain that Facebook is selling
their information or otherwise
compromising privacy and you know you
buy an Alexa device and and then get
concerned that it's listening to you but
it is kind of inevitable and I know the
job it's one job is to listen to you
it's Amazon okay so remember what they
are they sell you things I actually love
this I actually hope that they I'm sorry
I hope that they're spying on the things
that people like and don't like because
I want better recommendations for things
I like yeah right now what happens is I
search for something I like it I buy it
and then I get ads forever about it I
already bought it I have it no no me the
next thing you know what's worse is I
get a lot of emails for things that I
put away that I said no I'm not gonna
buy that because I cross compare many
different products before choosing the
one I want so when I bought this
particular Raspberry Pi case that looks
like a Nintendo Entertainment System you
know that I also clicked on every other
Raspberry Pi case so now I'm getting all
these recommendations for Raspberry Pi
cases but I already bought the one I
chose right or I'm getting
recommendations because I am an Amazon
partner category-five is and so I I
don't we don't get any reports that show
us who bought what and where it's going
and who's it's not personally
identifiable to us at all but I am
interested to see what people buy right
so sometimes I'll see something that I'm
like what on earth is that that made us
$5 so I'll click on it like oh that's
one of our viewers purchased this odd
thing and so now I'm getting all these
emails from Amazon recommending these
odd things and related odd things see if
they're doing if they're making these
algorithms and things where all of a
sudden that they can tell what I like
and don't like and they're making it
sharper and more specific to actually
who I am as a person considering we all
just shop on Amazon through category 5s
partner links what I do
yeah I I just I can't
being a bad thing that if you've bought
this Alexa device if you bought an echo
or whatever it's called I don't have one
clearly or also no but it's called how
could you complain that it could
possibly be listening to you when you
bought it I think you still have this
underlying fear of the loss of privacy
and bigbrother of companies keeping
track of our personal information don't
do it don't buy it right we're gonna be
in a world where that's not an option
right well we are being monitored all
the time I unplug or we have a camera we
use to call Dave's dad because we do
video calls with them we unplug it when
we're done with it okay which makes
sense people put tape over the webcam on
their on their laptops right so in case
just in case right so if you plug in a
speaker that's job is to listen to you
and then you keep it plugged in it's
going to listen yeah it's going to it's
gonna listen to the news and it's gonna
buy six dozen shortbread cookies in a
doll house as one final thought for me I
would think that what would be really
really interesting maybe this is
something that we could do as a show but
certainly I could see somebody doing
this is to set up a controlled
environment where we buy an Alexa device
we set it up on an account that has
never been set up before and we put it
in a control room where the only things
that are ever spoken about in that room
are controlled conversations I love ice
cream I love ice cream oh I love
dollhouses
I would love to eat ice cream that I've
made I would love an ice cream maker
yeah so these kinds of things and for
those of you who subscribe to Alexa and
Google home I apologize that we just
ordered you an ice cream maker however I
think in that controlled environment it
would be interesting to see what kind of
recommendations our account starts
getting okay and prove once and for all
whether or not this is happening right I
was there denying it I would like to
make just a plea to you because I know
that you're denying it but you're
probably doing it
you just make it better so that you're
not selling me things I already own
guess what I have it I looked for it it
made a decision now sell me something
that works with it something more
batteries contact me in six months and
sell me the batteries hey you just
bought this guess what you're gonna need
this yes exactly hey you need toothpaste
exactly a US federal judge ruled on
Monday that Facebook must face a
user permission
the ruling adds to the privacy laws that
have been mounting against Facebook for
weeks since it was disclosed that the
personal information of millions of
users was harvested by the political
consultancy Cambridge analytic a US
District Judge James DiNardo ruled in
San Francisco and a San Francisco
federal court that a class action was
the most efficient way to resolve the
dispute over facial templates Facebook
said that it was reviewing the ruling
stating we continue to believe the case
has no merit and will defend ourselves
vigorously the kid the class will
consist of Facebook users in Illinois
for whom Facebook created and stirred
facial recognition algorithms after June
7th 2011 that is the date when Facebook
launched tag suggestions a feature that
suggests people to tag after a Facebook
user uploads a photo you know and I like
that feature I think that's very very
handy yeah again again this is a case
where I get it
sure it's a feature and it's helpful
yeah but it could be used for malicious
purposes for sure and they write an
algorithm per person so if you look at
your your downloaded content from
Facebook once you've downloaded your
entire account you can see that they
have a facial recognition algorithm for
you right and it doesn't work in the
case of my sisters Beth and Colleen
because they're identical twins it's fun
cuz it tries to tag oh yes that's weird
though what on our set here at category
5 TV we used to have a shelf behind us
and on
shelf was a Spock bobblehead right I
remember the guy I uploaded a picture of
us on the category 5 TV set
not to Facebook but to Twitter uh-huh
and I don't know whether Twitter still
does this but they were obviously
experimenting at one point because
immediately it suggested that I tag
Leonard Nimoy it made that recommended
recommendation I'm like yeah that's
astonishing remember last week we had a
new story and we had a comment about how
one of the one of our viewers was locked
out of their Facebook because they
didn't provide a picture of their face
right yes this is right this is the way
Facebook can tell your you right they do
this and they create a facial algorithm
of who you are and then and come to
think of it Robert Koenig was on the
show last week as well talking about
cryptocurrency and he even brought to
our attention that coin base uses the
same kind of technology automated
identification great to take a photo and
identify us furthermore I have to say in
defense of Facebook which is funny
because I don't know I no longer have
facebook but I will defend it I'm pretty
sure that users probably agreed to it in
their terms and so it's somewhere on
page 472 did you read it do you really
know this class-action lawsuits gonna
get thrown out veteran game maker Sega
announced it is back getting back into
the hardware game at the Sega ses 2018
event over the weekend with a shrunken
version of its classic Mega Drive or
Genesis console in an announcement in no
way connected to the success of
Nintendo's SNES mini Sega might well
have been inspired by the tried and
trusted formula of pre-loading a bunch
of elderly games into what could well be
an emulator running inside a retro
plastic shell of course we have no
insight into what software and hardware
will be used sega hopes to get the
device on sale this year in time for the
30th anniversary of the Japanese launch
of the original console European
residents
long memories will remember the
frustration of having to wait the
additional two years until the Megadrive
arrived on UK shores hopefully eager
buyers will not face the same delay
around this this time around sega
followed up the announcement with a
tweet giving the device a starting start
our discussion just before the show that
we're gonna stumble on the word
startling lee that's a difficult one try
it three times fast startlingly original
and tentative name of Mega Drive Mini
there's no word yet on the roster of
games to be included but we do expect to
see at least one Sonic the Hedgehog game
we've yet to learn the hardware
specifications of the device but it is a
quarter of the size of the original and
we'll connect up to a modern television
great hey sounds a lot like our retro PI
sounds exactly like a retro Fry's sounds
like yeah great idea okay it's like an
old Nintendo from the 80s yeah it is a
great idea it seems a little bit late on
the uptake it kind of feels like they
saw our show and saw this and thought
hey we should do that with a Sega
Genesis right or even to be this is a
Sega Genesis I mean it's been done
before play old games on a big TV I get
it I get it you know what I think though
what is that companies do this they
launch an official rebirth of the
console with the games included so that
they can rebirth also the copyrights so
that people like me and you who have our
retro PI gaming systems on raspberry
PI's we are now in breach of copyright
rather than what we are currently which
is in the middle using legacy software
that's no longer sold and so it's called
abandoned we're right it's available
freely downloaded on the internet on
various sources and that kind of thing
so by bringing it back now all of a
sudden no no no we released that in 2018
so you are now in violation of that to
be
using it on your retropie that's just a
theory on my part I think that that's
what the manufacturers are up to that
makes sense to me actually it rings that
rings true and I mean they can sell it
on the 30th anniversary and they could
make a big deal about three years it's
been 30 years and I'm still playing the
stuff and enjoying it it's exciting and
to tell you the truth I do have a
collection of different consoles so I'm
sure that I'll have one big thanks to
Roy W Nash and our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
thank you everyone for joining us again
this week it's been a lot of fun I knew
it would be I mean hey how often do we
get to just play video games and talk
about video games and be all retro
gaming on yeah so much fun hey please
let us know what you think of the show
send us an email it's right on our
website if you go to category 5 dot TV
you'll be able to click on contact us
also we would love to be able to include
you in our patreon page and what that
means is that you support category 5 TV
in our network of shows by contributing
a small amount every single month and by
doing that you help keep us strong but
you also gain access to top secret
behind-the-scenes exclusive content
mm-hmm that is only available to our
patrons so check it out you can go on to
our website category 5 TV click on
support us and you'll see some ways to
do it there thanks for watching
everybody have a great week
