as a former music producer in my past
life used to do a lot of music you
remember the days I do yes
boy oh boy and it was so onerous it was
so much work to just put together the
store yes well hexa cords has built a
tool that uses artificial intelligence
in order to compose music so cool
tonight we have Richard port Ellie he's
the CEO of hexa cords Richard nice to
have you here thanks for joining us
tonight thanks my pleasure can you tell
us a little bit about how hexa cords got
started what really brought about this
entire movement that you've got is that
you guys have been creating yes
basically I started the hailer cords on
my own it was like five years ago and I
had this the idea when I was at like
when I was studying physics and
engineering it might add my school and
the main idea of of or composer is to
design a tool for composers which
basically allowed composers to create
music a lot faster and to try new
musical ideas very quickly and then they
can decide which ideas I want to explore
further and I had this idea because by
listening a lot of music I came to the
conclusion that a lot of songs look very
similar and instead of spending time on
I mean what is like all the times the
same like awesome same chords cetera
it's better to use the time on
creativity sure okay so you think about
how music is composed and it always
works out to be a chord structure where
you know it's going to be g d c g DC and
then maybe an e minor if we want to get
really funky with it so your artificial
intelligence now takes that kind of
knowledge and turns it into music so
it's called orb composer
and can you tell us a little bit about
how it works what's kind of the process
that a composer would use in order to
create composition using your technology
yes sure um basically op composer I mean
the compressor needs to make a lot of
musical choices to have a score in the
end and we try to design a kind of high
level interface or where the composer
can choose like chords chord
progressions reasons Momentum's he can
choose all the instruments he wants
let's say for example from bar to the
flutes will come etc all this stuff I
mean the composer has access to all this
stuff and it's the start of the
competition starts by making like very
artistic choices B and before diving
into the notes okay so now in the past
we've looked at audio tool we've looked
at FL Studio producer and tools like
that where we need to learn an interface
like a piano roll and we need to know
basic chord structure so that we can so
that we can basically play on a computer
screen the notes that we want to hear
and then we've got to create okay we
want a temp and swell we want an oboe to
come in at this point now we have to
kind of put those in as dots so how does
you know thinking of that it's a very
difficult and very time-consuming
process
how does orb composer compare to that
process when I sit down and say okay
I've got my cup of coffee I'm ready to
start composing music what's the process
feel like for me yeah it's exactly the
point the point of composer basically
you start from ideas and it creates
notes and for example it's like it's
like clothes you only when you want to
try a new shirt basically you need all
the other like pants and shoes
to have an idea exactly how it would
sound
you cannot just like so to expect to
explore musical idea is very
time-consuming and basically what our
composer allows to do is like from
simple choices and artistic choices to
have like a solid base to start with
it's not like the final score will not
be composed 100% with our computer but
you start with a very solid base which
saves you a lot of time for the rest so
do I need to have musical capabilities
and knowledge in order to use orc
composer yes it definitely designed for
music composers I see okay that's good
so so we're looking at not something
that would replace the composer but
something that would assist the composer
with creativity with artistic freedom
and and you know it's like it's like
writing a story where you sit down day
after day and compose music and you get
writer's block and and that is you know
when you've got eight songs for a CD and
you're trying to get the tenth and the
night that's the difficult thing to get
through so is the music creation so this
creates the base for our songs is it
random is there is it what I would come
up with what's kind of the creativity
behind that aspect
yeah well it's extra and above it of
course is based on the choices of the
composer but and the wrong limbs can you
tell me what when you say choices are we
talking I have chosen to compose a song
in the key of E and I you know I want
these instruments I want this genre is
that are those the kind of choices that
I make her am I actually keying in
certain notes and things like that well
actually yeah like two levels of
randomness the first one the first
random part comes from the choices when
I mean choices I mean like for example
like chords just chord like if it takes
is much much called a number of
different course it's huge and when you
talk about corporations like Momentum's
yeah
like the instrument they say okay the
fruit which come at bar to this is like
a choice which certainly will be unique
so all this is a first our randomness
but the second randomness comes from the
technology itself which basically means
that if even if you had exactly the same
constraint and you make exactly the same
choices you will still have in the end
different notes okay so so you're just
going to come up with new so I can put
in the same key structure the same chord
structure I think I get brand new music
so what kind of genres does or composer
do and do well well basically there is
mostly focused on orchestral music but
we want to I mean it's possible to
create any Jean but will not have like
presets Jean press X but the user will
be able for example if you like
orchestral instruments or whether like
electric guitars anything basically
because we also want or controller to be
used for example to create new music
styles wow that's cool and you think
that everything has been done before but
truly we start to hear I I noticed it
when dubstep became a thing well it's
like how did someone invent a genre when
everything feels like it's been done
before so we think that or composer is
going to be able to achieve this that's
an exciting and you know bar to set for
yourself for sure yeah so understanding
then Richard that we do require some
musical experience and capabilities in
order to use or composer so it's not
taking over the job of the composer by
any stretch is this something that
composers need to to fear in the sense
that studios are going to be able to use
less experienced composers in order to
create their music well I think with the
approach we have I think basically we
are supporting composers and I think
tools which we don't like and already
like automated tools like create a music
in two seconds and also stuff like this
definitely not the direction we wanted
to take and we believe that with our
tool computer will be we have will
compose much better music than just like
automated tools
well you just select like a jean or and
the duration for example right yeah I
remember my old mad player that was you
just push play and it would just start
randomizing a beat and everything else
and you know it's cool that it did have
that kind of random feel to it as
opposed to something that really has
some thought put into it with orb
composer then is it a time-consuming
process you know I think about AI as
being a fully automated process but then
learning that we do need to actually do
some some interaction with the AI in
order to bring out the composition what
could we look at as far as time goes for
composing a track with that with or
composer well the time is uh I mean the
time to compose a song is like it's
instant but of course the time depends
on the time the computer spends to make
the choices okay so it instantly spews
out a song and says here you go and then
yes exactly and now what happens do I
then say okay well I don't like how this
happened I want to change the flute part
yes yes exactly you can say okay I don't
want like the bassoon here I want to
change it by I don't know like a bass
trombone I don't know and and then you
say okay this this motif I don't like it
so I will just change this part etc and
then when you make all your choices and
you have very something accurate that
you like you can for example finish the
composition
in your DW and adds all the effects you
want cetera but yeah that's basically
how it works fantastic we're speaking
with richard port le he's the CEO of hex
accords they've developed an artificial
intelligence software called orb
composer and it actually creates musical
scores for composers inspiring
creativity and helping them to be able
to find that inspiration richard i'm you
know as a former music producer using FL
studio and things like that back in the
days of fruity loops as far
that's as far back as I go do we have
support for third-party instrument
libraries say vsti soundfont DirectX
plugins is there support for those kinds
of things so that I don't lose my
investment I've got adderall orchestral
I love it can i plug it into your orbit
composer yeah of course you can and I
would say that you have to you have to
because our composer didn't come with
like any sound itself it's basically
connected via MIDI devices to your da W
so you can load you can use your all
your samples and that's also something
we wanted to achieve because people they
spend a lot of money by buying
purchasing samples so they can use all
the samples they bought and that's
pretty cool I think yeah that's a
starting like I like I mentioned at all
I have the orchestral plug-in I
absolutely love it I've done grand piano
scores on and everything I'd hate to
lose that plug-in now I'm just wondering
does it also have the ability to
integrate into like a soundboard or is
it purely computer-based as far as
channels and whatnot yeah it's Julie
computer-based okay so it would it
support let's say I have a DAW already
that has outputs to a console with
multiple inputs so a pre setup studio
configuration is it going to be
compatible with that I think that's kind
of you know the question that we can I
can I work with an existing da yes yes
you can well okay so in that case then
yeah yeah we would be able to to utilize
that is it a standalone application or
are we looking at needing to have
something like FL Studio to power it
well it's a standalone application but
you need to connect it to a dled volume
but yeah it's a standalone application
but you need like a DW so it's like but
it's not a plug-in it's not a VST it's
like a standalone application but you
need a JW to to use it with always all
the features so as it's not a plug-in
now we don't need to get into the
technical aspects but as
not a plug-in I'm not I'm not getting
the the relationship to the da W or da
is it it does this export to a certain
file format that I then import into my
existing hardware's yes I mean it could
work without the aw you could export you
could export the mini files but I think
it would be like useless because you
would not have like any playback on the
choices you make and so right yeah yeah
you can't hear before so you need to
export to load into the DW to lessor etc
so it will be like quite a good percent
you mentioned something there really you
know stands out to me you mentioned
exporting to MIDI files which means I'm
gonna be able to import that into any
application that I work with MIDI files
or I can change the instrumentation I
can also create sheet music right from
my MIDI files things like that so it
just opens it up just blows that right
out of the water doesn't it so who owns
the music that I create with your
software do I have to worry about
royalties if I use the music online in
another poll I mean the music critique
belongs to the composer and entirely
entirety yeah entirely because basically
if there are no like royalties anything
for example I mean there is no right on
the music itself if it's created from A
to Z by a computer but in this case it's
a tool to assist the composer so the
composer of course is I mean of the
music created definitely belongs to the
composer first of all you know and just
to say kudos for making that decision to
take that approach because there are
approaches that you could have taken
here you could have said okay we own the
rights to this music and you need to pay
for the rights to use it or you can say
this is in all essences an instrument
and you're playing the instrument and
it's you and you're creating the music
and so it's yours so now I can use this
music as as Richard is telling us here I
can use this in any of my projects
I I suppose I can sell it I can yell the
music course yes of course so is it okay
for me to generate music using the
artificial intelligence and then sell it
as like stock audio yes it's possible I
think we will try to limit that because
it's not the idea like of making that
millions of tracks and they're selling
them so we'll definitely find a way to
limit this but yeah I mean on the paper
it's possible but if it's not the idea I
understand you can see where I'm kind of
going with it where yeah you know this
this is a potential of use of the
artificial intelligence but at the same
time could be a really interesting
business model for somebody if they you
know if they want to take the time and
do a really good job of it not that
that's what we're promoting but
understanding that that's possible I
love that I own the rights to it that's
fantastic are the files themselves
proprietary can I like these are these
WAV files that it's exporting to oh yeah
I mean the other way sides are exported
by the GIW so yeah I mean so the MIDI
aspect the the actual instrumentation
the the synthesis happens in the D aw
yes gotcha if anything with your samples
yeah perfect now regarding the AI does
it learn your style the type of music
that you'd like to make and then start
developing upon that or is the AI
strictly per song based on the input
that you put forward like this does it
continue to learn from your style well I
mean there are two parts of the AI there
is one point which is learning that we
say it's based on machine learning that
we use it's mostly for music style but I
mean the real engine orb is not based on
learning is it's based really on the
very accurate rule
we gave it and because it is very light
it's instant but if it was like a
completely machine learning base it
should not be instant and you also you
have the full control of what's
happening inside the box because nation
learning is like it's like a black box
you give inputs you out and out you have
an output but you don't have the control
on what's happening between and
basically with our composure you have
complete access to everything to also
musical all of the parameters and for
every if you just want to adjust one
setting you can do it which would not be
possible with machine learning okay now
we have a question from the chat room
let's do USB synthesizers work with your
software I suppose if they're MIDI
compatible would that be yeah exactly
yeah you can yes you can if you connect
your di W and you have like a
synthesizer yeah it's a work of course
okay very cool so you can use all your
analog stuff and yeah so again if you've
already got kit you've got plugins you
got all this stuff already set up this
is just going to accent that absolute
which is not honestly Richard not
exactly what I was expecting I was
expecting this to be its own standalone
thing and this impresses me excites me
we're talking about orb Composer it's an
artificial intelligence product that has
been created by hex accords and it helps
composers to create music what are some
of the exciting ways that you're seeing
this already being used now I know it's
not publicly available but there there's
there has been some use within
television i I believe yet actually
there was no use of orb composer there
was the use of orb
I mean orbs it's the core technology and
before before designing of composer so
with all the graphical interface and so
ok and so we we just released some music
created with orb by itself so it's
really like it's a different approach
now that we have our composer but
basically it's a music we released
before was completely done
by the AI from A to Z and because
because of that we didn't release like
too many music because we don't think
it's too interesting however like to
make that kind of a proof of concept and
to see how people react to something
create is really from A to Z by a
biotechnology it was it was nice yet to
to to propose I mean to put the music
created with orb itself with another
music created with real composers and to
see if some people would say ok no for
this we can't use this music for some
reason I don't like this music and that
was not the case because yes as soon as
you mentioned it was used in a
documentary or professional documentary
on French TV and yeah and nobody knows
that it was created only by our
technology so you've taken this song
that was created by your tackk put it on
to some kind of forum er or system that
allow speech other forum it's basically
like what what what else I'll call like
sound library so basically it's like
it's a company called
telling music it's a French company
basically they have a bunch of composers
who compose music for TV and so it has
to try out the documentary it has to
choose the music and so it ended like a
little mix of like little bit of says
that that draw it a bit of that John and
EJ's yes it proposed this music saying
that ok it was it was composed by a
composer which was not the case but just
consider a reaction and eventually it
was chosen for fun an extra yet so today
later find out that it was actually
created by an artificial intelligence to
be fair I'm not sure they're using this
music in their documentary they don't
even know potentially we're talking
about it here that's what I said
the I just think that I don't think they
know it to be fair that is astonishing
and just I think that it's that good
we've had some music underlying the
interview of times here all created by
the or artificial intelligence now you
mentioned a differentiation that
wasn't aware of between orb and the orb
composure so orb is I guess like a
framework kind of back-end artificial
intelligence engine is that the idea yes
exactly I mean well I mean yes orb is
really the core engine and it can work
by itself saying okay it's possible say
okay I want like the two-minute song
Orchestra a peak and all that stuff yeah
it's possible
so as we don't want to use it that way
you don't want to can I can I write a
script that will use it though is that
possible is it an API or command-line
argument or something well it would be
possible but you will not provide it
okay I got you
all right that's that's proprietary
we'll say speaking of proprietary what
kind of oh s support are we looking at
is this like a Windows only kind of
thing
well it's moving to Windows and Mac
Windows and Mac any plans at linux
support at all fully Nix you mean yes
any plans to support over the Linux well
it will be complicated because like for
for I mean the core it doesn't change
anything to the core code but it's more
like the use of d8w and like plugins
which are quite rare on linux yeah here
yeah here you so we're probably going to
be on Windows or Mac anyways in the
studio so it makes make sense for sure
any any other system requirements that
we should be aware of before we before
we wrap up no I mean the only
restricting part is maybe the memory
because you need just you need to have
the memory that you need for your own
samples so which is usually the case yes
you're its own samples sure but yes I
mean it's kind of memory intensive of
course when you load like a bunch of
orchestral stuff yeah it can be I mean
it can be heavier of lips I like what
it's not CPU intensive at all so I mean
the only requirement yet is to to be
able to load on the sound Ivory's okay
okay Jeff now one more yeah I've got one
more question just as I've been
listening to you and and you know you're
talking about the software I mean I
haven't played with the software so I
don't know all I want to know all the
selections that come with it but do you
have the ability to set an emotional
feel to the music
and is that incorporated like if you
want something that invokes anger within
the composition can you set the software
to do that or do you use that through
your individual selections well we could
do we could do that but we don't want to
this the same reason as basically we
want people to be able to create some
moods and we don't want to have like
we're going to pull to try new things
and basically if for example I if you
want to be like to have like an angry
mood the composer knows what to do and
all the parameters he has to choose to
have this effect right so if it's really
like a low-level kind of software okay
and which it's not like you selected
wrong with the duration all that stuff
to be very clear and yes you will it's
it how how we want it to be used all
right and we're working entirely from
the screenshots that we've shown here
we're working entirely from from trying
to understand get our head around
something's a brand-new artificial
intelligence creating music that's what
we're talking about with orb composer
so for us to get out you've been playing
with this thing for five years that's
not going to be there like you know your
way around this thing I want to play
with it but when can I install this on
my computer so basically we plan to do
like a better version which will be I
think available like in October and for
final release in January
wonderful so we're looking at like a
just a few months yeah yes I think you
might until the release yes fantastic
it's like an early Christmas present
exactly yeah Richard we appreciate your
time so very much tonight we're very
very excited about your product we love
what you're doing with with hexa cords
and with with orb in particular this is
really really cool stuff and the
compositions that you sent us so far are
awesome
like it's just thank you very much
harder this is automated and artificial
intelligence where's it going to go next
what you know this is just kind of the
start of something cool what's what's
next for
company where are you pitching this what
is going on well we have a very big
project that we would like to that it is
a little bit early to share it but
basically the idea would be to integrate
the technology inside video games would
mean which would mean that the music
will be would be created inside the game
oh my god and not outside the game so
yes it's just a little thing we have
some we did some to have concept of it
but it's rate of it early to to tell you
more about it first of all he starts by
saying we've got this big thing but
we're not allowed to tell you about it
but we'll tell you this that is in game
you mentioned that you were going to be
doing gaming audio but this is huge so
huge if I if I'm coming up to a
frightening scene within the game I'd
imagine that orb is going to know I know
you're not allowed to talk or if you
like me I'd like 500 times trying to
fight a boss you wanna do - oh that's
awesome antiquated way to get us excited
way to get us inside that's cool so if
you guys you folks get your head around
that
so imagine it creates the music on the
fly during the game it can be influenced
by the gameplay I'm imagining how the
API is going to function yeah exactly
that's exactly how it would work and the
very interesting part as well is that
the composer would have a major
influence on because he would not need
to compose like fine arts course but to
to design all the universe of the
musical universe for example saying okay
it's for for this historic I will give
like okay it will be played by clarinets
and with some arpeggios and to choose
all the parameters but then it will be
live real time so it's very interesting
yet when I enter here that you know this
is a scary scene we've got some
pizzicatos exactly yes not
the notes but yes like the all the all
the parameters rate a bit like in your
computer it's as if it becomes part of
the level creation process so we say
okay this bill is going to have this
style of music now let orb do the rest
yes exactly and so it will basically put
the composer kind of at the center of
all the gameplay Wow
I think I've had a stupid like grin
gaping mouth and last like 90 seconds
this is incredible
thousands of people right now have that
same expression yeah Richard I I want to
challenge you to please please please
keep in touch with us let us know we
want to let our community know about the
progress of your product and how it's
being utilized by Victor and we wish you
all the best thank you so much for thank
you very much thanks thanks for having
me thanks thanks together
[Applause]
[Music]
tell them say yeah I guess
this one is 100% controlled by England
category-five technology TV and you'll
find our website at category five dot TV
