welcome to category 5 technology TV this
is episode number 3 27 for tuesday the
24th december 2013 good SIA I'm Robby hi
I'm Sasha hey everybody Merry Christmas
Eve Merry Christmas Eve paws up just one
more sleep to go kids one more sleep to
go now coming up in the newsroom just in
time for Christmas details of as many as
40 million customer debit and credit
credentials have leaked in a data breach
at target oh I know bad a google chrome
based desktop computer has been
announced by LG life is good BTW will be
blocking porn for all of its users by
default yeah and google has bought the
company that made that dog like robot
that runs really fast so stick around
these stories are coming up later in the
show tonight also we're going to be
chatting with dale pearson from it is
subliminal hacking dot net and you want
to check them out but we're gonna be
talking to him a little bit about these
fake scam tech support calls that you
sometimes receive or that you may
receive we want to let you know what to
expect with that just kind of one of the
current kinds of scams that are going on
and happening through your telephones it
doesn't matter if you're on Mac Windows
or Linux it happens through your phone
so like I say Dale Pearson is going to
be joining us in just a couple moments
time don't go anywhere looking forward
to tonight it's going to be a great show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
krista wells
your kid
and your host where I'll be Ferguson
to secure your company you need
confidence in a trusted solution
technological leadership has made he
sent a pioneer of the antivirus industry
for 25 years continual research and
development has earned us trust in our
solutions a long record of awards an
independent security testing our proof
of this as are millions of users
worldwide
he said endpoint security solutions for
your business
emerging threats are eliminated by our
unique scanning engine with cloud-based
technology lo system demands ensure fast
and efficient security
web control prevents network overloads
and controls online activity without
easily manageable solution you can
oversee security on thousands of
endpoints from a single console flexible
easily managed and cost-effective
endpoint security solutions from ESET
proven trusted this is category 5
technology TV so good to have you here
my name is Robbie Ferguson I am Sasha
tomatoes and tonight we have a very
special guest Dale Pearson is joining us
from subliminal hacking net we're going
to be talking a little bit about some of
these scams that are going on right now
Sasha are you aware of these scams where
somebody will phone you up and they'll
say hello my name is Robbie i'm calling
from say Microsoft uh your computer's
susceptible to this or that and I'd like
to fix it for you you know I am aware
that they could possibly happen to me
but I feel like knowing who I am I feel
like if I were to get a call like that I
I might be one of those naive people who
actually thought somebody from Microsoft
was calling it could happen couldn't it
well yeah I mean depending I mean and
that's why something like this interests
me so much Dale Pearson had it happened
to him Dale good to have you on the show
thanks for joining us exactly Dale you
have this happened in yeah it is but
when it looks right just look at it and
it's like they don't know who they're
calling its I don't know if they've got
some black book somewhere or maybe
they're just going through names in the
phone book Dale Pearson comes up they
pick up the phone they dial you up and
what happens at that point mm-hmm yes
then let you guys have mentioned already
you hear about these types of scams and
initially the phone rings and I think
man someone's just wasting my time
fencing yeah mother solicitor and I
don't really need this yeah I want to
talk all about it and hear about your
experience but the viewers are wondering
okay what is subliminal hacking what you
know why is it kind of ironic that these
guys would end up calling you of all
people yes I sneeze
a site that i found it a few years ago
now and basically my day job is running
threat simulations for companies but
what I specialize in these social
engineering techniques and kind of the
tactics and the methods that people use
to manipulate our influence people these
guys call them oh wow I ironic is that
so did you know right away what was
going on yes right away I kind of pull
wow I've cuz i said to friends before
lots of people ask me you know these
guys are wrong you what they up to what
are they trying to do and i explained to
them you know just ignore it they're
trying to scam you you know there's
nothing wrong your machine yeah and so
initially when the phone rang I was kind
of these guys waste of my time then the
same time it suddenly quit that he's not
that easy to me to you know have some
fun with these guys absolutely I'd love
to actually take a little look at some
of the fun you had now this took three
hours of your day yeah tons of three
hours and put all the obviously I didn't
want to bore people so much for three
hours of footage online so what I think
is a post in the video is kind of the
last 30 minutes but essentially when
they first called me I kind of the
initial plan was just to lead them along
for a while you know to run up a bill
for them so you know then getting some
money I'm eight yeah charging those guys
back and that's when I had the idea of
if we cover you know shortly that you
know I set up a virtual machine I'll
change my internet facing rks I let them
have me know so I can experience what it
isn't I'm really recorded because you
hear all about it you don't really see
what they're up to it's kind of like
antivirus technicians they sometimes
have to let themselves get infected in
order to know what it is that it's doing
yeah that's exactly what Dale that's
incredibly brave we want to show you
this because I think Dale part of your
motivation here was the awareness of
viewers and blog readers at subliminal
hacking net and just public awareness to
know that this kind of scam is going on
we really don't understand that
and the main thing is if you don't you
get to hear about the fact this scam
happens and you hear from know people
almost like in the third party sense
that yeah bill this is what happened
this is what they said when they spoke
to me there's a look at tried to have me
do yeah you don't often see exactly what
happened in here that language so yeah I
thought it's a good opportunity that you
know hear what's happening see what's
happening on the screen see what's
happening to your machine and what
they're in trying to do the econ see
okay so let's do that right now this is
a clip from Dale's website subliminal
hacking dotnet of the phone call that
came in to him hello are you high or
very good okay so money Triplett the
postcard was with the second manager all
right so at the same time what I want to
do is close down the stage blow the
paste the web the web Angela saludos my
box oh you have come back to your normal
desktop okay when you return back to
normal text up we just if you let me
know all right okay yes okay gave me the
option except then except you look lik
on except all right congratulations sir
you be connected to the rescue
department where the certified
technicians are working at your computer
right now to just leave the control of
your mouth as you would work on the
computer and show you each and every
problem that is making your computer
exactly been this kind of state all
right now the great company taught me
how all is this computer I use it music
yeah how old it the coffee five years
old five years old I believe that you
are the author right foot on the main
owner of this computer yes all right and
what are the kind of activity to do on
the Internet is a big email each topic
province guide just just seen Xena I
think bother to just use internet ok it
alright
think that by the way exactly did you
put yourself in to get to the very high
rock though right buzzin do you have any
idea you know that Internet is a very
high traffic zone that's are things I'm
leg on pain that you know that Internet
is a very high traffic door no no you
mean like what like you know there are
many people who loses piece of it all
right oh yes so whenever you are online
you cover know exactly how many people
are online at the same time if you're
what happens exactly now I do believe
you have an auntie buddy yes yes we
can't / use it by a computer I don't
know it just came with it okay I'll just
check the antibody just give me a second
it does check the active voice which
occupies where your computer
all records I just got a message from a
certified technician stating that you
are no kind of fancy boys for the
protection of this computer are you
aware about that no I didn't I you never
know that all right so now what can you
feel it's a bittersweet did you see what
could you three could you tell me lots
of warnings lots of water if you have
any idea what are they for no no not
good no call each other baby unskilled
application and the powerful links which
are going and your computer which is not
safe for your computer and it is safe
for all the personal information that
would help you to go on the internet
because these are the kind of thoughts
exactly downloaded on the gateway of the
internet with so if I slowly it will
affect the performance of the computer
as well oh all right let things up these
are the kind of application to tell
money in the computer which is not
totally safe and killed which means that
when they wish you work on be into that
what happens inside the spa's when it
gets into your computer dhoni by slowly
it will attend to slow down the
performance of the computer but
sometimes you will notice like whenever
you try to turn on your computer it will
take you both seconds to start up or
whenever you try to pull up the next day
to do any kind of activities online the
page will also take some time to load up
with some times as well exactly always
sometimes as well whenever you try to be
like you know whenever you try to work
on your computer sometime the computer
will take some time to get close enough
with a program but not David for me so
these are the kind of symptoms that your
computer can you know run can give you
when you have this kind of terrorism
bonus also apart of that whenever to
work on the internet is so cleon safe
announcer killed because you never know
who can get into your personal
information they all this person far the
document would impede our save the
computer but it might be a risk of
losing those as possible as well all
right
wow that is just frightening right
because these guys pick up the phone
Dale first of all fantastic job by the
way that's Dale from subliminal hacking
dotnet and one of the things that we
were chatting there as the video was
playing and it just seems like the
script was getting thicker and more
manipulative as as he was realizing that
you didn't know what you were talking
about when it came to tech and I love
some of your observations you know here
we are looking at the event viewer and
these are severe errors and it's dhcp or
print spooler errors or something like
that so Dale what is your overall
impression of this as a professional in
in this field and you know just having
received this call and and spending the
whole three hours of your time with them
is this is this a real threat I mean it
is really I mean that's the kind of
scary thing that I mean the reason I let
them alone for so long was actually I'm
surprised they they say Lou me for so
long yeah look it said in the earlier
part of the cool that you don't hear i'm
telling you know boss i'm trying to
build this virtual machine and telling
them stories like oh I've got a blue
screen and I'm telling them I'm telling
them hex error messages that I've got in
there like oh okay yeah let me get one
of our other tech support guys to call
you back and then it's almost calling me
on a different number trying to now
they're really persistent they want they
want my machine they want my card
details do you want and they want to be
a key logging my machine for the next
however many years I have a question
after something like this happens like
say they call me and I end up talking to
them and giving them information at what
point is it irreversible like at the
point where you're letting them in there
is that already irreversible for
somebody like me yes it kind of depends
so once they've got remote access to
your machine and you see in the video
there's a lot of things happening in the
background so that they're uploading
files too
it's maintained assistance on your
machine and you hear them say a few
times you know your machine is going to
be running better than new as long as
you don't format your machine yeah and
they say that a few times to be clear
and essentially I mean these guys didn't
seem that particularly skilled so I
don't know um you know how well they're
constructed those malicious files so it
might be possible that in a decent anti
virus checker would identify those files
and would remove them for you however
you know if they are in more advanced
threat then really the only option you
have is that they form on your machine
and start again yeah yeah there's one of
the other risks that you hear about a
lot not just these scammers but with the
ransomware version so you know if they
get particularly upset with you they
could decide to encrypt all your files
and then you know you really have no
recourse other than to start again the
head you back up because you really
don't know when you're taking this call
who are these guys really right they say
that there are 35 of them I don't know
if it's just a room of three college
kids and you know they're having fun and
I'm hacking into peoples systems what
kind of motivation would they have to do
this I mean so it's it seems like a
prank and we're getting a little bit of
feedback if I can could you actually
turn down your speakers just a little
bit there for us Dale so that should
help what is the motivation for somebody
to pick up the phone and make this kind
of call and go to all this effort to
trick you into giving them access to
their computer to your computer Whistler
can akkineni social engineering based
it's a pity that this particular one it
also requires some method and you
mentioned before you know how do they
get your numbers and things and they
often often use dialers so there's
randomly calling numbers on a school and
if someone answers unless and there's a
reception person available they would
take the call that's the surgeons will
personally speak to like the handler he
takes it called and kind of gets you it
gets you on the hook sort of thing and
then they pass you through to these and
more senior guys they're gonna make your
world Rosie again but mean the benefit
is there's there's really three things
and most people when you hear them talk
about this scam is are the worst thing
happen is you know they're going to take
that credit card payment from you you
know in my case they wanted a get 119
pounds off me in the end which isn't
that in a great deal of money but it's a
lot of money for for nothing and but the
real problem is that they kind of think
too in that in that segment you just
heard is they've got access to your
machine so every time your machines on
led by Access to it they can be
keylogging you logging into your bank
logging into amazon or any of the online
shopping sites that you use yes well as
I've already got your credit card data
potentially if you've made that payment
so they can be you know using your card
or setting on to Carter's that's all
things there's 33 serious problems there
and as I mentioned before that if it all
goes bad and you know they might miss
encrypt your files just to really make
it a little bit worse yeah here's a five
Dale I'm in Canada you're located a
little north of London in the UK so our
time difference I mean what time is it
there you know it's it's mid-morning at
this point right so who's woman so so
for you I could be that caller and sorry
we are getting a bit of feedback here
and it's a little hopefully it's not
distracting for the viewers i hope that
seems a little bit better now i could be
that caller and I could call Dale and
pretend to be a microsoft support rep
and think about this if I get you to
install that stuff where are you going
to be after this interview you're
probably going to retire for the night
so now I've got this opportunity at two
o'clock in the morning your time to do a
full day's work to do a full I could
spend a lot of time on your computer
transferring files personal files
pictures documents to be able to take
over your life and and you know you and
use modern tactics to become you gonna
feel that much since we've got the hair
ya got that down just need the t-shirt
geez like the t-shirt is there ever a
case ever when somebody calls you that
in any way you should be giving them
that sort of information ever no never
so these people are really just
capitalizing on the fact that people
don't know that like really non-educated
victims really a dell i mean if i can
just touch it real quick with my
customers what i say is if you call me
and I say okay now I'm going to help you
out I'm going to remote into your
computer that's one thing you called me
you know that I'm a legitimate support
representative if somebody calls you and
introduces themselves and says I want to
promote into your computer instant red
flag sorry but I right yeah it's as
simple as that why would anyone call you
so this affects everybody right i mean
this particular these particular
scammers as you say dale they weren't
you know they weren't up and up maybe
they're inexperienced maybe they're
young and maybe they're just learning
the ropes and learning the scripts maybe
they're you know they're people that you
know they they actually hire people it's
possible to do these scams because they
make a lot of money so yes there you
know with that said we we just never
know like where the attack is going to
come from and who it's going to be and
what they're going to do with your data
it's best to err on the side of caution
and many times there go ahead deal yes I
I think such a mentioned something about
you know if you kind of fall for this
scam i think one of the important thing
is to understand is it did you know if
you are i lost people contact me since
the video yeah and it's not you didn't
fall for this because you're stupid per
se yeah cuz that they are not really a
good their manipulative yeah the missive
and I mean as you mentioned what you're
using a linux machine or a mac or
windows machine is happening over the
phone so anyone is susceptible but as we
know you know when you work two mighty
windows machines you know kind of have
some problems over time so people get
frustrated when their machines running
slow or networking in the internet isn't
running as fast as you know they had
hope yeah so when you've got that kind
of thing going on especially around the
Christmas season when people trying to
buy stuff you get a phone call from
someone out of blood
me and he probably does seem really
suspicious but then when someone is
telling you that maybe you've got these
problems your computer open it in the
social engineering contest we call it a
yes set so what's happening is that part
of influencing you is you've got
problems with your computer yes I have
you'd like me to help you with you yes
let me show you all these problems
you've got can you seal the problems yes
I can you'd like me to think some for
you yes so just give me this money and
we can go away yes so this is what it's
not about you know stupidest there's
some science behind it absolutely it's
like the the slider Hannah magicians who
are able to manipulate your thoughts so
to speak or read your mind by suggestion
right and you could sense through their
script that it was getting more and more
suggestive and so I was starting to
sense that even in the short couple of
moments that we watched I would
encourage you to check out the full
video of this interest you go over to
subliminal hacking net there's a link
right on your homepage as of this moment
that's going to stay up there for a
little while I presume that's right it's
one of the the featured a blog post is
the wasting time the pc wizard scum is
very good so beyond now of course
there's you know our purpose here
tonight and dales purpose with
subliminal hacking net in the post there
is that public awareness and to let you
know that this kind of scam exists so
that you can be protected by you know
this there's no antivirus that's going
to help you from this it's really just
understanding so how can we really dale
protect ourselves if we sense that this
kind of call is coming in and this is
happening to us I mean the easiest thing
it's not as easy as it sounds as I see
you're using something you know some
critical thinking so what is in it for
this you know this remote company this
random person has called you how did
they how could they possibly of knowing
you've got issues did you no did someone
you know friend or family member get
them in touch of you so you need to kind
of qualify and know why they're calling
you not because they say that you've got
problems in your computer and you know
you might be running XP or windows seven
or vista
they're guessing just trying to get a
hit from you so and you know as nice as
Microsoft are and they're not really
calling you about a problem that you may
have your machine to fix it and no one
to be doing it on their behalf yeah yeah
and as you mentioned at all you don't
need to be given anyone your passwords
or going to sites or anything you know
not unless you trust this person you
getting that trust someone who randomly
koja the blues you've never heard of
before random cold call well they'll
pearson from subliminal hacking net it's
a pleasure having you here we appreciate
your expertise and just you know even
just having captured this is is an
amazing just thing to have had happen
yeah just being at the right place at
the right thing alright so we appreciate
you doing that for the community how can
you know what what will people find when
they go to subliminal hacking dotnet
beyond you know this particular kind of
exploit or information so really what
the sites about is bringing awareness
opposed to professionals and you notice
the general consumer on her the tools
that tactics and techniques that people
use in a social engineering make contact
so happy know what the processes that
people use the Fish Creek what does that
look like how does how to search engines
use language knowing the phone to try
and influence you to do so nor even in
person so that's really the idea and to
talk about kind of my journey of
discovery of you know understanding how
this this stuff works and how people are
influenced them no really the main my
main fault is that you know if you're
aware of the process if you're wearing
the techniques what people say in the
way they frame things and how they
construct sentences that's going to put
you in a better position to you know
understand when someone calls you and
says things in a certain way it's going
to trigger something in you to say hey
this isn't quite right but as before
perhaps it would have just kind of flown
over your head so the whole things about
wins very very cool
I love what you're doing subliminal
hacking done at Dale thank you so much
for being here and do check out his
website they'll have it late night Thank
You Dale thank you son take care this is
category 5 technology TV and just a
pleasure having the L on tonight to
discuss this this particular issue and
we've we've mentioned it in the past
with our viewers that you know this is a
real issue that we need to watch out for
because they are so tricky of it as I
hope we were able to get across tonight
yeah we've talked about it and it
happens in the mail it happens on oh boy
on the phone it happens obviously in
your email and you just have the more
you talk about it the better you you're
equipped for when it actually may happen
to you so I even had a customer just
today who clicked on an email that took
them to what looked like a login form
for their email oh so that they're like
oh that's kind of weird and so they
entered in their username and password
and 35,000 spam emails started blasting
similarly on Twitter there's one that
goes around is a direct message and it
says something along the lines of is
this a picture of you if you click on it
and what does it do it says it's a
Twitter picture you have to be logged
into Twitter and it's like oh that's
kind of weird i am logged in but it's
asking me for my username and password
so it without really thinking it's
manipulating me into entering that
information these are called phishing
scams and this phone scam is sort of
similar to that because it tricks you by
manipulating you into thinking that you
need to provide information and they
make it so easy for you to be able to
give them access to fix the problem
they'll show you the problems and as you
saw there in Dale's video they were
talking and using like the sleight of
hand right or what do you call it
misdirection mm-hmm so the guy on the
phone was talking obviously not the
person controlling the mouse he's
talking and saying so do you have an
antivirus and the guy in the background
is going click click click click click
and installing things and removing
things I'm changing the view and Event
Viewer to make it so that it looks like
there's a bunch of errors and meanwhile
the guy you know if this was a legit
call is thinking yeah I think I do have
antivirus maybe not even watching what's
going on
screen as they think about it they're
probably you know what misdirection do
you have antivirus which one your eye
goes down to the clock the taskbar and
think that's right oh you're not looking
at anything else exactly your eye has
gone down there because it's
misdirection say very very sneaky in the
way that they see I mean in order to get
that far they have to get you on the
phone and truth be told a lot of times
when you have a problem it's so hard to
get ahold of whoever your provider is
yeah right your pants off they can't
have this backlog of complaints it
already built up inside you so when they
finally do call you you're like oh good
you've been on my list I've been meaning
to call you good luck right in it just
happens to be Microsoft them yeah go
right to the man if you're gonna have to
be on hold for 27 hours to talk to them
they're not calling you exactly yeah I
being in the business I know you know we
we provide remote service but we charge
for it raita mately so the show is free
i'll remote into your system and i'll
help you out with teamviewer and we do
that but this is a very unique thing
this is not a technical support business
this is not television show we won't ask
you for your credit card night oh maybe
instead we'd probably rather give you a
credit card how's that for a segue
that's perfect and how would they do
that well I've got the UV I've got these
prepaid you see that ah visa these nice
yeah this is a prepaid Visa card comes
to us from ESET and it has $25 already
on it now it's not a it's not a some
people said it said bye I got an email
saying I don't want a credit card is not
a credit card this is like a gay card
because it carries the visa logo you can
use it where visa is accepted and there
you know it's within you know certain
restrictions but basically it's like a
visa card as far as who accepts it but
it's just a gift card and how would you
get that all you have to do this week
we're not going to give it away withdraw
bot and the reason for that I really
want you at home who those of you who
are watching this and can't watch pardon
me and can't watch live we want you to
be able to participate in the drop
so last week I mention it this week
we're going to do it again all you have
to do is email live at category five dot
TV and in the subject line I need the
word ballot and in the body of the email
i need your registered user name that's
going to be your way of casting a ballot
we're gonna enter all those names in the
draw bot seems simple enough will be a
part of the draw next week when we do
the show awesome well good luck to you
you will give you a credit card a gift
card yes we would love to see now Ravi I
think it's time for the news is it time
already it is tied in the news how did
we get here I know time flies la
sécurité stuff I love when we have
people to interview yeah my favorite
especially when they bring chocolate
remember that time I do remember that
time you tend to remind us we have
another chocolatier you in a while you
need to set one up I'm here alright it's
in the works you ready for it here we go
we go target said in a statement
Thursday that approximately 40 million
credit and debit card accounts may have
been impacted between november 27th in
december 15 2013 the data stolen is
reportedly track data which can be used
to clone cards according to brian krebs
the ESET is warning shoppers to check
your accounts for suspicious activity
ask for replacement debit or credit
cards choose a stronger debit pin or
just change your PIN likely check your
credit report and they're telling people
to change their target com password so
if you do have a target com password go
ahead and give that a change and just
protect yourself what great timing a WoW
Christmas some Christmas shopping at
Target and like I needed another reason
not to shop there but enter in swipe
your card and now 40 million credit
cards and debit cards are stolen that's
a lot of people that were shopping at
Target over Christmas it is wow it must
be multiple stores who knows yeah you
don't know where the stores are we don't
know any of this information yet maybe
it's come to light and I just haven't
heard about
I mean it could be online right you can
shop online for target things can't I I
think what has happened is from from
what I'm putting together is that these
are actual debit terminals in the stores
that have been fracked so someone has
gotten in and been able to install chip
readers or something tell them or just
to enough that they got 40 million cards
what I was swiping but you're talking
your card number your expiry date your
your name quite possibly all the
information that I need to place an
order on amazon hmm with your card I now
have if I was the guy I'm not if he's
not the guy I'm not the guy he's likely
let's get that settled NSA will know it
was no show last week yeah we got new
cameras this week we got 20 of them may
turn around and I go like us like a
scene from the matrix number 40 million
million contributor yes you just took
one to any from each one it should be
okay right Wow yeah I'm sorry if you're
one of the victims from the target scam
basically I think the moral of the story
is if you shop at Target if you have
this year what are you gonna do change
your cancel your credit hour know what
days before Christmas yeah really well
you know the truth be told credit cards
usually have insurance on them so if you
do have a problem right then it's gonna
be covered by your credit card reading
is anything it's frustrating payments
that are coming out automatically it's
maxed out you've had to cancel your card
and you got to call everybody in change
that's just a nightmare it's more I mean
to me it's more the fact that credit
cards have their insurance and your
mortgage payments they'll come out of a
credit card but let's say it's your
debit card and your mortgage payment how
about if you're making right now oh boy
can I bring something up this yeah I
know that we're this is supposed to be
the news that's okay I like to drive
with the news so let's do this I'm just
always looking for ways are you ready
for you showing us i'm showing you
microsoft.com case studies ok let's
ready yep
case studies for target corporation of
microsoft com yeah this is legit folks
case studies Microsoft I don't know if
you want to remove this from your site
if you really want to be bragging about
this target corporation large retail
retailer relies on a virtual solution to
deliver optimum shopping experience and
it goes into how target is using
Microsoft's products Oh to deliver all
of its ha credit card and debit card
safety and have to throw that in Merry
Christmas the case study using Microsoft
Windows and they just got a hacked big
time yeah there that won't even be
online for very much longer I'm sure
that we were the last to see it here
it's burned just like compiz fusion so
LG this is great because one of my
favorite sayings is life is good not
from LG I like Heather spokesperson I it
turns out like really life is life is
good they stole that from me okay LG
announced this week a new desktop
computer called chrome base no way yeah
whoa way the chrome base is an
all-in-one desktop computer similar to
Apple's imac it runs Google's Chrome
operating system an operating system
based on the chrome web browser the
computer has a 21 and a half inch HD
display 16 gigabytes of storage and a
1.3 megapixel front facing camera for
video chats that's wild this is it this
is good I need to just touch on because
when you hear 16 gigabytes in today's
landscape you think okay a 16 gigabyte
SSD what's that that's like my phone has
more storage than that neat thing about
Chrome OS is that it uses online storage
you over your files you're ruining my
news story oh you're gonna talk about
this we're getting there I can't wait
tell me all about it please this is the
first time someone has made an
all-in-one PC running Chrome OS yeah
chrome is a bit different from Windows
and Mac because
be online for just about everything I
was I was a just saying that it's crazy
and clearly while you can store files on
the computer it's best to use Google's
online storage service drive which is
very similar to dropbox so-called drive
not drop box while goo while Chromebooks
aren't as versatile and can't run as
many apps as regular pcs they're pretty
good for people who just want to do
basic online tasks like checking email
reading news watching videos computers
running Chrome OS are typically much
cheaper than mex or pcs too true LG
didn't give a launch date or price for
chrome base but we should learn more
when the computer is formally unveiled
at the Consumer Electronics Show in
early January sounds awesome so it
actually it's life is good sounds good a
lot of people these days you say well
what do you need a computer for they
call up and say I need to buy a computer
okay well what do you the first question
on my mouth what do you need it for
internet the Internet yeah okay I'm
internet you don't really need much
guess what chrome OS is really the
perfect solution because you know it's
not susceptible to viruses you turn it
off and on again and its back to nice
and clean and and it's all internet
based yeah pretty much the only other
thing that people who aren't real users
use their computer for are things like
skype and this has the built-in camera
with the wonderful 3 megapixel perfect
so yeah it's non-proprietary so it'll
have USB ports too I like it there you
go all right the UK broadband provider
BTW has announced the launch of a new
internet filter designed to protect
children online the filter is yeah
somebody has to good right right the
filter is designed to block sites deemed
unsuitable for children and will
automatically be set to on for new users
customers who do not want service will
just have to actively choose to turn it
off the move comes after the government
called for Internet service providers to
filter legal pornography and other adult
subjects by default legal or illegal it
says well legal it says legal we're
talking just normal you know normal
legal / nagar
yeah so we're not talking stuff that is
illegal no what about stopping yeah and
tell you until you choose to unblock it
right right so I can hear for some
reason we're gonna hear about it the
whole freedom of they'll call it freedom
of something but you don't say that
you're violating but you can opt out of
that service see it's better I mean if
you're if you're an adult right and
you're bringing home a computer and your
and you have children in the house and
you don't think or you'll do these
things off but I don't want to see this
crap okay that's true I'm yeah kid but I
don't want to see it when i plug in my
computer but you wouldn't think to
filter it off but the thing is if you're
looking for it you're going to look for
the filter to turn it right so so it's
best to have it actively like the filter
turned on its best off the filter turned
on because anybody who wants to is going
to actively look to turn it off as
opposed to the other people who might
just be naively turning their computer
on clapping their kids in front of the
computer right I'm not really thinking
about it go not something that's on
their mind it used to watch right
exactly yeah so it makes sense this way
I mean people might be up in arms about
it but the people who are up in arms
about it would probably know to go and
turn that filter I'll turn it off if
right if they were upset I make it akin
to cable TV or something it's like if I
don't want those kinds of channels don't
subject them don't subject me to it if I
do then I need to call the cable
provider and say add that to my package
right hmm no pun intended um the P the
BT parental control filters will cover
any internet-enabled device connected to
its home broadband broadband service
fantastic moving right along so forth
news story all right well google has
acquired the engineering company that
develops cheetah the world's fastest
running robot and other animal based
mobile research machines Boston Dynamics
yeah this is cool these guys have always
been cool but they've bought them I kind
of wish we had a video of this this
would be good they're available
okay boston dynamics which can contract
for the US military is the eighth
robotics company snapped up by google
this year huh both the price in the size
of the project which is led by former
android boss andy rubin are being kept
under wraps however analysts say the
purchase the purchases signal a rising
interest in robotics used by consumer
internet companies I'll say so what will
happen now Google's buying them all this
is this is after that new story that I
said where Google wants to what predict
what you're thinking yeah right
absolutely and we're hearing more and
more even you know with the story about
the Google's kind of freaking me out
lately yeah but imagine i guess i can do
I'm respecting google awesome and
they've got the AI for it they've got
the yeah google street view and the
ability to intelligently plot courses
and things so with that ability plus a
super-fast cheetah robot I know Google
is like to think of the potential
Google's like the boss I like it a boss
anyway those are the news stories and I
put on my friend it is oh goodness get
the full stories at category five dot TV
/ newsroom the category five TV news
room is researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a new story that you think
is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category five dot TV for the
category five TV news room i am sasha
tomatoes thanks Sasha you are welcome I
want to say welcome to our newly
registered viewers we've got Chris m510
this week Deb club Udo be Dave tech
alias Rafi cruise Miller and Nikki nice
to see nice welcoming with us all of you
registered beers awesome do you want to
backtrack a little bit because we're
kind of getting
ahead I want to hit some viewer
questions before we get too far but i'll
let you kind of cover this kind of stuff
as i get a picture ready for you that i
want to show you okay well i would like
to say first that category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat5 TV / tpn and
the international association of
internet broadcasters cat five dot TV /
IA ib thanks Ashley you're welcome I'm
so excited because the perks have
started flowing from our IndieGoGo
campaign mm-hmm right here is a picture
this was sent to me today just to let
our viewers know that the category 5
technology TV logo stickers are on their
way yeah this is a picture of Max who is
who actually works over at sticker you
calm and there he is packing some
stickers into an envelope to be shipped
out yay thanks max thanks max that's
there they are you can't really get a
good look at the stickers or max if
they're both cut off it's true this is a
partial shot of Max and a parish of its
stickers but all you need to do is be
tuning in next week we're gonna show you
more as these stickers work their way
into the package and yeah we've got more
papers in the mail yeah all right they
look great I can't wait they've shown me
all the proofs and everything this is a
company in Toronto we love working with
a Canadian company proudly Canadian and
these are die cut vinyl clear stickers
they are waterproof their everything
those are the best stickers that you'll
ever find anywhere but you'll notice
that he's actually packing in stickers
of different varying colors so you can
put them on dark surfaces or light
surfaces and they'll work this is good
it is okay alright are we ready to do we
want to are we doing the viewer your
question there was a question that I was
started I guess in the last episode with
air and so we just want to continue from
there okay well last week as you know
we're
talking about demon a tens question here
yes of course about the MIDI files and
playing them from a PHP script now let
you know last week we actually we kind
of it wasn't working out perfectly it
should have been but there was something
going on that I couldn't tell what the
problem was because we ran out of time
for troubleshooting and we really did we
had to move on and that was an
unfortunate case however I had to look a
chance to look at this this week and
just give a quick boot of my event
viewer and everything so let's go back
to VAR / w w not gonna take a whole lot
of time here folks so so follow along
i'm gonna all right move save to old
index okay I'm gonna call my file old
index dot PHP just so that I have last
week oh ok cuz I've also are you gonna
bring that up then I am awesome night
okay so old index dot PHP is where we
want to go localhost / old index dot PHP
alright so with that file
there we go echo echo looks like I left
an egg which was part of an echo let's
see if that fixes her there we go so
there's my player as we had it last week
and when it hit play it does absolutely
nothing so I had the discussion okay
well what's actually going on there hit
play play play play play well what's
happening okay so let's go back to our
terminal and here's what's going on
we're gonna go tail whoa
what's going on
I think I left some of my fix in the
crop no i didn't what my script should
have worked last week it really should
maybe the volume was down last night Ali
ok pseudo tail haha log messages what
does it tell me but see look at what
we've got we've got all these pulse
audio errors ok so you know what I'm
gonna do Oh Sasha we love you
you fix things so fast it's just like
okay you know what i did i added us too
i added w we know it's www-data okay how
do we know that because we echoed the
exec of Who am I the Linux command on
our script so you saw that last week I
don't need to show you that a game but
then I had to add that user sowww data
to the pulse dash access group because
what do I notice as i look in my
terminal that all the errors that i was
getting are all pulse audio related okay
so that's how you figured I don't Derek
yeah so I was looking at that VAR log
messages so what I would want to do is
do a group user user mod right sudo
usermod yes so with usermod we can add
the user to any group that already
exists right so usermod space dash a
we're going to add two dash G the group
pulse access ww data there we go so
we've added us to that group this is
because i'm using pulseaudio here's the
neat thing to find when we when I
figured out that it was a pulse audio
issue is the fact that this won't affect
you if you're using a headless server
because you probably aren't using
pulseaudio you've just got alice' maybe
you're using pulseaudio I don't know but
and don't think it's gonna be as big of
a problem I also try sorry I know you
know what I to be honest with you what
just went through my head is the fact
that he's at headless server and I have
like what that is and I server without a
monitor without a GUI okay do the other
ones work if i click on oh little town
of bethlehem and hit play it seemed like
it was
yeah yeah it was it was like about to
play I just hid away in a manger at the
same time there you go Wow ha so all we
needed to do was just add us to that to
that group Paul stash access there you
go I also added it easy fix a d'awww
data to audio just in case but I don't
think that's what fixed it i think
because it was a pulseaudio air there
you go there you have it the code from
last week worked super now I have
another question right maybe the song
should be you should we turn off away in
a manger this is like someone okay this
is our christmas special kill every well
ya see why am I mutant it there there we
go might as well listen to a little
right it's horrible it's midi it's why
it's like old FM synthesis this is
perfect anything you really nice nice
kill a play midi oh not permitted okay
pseudo kill oh there we go all right I
killed it mmm all right I have a
question here from David masters hey
David masters he says hi Ravi hello I
use a free open source media server
based on pearl that up until recently
was maintained by logitech its pearl
base and runs on linux and mac and
windows supports OGG flak and most media
for formats except the drm stuff oh it
had an alternative to the stuff that we
were looking at Hillary and I with
building a like a media server I guess
so cool it has it also has recently
added an option to share the content via
dnl a cool it allows mediated be played
on any pc and has a web interface
originally designed to support the
now-discontinued squeezebox line of
network music players it also supports
open source software based clients that
run on windows linux and mac so great
what's the what's the program called and
we'll post a link for you in the show
notes of episode number 3 27 ah probably
says that somewhere here is it this one
devices squeeze play squeeze please play
sounds right yeah cool so there you go
for you thanks for the tailor so if
you're
interested in building that kind of
multi pardon me multi media server maybe
this is something for you mm-hmm here's
a fun tongue-in-cheek sort of post from
Phil okay hey Phil so Phil quotes you
and says it costs about twenty-five
cents for each download of an HD episode
high-definition episode of category five
would you pay one dollar per month to
offset the cost two dollars a month to
pay two bucks a month to more than pay
for usage and what are your thoughts
this is those are my words those are
your words from my blog and bald nerd
document this is Phil he's cute here we
go it says say what last week I
downloaded the web dev series from Sivas
for Serie season 4 12 shows does that
mean he stole three bucks worth of food
right out of the mouths of Ferguson
children does poor kids I'm either he's
misread something or he's a horrible
person I know and on that other audio
only show he heard you say that the
average category 5 show gets 65,000
viewers and who knows how many of them
download huge files hmm so closer to
about 62 okay um ok so the 25 cents per
download thing yes this is that the show
costs a lot of money yeah to run now
okay first of all you're asking about
you downloaded some older stuff we're
Krista and I back in season four did the
series on web development that's cool
when you download anything that's older
than five weeks old it comes from a very
specific content distribution network
okay whatever you call the CDN that CDN
is low cost low speed and generally
fairly low low maintenance okay it's
slower you'll notice that the files
download slower but my costs the show's
cost is much less when you download from
those every time we release a new
episode it goes up on our best CDN our
fastest CDN and therefore our most
expensive CDM because people who are
watching the show brand new fresh they
need to be able to get it fast
the problem that we encountered is that
over the past few months there were an
increasing number of people who would
download all 327 episodes in one fell
swoop oh and at that time we had
everything hosted in one basket it was
very expensive and we got hit all of a
sudden with this bill that was
astronomically higher than were used to
so I had two very very quickly figure
out a solution that's where this blog
post came in where I was talking about
the cost of distribution okay and those
cost breakdown to be very very high
because of the amount of viewers that we
have so is it stealing to take our file
that cost me twenty-five cents well no
because when you go to our website
there's also banner ads which people do
click on and when you do we get paid for
that as well okay right so there's
there's a balance so by and large it
balances out it really does yeah there
are times where it doesn't and it's
always in the favor of me having to put
out right lately because we've grown a
lot over the past little while and with
that growth comes added expense which is
why we've also revamped our player on
our website you notice that it's a
little different we're not using YouTube
on our website anymore gray too does not
monetize well with its embed codes it's
okay when you go to youtube com and
watch us through that they monetize but
it doesn't really work out if it's on
our website so we have our own player
and it generates revenue so it it
balances it out so if you download the
show from our website hopefully sponsor
sponsors are paying for that for you and
anything else that you'd like to chip in
is really you know to help us to expand
the show build the studio get out our
cameras exactly no that's really that's
a really good question thank you so much
fell thanks for a real quick one fair
everybody for your questions merry
Christmas to you I hope that you're
having a nice Christmas season yeah can
I say you know can we take the last
three minutes just to that yes about Rob
gore
who is he is a big fan of the show
mm-hmm Rob man no prob okay so he's got
this picture that he's asked for all of
the co-hosts and myself to autograph so
I wonder if he could sign like kind of
somewhere around here somewhere around
me and he now he got back to me and said
yes he is buying a solid gold diamond
studded frame for this so we do need to
leave room for the frame ok so I'll sign
like up near my arm yeah anywhere in
there sure what does it shows up alright
so Rob Gore is like we're thinking of
this guy great friend of the show and is
probably sitting watching and watching
us from a hospital bed right now after
surgery so hope everything went very
very well my friend and i hope the Wi-Fi
is working well tonight Oh house our
house our frame rate there we go Sasha d
on there for you that's for you rob Oh
get well soon indeed haha buddy thinking
of you all right little food and yum
delicious me long as there's yellow and
it'll be green or red hey so well oh
yeah Christmas colors I just caught it
nice coming in yeah Wow right a time
Merry Christmas everybody goodness oh
it's been a great year a bit of a
laid-back you ya know Christmas carols
not like last year which is good cuz
I've been battling this cold that we all
have it some fighting to do and we this
is probably the hot spot this is the hub
this is probably grab zero here next
week I've got those visa cards to give
away from ESET so don't forget to cast
your ballot only have to do is email
live at category 5 TB put the word
ballot in the subject line put
registered user name in the body of your
email if you're not already registered
go to our website category five dot TV
register it's absolutely free so you'll
be qualified to win that card point five
dollars prepaid Visa card yeah well
that's I I can't believe I'm looking
over my notes here that's literally all
the time we have I think we've covered
as much as we possibly can during that
time anything that we didn't cover this
time I will pick back up next time next
we come here all by myself could be fun
gave everybody the night off very old
school is gonna be just like the good
old days the olden days back when I in a
webcam so i won't see you till the new
year yeah that's true good times alright
well thank you it's been a slice exactly
here well care everybody happy Merry
Christmas and a wonderful happy new year
i will see you on the new year's eve so
see you next tuesday night a character
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
