welcome back to new every day my name is
Carrie my name is Jen and on today's
show we're going to talk about the value
of can't so stay tuned
thanks for tuning in again so glad that
you've joined us here on new everyday
and we have convinced Jarrad Clark to
stick around for another episode and
we're so glad that you did your thanks
so much for the discussion we had last
week about camp how you got started
you're working as a director of a camp
and having lots of influence there and
we were talking earlier about why camp
is valuable not only in building
relationships but in sharing the gospel
and you shared something with us also
jared about how tim hortons has has seen
the value of you can you explain that a
little bit for us well I think so often
we look at Christian camping as this
sort of second-rate you know we sort of
do this because we're Christians and
well we'll try and teach kids about
their faith and it's like this sort of
side deal that we we think is a good
thing but we don't really know why we're
not really sure what it actually
accomplishes but we've been doing it for
a while so we should keep doing it and
yet the outside world has acknowledged
that camp is one of the most powerful
ways to impact children and make change
in their life to show them there's hope
and that they can have a future and
these things that we would call our
biblical you know tenets of our faith
that we believe that you know God has a
future and a hope for our lives and yet
we don't associate that with cam but tim
hortons who's this iconic Canadian brand
wanted to affect change in our country
and so they have invested massive
amounts of money into building camps and
so they give the opportunity for
children who never have the opportunity
to go to camp financially and they send
them to a different camp they have
leadership camps and they have these
different programs even their school
groups a school doesn't pay to go to a
Tim Horton's camp they have to apply and
they have to show the value of that
experience so what are the teachers
hoping to accomplish because they've
recognized that this tool is incredibly
valuable and so it's not about the money
to pay for it but it's about okay are
you actually making a good use of this
resource and so what we discount about
learning this other huge organization is
said wait a second guys this is
the most valuable things we can do for
our youth and is now doing it in a major
way and their annual budget i think it's
about 30 million dollars they spend each
year on camp 30 million yes like that
Tim Hortons camp day that Tim Hortons
camp day I think last year in the
commercial i think they raised 17
million in one day it I don't quote me
on that but it just unbelievable amounts
of money are being poured into
children's lives in this country through
in camp through Tim Hortons Wow see I
grew up always going to camp so in my
mind camp meant hearing about Jesus
going to Chapel twice a day learning
memory verses bible study and so when I
found out that there were camps that
didn't talk about Jesus I'm like what do
you do at a camp if you don't talk about
Jesus that's just weird and so when
Jared shared that stat with us I was
like oh like camp is valuable like it's
valuable um for for so many reasons and
some of what we've talked about is self
esteem and overcoming fear but your
development yes character development
and so um so it's very interesting to
hear you know Tim horns who you're right
like it's on the corner of every place
in Canada if you're not from Canada um
you have to understand this is a coffee
a coffee shop basically and it is at the
corner of every single intersection
almost and they understand the value of
camp so what I guess my question then is
how or why then how do we then as a
church then sit up and go oh like why
should we do that why should we sit up
and say oh there's there's more value to
camp than we realize I guess that's my
question well it's as you're developing
the self esteem in children and as
you're developing these skills them
you're actually setting the foundation
for their life and so do you want that
foundation of their life to include
Jesus it's like because at camp they
will learn these things they will learn
how to do new skills they'll overcome
their fears they'll grow as people but
do you want that to happen with Jesus
because it's going to happen regardless
right they're going to learn they're
going to develop as people they're gonna
grow up and they're going to develop
skills and abilities and do you want
Jesus to be a part of that conversation
I would say most of us would hope that
yes that Jesus would be a part of it but
then we have to be making sure that
we're offering just as much as those
other camps and making sure we're doing
it well yeah to me it's not enough to do
church two times a day and do some
memory verses and call it can't it
because it doesn't compete with what
other camps are doing so we need to have
the best activities we need to have the
best things because I want us to be the
best option for any parent to send their
kid to as a summer camp activity so that
we're not looked at is oh it's just
because they're a christian camp they're
coming because i don't want to have a
bunch of Christian kids that's not the
goal of our camp are mandated goal of
our camp is to introduce people men and
women boys and girls to Jesus so if they
already all know Jesus I've missed the
point and so for me I have to make sure
that our camp is stained current and
adding the new activities that kids are
looking for so that parents who have no
idea who we are and what we're all about
go that's the camp I want to send my
kids to because through that they're
giving us the permission to tell our
kids all about Jesus and so yes we will
do chapel and yes we will memorize
verses but it's in the context of of an
amazing camp experience that's on par
with anything they can get out there
right that is important because when
you're eight years old and you get to go
down a waterslide or you get to two
behind a boat for the very first time
those memories are ingrained in your
mind and it is just such a thrilling
experience and then to be able to have
the opportunity to hear about Christ
maybe for the first time and take that
back to your family
that's incredible Joe do you have any
stories I mean you've got lots of
stories but do you have stories of kids
may be who they have they don't come
from a Christian background they just
came because their parents maybe wanted
them out of the house for the summer and
they've come to Christ like can you
share one of your five hundred well I
mean we have all sorts of kids come from
all sorts of backgrounds and so yeah
they come and they you know sometimes
it's because we're a babysitting option
sometimes you know the daycare is closed
for two weeks in the summer so that they
can have vacation so it's like what are
we going to do other kids will ship them
off the camp or it's the parents want a
vacation and so we're going to go away
and we're going to sign our kids up for
can and so yeah to tell one or two
stories it's the hundreds of stories of
kids who come to know Christ at our camp
and it's it's really not about where
they're coming from its but where they
are right in that moment and it really
doesn't matter how we get those kids
there whether we've sponsored them or
whether they've come because of a friend
once they're there we have that
opportunity to share with them and so
it's pretty neat to see how the various
reasons why kids end up under camp each
summer you know this past summer a child
was sent to her camp because they were
changing foster homes and the only
reason they were at Camp they didn't
even know it the worker told us that we
were dropped they were dropping off a
camp and when they came home from camp
they were going to be in a different
home and so instead of handling that
transition well they sent the child to
camp and then when they went home it was
to a different home and so it's it yeah
so it's there's all sorts of reasons why
a kid can end up a camp yeah and that is
not the first time something like that
has happened at camp that's just you
know when it was a reminder once again
when you told me the story and I'm like
okay how many other times has this
happened at camp where they literally
are dropped off because they are in
foster care and then it's like the it's
the switchover right and as you know or
they've
they're in foster care and the foster
care doesn't really know what to do with
them all summer so they just send them
to camp and I've heard so many stories
of kids that say oh yes well I go to
this camp this week and I go to this
camp this week and I'm like we are your
parents and they said or in foster care
and it just breaks my heart every time
and so when we talk about the value of
camp when they come to our camp in
particular we want them to experience
the love of Christ and full-on
acceptance so that they know that they
have value even though they might not be
experiencing value anywhere else and so
because the number of times where we see
these kids just you know the first day
or so they're kind of like rent rent are
not really sure because i want to say
they're almost sad and broken on the
inside but then once they get involved
in camp and their cabin leaders loving
on them other people are connecting with
them they're getting fed three times a
day which is so important you know some
of these kids are coming from homes
where there is no food you know or they
have to make it themselves or it's not
even hot so there you know get in full
Bally some of their favorite times of
the day is mealtime yeah and so the
value of camp you know is is pouring
back into some of these kids that are
just so broken I mean it camp allows a
safe place for kids to allow themselves
to have hope yes one of the most
heartbreaking stories in my camp career
I was a cabin leader and little boy was
coming to camp and it was sort of a last
resort about three weeks before he came
to camp his mom had killed herself in
front of him and so here's this boy who
then had tried to fake his own life
after that who is being sent to us
because they don't have any idea how to
instill hope and so for a week he was
loved on and he heard about the hope
that we have in Jesus and so you know to
see him laughing to see him smile into
to be able to have some fun in the midst
of that circumstance
yeah you know that that's Jesus working
in him and where he is on his spiritual
journey of that moment is irrelevant
because he is being shown something that
maybe he's never experienced before
right yeah yeah and you know what I was
thinking well what Oh on the spectrum of
somebody's life the whole spectrum of
their life what's one week what's one
moment but these kinds of conversations
and and the feelings of being accepted
in love that continues on and would you
say that it helps people stay connected
to God in the future and that is
something we're going to talk about when
we come back Jeff Weston Gemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't fulfill the papers are just
don't do it but hey I
it's a great deal folks best deal you're
gonna find five dollars and change per
month go to cap five dot TV / dreamhost
welcome back we were just all laughing
because I always forget the commercial
break and jen has to like sneak in there
and make sure that we get our commercial
break in and we just want to stop and
think the many people many partners who
have come alongside this show various
businesses and institutions if you go to
our website new everyday TV and click on
our partners link you'll be able to see
all of the wonderful businesses who have
partnered with us and we're tremendously
thankful because they make this show a
possibility so I was just about to ask
Jared um how the one-week camp
experience are two weeks or however long
the these kids have at camp how does
that help them in their faith journey
down this does it help them actually
stay close to God or is it just like Oh
a one-time thing and and they don't
necessarily carry on in their feet I
think can't becomes one of these
memories that we hold onto its a mile
marker in their life and so you think
about it when a camper who has this
goofy dance becomes the popular kid and
they've never been accepted or the
person who can't really sing sings a
solo at the talent show and out of
appreciation for their courage people
give them a standing ovation and so they
have this feeling of acceptance and and
it becomes the same thing with it when
what they've learned about their faith
and so we are all on a journey and some
of us will take that journey a little
faster than others and some are
spiritual journey can be a very slow and
long process and so I think can't be
comes a point where people look back to
and so maybe down the road in their life
maybe they're not serving the Lord may
be there at a rock-bottom point and they
reach out and they it's to their camp
counselor it's the people that they knew
from camp because they remember this
time of acceptance of feeling loved and
then they associate that with Jesus yes
and so it's like I felt loved and
accepted Jesus must love and accept me
and so we've had campers or staff reach
to as many years later you know we had
one who was diagnosed with cancer and so
she reached out to my wife and said
could you pray for me you know can can
you walk this road with me and so camp
isn't maybe always about the here and
now it might not always result in
someone walking out every day but I
think it often becomes a mile marker for
people wear when they're ready to make
that lasting life change that they look
back to and it becomes a foundation for
that change in their life in Christ at
that time yeah and I know with some of
the kids in our own youth group they
look forward to going to camp because
they need that space to actually make
things right with god that's the value
of camp for them because life is so busy
they actually need that space to get
away and they actually look forward to
it they're like I'm looking forward to
chapel tonight and I'm like okay why
they're like because I just need it is
just need it and it's so very
interesting when we talk about the value
of camp it's not yes we want to
introduce kids to Christ because that is
the hope of glory like that is as you
know when we talk about where's the hope
that is the hope but it's just it's so
all-encompassing it it gives value and
worth they're able to experience value
and worth it they have purpose that they
have meaning that it is something that
there's it's a place that they can
always go to to get right with God
because it's interesting people often
you know they'll be afraid of church
they won't be afraid of camp and so
they're more apt to sometimes to go to
camp than they are to go to church and
that's just another reason of why camp
the camp experience is so valuable it's
not just about fun and games it really
is about pouring into an individual so
that there's a spot where you know the
Holy Spirit can go warm their heart and
speak with them so did you want to add
anything well I can just you know
speaking from my experience I didn't
come to Christ until I was like 12 ish
then I went to camp for the first time
and it was an overnight camp and I got
to see older Christians like teen
teenage girls who were excited about God
this intangible father that they had
they experience every day and that
translated into love and care towards me
and my friend who are there for the
first time who they took the time to
explain how to use a bow and arrow or
how to windsurf for the first time or
how to make a craft and I experienced
that that love and kindness from them
and also got to see through drama and
music what the gospel is mm-hmm so it
really impacted my life I can still sing
the songs and I only went there twice so
it is really meaningful so if you would
like to support camp ministry we really
encourage you to look in your local area
and find a camp to support is there any
other way that you'd suggest your that
they can support okay yeah Christian
camping international is set up all over
the world and so if you just Google that
cci worldwide you can see Christian
camps all over the world okay and
through that there's different chapters
in many different countries and regions
and so there's a place for people to get
involved wherever they might be good
okay well thanks for tuning in it's been
another great week thanks so much dude
it's we're gonna get around and chatting
with us again and we look forward to
seeing you next week on you every day
until then take care
you
