the follow
program is made possible by the friends
and partners of God quest ministries
the Bible says in psalm 119 verse 160
thy word is true from the beginning
that's what we want to discuss today on
the creation today's show I'm one of
your host sarah kovin and i'm joined by
paul taylor and on today's show we're
very privileged to have with us here in
the studio Jeff Swanson Jeff is the
author of a book called the plan
although perhaps we should say is not
the author a book called the plan
because it's actually the Bible and it's
looking at how the Bible can be arranged
chronologically so we're going to be
talking to him about that and about his
reasons for producing this particular
book it's an absolutely fascinating
resource and I'm looking forward to that
if you have questions send them into
questions at creation today dot o RG of
course you can also follow us on
facebook facebook.com slash creation
today
we've got a great show for you today
we've got Jeff Swanson in the studio
with this new book the plan which is an
e-book and I'm really excited to talk to
you about that Jeff welcome to the show
well it's good to be here it's great I
appreciate it man we got a couple
announcements first of all though that
we want to get to and get those out of
the way because we got some fascinating
information to discuss first of all
we've got an incredible conference
coming up called the proof of God
conference that we want you to come to
it's going to be in orlando florida
October twelfth and thirteenth and I
highly highly highly recommend that you
come to this conference here's what I
say Paul approximately ninety-five
percent of the people that I run into at
churches that call themselves Christians
are unable to defend the Word of God
biblically unable to defend their faith
in God and we know the Bible tells us to
be able to do that so it's incredibly
frustrating and so the reason we're
putting this conference together is so
that people can understand how to defend
the God of the Bible it's so important
to do that it's absolutely vital I mean
I've heard you say in talks that you've
asked people why are they Christians and
quite often people have not come up with
adequate answers have come up with the
traditional answers which is where
that's the way I was raised or that's
the that's the environment that I'm in
or whatever and it's just not adequate
well you can actually know for sure how
to prove that God is real and that's
what the whole proof of God conference
is going to be about so don't miss that
conference go to proof conference com
proof conference calm and get
registering and you'll hear some great
speakers you are gonna hear some
incredible speakers mark spent sites in
bergen Cape Carl Kirby Paul Taylor
myself as well as a host of breakout
speakers I'm excited about our breakout
list it's getting exciting it's going to
be good hey one more announcement we
released recently the new creation store
so go check out creation story dot o RG
and you can find some absolutely
fascinating resources and things that
will help you defend your faith is what
was lots of tracks that will help you
get the gospel out that is the whole
point if you're not doing that you
better get busy doing
that all right let's try some is that
all the announcements we got that other
way because I want to get to the plan
all the announcements we all right so
the way we have in the studio Jeff
Swanson and were you from Jeff I'm from
Tulsa Oklahoma Tulsa Oklahoma is hot in
Oklahoma it gets very hot I'm sorry I'm
gonna have to ask this are you 24 hours
away from Tulsa at the moment good good
long ways out that's for sure you got a
long drive ahead of you later on yes sir
we're excited to have you in the studio
you have recently published something
that's been in the work for a lot of
years and it's a book called the plan
and it literally goes through the Bible
in chronological order and it is a
fascinating as I downloaded this and
started to read it it is a fascinating
fascinating book to actually go through
and see what you've done but we'll get
to that in a second first of all I want
to ask you okay how did you come about
doing what you're doing where did all
this come from can you give us a little
bit of your background a little bit of
bond background actually started when I
was in second grade I love dinosaurs as
a kid nice i grew up in Denver Colorado
in Denver they have it's just a dinosaur
mecca they've got you know all the
national parks there there's Dinosaur
National Monument we would actually see
where they would remove the dinosaur
bones we would go to the Denver Museum
of Natural History that was the main
exhibit was all in the first floor so
every year we would go down on a field
trip they would take us and show us
where the dinosaurs were they would
always tell us how old the earth was i
never heard anything else from school
either from any of the national parks
anywhere all I ever heard was how old
everything was and it was very much
longer even in church that's all I'd
ever heard so they taught in charge as
well older if that's fine as a matter of
fact the first sermon I'd heard that
actually introduced evidences contrary
was actually making an argument for Old
Earth and they actually introduced
evidence actually that became evidences
for a young earth and that's the tracks
that are in the Paluxy River Basin in
Texas so that's what so that kind of got
you started on this whole well maybe
I've been lied to maybe what uh what
I've been taught isn't quite correct
okay Alex already go right so sudden the
first time I went and I saw that and I
looked at the evidence myself I realized
hey the state and
federal run park did not even mention or
wouldn't even acknowledge the fact that
we've got dinosaur tracks and human
prints here all on the same point so
that became a problem right there and
then I started realizing well what other
evidence is do we have a matter of fact
that's when a friend of mine gave me the
creation today dvds I got started on the
whole 10 series i went through saw a
complete model for a young earth for the
first time given to me just by those
dvds all in context all in context and
they all said and I've kind of looked at
everything from a multiple different
views you know biology astronomy geology
and I'll sit and wait a minute this all
lines up with what's in the Word of God
so now I had all of the evidence is
there of if you will as far as from a
scientific point of view and I got into
the apologetics and then I saw the
apologetics and how God's Word really
does back a young earth and so then the
journey became complete and that's
actually when I made the decision and it
really was a decision I didn't just come
about this I had to choose for myself
I'm going to believe God's Word while
not what I've been raised with if not
what I've been taught not what everyone
else says I'm just going to make that
choice and actually believe it and
that's when things changed for me was
that a difficult decision to make
because I meet some people that they
haven't made that decision and they're
going I just can't buy this whole earth
only about 6,000 years old thing this
doesn't make sense to me it was that or
was it you know what I'm just gonna I
mean how did that happen how did well it
is a process and you have to continually
make it when you've been raised in that
environment that's all you've ever known
is that kind of tradition our securities
get built on to what we've always been
taught and the more you have your
securities in that the more do you think
Wow to bust out of this means i'm going
to lose friends I could lose status I
could even lose my job in some
professions and so when it becomes a
security or when it becomes a social
economic issue it's all the more harder
Wow
well this is uh this is interesting
because we meet a lot of people and we
deal with a lot of churches that are
saying that's a controversial subject we
don't want anything to do with it don't
talk about young earth or older let's
just keep everybody happy and not talk
about it and you're you're the place
going now where you're going if you want
to deter prescription you got to go with
a younger that's absolutely correct Wow
as you mentioned about so being taught
about the earth been millions of years
old in a church and how is that
rationalized to you what sort of things
and what sort of things with that sort
of helps us a chip away that's that sort
of paradigm if well is very interesting
they actually broke down the Hebrew
words and talked about Genesis 11 and
bobbing creation of everything from
nothing so to speak but then Genesis 12
well there's a gap there so now we're
going to talk about everything being yet
sard are formed so everything was broad
at one point everything was yachts are
and another point so everything's
millions and billions of years off
between the two and that's actually when
they brought up the the Paluxy River
evidences and I thought well okay I'm
going to go have to see that for myself
and actually see what the evidences are
but that's what it was stated in the
church won't say which one but actually
you want like there was a rebuke that
came to that pastor from the pulpit
someone came out and said the Sith Lord
you are tracked and then I thought I
don't know anything about this I know
it's only made me question things might
not be right here so this really laid
the foundation laid the groundwork for
the plan this have this book this
romantic commentary book it's I want to
just call it a Bible because it goes
through all of Scripture but it really
laid the foundation for that didn't it
absolutely there's nothing more
frustrating than finding out you've been
lied to and when you know that all said
you've been lying
to Ellison your whole foundation changes
and everything you are and everything
you have become becomes question and all
you want to do is find out what the
truth is well let's get to the truth
Bible says thy Word is true from the
beginning let's talk about the plan that
you've got you put together right after
this
you
you're watching the creation today show
on the category 5 TV network by
supporting this network you support
Christian programming that's available
twenty-four-seven you can investigate
their complete programming schedule by
visiting their patron page at
patreon.com / category 5 perfectly
consider becoming a patron yourself
thanks for watching the creation today
she join erik joven and Paul tater from
creation today with special guest canham
from Answers in Genesis along with Carl
Kirby of reasons for hope mark spence of
living waters ensighten brueggen kada
proof that God exists for the proof of
God conference in orlando florida
october 12 through 13 for more
information visit us online at proof
conference calm her call toll-free eight
seven seven four seven nine three four
six six welcome back you're watching the
creation today show with me Paul Taylor
and with Eric joven and our special
guest in the studio today Jeff Swanson
who is the author or compiler added so
normally questions describe off of this
marvelous book the plan possibly better
clip I wanted to begin with how should
we refer to you in relation to this this
book I describe myself as the developer
good work Michael my background is
software development so that's what we
do we develop software yeah sustenance
was an idea because you you told us
before before as we're talking about the
show beforehand that your background is
in software development and this is very
much and in a sense related to software
development inhabits how it works
exactly my background is in IRS as in
taxes and doing got complete my nose
didn't mean to go there
we I actually used to make the
calculations for a complete IRS and
state electronic filing of taxes so we
had you know there's over 6,000
variables inside of a feather out turn
so they're very very intricate plus you
got to get all the formulation of them
all correct and then you have to
transmit them off to the IRS and get all
of those details so how did you use that
to to develop the plan that's what I
want to hear about then I want ask you
some more questions but I just this is
this is fascinating to me tell them what
the plan is even this okay so how do you
describe it I'm going to answer both
those questions in that order because it
wasn't I that developed it it was
actually God developing me I had no idea
that my background was actually
preparing me for putting the plan
together because what is necessary in
order to do that for calculating you
have to get all of your data
authenticated that means we have to know
everything that's correct plus we have
to validate the process and everything
that we're doing so those disciplines
are very very important matter of fact
in an IRS return there's up to 6,000 Tet
I'm sorry there's up to 600 different
tests to validate the data so that was
my background and that was what was
actually preparing me for doing this so
then when it came down to the time is
I'd realized I'd been lied to I wanted
to find out what the truth was I'm going
to find out for myself I'm not going to
take anyone's word for it I'm not taking
any teaching on it I'm going to see what
the Bible says so I sat down went
through the whole Bible I did a complete
inductive study study of the entire
Bible four times through in
chronological order I took every single
date calculation with the assumption of
one date and that's the fall of
Jerusalem when there is the Babylonian
captivity place that at 586 BC work my
way backwards through 66 date
calculations to get the atoms creation
date Wow so yeah this is fascinating
also in the in the plane now you go
through all of the Bible but right there
the beginning you're actually throwing
out a date you're saying hey my
calculations the 66 from the pollen
Jerusalem give it to us what do what he
got there what is it well that was one
of my amazing
discoveries when I found is as I came up
with 3960 bc exactly 3960 bc for the
creation of the world right Wow now this
a lot of our listeners are familiar with
james ussher and the work that he's done
i'm sure you've you checked that out as
well right and kind of did a comparison
absolutely matter of fact I did my
calculations before I realized that his
work was re-released and republished
gotcha so I had done my entire
calculations and I thought well he's an
expert let's get a second witness on
this thing just like Paul says I let
everything be established by two or
three witnesses let's get a second
witness on this so I compared his to
mine and I went through all those 66
calculations and I found we agreed on
all of them but two okay and since the
way my methodology was is I use the
exact text of the Bible inside of the
formula for each calculation I couldn't
change the text of the Bible so we
agreed to disagree on all the two only
44 years off as far as a difference goes
Wow the fascinating fascinating read
what makes this so interesting to me is
the way you've started with creation and
said okay even before creation before
that happened here's scripture about
what happened even before creation God
planning everything out and just well
talk through that this is really cool
here's kind of the the idea that was
laid on my heart I've been working on
this for 14 years I'd put together a
list of all of the chronology as far as
history went I also did some prophecy
and do the chronology there what I did
was I moved each verse by verse about
2006 I got very very much a very strong
leading to paint an entire picture verse
by verse all the way through from the
beginning of time to the end so what it
was was it encapsulated taking a verse
by verse here's all the verses that
begin actually before anything was
created so here's God the Father and
eternity here's Jesus Christ from before
eternity and here's all those verses
they had a plan before they ever got
started it says that in second Kings
1925 it says long ago I ordained it in
days of old I planned it so there is
nothing to him that was
pricey a matter of fact he even knew
that we would be doing this show right
from before the foundation of the earth
which is totally amazing it really is he
has planned everything out and it's all
going to work according to his plan ok
tell us about I'm curious how the e-book
works because as I went through it and I
sold that everything was hyper linked
together you guys got to check out this
resource it's a great educational tool
but go through that and talk about that
well the same thing one of the other
amazing discoveries have found was as I
was putting this together and moving
each verse by verse once again that same
principle let everything be established
by two or three witnesses most every
major event has two witnesses to it or
two authors of the Bible for each event
so you have a second witness as you're
going along through the other amazing
thing is how faithful God is to his word
and what we were able to do with ebooks
is was able to make a prophecy declared
put that in a blue and then it can be
hyperlinks a click on it and it will
actually jump forward it will turn red
and that's where that prophecy is
actually fulfilled in God's Word click
on it again you go right back to where
you started from and you can keep
reading chronologically so you've
literally said okay in the Bible he says
this is going to happen if you click
that link it takes you to where that's
happening later in the Bible so it's a
perfect uh uh way to go back and forth
between the dates the prophecies the
fulfillment the Jekyll exactly like in
Micah 52 that says that Jesus or the
ruler of Israel will be born in
Bethlehem click on that goes to Matthew
21 here's Christ being born in Bethlehem
click again and takes you 22 more
fulfillments that actually say that even
the Pharisees themselves had to admit
that the Messiah would be born in
Bethlehem click again go right back to
Micah 52 this is also this is so cool
Wow um okay well what else do we need to
know about the plan other than tell
people to order it I want to get into
some more thunder but you got it's it's
a great resources and it's a great study
it's only ebook obviously because you
can't have the hyperlinks in in a
regular book but tell us
right now it's an e-book so you can get
it on any kindle device you can get it
on any barnes and noble look which means
you can download it put it on any pc any
macintosh any reading device you can put
it on ipad iphone android phone some
blackberries so it's very very matter of
act up to five devices no extra charge
and press you tell us what your
website's address is so that people can
can look that and see what see where and
the website is www p.m. bible comm plan
Bible calm fascinating read okay well
it's arty more about the purpose of the
book and what all research you did going
into this book but we'll do that right
after this hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I
love being a vimeo pro member as a web
broadcaster i need an affordable video
hosting platform that's as flexible as
me a pro membership lets you upload up
to 20 gigabytes of HD video each and
every week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category five dot TV network will
receive a whopping twenty-five percent
off the annual prize
all you have to do is go through our
link cat five dot TV / vimeo and sign up
today for your twenty five percent
discount to top it off you get 30 days
to try it risk-free if you're not happy
with Vimeo Pro you pay nothing the deal
is only for a very limited time go to
cat five dot TV / Vimeo
welcome back you're watching creation
today with paul taylor and eric Hoeven
and we got Jeff Swanson in the studio
today talking about his new book the
plan which he has really developed and
done a great job at it by the way very
very impressed with the book and all the
hyperlinks I mean this is about how many
hours of research do you have in this
and well it took over 20 years there's
probably twelve thousand hours plus of
research and development time in this so
you're given twelve thousand hours of
development away for ten bucks on amazon
that's right we want anyone to be able
to fall off anyone that is incredible
and what did the idea come from in the
first place Jeff you know what was the
reason behind you know when did it some
sort of hit you I've got to do this
particular book and sure that's a great
question actually it says in Psalms 37
for says you delight yourself in the
Lord and he gives us the desires of our
hearts so about 20 years ago I just have
this desire as I was reading through I
noticed hey we've been here before also
I realized the book the whole Bible is
not put in chronological order so I just
had this idea of well what if I start
putting this together and making it a
read that's much more easier to follow
just simply no thought about publishing
it or anything like that just for my own
use and for my own research sake so I
just kept working on that for about 14
years and found that the prophecies
could be put in order and the history
could be put on order I what's the
what's the reason for for doing that
what you're hoping is going to is going
to be the sort of big-picture lesson
that people get to see as they pick this
book up well and I think the final
product really what you're looking at is
you're seeing every single verse in the
Bible in its big picture just like you
said context so no matter where you go
in the Bible no matter what verse you're
looking at you can actually see the
bigger picture here's a case in point
like Psalm 137 4 it talks about how God
heals the brokenhearted well that's a
psalm and it's a very good promise for
us when we're heartbroken when something
else happens in their lives we can see
that as a promise and we can take a hold
of it actually when you look at that
inside of the historical context it's
actually the same time that Jerusalem's
walls were being rebuilt so what you're
seeing is your
an actual picture of those walls being
put up and you're seeing how God is
actually protection Israel but he's also
healing up the brokenhearted at the same
time fascinating okay Oh what kind of
you had to have made some really cool
discoveries while kind of going through
this journey over the last several years
can you can you talk about some of the
stuff you've learned there absolutely
actually one of those discoveries was I
found that wisdom was before everything
and it says in proverbs 8 27 it says
there I which is speaking of wisdom was
there and before when he set the heavens
in place and so we can think about this
is sometimes we look at our lives and we
see it through our own issues we see our
own problems we see things that we're
facing today and we think there's no way
God has a plan there's no way this could
possibly be anything good and what I'm
going through but actually everything
was done by God's wisdom and he knew all
of these things beforehand we can also
turn to that promise and found in first
Corinthians that says no eye has seen no
ear has heard of the good things God has
prepared for us so we can be assured
that wisdom was in the beginning before
everything but everything is going to
get very very good in the future Wow all
right I decided to sit back and listen
just keep teaching what other stuff have
you learned through this study in this
journey well there's just some amazing
things that we see is one thing that I
found is in world history is as I
started placing all of these together i
did a world history outline as I was
going through as well so not only is
this the Bible in chronological order
with all the dates calculated in it it's
also got world history interlaced as far
as you can see exactly God's Word and
what's going on in the world that's when
I discovered that at the time that
Israel actually was taken captive to
Babylon was like it the light of the
world was snuffed out at that point in
time because the whole purpose for
Israel was to show God's Word for
everyone else well at that point in time
that's the actual beginnings of well
Buddha was born then Confucius was born
all Jan ISM dates back to them
so we're Asterion nism base back to them
the Greek philosophers all date to that
one 100 actually it's a seven-year
period that's all started originating
there's a shift from the human heart
being the foundation of humanity to the
head and that's where we started getting
head knowledge and all of humanism
started at that point in time now that's
fascinating it is so these these are
things that sort of come to light in
your research as you put the things
together where did you start this
project where I mean how you've got this
idea you're going to put this together
all right it's easy to say in one sense
let's put the Bible into chronological
order yeah but then there's the how you
went about doing you what are you set
out doing well it takes a lot of work
and there are a lot of people that have
done a lot of work before me they've
done a lot of things obviously you've
got the scribes you've got people that
have actually been good about keeping
God's Word all the way down we've got
several chronologies one of them is
archbishop ussher was actually a
founding source on there several other
chronologies that i was able to take and
put their pieces of what they have done
as far as from a historical point of
view was able to compile and compile and
see exactly where the dates and how
scriptures fell into place then take the
prophecies and took five different
prophetic teachers and I compiled where
they came into the agreement of where
these prophecies are stated and where
these prophecies are fulfilled so
amazing things like Daniel chapter 11 is
actually a walkthrough of world history
when you look at it it goes from between
the two Testaments you're actually
seeing the king of the north and the
King of the South all being fulfilled
prophetically all the way bridging
between the two Testaments and it's in
great detail you can see which king is
going to war with which king whose king
is actually his daughter is going to
marry another one who's going to tax who
those things are all laid out you can
actually look at it in world history and
line them up with exactly the
fulfillments as there came to pass Wow
okay we got about a minute left what you
got any closing thoughts or the
Ewers the the people that are gonna go
and check out this book you know
Paul and I just had about 30 minutes a
half hour to look through it last week
and I just I was I was blown away I was
absolutely fascinated you have any final
thoughts are people in them well I think
he started it out right we said psalm
119 160 is its from the beginning God's
Word is true and really you can trust
the entirety of God's Word plus you can
see that there is a two witnesses for
his word all the way through event by
event what this is is this is really a
credibility founding thing that you can
trust in God's Word nothing else no
other religion has anything like it I've
been looking for something like that for
this for a while as I started looking up
because they have Bibles that go more in
chronological order but nothing this
doesn't exist the plan that you've done
really doesn't exist anywhere in the
world except right there in the plan
exactly our partners on Durant has
actually said no one has ever done
anything quite like this one is plan
Bible calm as for a website to have a
look at yeah and we can get you can get
hold of the book from amazon and an
electronic book scares with us thought
exactly absolutely incredible will make
sure you check out that book it's
actually it's got all the verses of the
bible in it so it's going to be over
2,000 pages worth of material you're
going to find it absolutely fascinating
and a great resources you study if
you're not studying or you're not
teaching God's Word to somebody you need
to get busy you need to do that I mean
this is the the foundation of truth
itself so we encourage that well that's
our show for today if you have questions
we want you to send them into questions
at creation today dot o RG don't forget
that you can follow us on facebook
facebook.com forward slash creation
today well Jeff thanks so much for
joining us I do have one more question
do you know when jesus is coming back
do you need the tools to defend your
faith visit our websites for up-to-date
content attend one of our live events
and shop online at creation store org we
are creation today
Oh
