welcome back to new every day my name is
Carrie and my name is Jen and on today's
show it's part two of believing at
Christmas and we're going to talk about
rather than saying really prove to me
we're going to say wow how are your
promise is going to come down and that's
fun station
this is the story of operation christmas
child
it may just be a shoebox but two million
is the start of the greatest journey
traveling the world sent with prayer to
box gifts fill the hearts of children
from over 100 different countries with
hope faith and love gin we had a really
great discussion last week and we just
want to welcome you back to new every
day thanks so much for tuning in just
before we jump into our discussion thank
you so much for those who went on to
patreon com to this show if you go to
patreon.com/scishow de so a dollar a
month and we have thousands and
thousands of viewers which is amazing
thank you so much yes thank you that is
going to just make such a difference for
us to be able to keep this show going
and for Robbie Ferguson and the category
5 team to be able to just just keep
doing the little things upgrading
equipment editing all that jazz that
goes on that I really don't know how to
do and I'm thankful that someone does it
so if you would pledge that would be
wonderful yes thank you for pledging
yeah so Jen last week we talked about
believing what that looks like we were
talking about the Christmas season and
we just want to wish everyone a very
merry christmas and everything that's
associated with with Christmas Jen it
has to do with believing it does right
we talked last week about your belief in
Santa oh yeah yes went Wow my belief in
Santa probably ended much much earlier
than yours clad older sibling who said
here let me show you what you're getting
from Santa and it was december 10
oh I know so um oh yeah so I I probably
would have tended to be a little bit
more cynical about the whole belief
thing yeah but as I have no gotten older
and I realized the importance of
believing to believe like I know that
sounds really funny but like I just have
to believe whether i understand it
whether i see proof whether i've had the
experience before i just have to believe
and i guess i'm switching from Santa to
to God I just have to believe whether I
understand everything whether I've had
the experience of a particular promise
being experienced or given I'm learning
more and more that I just have to take
God's Word is truth whether or not i
understand it or get it I just or have
even been let down and we talked about
that last week with Zechariah there's
potential that he very well could have
been let down in his faith he continued
to serve the Lord but when the angel
appeared to him and said you know you're
gonna your wife is going to have a son
he's like prove it it's basically give
me a sign how do I know this is true and
and and so this week we want to look at
the story of Mary mm-hmm and I want you
who are listening to read along I'm
reading do you want to read you're doing
you sure James so she had an irate cares
gonna read from New King James and I
want you to listen to the difference
between how Abraham responded to the
angel and how Mary response to the
angels so let's let's read that starting
at verse 26 my six yep Luke chapter 1
verse 26 now in the sixth month the
angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city
of Galilee named Nazareth to a virgin
betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph
of the house of David the Virgin's name
was Mary and have
come in the angel said to her rejoice
highly favored one the Lord is with you
blessed are you among women but when she
saw him she was trouble that his saying
and considered what manner of greeting
this was then the angel said to her do
not be afraid Mary for you have found
favor with God and behold you will
conceive in your womb and bring forth a
son and shall call his name Jesus he
will be great and will be called the son
of the highest and the Lord God will
give him the throne of his father David
and he will reign over the house of
Jacob forever and of his kingdom there
will be no end then Mary said to the
angel how can this be since I do not
know a man and the angel answered and
said to her the Holy Spirit will come
upon you and the power of the highest
will overshadow you therefore also that
holy one who is to be born will be
called the Son of God now indeed
Elizabeth your relative has also
conceived a son in her old age and this
is now the sixth month for her who was
called barren for with God nothing will
be impossible then Mary said Behold the
maid servant of the Lord let it be to me
according to your word and the angel
departed from her we see here initially
when I read this I thought how is her
response in saying to the angel how can
this be since I do not know a man or
your version says what Jen how can this
how will this happen since I'm a virgin
and if that ok how is that different
from what Zacharias said to the angel
before when he says verse 18 thank you
how shall I know this for I am an old
man my wife is and my wife is well
advanced in years it seems like they're
questioning and they're also presenting
the angel with the facts yeah she's like
how can this be I'm a version he's like
how can this be I'm an old man right I'm
like so what's the difference why did
Zacharias become mute and right the
response from Gabriel was like I'm
Gabriel this is going to happen
because you did not believe you will be
mute whereas to marry he explains what's
going to happen that the Holy Spirit is
going to come upon you yeah so why such
a different response well when you look
at those questions in verse 18 of
chapter one how can I know that what you
say is true mm-hmm verses verse 34 how
will this happen since I am a virgin so
she's almost she's presupposing that
it's gonna happen ya like like it's
explained like how's this gonna happen
like put the pieces together for me is
what she's saying like you walk me
through how this is gonna happen like
okay whereas zachariahs like I need
proof yeah prove to me like that's like
how will I know that what you say is
true so he's questioning the truth of
Gabriel right the validity of the
message and the messenger yes like you
proved to me like how do I know that
what you're saying is true proved to me
that what you're saying where she's like
how can this happen she already believes
it's gonna happen and it's like I think
she believes that he's an angel and
she's not questioning that he's tent
like it's almost feels like Abraham like
says proved to me that what you're
trying to Jack Ryan I maybe I need to go
back I would it rip yeah it's like he's
questioning the truth of what he's
saying versus Mary who is questioning
like how it's going to happen hmm like
so 11 is actually questioning are you
telling me the truth whereas so he's
questioning you know the truth the
validity yeah and she's questioning okay
now tell me how this is going to happen
so she's not questioning who he is as a
person or who that the angel is an angel
mm-hmm she just wants to know the
details she just wants to know yes she
wants to know the details and it's very
interesting because both stories are the
same Gabriel comes says you know gives
what's going to happen well it's the
response and then he continues to talk
like it's the same so go ahead well
okay the story goes on and Mary actually
goes to visit Elizabeth is this where
you're going to go Jen who did you want
to talk about something else firms keep
going okay meri actually goes to visit
Elizabeth and and it happened when
Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary so
she arrives in the door that the babe
leaped in her womb and Elizabeth was
filled with the Holy Spirit so baby John
jump for joy when he heard Mary then she
spoke out with a loud voice and said
blessed are you among women and blessed
is the fruit of your womb but why is
this granted to me that the mother of my
lord should come to me for indeed as
soon as the voice of your greeting
sounded in my ears the babe leaped in my
womb for joy this is the first that
really hit home for me John verse 45
Luke chapter 1 blessed is she who
believed for there will be a fulfillment
of those things which were told her from
the Lord yeah blessed is she who
believed elizabeth is saying you
believed god yes and here's the result
you're pregnant yeah and there is
manifestations of God's fulfillment of
his promise you know in ways that they
couldn't even explain she couldn't make
her baby jump for joy no no in fact
mothers are often like oh oh like feel
it feel like it's not was like okay you
down there start jumping yeah cuz
someone will be waiting with their hand
on the room waiting waiting waiting
nothing happening yes and they're like
who yeah right and I've had that happen
for like okay but yeah you're waiting
right so she could not have manufactured
that response no but I really I just
appreciate that blessed is she who
believed she's leaving God is fulfilling
his promise because he is faithful she
said that she would carry his promise
and for nine months she literally
carried the promise of God yes Jesus is
the promise he's the promised Savior the
promised Messiah from the Old Testament
yeah so for thousands of years well
for many years from from Adam yes all
the way up to Jesus yeah he's the
promise that's spoken of there's going
to be one who's going to come out of
Israel from the line of David who will
be born in Bethlehem in Judea and he
will come he will be have you will bring
salvation he'll be riding on a cold he
will come with peace he will come with
power yes all of these promises and she
literally carried the promise of God and
could see the promise growing growing
growing until the fulfillment
interesting she could see the promise
growing growing growing and so often
like we tend to be more like Zakaria
prove it to me right whereas ah Mary's
like how is this going to happen because
this is what i see so it's like I know
what you said now how is this going
how's this going to happen and you know
practically speaking in my life I've had
I was sitting in a conference and the
man was talking about nothing is
impossible with God which is which is
the first first of all 137 and and he
said what are three impossibilities in
your life and I'm like oh let me tell
you and I hear like oh yeah and so
everybody sort of he said write down
three impossibilities and your life this
things that are impossible I'm like okay
and I wrote down all three things and
he's like now give them to the Lord and
if he doesn't immediately give them back
to you leave them with him cuz I'm time
I give them back here like just say no
I've said no to that because sometimes
we ask the Lord for things and he says
no but we continue to ask and I've had
that experience of wrestling with god
and praying for things and finally he
just said Jennifer that's enough my ways
are higher than your ways I've said no
you need to be at peace and I was like
and at that point like a little
literally been wrestling all night like
I felt like I was physically wrestling
because I so desperately wanted
what I was asking the Lord for and like
about two or three in the morning I
literally felt like his hand saying
Jennifer that's enough hmm I've said no
my ways are higher than your way so
that's what I mean when the Lord if the
Lord doesn't say no to you just leave it
leave it with him and so I'm like so I
wrote down all three things that were
impossible I left them with the Lord
because he didn't say no yeah and within
a year all three things happen serious
seriously yes like specifically are you
able to share what they were or there I
never thought my mother would sell the
farm ever I my mom grew up on farm and I
lived there i never ever ever thought
she would sell it and my cousin asked if
he could buy the farm and I'm just like
I can't believe he's asking carefully I
can't believe she's Kristin and then
she's like I would not want to sell it
to anyone other than you I went so
you're like there's one and I'm
literally like and God had already asked
answered a previous on my impossible
list regarding my sister that she I
thought was just totally impossible and
he totally showed up and did it and so
I'm realizing okay now too he's 2 for 3
right now I remember thinking my little
cousin had had a hole on her in her
heart as a baby and after my mom had
said yes to my cousin buying the farm
I'm like wait a second do you remember
those three imposibles and I said so can
you tell me about Charlotte and her hole
in the heart and he's like gone
no surgery required no surgery required
and I was like okay let me just like I 0
for 3 impossible things and he totally
showed up it was just like Lee sometimes
we have to leave our stuff with God yeah
okay god I've left this with you I'm
going to trust that you're going to work
it out in your time until you say no
right but leave it leave it with God
leave it with God because you know
here's me the angel says you know with
God all things are possible jesus said
to the man as you said last week in mark
ten nine I believe the references or
something like that I might be often
that but it says you know nothing is
impossible with god I throughout
scriptures these that phrase comes up
nothing is impossible with God all
things are possible with God and here
you know so Mary is taking the right
approach like ice I see what's going on
and I see the constraints she clearly
was not married she clearly was a virgin
clearly shield the constraint the
physical constraints in that reality
yeah her in front of her yes she chose
to see past that yes and to believe God
yes I was also thinking you know as she
was carrying the promise what she must
have been experiencing because as she
started to show that the promise was
going to be fulfilled and she's getting
bigger and bigger she would have had
more persecution because she got
pregnant out of wedlock and that was
socially absolutely unacceptable oh yes
she should have been stoned she should
have been stoned so that makes me think
that her belief in the promise of god
and his love for her and his
faithfulness to cause this child to be
delivered helped her to withstand the
persecution is what came to mind then
was Ephesians chapter 6 when Paul talks
about putting on the whole armor of God
take up the whole this is chapter six
verse 13 therefore take up the whole
armor of God that you may be able to
withstand in the evil day and having
done all to stand stand therefore having
girded your waist with truth having put
on the breastplate of righteousness of
righteousness we believe that Jesus is
the truth yes Wiegert our ways with the
truth the Word of God is the truth we
put on the breastplate of righteousness
we're righteous by faith in Christ and
having shod your feet with the
preparation of the gospel of peace this
is the gospel of peace the angels came
to the Shepherd says I bring you good
news of great joy yeah there's going to
be peace on earth above all taking the
shield of faith with with which you will
be able to quench all the fiery darts of
the wicked one and that shield of faith
our faith is we're putting our belief in
God yes and it becomes a shield to us to
extinguish the fiery darts of the enemy
that might be persecution in your own
home maybe it's from your own spouse
your own family but you can hold on to
the promises of God look back in your
journal think on your life of his
faithfulness look back in the Old
Testament on how God preserved the
people of Israel for himself that line
of David he kept it set apart in
preparation that Jesus was going to come
the fulfillment of that promise and now
we had this promise a deposit the holy
spirit in us guaranteeing what is to
come yes the God has set us apart for
himself that we are his own special
people now it says in the book of Peter
his own special people set apart for his
good work and jesus is coming back and
now we are we are bearing that promise
mm-hmm so much so rich yes it's amazing
and the cool thing is is when we stand
you know it says the shield of faith
which is from God so it's not like we're
only standing on our own belief we're
standing actually on the promises of God
we're sending on who God is and his
faithfulness to us so as the man said
like I believe but help my unbelief
we encourage you this week to believe
but asked Jesus to help you in your
unbelief to ask the I see this as
impossible but Lord with you all things
are possible yeah so show me how this is
going to work or you know just walk with
me so that I sense your presence every
step of the way but I'm going to trust
that even though it seems impossible
that you can make it happen yeah thank
God is faithful amen we sure hope that
you will go onto facebook and maybe
write a little message just saying how
you've seen God's faithfulness or how a
promise has been fulfilled in your life
if you would share that it would just be
so encouraging so why don't we pray
Genscher um I'll sign off thank you so
much father for your wonderful
faithfulness thank you for your
faithfulness to send Jesus thank you for
the way in which he came as a baby so
humble born in a manger and died on a
cross thank you for your promises to us
lord help us to hold on to your promises
I just pray for our viewers and our
listeners who are maybe going through a
really hard time right now we're may be
experiencing some persecution and I pray
that you'd help them to take up that
shield of faith believing that you are
God that you love a new care for them
you have good things for their life and
I just pray that you would be meeting
and speaking to them thank you for your
word and all the wonderful promise is it
we are excited about what you're going
to do my appearance in Jesus name is
great and we praise you for good
alright well well thanks for tuning in
we will see you next week see you next
week
