hi and welcome to another episode of new
every day my name is Carrie and my name
is Jen welcome to the show
today we're going to be talking about
the power of our words and this past
week we have been having conversations
actually about do I tell you something
do I not tell you something and for the
purpose of we interact with people all
the time and if we might have a run-in
with someone or a conversation we saw
something then if I was to tell you all
about it then I'm putting thoughts into
your head about that person and causing
them to think causing you to think oh
okay and and so my words actually we're
causing you to think something negative
about someone else and so we've actually
been talking about how we want our words
to be honorable and the passage that
keeps coming up is Psalm 19 14 which is
may the words of my heart and the
meditations of my heart it's like my
mouth and the meditation of my heart be
pleasing to you and that went along with
the other verse that you had mentioned
Jen how out of the overflow of the heart
the mouth speaks and so I think like
when I'm talking about someone whether
it's positive or negative that's coming
from the heart and so when someone says
the heart like I asked Jesus into my
heart and felt it in my heart or the
words come from my heart what does that
actually mean I'm just throwing this on
you I caster what is the heart because I
know it as an organ yeah i think our
heart is part of who is who we are it's
like we often against here but it's like
this gut thing down here we know in our
heart like you have a people would say I
have a gut response like my gut doesn't
well I guess that's a terminology thing
but what is it actually I think it's the
very core of who we are just like a
heart a physical heart pumps the blood
out to the whole body right like
xin the atrium out through the ventricle
lungs back in the atrium my bat atrium
and out through the ventricle and
through the rest of the body right so
our heart is is the central part of our
body that pumps things like if our heart
isn't healthy then the rest of our body
like isn't going to be healthy the thing
is we can be brain dead like our brain
can actually be dead but if our heart is
still pumping then technically we're
still alive so when I think about our
spiritual heart I think of it as the
very core the central being of who we
are and our spiritual self in our
physical self kind of mean yeah I think
so and so if we don't care take care of
our spiritual heart like out of the
wellspring of the heart the mouth speaks
then yeah all sorts of things can be
coming out of our mouth because of
things that are planted in our heart in
our very innermost being of who we are
and ok so then say well this happened we
were having a conversation and you
started to share about an interaction
with somebody and then you kind of went
I'm not gonna I'm not going to say what
I was thinking is gonna I was going to
say because I don't want you to think a
B and C in person or whatever and so but
what if someone does share something how
do you keep that from going into your
heart hmm I think one of the things I
often do is I will give that
conversation to the Lord okay sometimes
I'll choose to forgive that person for
sharing what they did with me especially
if it's sort of i want to say taints my
understanding of who the person is that
they were talking about okay because
then what happens is when i see that
person i'm like oh
like so and so thanks this about them or
set this order and it's like but that's
one person's perspective and the book of
Proverbs says you know it's really easy
truth seems to be perfect but it's
coming from one person right oh I'm
hearing it from Kerry and she know I
trustworthy source so it must be true
but then as soon as you hear a counter
perspective and you're like oh well then
that's not true and so by me you know
speaking words out I'm causing you to
think one thing so when you said you
know what do you do with that I forgive
that person and then I will ask the Lord
to sift to actually sift the
conversation help me to remember the
things he wants me to remember and the
things he doesn't want me to remember
then I would just he would help me to
let them go but then I also asked Jesus
to teach me about that person that he
would teach me about that person what he
likes about them yes and if there is
truth in that what is my response to it
aloft is okay Lord if that is true how
do you want me to respond to that but if
it's false then also how do you want me
to respond to that do I go back to that
first person say well actually this is
what i have found out or do I just trust
the Lord tow to work it out do you have
an example of that in your life well
where somebody has told me one thing and
I have heard something else like that
kind of sure well you know coming in as
as a pastor into whatever sort of
situation always somebody is the first
to say Oh Bo that Kerry will she yes and
don't expect don't expect too much from
her she does this or just be really
careful about trusting them or they say
one thing but they're you know they're
really not going to show up or they're
not going to do that they're not really
as committed so they're all talk and so
as a result the night what I sort of
hold myself back from getting to know
that person because you don't want to be
let down because I don't want to be let
down
and and their words have actually
tainted what I think about that
individual and then as soon as I start
rubbing shoulders with them I'm like a
second that isn't anything like who they
really are so was that maybe maybe God
has done a work in their lives are there
a new person maybe that was a really bad
day maybe they were tired and sick um
but I've had to actually say Jesus I
need a new mind regarding this person I
choose to forgive the other person for
saying those things because I feel like
I miss out then on those other people
yeah because of what somebody has said
yeah and when I think about like the
times where I have said something that I
knew that I shouldn't have or if I've
offended someone or shared something
whatever that I knew was wrong I so
genuinely want that other person to
forgive me and and let me start fresh
and so I just think like God please help
me to extend that same grace to thee to
the person who has done that and not
then label them as just the gossiper
yeah right because then I'd be doing the
exact same thing yeah and we also talked
about the the triangle effect this week
okay so if I tell you something about
someone who's hurt me then you because
we're friends can be upset at that
person for hurting me and then now we
this person this imaginary person over
here who you can't see we can totally
make it up but because I've told you
about what's happened because you
weren't part of the reconciliation
process you still have this feeling of
hurt towards this person or anger
because of their hurt towards me and
that all transpired because of what I
chose to tell you now that isn't to say
you don't have close friends and you
don't share but I think when it says you
know put a guard over my mouth yeah I
think we need to be careful with
what we share and who were sharing it
with like is it is that why the psalmist
continually is like I call out to you
lord like are we really supposed to be
pouring out our our hurts and failures
and upsets and you know whatever anger
to the Lord and allow him to sort it out
rather than I just have to call my mom
yeah like I've heard that from you know
if I just call my mom I'll just talk it
out with my mom or I'd have to call my
friend or if I just send this message
off to someone and because the thing is
those words have to come out in some
like cuz there's hurt or whatever on the
inside they have to come out but who are
they coming out to the thing is if they
come out to God that he can actually
sort them out the hurt and the upset but
if they come out to you yes we're so yes
we're great friends but now I've just
given you all of these words and you
have to know sort them out so what you
know I'm I often think of what is the
balance between you know friendship and
you know because intimacy means I'm
going to be honest enough so you can see
into my life so what is the balance
between intimacy and friendship and
relationship and yet making sure that
the words that we are speaking our life
bringing rather than pulling us down I
hear what you're saying because you we
don't want to just gloss over things as
if it's not important or as if it didn't
happen because yes and there's no
there's no room for like community but
the Holy Spirit is our counselor mm-hmm
and you know in Isaiah where it says
Jesus will be called wonderful counselor
yes you know I was just thinking before
you you share that was like yeah you
know what is important that people go
and talk to counselors and I think it is
I've seen one and it's been really
helpful because it's good to be able to
share with a neutral party yeah and a
counselor who knows Christ and then you
can bring those before the Lord and give
them to him
unlike remember i was saying a previous
episode I used to give my sand in my
worry to my mother and she would take
that for me but I knew it wasn't really
going but that's I think where we can
actually come and we come to Jesus who
is our wonderful counselor and he can
yes fix it up give us a new thought
about that person yes because and we
talked a little bit about this before
that whole idea of you know sharing
prayer requests oh I just heard this
about this family and I think we should
pray about them and it's like but I
really want to tell you how messed up
they are yes and doesn't and that kind
of makes us feel a little bit better
because we're not as bad as yeah and
especially if I say it to you and you
can respond positively because you want
to be accepted or you want to you know
please or affirm whatever i'm saying
when really it's just gossip and
self-serving like our words really
aren't beneficial like in in the sense
of am I really helping that family who
is in need or am I really making myself
look better because I'm telling you all
the negative stuff that's happening yeah
like and we were talking about the
passage in Matthew where we actually
will have to give an account of our
words can you read that yes I can I just
have to find it so so in the meantime so
in the meantime the verse that I thought
about when when Jen suggested having
this discussion about what we actually
share and as an aside I feel like as
women were more predisposed to having
difficulty with this yeah guarding our
mouths and no I gossiping and I work
with mostly women and it's just such a
hard thing the break room is like a
hotbed for gossip and sometimes it's
really hard to set a guard over my mouth
or choose like ask God to filter what
people are telling me you know or
sometimes it's best just to walk away
and that is harder than I would like it
to be
yeah but then I thought okay if our
primary goal here as Christians is to be
ambassadors for Christ we're supposed to
be here to share the good news yeah
we've received this grace from God and
we just now are our lives are to be
lived for him and to share with other
people Ephesians 5 16 sorry Jen just
while you're looking for that other
don't suck it sometimes the words on the
page just yeah well whatever they are a
minute ago therefore not be unwise but
understand what the Lord's will is and
then there's another verse that says we
need to make the most of every
opportunity because the days are evil
and every conversation that we have is
an opportunity yeah be able to redeem
the time make the most of that chance to
share the love of Christ and also be
built up ourselves by allowing God to
tell us what the right thing is to say
and I think when we hide the scripture
in our heart that's when the Holy Spirit
has the chance to bring that scripture
to mind and then we can share it yes so
the passage is from Matthew 12 30 32 37
it says if you want good fruit you must
make the tree good if your tree is not
good it will have bad fruit a tree is
known by the kind of fruit it produces
you snakes you are evil people so how
can you say anything good the mouth
speaks the things that are in the heart
or out of the overflow of the heart the
mouth speaks good people have good
things in their hearts and so they say
good things but evil people have evil
things in their hearts so they say evil
things and I tell you that on the
judgment day people will be responsible
for every careless thing they have said
the words you have said will be used to
judge you like it just gets messy
some of your words will prove you right
but some of your words will prove you
guilty and it's not that we go into that
with condemnation we are saved by the
blood of Christ but God's going to use
our very own words to to judge us so
then okay if if we if there's therefore
no condemnation for those who are in
Christ Jesus right the old has gone the
new has come where new every day in
Christ yes so where is where is judgment
for the people of God how does that how
does that work if we've already been
made clean but we didn't talk about this
before get then how how does he does
well and I think there's two judgments
right so there's the first the sheep and
the goats do you know me do you not know
me and then it says the righteous will
be judged like we will be judged
according to what we did here on earth
now I'm sure there are theologians out
there that have written books on exactly
what that looks like and so I also know
that we will be laying crowns at the
feet of Jesus based on the things that
we've done on this earth so you know I
think it's paul who says you know be
just because because of grace should I
send the greater so that I can receive
well no because that's not being a child
of God and so I think part of it is i
have given you all of this grace now
what are you doing with it are you
continuing to sin or are you actually
using every opportunity to speak truth
and life into people's lives so they can
come to know me i guess it's like the
parable of the talents you know he gave
two talents to one guy five to another
one to another and then the owner went
away and then the servants had to use
those talents to earn more yes and when
he got back from traveling
if they had earned more with what they
were given then they were received a
reward and if they hadn't then they
didn't get the reward and there was
punishment for it right so we've been
given a lot of grace and I guess that
means like we have to use it yes and
that is right down to the words that we
say right the fact that life in death is
in the power of the tongue and that is
proverbs 18 21 and I remember a friend
of mine she'd been dating this guy for a
while and you know slim girl but he said
you know what you your calves are large
don't say large caps and don't say
cankles it's a bad idea bad idea um oh
man yeah that's bad and you know she
smiled and laughed it off but it went
right into who she was and she was like
a slim girl but now she like she says
she's she's like a hyper aware yeah and
she look in the mirror show or my are my
legs really that big and it's like a
little part of her died on the inside so
even though that man is a believer like
his words caused death inside of her
because she's aware now of her calves
but really are perfectly fine as I have
well the same thing so you know growing
up I was teased called Harry Caray and
so I was like super conscious of that
like like do I have a moustache you're
all looking in I have one that's fine
and you know really was like I better
shave my legs and maybe I should wax my
arms but I really it hits you so then
what do you do with that so someone has
shared an improper word and how does
knowing who you are in Christ dispel
those those lies yes and yes I think and
we talked about this you so the wind you
reap the whirlwind when your word goes
out it doesn't just go like one little
word and hop hop hop over to Kari it's
like it bursts forth life and it just
goes everywhere and so even though I
might have intended one thing depending
on how you're feeling depending on who's
listening all of a sudden it morphs into
a monster and what I intended to say
actually didn't say actually isn't what
came across to you or whoever I'm
speaking to so I think one is
forgiveness of that person who said it
okay I choose as an act of my will to
forgive that person for saying those
mean worse this is how it made me feel
yeah and being awesome enough to say it
hurt it felt like stingers going in I
feel like my spirit has been poisoned
and ask God then to come and cleanse the
power of those words because you're
right it does for us because all of a
sudden we're doing actions to compensate
for those words like shaving or calf
exercises yes is not good we become
hyper aware and maybe miss out on
something else that God is calling us to
do because we are now super aware of oh
well they said those words yeah I wonder
if there is some truth in it yeah so and
that's where like you said who we are in
christ we then have to ask God's clean
the bowl out lord I choose to forgive
them now would you put your truth in
where that poisonous word right it's
like you get a cut and now you put the
healing ointment on it Lord what is your
healing ointment for those words right
so did you have a verse that you wanted
to share well proverbs 1218 says
reckless words pierce like a sword but
the tongue of the wise brings healing
yeah yeah and we don't and the wisdom of
the world is foolishness but God's
wisdom is what is right yeah and we get
that from his word yes and so we need to
speak words of life and truth to someone
and it's amazing so I'll just share
something so sometimes as I work in the
emergency department and sometimes when
there's like a really critical incident
going on to cope with it people use like
bad humor and and sometimes it's is just
inappropriate and so I was sharing this
with someone who said Kerry like when
that happens turn and start speaking
truthful and kind kind words to the
person who's unconscious and watch the
room change so I tried it and it worked
like it's like a word of life can change
the environment yeah so there was the
way they were critically ill people were
you know still doing what we need to
you to save the person but a lot of
chatter going on and just stopped and
spoke to the unconscious person you're
going to be okay and just brought the
focus back in and it was like a word of
life changed the environment yeah and
that was just a kind word but imagine
like speaking the truth of Christ just
yes yes word is living and active and
can change an environment and I've seen
people do that in my own life ahh
consume i have a friend Hannah who's in
her 90s and she's like I mentor to me
and I might be sharing a story with her
and she'll okay for example I I had a
friend who was staying with me for a
while and I just really wanted her to be
motivated and to be successful and you
know I wanted her to like get in the
game with her academics and and
understand who God is and I was
frustrated with her saying this and this
business and so I'm sharing this with
Hannah and she said Kerry like God in
His own timing makes a person beautiful
mm-hmm and she's like it's like they are
a rosebud and if you go in and you start
ripping open that rosebud with even
words that are meant to be helpful like
why aren't you this or maybe you can
help with this then it doesn't allow God
to fully do the work and open it and
open them to a be a beautiful flower and
I was like ah so her words of life and
truth about God changed stopped me dead
in my tracks and allowed me to have a
totally different perspective yes yeah
it was amazing and that is how cool the
grace of God is that his mercies are new
every day and if you know the image that
came into my mind as you're sharing that
story is you have a choice with your
words it's like if somebody is sharing
something like negative or frustrating
with you you have a choice to jump in
there with you and share the frustration
but it's even how you share in it do you
share it's like wow that must be really
frustrating like or it's like yeah that
like totally sucks like how why are they
being so silly yes we don't say the st
word because it brings people down
but it's it's like do I jump how do I
jump in with you do I jump in to say ah
must be so frustrating but God or do we
say ah that's awful like what's wrong
with them all right because oh I am I
have a choice with my words am I going
because the thing is I have to partner
with you you're my friend but how do I
partner with you like do I partner with
you in the sense of mmm that's bad what
does a God had to say about this right
cuz all send me invite the Holy Spirit
in like that you must be feeling really
frustrated let me bring Jesus in or do
we like yeah and we start going the
other way yeah because the Bible says
that in in the end times in the latter
days people are going to seek out what
their itching ears want to hear yes so
our am I going to be that person am I
going to go to the friend who I know is
going to say yeah you know what they are
just a blankety-blank baby beauty right
because it affirms well how I feel in my
sample nature or am I i know i'm gonna
go to you Jenn and you say Carrie yeah
that was hurtful what they said but you
also responded this way yeah and I was
sharing something with jen one time and
I said well maybe it's in part me and
she said well maybe it's all of you I
don't know I was like oh I'm not going
to talk to you for a little bit and I'm
bad what's up but then she helped me
pray about it and yeah and it's better
so am I going to the person who's gonna
know tickle my ears yeah am i seeking
out the truth yeah yeah there's another
verse Jen you know you said when that
guy said that thing about the woman's
casts it went down and to her proverbs
26 says from 18 to 25 it's just really
good it's about gossip and and what
happens with our words so i'll just
start at i will start with 22 because it
has to do with what you said okay words
of a gossip are like choice morsel
I think another version says like tender
truffles or something like that they go
down to a man's in most parts and the so
back up to 18 says like a madman
shooting firebrands or deadly arrows
unpleasant mm-hmm is a man who deceives
his neighbor with words yeah and says I
was only joking without would a fire
goes out without gossip a quarrel dies
down as charcoal to embers and as wood
to fire so as a quarrelsome man for
kindling strife so there's just so much
24s as a malicious man disguises himself
with his lips but in his heart he
harbors to seat yeah just it's all
through proverbs and proverbs is about
foolishness and wisdom yeah and if you
are wise you guard your tongue yes
because you can't take back the words
that came before just joking just joking
just joking you're not hairy yes I am so
see I'm over it so so we don't know
where you're at and this is something
we've just been talking a lot actually
about this past week and so as we we
close we're going to pray and well ask
the Lord made me to bring up those
things that you've been struggling with
or maybe people has spoken have spoken
words against you and you need to offer
forgiveness and ask God to come in with
his own healing touch and what the truth
is about those words and who you are in
him and so we're just going to close in
prayer and then then I'll go wax my
upper lip alright let's pray father
thank you so much for today and for this
time and thank you that our identity is
found in Christ now because you've done
the work on the cross you have forgiven
our sins and now we're alive fresh in
you and this is a new day we can hear
the birds singing even now outside of
her window this is a new morning Your
mercies are new today I thank you Lord
that you speak truth
Jesus you said you're the way the truth
and the life and I pray guy that you
would help us to read the truth in your
word and that it would go down to our
inmost part and then out of the overflow
of your word in our heart we would be
able to speak those words of truth to
people father I pray for the people
watching who maybe have had hurtful
things said to them mm-hmm you'd help
them to forgive the people who have hurt
them and that you would replace those
lines with your truth about who they are
amen that they are fearfully and
wonderfully made would you help set a
guard over our most that we might not
sin against you this week lord thank you
for Jen that she's been a good friend to
me and that she hasn't just said what I
want to hear God but she's been lifting
me up and so I pray God for people who
are watching to that you would sended
friends to their lives in their church
family are you may need someone even
online who can send encouraging words to
them I pray that you would you do that
Lord they give you thanks in Jesus name
father I agree with what Kerry has said
and thank you for her friendship and
when she has spoken truth into my life
and it has challenged me so father may
whoever is listening today hear your
voice and receive your words we thank
you that you are good pray this in the
mighty name of Jesus through the power
of the Holy Spirit amen amen all right
well well I want to say thank you for to
Robbie for editing and want to say thank
you to eco alkalines for powering us up
mmhmm yeah Robbie's been an excellent
director and producer and we're very
thankful for him probably Ferguson from
category five and we thank category 5 TV
for hosting this show and our website
which is new every day dot TV yes it is
and you can contact us through the
website you can send us an email or you
can visit
Facebook new every day new every day
there's pollen in my cup cheers
it's good pun it's like honey really
before becomes penny no it's not
the
you
