here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom delay
in flight diversions at Gatwick Airport
due to someone flying their drone where
it's not allowed
Facebook's internet beaming drone has
successfully a successful flight and
flawless landing and a US judge decided
that protection against Facebook's
tracking is up to the user and has
thrown a court case that claims
otherwise thrown out of court Kasich
claims otherwise these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston yelling
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you right you're
terrible actor what that's where acting
comes into play oh I don't know we're
Arctic you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account if you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the rules are your own calm
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream house
still ahead of a paper something just
don't do it but hey if a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash dream host
I'm Sasha tomatoes and here the top
stories for the week of July 5th 2017 a
drone flying close to Gatwick Airport
led to the closure of the runway and
forced five flights to be diverted an
airport spokesman said that the runway
had been closed for two periods on
Sunday of nine and five minutes after
the drone was sighted easyJet said that
four of its flights were diverted while
British Airways said one aircraft was
diverted to burn burn mouth burn mouth
other flights were put into holding
patterns as a precaution
Sussex Police is investigating so drone
safety prohibits any sort of drones near
airports right and although you're a bad
guy so tell us a little bit about
regulations around airports say what not
kidding yeah um so anyways you're in
Canada it's different around the world
right now but we're seeing more and more
of these kind of close calls happen yeah
it's scary right because you only know
that drones are going to get more and
more popular like I'm back to get bigger
and more robust right like not like even
when they get smaller to which they are
like jgi has their new spark and all
those nutrient out so if everyone has
like a selfie drone now and it's like oh
what if it hits a spark or something or
like what if something happens and it
flies away it doesn't really matter if
it's like smaller big if it goes in a
jet engine it's going to do damage why
can they do like some sort of weird like
scrambling fry your drone if you get too
close thing at airports they said you
are not smart and flying your drone your
Airport then you're drunk should be
fried yes but no because if you're
sending out special radio signals then
those might interfere with actual
aircraft level both on I saw it down the
cellar already sound biologists not
working with it yet now that may not be
perfect but I found
and I think public education is going to
be a huge factor in this because again
like it comes down to common sense but
unfortunately common sense isn't so
common apparently and I've been reading
a few articles that there have been
several large finds in the UK recently
when it comes to drone use because just
like here in Canada I guess
commonwealth's kind of the same thing on
how like if you fly over like open areas
it's okay because you're out in the
middle of nowhere but if you fly over
cities and stuff then that's where it
gets really serious right because if it
falls on people if it's near an airport
things like that here in Canada the
rules are nine kilometers away from
airports and not any aerodrome so farmer
Joe has is like little grass field or
whatever that still counts you have to
be nine kilometres away from that which
cuts off like 90% of Ontario like our
province from flying drones so it's all
about balance right because we can't
keep that look sorry this is going to be
really opinionated
we can't keep that now because it
stifles growth of the industry right for
both for hobbyists and commercial
commercial it's a little bit easier
because I did my time I can fly anywhere
and was a commercial drone you've got a
GPS so they can just put fences up yeah
I aligned I was flying my big drone at
my sister's place which was kind of
close to an airport and I was trying to
get up and there was a ceiling there now
there is a fly anymore so they do you
have a thing yeah well actually but a
little dog this doesn't have GPS so they
can't stop well here's the thing if you
really want us to do damage knock on
wood don't try this at home if you
really wanted to do damage it's not that
hard to do right anyone can buy a drone
or make one now or yeah and do whatever
with it so it's like we want to have
laws in place that make things safer but
don't punish those that want to do good
with it
right that's it very area right now yeah
and this makes me think okay well this
is going to end up causing regulations
to hurt people like me and you yeah and
we're not going to fly near now well
just just a cap off on that last point
and we should be good but like there's
companies and Russia's now that our
selling DJI products that are geo France
unlock now so like we have hackers that
are saying on I know it's it's really
unfortunately right AC obvious yeah and
the thing is if you're a commercial guy
like me you kind of you can unlock them
um so it's just saying yes I have my
special flight operator certificate yes
and other rules and that's it so for us
commercial guys is not that hard for
non-commercial keep it in because it's
done there for a reason
yes yeah and not to not to take any more
time but just how naive am I to think
that an airplane an aircraft could have
some kind of a barrier on the engines
that would protect against something
like this going over to the engine so I
can yeah masters may turn it around well
no because like as soon as soon as you
start putting things in front of the
engine you're getting less airflow which
makes it more costly which makes it less
it just wouldn't work that way
unfortunately because literally like
every little bit of degree counts like
every single molecule in that engine
counts like we need it to be as
efficient and that's what blowing an air
bus and all those big guys are saying we
need these planes to be efficient if
they can get an extra like um two pounds
or like two grams on to the aircraft
they will do it like payload wise that's
tough
so it's again it's a gray area because
you want to balance safety with like
your right because it's your own thing
again we could talk about this all day
guys but out of this I think we're going
to see more of this unfortunately but
hopefully we see some more creative
solutions not mine which takes planes
out of the Arizona potentially right
Facebook has completed its second test
flight for its solar-powered internet
beaming drone called Aquila the flight
was conducted on May 22nd in Yuma
Arizona and lasted for one hour and 46
minutes though Facebook just released
the information last week Facebook said
that the drone landed perfectly on a
prepared landing site an earlier version
of Aquila was substantially damaged in a
tractor in a crew suspension damaged in
a crash during its first test flight
over Arizona last year according to an
investigation by the National
Transportation Safety Board to avoid
another crash Facebook tweaked the
design of Aquila by adding wing spoilers
a smoother exterior and a horizontal
propeller stopping mechanism the second
version of the drone all
includes hundreds of sensors to record
details about flight performance
Facebook plans to use Aquila to being
internet access to n connected parts of
the world the drone is larger than a
Boeing 737 and designed to stay aloft
for months at a time at altitudes of
roughly 60,000 feet it's completely
solar-powered and requires the same
amount of energy to run as 3 blow dryers
Facebook is good there
I like the idea for natural disasters we
talked before with the first generation
of this drone which apparently crashed
and burned
Luke C photo which is probably why
Facebook didn't say that it works until
after it works yes that's why we haven't
heard anything about it since folks it's
alive yeah but it's beaming down
Internet connectivity to third world
countries places that don't have
internet and places that are disaster
torn so you think about a hurricane
going through a tsunami where
infrastructure is damaged or destroyed
now they're able to get internet
connectivity because emergency
responders and individuals so they can
let their families know that they're
safe very good news a US judge has
dismissed a lawsuit against Facebook
accusing it of tracking users internet
usage between April 22nd 2010 and
September 26 2011 regardless if they've
logged out of the network
US District Judge Edward Davila on
Friday June 30th stated that the
plaintiffs didn't manage to prove that
they had reasonable expectation of
privacy or suffered realistic its
economic harm or loss the plaintiffs
allege that Facebook leveraged like
buttons found on other websites to track
which sites they visited which
essentially meant that the world's
largest social media network could
create a detailed documentation of their
online activity and browsing history
this argued the plaintiffs broke federal
and state privacy and wiretapping laws
it works this way when you stumble upon
an article that you on the web that
you'd like to share on Facebook
oftentimes they're already be integrated
buttons that you can click on to share
the set article directly to various
channels including Facebook Twitter
reddit and more
when a user visits a site with a
specific type of like button the browser
sends information to two places to
Facebook and the server where the page
is stored the lawsuit adds that Facebook
had promised that cookies are deleted
when the user logs out however the site
continues to receive the information
until a researcher spilled the beans on
Facebook's behavior in 2011 the judge
said that the plaintiffs could have gone
out of their way to keep their online
activity private either by using
incognito mode on their preferred
browser or by using an opt-out tool by
the digital advertising Alliance but in
the end the judge said they fail to
prove that the social media networks
illegally intercepted or eavesdropped on
their interactions by our viewer thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux' bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the catagory cloud TV newsroom I'm
fast regenerate
[Music]
you
[Applause]
