if you are a web designer or you have a
blog Dennis Kelly has a blog Dennis
post your link in the in the chatroom
their category 5 on freenode with your
blog Dennis you're gonna need to use
featured images you've got to add a
featured image so that when someone
shares your posts it puts that picture
with the blog oh yeah it helps with like
search engine optimization - so people
like to click on stuff that has a great
looking image now you blog so far has
images with it so make sure you set 1 as
the featured image but what do you do
when you just write something and you
don't have something to associate with
it as far as the look goes I need an
image you need a stock image in a lot of
cases but you go on to iStockphoto
you're gonna pay 30 dollars for a
picture just so that your blog looks a
little better man that's you're gonna
pay you know 20 dollars to some 4 for
this yeah I'm totally for paying
photographers what they're worth and
everything but we're talking you know
you just need something quick
you need something cheap and dirty
that's where creative commons comes in
so there is a stock imagery website that
is licensed under cc0 what does that
mean you can use it free right no
payment on both personal and commercial
websites Wow that's useful or commercial
use it doesn't even say websites just
commercial use if you want to use it on
a billboard go ahead go ahead
but what cc0 also says is no attribution
require so no credit you do not have to
anywhere on your site put a link to them
you don't have to give credit where
credit's due while I encourage that
right while I do encourage that this
site gives us an opportunity to get real
legitimate licensed free photographs Wow
or our projects so think about pixels
pixels or something that you're familiar
with but head on over to pixels px Els
com and what would we normally look for
in a stock photo something from the
newsroom likely yeah so let's say
Android phone
and there we go here are some pixels
some free stock images that are provided
for us look at that that we can download
so there's a great one look at that so
it's a free download oh yeah okay
look at the license cc0 license free for
personal and commercial use no
attribution required you can learn more
about the license but you're just gonna
go home that is simple but that's all
there is to it
and it basically says everything that I
just told you okay so in a situation
like this of course we're expecting that
okay now okay I obviously still have to
give them my credit card I still have to
sign up for an account of some sort I
see some Squarespace things there oh
wait those are ads that's how they're
paying for it right but okay let's see
the process here I'm expecting I'm gonna
have to go through some hoopla here in
order to gain access to this photo so
let's see what we have let's let's do
this drop down okay so we we have access
to 640 by four twenty six and now we
usually want to get the highest
resolution so six thousand by four
thousand I guarantee you I stock is
gonna charge us pretty penny for a full
resolution image oh yeah they charge a
little less on some sites not I stock
they charge the same across the board
but some sites will charge less for the
smaller images in this particular case
hey it's free ok let's choose six
thousand by four thousand how much are
we gonna have to enter as far as our
personal information let's see what what
are you what resolution and it's free
it's free and there's unlimited right
you don't have to sign up there is a no
limitation on how many you can download
its back souls dot-com PE X Els that is
awesome
[Music]
