Henry Bailey Brown has brought of
beatboxes with us because it's in its in
chrome you know what that's the coolest
thing about this is that oh you don't
have to download anything to your
computer nice and it's free and you can
actually use it to make some sick beats
ease but Henry what is it it's your
imagination just kidding no it's
actually um it's actually a website guys
so throughout category five we've
mentioned so many amazing online tools
like pixels so like right images yeah
GIMP which is you can of course edit
images but now we're switching sensors
from your eyes to your ears and your
soul so today yeah no I'm giving really
team guys it's called audio tool calm
and it is a free website with a free
built-in audio mixing software so if you
ever used GarageBand mixcraft educators
like that it's like that but it's
literally all in the cloud and it's all
web based and it's free so free free
yeah I know you can ask for a refund but
you get nothing back because it's free
but it's a lot of ask for refunds will
try but yeah so it's like um honestly
anyone could try for free again it's
online it's audio tool calm and if
you're for example if you have an online
TV show if you have a podcast if you
want to just make some sweet
introductions for music wise and this is
your site right is it and yeah if we
switch it to or can we see yeah for sure
um so what you're seeing now is it it's
amazing I can't really is there a way to
like scroll like mouse pad like
scrolling oh like a mouse or no it's
okay I can I can use the top left here I
can use this guy um so pretty much oh I
see I see yeah look at you actually are
navigating around that's the coolest
part is that it's visual because a lot
of programs nowadays especially if you
aren't a musician or nothing else if
you're got like me you just want to make
some sick beaches or whatever you want
to call them um BP ha beat it it'd be
teeth please yeah apparently I don't
know but no like it's all visual so like
as you can see here on the wonderful
screen
taking over my face I'm just yeah I'm
kind of as he's speaking I'm setting up
shots here so that you guys can see this
so bear with me here probably going to
be edited closed David so alright so
take us for the tour here yeah for sure
so this is kind of a basic set up that
we have here um so if you have any audio
experience at all or have you seen any
movies about it this actually you know
what let's just make a really fast
project here I'm just going to say thing
here right plugged in I'll you up yeah
yeah okay so if I press play right now I
don't know if they can hear you so you
guys hear him a bottle at a same time
coming up so while waiting for them to
get back hopefully like here I'll just
turn down the ball yeah I came in just
turn it down slide we'll just uh yeah
yeah well I just turned down right here
so cool okay yeah so pretty much this
these are like really simple things you
can do and it's just like a really
simple project that I made literally in
like two or three minutes and I'm just
going to create a new
file right now to show how easy the site
is because again it's all visual based
and you're just doing this vision in
Chrome yeah this is all in Chrome like
this is literally sweat browser so I'm
just going to start an empty project
alright and this way you get so this
represents your out so this is like your
final product and this is your audio
board it looks really complicated
anything it might look complicated don't
worry pretty much all you need to know
is that each volume mixer so like each
slide here is a different track
so it's just like GarageBand and mix
craft and all those guys you have loops
which may or may not load there you go
so and these are free so you got random
loops I can use right and again these
are all Muslims are creative comments so
I can use them for whatever you're doing
so let's see if I find a loop that I
really like simple click and drag into
my workspace boom and it's there it's
there and it's automatically connected
and again since its visual based you
literally see a wire come from our
little audio file that's represented at
this as this little block and it goes
into the first audio mix right here so
if I press play you can see it right
here
and I can edit the levels I can make it
ladder not as loud so it's like that you
can import your own sounds so like if
you're a drummer and you do your own
things like that you can do that as well
and you if you have a mic you can add
your own voice you had singing and stuff
you can add your own muse you can add
your beautiful angel like blah hip-hop
sik ryeom rhymes nice so ok so how how
long would it take to put a beat
together I can do one right now do one
right now yeah exactly I'm going to show
them something really cool all right we
want to see this and it's really
interesting because just just to take
out there this is audio tool calm which
surprisingly enough actually my DJ
nickname Wow
hello audio tool come and get your site
okay really quickly because there's a
lot to show here and we don't have that
much time on the right here so like
again these are like a lot of loops and
there's a lot of user made loops too so
you can upload your own if you want is
that here we
like different things called drum since
tools and effects alright so I just want
to touch on like the tools and effects
today so something here called tone
matrix I put into my work area boom
again you see it automatically goes to
the second track right here but this is
doing a loop this is your own tool so
pretend if you have a beat in your head
like nananana na or something like that
let's let's draw a pretty pattern here
and you'll see what I mean
so if I go like this it's like a piano
roll and if I press play no way I'm
going to so it's that easy my name you
can make a smiley face and here what
like this place looks like it and then
you add this other guy back one sec
[Music]
school druggies but what does Showtime
what Webster and no and that and that's
amazing part about these tools is that
they're free yes but they're powerful
and that's so great to see on the
internet nowadays and one other thing I
will show you before we do anything else
is that we have a little panel here
called effects so again if you've ever
used like a program before like mix
crafts or GarageBand you have like
effects that on reverb for example so if
I click and drag this it's my workspace
it's here as well um but I'm not sure if
there's any musicians in our audience
but if you ever see like those foot
pedals that like guitarists have or
something they kind of look like this
but see how it says out right here I'm
going to have to zoom in to show you it
says out on our little audio matrix here
okay yeah if I click and drag this you
can rewire things yeah again it's all
visual so if I take that out from this
guy and put it into the reverb so it
goes from here to the reverb and from
the reverb back into my audio panel and
I play again it's kind of hard to notice
because this one already has regroup a
little bit but
I cannot control a reverb event you
definitely hear that if you had a book
refract something like that yeah and
again there's so many effects there's so
many tools and I'm going to show one
more tool off and then we can just let
them play around with this um and it
shows just how powerful this tool is
let's get out our wonderful giant
machine of amazingness right here it'll
take a second to load there you go
now again since this is a free website
there's a lot of users on it all right
is that a ts404 what is that I'll show
you added some so if you right-click you
can say low preset yeah and again
there's some made by audio calm excetera
yeah um but let's say ambient kick or no
interested dubstep let's get Robbie down
here sweet let's apply and it's loaded
in a few tracks already okay yeah so now
that's a drum roll yeah and it's just
like before but if I press play now
trip-hop yeah it's just add them by
yourself and you can see it go along
again I'm not sure how many like these
people are out there but you can change
it so then like goes by fours go by 16 I
gotta say now is they're all music
people that's right guys it's
accessibility and that's the cool thing
about the Internet is then again free
tools like this accessible to everyone
and if your youtuber if you like making
just music for fun if you do it
professionally it's one like a new tool
play around with sure it did right like
my son is nine years old exactly
stop-motion stick stick bots and things
like that this can be something he says
to us I wish I could add my own music he
can now again and that's cool thing is
that since it's all visual based on a
lot of programs nowadays like the
high-end ones again like Rajesh man and
stuff yeah um Garage Band isn't I guess
high level but it's a good intro level
right um is that there's a lot of
buttons and it can get you on using and
a lot of satins FL Studio for example
yeah really pro software exactly you
really you have to be good with
computers good with me exactly and
we're gonna be able to set it up this
will exactly drag and drop simple
exactly and that's a cool thing is that
it's very visual days you saw things
that you can actually connect wires to
connect things to effects so it's a
great teaching tool but again you saw
how powerful this can be and we've only
been playing around with it for five to
ten minutes so you can make an
introduction to a podcast you can just
play it on for fun right get really lost
in it and just cover here yeah and on
the major main page of this website
there there are plenty of examples if
you just go there right now
people make entire songs like you just
saw me make like a 10-second loop you
can make entire songs and add your own
voice or you know if you want to be
superstar make your mix track so you
mentioned a lot of the stuff is Creative
Commons Ken yeah can you export to like
an mp3 file yeah I can file and before
we go I want to show how to do that
because if you save draft that click
file save draft there um the important
thing to note is that you give it a
title so Henri's cool track whatever you
can upload cover art so again if you
make something in GIMP there you go you
can upload it there on tags or internet
etc on the very bottom here it says
license if you click on license there's
three hours that your own license your
3ln this is important because the first
two are Creative Commons alright so
share-alike 3.0 and non-commercial
pretty much attribution alright so what
these two options do is say that um you
can actually puts them on a website so
people can use your loops that you make
in their own loops so it's a huge
community right now which is awesome
yeah but with that being said um if you
don't want like if if you're doing your
own album or something you can say all
rights reserved and you know you can't
use it won't share for you right so nice
if you want to keep it private you can
do that so you can just say copyrighted
so and so alright so but yeah so that's
a cool thing again you can control your
own license um and it's it's really cool
because again anyone can use the site
and I think we're seeing more and more
of these kind of programs pop up
and it is it's flash-based
so you do need to have Adobe Flash very
true it is laughing to have yet so um so
if you are running Linux or something
and you don't have Flash installed so
again we have to reboot yeah yeah we
have to reboot the computer to open up
Windows just fine you can run it in
Linux of course through your browser but
you'd have to have flash and I don't
have flash out on my Linux system so how
do you export as a file that I can
listen to or yeah take in to my sequence
like say I want to take it into a
multitrack editor or something and add
some vocals yeah it's a website exactly
so it's actually really simple you just
go to file so on top you click file you
save your draft I'm going to call it
Henry's sick beats or something amazing
like that Henry Henry's beat so Henry
speed I'll take it awesome mix because
it's like he's a beep farmer your band
name No yeah totally and he put it today
I'm feeling like you can use my music
but you can't use it commercially and
I'll click Save
so it's just going to take a second it's
like yeah Sam we made a draft so now
it's saved in the cloud
yeah so if I wanted to like publish I
just click this button that has now
appeared publish Boop and sound of
silence so pretty much it's saying I
haven't made a whole song yet there's
still gap on there okay yeah yeah um
biases like okay we're all right um so
it just asks you some final questions so
do you want to let others use this next
to remix um so it's like yeah sure
so it's like I see publish and then it
tastes takes a few minutes to render and
then at the end of that process you
could say you know what yeah download so
you can save it and other people on the
net you can say do you want them to
download it yeah you know what's cool
about this sorry go ahead
so Beyonce can use it like anybody oh
yeah absolutely makes her own sick beat
fight yeah ha ha
Henry could make beats that Beyonce
could use Internet right well use the
same Happiny it's it I say this again
and again it's accessibility right so um
it might take a few minutes for to go
server-side so I'm just going to close
that but again there's like they have
like all these singles that are on the
way
like creating cominis yeah yeah so
here's my thought just as a final kind
of thought from my perspective yeah when
I'm producing music on a computer I have
certain resource requirements if I'm not
be doing these kinds of mixes I'm going
to need a pretty killer computer yeah
now and I got to meet all those
requirements I've got to have inputs on
the computer all that kind of crazy
stuff to make music this takes away that
requirement because it's all cloud-based
exactly now I could be probably doing
this from a little netbook or something
if it's yeah because it's in your
browser yeah we're doing a little we're
being done on a server and that's that's
a really interesting part about it is
that again i I'll say it again as
accessibility it takes that entirety of
having to need this honkin machine yeah
so then anyone can do it now my studio
is my laptop so the hexagons Dona moça
there you go bangle so maybe maybe we've
inspired the next like Beethoven or
someone today
dubstep Beethoven nice that would be an
awesome mix there you have it it's audio
tool dot-com thanks Henry
thank you
[Applause]
