hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie and my name is Jen and I
feel a song coming on part two we're
looking at some twenty treats to stay
tuned ah shepherding
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda alright
welcome back and doesn't he's episode
were talking of Psalm 23 and Jen just
bad like I see so what one of the first
times I ever met Jen week she actually
took me to go to another Church so we
were on kind of like a mini road trip
together did she saw a cat and all since
she started meowing I'm thinking what is
going on here she's meowing at the cat
so anytime she makes the animal noises I
can't help that part of a friendship
it's just how it is I taught my little
cousin we're driving by I'm like when
you see cows you gotta move at them and
she's like three at the time or driving
by and I'm like ooh ooh and then I'm
like Mary join me and did oh yeah we
mood at the cows it's good just let it
out just let it and I'll let it out you
might be thinking why they're talking
about animals and well it's interesting
i said to carry in this psalm in the
Bible that I'm looking at we are looking
at Psalm 23 today I said oh it came with
questions and she said what is the first
question I said what is the closest
you've come to living on a farm and
looking after animals not what I was
expecting living on a farm haha wow I my
family's home was surrounded by farms
but I wasn't responsible for any kind of
creature apart from a talking cat that's
all I did go to my friends Papa's cattle
farm
I think handling out there for a while
all right well that's it I was not
raised on a farm I am an appreciation
for farms I lived beside a farm I love I
love cows yeah I don't know why i just
do i do know that you cannot feed a cow
a carrot though from your hand the other
reason i say this site was on vacation
with my mother and in PEI and we're just
driving down this little dirt road and
we're watching this lady try to feed a
cow a carrot I'm like it's a cow it's
not a horse vegetable yes thing and I
was just in here she must be from the
city no offense to anyone live in your
city and knows about animals well see I
didn't think it was a problem though but
yes you don't feed cows carrots you feed
cows hey a horse we probably may eat a
carrot from your hand I don't think a
coward I don't even know of a cow that
would I will find out for us anyhow so
you might be thinking I removing on here
the answer is yes we're going to read
from Psalm 23 which is a psalm of David
and which does focus on a farmer we
you're going to think it's a shepherd
but they have to look after sheep and
farmers look after animals so here we go
the Lord is my shepherd I shall not be
in want he makes me lie down in green
pastures he leads me beside quiet waters
he restores my soul he guides me in
paths of righteousness for his name's
sake even though I walk through the
valley of the shadow of death I will
fear no evil for you are with me your
rod and your staff they comfort me you
prepare a table before me in the
presence of mine enemies you anoint my
head with oil my cup overflows surely
goodness and love will follow me all the
days of my life and I will dwell in the
house of the Lord forever hmm
you know when the Lord says when it says
the Lord is my shepherd I shall not want
it automatically implies that he's a
good shepherd that he's looking after
his sheep and in John 10 it talks about
how we are the Sheep yes and then that
Jesus is looking after us and he is the
Good Shepherd and he provides for us mmm
do we have don't have to have fear
because he is a good shepherd yes and it
says that he will lay down his life for
the Sheep I am the gate and whoever
enters from me will be saved he will
come in and go out and find pasture the
thief only comes to steal kill and scrub
I have come that they might have life
and life to the full I am The Good
Shepherd the Good Shepherd lays down his
life for the Sheep the hired hand is not
the shepherd who owns the Sheep so when
he sees the wolf coming he abandons the
sheep and runs away then the wolf
attacks in the flock of scatters the man
runs away because he's a hired hand and
cares nothing for the Sheep I am The
Good Shepherd I know my sheep and my
sheep know me hmm says the Lord is my
shepherd and you're right when we put
our faith in him we have nothing to want
nothing it like there is no in brackets
or except when yeah there's a period at
the end of of wants in my cell not want
period yeah I think it's a process to
get there and I look at Paul in the New
Testament he said whether in plenty or
in one you know I've learned what it is
to be content bingo in God because he
knows that god provides for him yeah and
so maybe that's a question we need to be
asking ourselves is when we are feeling
discontent or like we need something
maybe we need to be saying okay is this
from the Lord because sometimes he stirs
up desires in us or am I just needing
something wanting something I don't even
need like what where is this discontent
where is this desire coming from is it
of the Lord because if it's the Lord
stern
yep then he's going to meet it right you
know it's interesting that you say that
because whenever i hear psalm 23
automatically think of funerals
interesting yeah you're not ah when i go
to a funeral I think I want to hear it
yeah oh I automatically do because I've
been to so many funerals and they
usually read this song I think because
it says yea though I walk through the
rod and your staff they comfort me yeah
and so many older adults can actually
quote this song in between James yes
even if they don't go to church anymore
they can still remember it yeah and you
know when you're saying in someone the
Lord's my shepherd I shall not want
period and then you go on to read yea
though I walk through the valley of the
shadow of death like there's a fear
mm-hmm you know there's a shadow of
death a threatening of death but still
there's no one they have no fear no so I
just find it interesting that this is
read at funerals because it was so much
the family they want that family member
back mm-hmm that's the desire right
right well and what's interesting is
says the valley of the shadow of death
so there's a shadow of death but what's
that mean like you're walking through it
you're you actually haven't died but
it's like the family right like even
though I'm even though this person that
I love has died and i'm walking through
the valley of the shadow of death right
there death has cast the shadow right
and you're walking through it some
versions also say a darkest place or
darkest Valley hmm but what's
interesting is that it says I will fear
no evil for you are with me your rod and
your staff they comfort me and I heard
carries dad give a devotion on this
passage and he explained about a rod and
a staff were and basically their descent
their defensive tools or to protect the
sheep okay and so all I could think was
like and then just Shepherd yeah you
know getting those sticks out like
Otello yeah and what but it says your
rod and your staff so all I could think
about was as we walked through that
Valley and as you know the wolves or I
want to say the monsters come oh yeah
all I could you know as soon as your dad
explained that all I could think about
was no God jumping in front of us and
like yeah yeah and getting rid of them
like and he takes care of them like he's
the one because it says I fear no evil
why because God's taking care of it hmm
like it just made so much sense when
because it says your rod and your stat
like we can take comfort in the fact
that the Lord the Lord has right things
to protect us these are defense he's our
rearguard yeah well and yes because it
goes on to say in verse 6 I know we just
skipped over spot but as surely goodness
and love will follow me all the days of
my life like so even though his rod and
his staff are like before us protecting
us guiding us mm-hmm his love mercy is
coming behind us it's like all the way
around all the way around and I got so
excited as I read this passage I'm like
he's God it's covered yeah like he is
goddess covered and verse 5 you prepare
a table before me in the presence of my
enemy you anoint my head with oil my cup
overflows like every time I read this
Psalm my cup overflows like I get so
excited because of what the Lord is
doing and that's probably why it's one
of the most popular Psalms and besides
the fact that it's right if he knows all
the time but there's like so much truth
in it like it says in verse 2 he makes
me lie down in green pastures he leads
me beside quiet waters he restores my
soul he guides me in paths of
righteousness for his name's sake sounds
like he's doing a lot of the work yeah
like he he helps us lie down he leads he
restores he guides for his honor and
glory like he he's leading us he's
guiding us and all we and it says
he makes us to lie down in green he
restores our souls like he restores us
hmm like I can't every time I read this
i'm like i get excited i just i want to
sit and it's like I want him I just want
to sense the spirit we're storing me and
leading me and and causing me to lie
down in green pastures and even now in
my head I can just imagine a big green
field and just you know where the well
the image that really comes to mind is
beauty and the beast where she's running
out and singing the song but just lying
in that field and experiencing the
restoring the still waters right which
is like the tree that we read about last
week in Psalm one where when we focus on
the Lord we are like a tree planted by
the water who produces fruit and in here
here we are talking about water again
that he makes us lie down in green
patent in green pastures and beside
still waters to restore our soul you
know something only needs restoration if
you know you restore something that
needs to be restored yes so kind of
implies that you know that this look
David soul needed restoration yeah
mm-hmm and I think of oh I was oh i
don't know like 18 and I remember my mom
was away for all that year taking care
of my grandma and then finally heard
that my grandma had passed away and you
know having really mixed feelings like I
was sad that my grandma had passed but
happy my mom's coming home and oh I
don't know it doesn't know you know
heavy I went for a run and I actually
ran out to a field and it was sunset it
was beautiful and I just prayed and I
felt God restoring my soul with his
truth and they're like seeing you know
when the sunset when the Sun bust
through the clouds is so beautiful like
reminding me of the truth this is not
all that there is that yes there's death
that happens but there is life in Christ
and there's life after this life and
that he gives us hope that we could have
the life that is truly life now yes
Jesus came to put heaven back inside of
we yes now to experience and share that
hope with other people and it was just
so cool like it was in a field setting
so that's what I think I'm gonna read
that song there Jen and is yes we can't
be restored when we're running a hundred
miles an hour so walk from her like
we're so busy we run run run you know we
packed things in and yet it says he
makes me lie down in green pastures he
leads me beside quiet waters he restores
my soul for you know he guides me in
paths for his name's sake like we are
restored in the quiet hmm and it's true
when I take a day off I feel great like
I just feel like filled up and restored
like all the rough edges have been
sanded off and I'm ready to go yeah um
and when I'm running full tilt like I
feel good and you know I've hear the
Lord speaking to me and I'm ministering
to other people but I think you're right
he only restores things that I have some
form of damage or brokenness and the
thing is it doesn't even if we're
working for the Lord we need to be
restored yeah like we run out of energy
we run the tank gets you know emptied
you might get hurt we might have to
extend forgiveness we might have to go
and apologize someone but we don't
really know until we actually stopped
and allow him to you know fix us it's
like taking your car and for you know
your monthly or I don't know how often
you should take a card and let's just be
honest una I tune-up thank you ever
often I used to happen I know I just
drive my car and take one it needs to be
fixed they send me a letter hey hey come
in for a tune-up yes am i okay but just
but Jesus and the Lord did set up though
this thing called Sabbath for a purpose
of restoring our soul like that weekly
check-in how's it going yeah and
allowing God to minister to us so we can
be restored so we can extend forgiveness
so we can you know get right with the
Lord so that we're filled up for the
next week and I think
that's where it can go on and say you
know even though I walk through the
valley of the shadow death I will fear
no evil because because we have been
restored because we have spent time with
the Lord then when we walk through those
things then we truly can believe it
because the thing is what we believe
something or not does not mean it's not
happening we have a tease gravity
whether you believe it or not yes so we
can still walk through the valley of the
shadow of death and God can still be
there and he probably still is but we
can still be fearful because we have
forgotten what God said he would do
right and so it's like this is why we
need to make sure that we allow him to
restore us that we actually you know
slow down so we can allow Lord to
restore so when we walk through these
tough times that we actually sense him
going before us coming behind us that's
why you know david says you prepare a
table before me in the presence of my
enemies you know like he's like no
problem there's enemies all around me
God's taking care of it I don't need to
worry about and there's several times in
in 1st and 2nd Samuel where david has
had to go in against people whether it's
Saul or various armies and he's waited
on the Lord and then he does what the
Lord tells him to do and he routes them
like and the Bible is very clear that
date you know Saul had killed his
thousands but David had killed his tens
of thousands and because he waited on
the Lord he allowed God to restore him
so he could sit you know in the presence
of his enemies and go the Lord's got it
yeah Loras got it and so there's so much
in this verse of these verses but the
things that come to mind is you know are
we slowing down like are we allowing God
to actually restore our soul and then
the are we truly believing that God is
all we need hmm because it says I just
you said right the very beginning I
shall not be in want period period so
are you feeling discontent are you
feeling like you just don't have enough
do you have some unmet desires or needs
and are you willing to surrender those
to the Lord and then I guess the last
thing that you know comes to mind as I
think about this passage is like do I
put my hope in the fact that I will
dwell in the house of the Lord forever
like this this whole thing is so like
yes he's come that we would have life
and left with full now but also knowing
that you know this is all momentary yeah
like this valley is momentary I'm going
I'm going to be in heaven one day yeah
so why are you putting your hope today
are you putting in there then now you
got to get it done now and that's why
you can't let the Lord restore your soul
because you're so focused on the now hmm
yeah and sometimes taking time to stop
excuse me and worship God and actually
listen to songs that are based on
scripture help us to take to allow God
to restore our soul so I would encourage
you to actually to listen to a song
called good good father chris tomlin
does a version and I'll get Robbie just
to put a link to the YouTube the youtube
link to listen to the song and I can't
encourage you just to stop put the song
on and then listen and then read John 10
about Jesus being the Good Shepherd so
maybe generally just pray for us and for
our viewers Lord we thank you so much
that you are the Good Shepherd your rod
and your staff they do comfort us when
you walk through the valley of the
shadow of death we will fear no evil
before you are with us Oh Lord remind us
that we need to slow down we need to
allow you to restore our souls remind us
that you go before and that you come
behind and that we will dwell in the
house of Lord forever lord help us
elbows to focus on you as the Good
Shepherd who lays down his life for us
that we would have life and life to the
full you thank you Father and your name
we pray amen oh and thank you so much
for tuning it again to new every day we
hope that you have a great weekend that
you tune in here again next week as we
open the book of psalms again haven't
often have an awesome week and if you do
have time this week and you would like
to take a look at our partners page we
invite you to do that and see how you
can support us when you make purchases
up in there it does come back to the
show you continue doing what we do join
if you're ever leave to share something
you bless
I feel a song coming on yeah yeah
you
