welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five 22 and
tonight Sascha Rickman joins me and we
are going to be beginning the assembly
process of her new gaming PC now we've
been following the series over the past
five episodes of it this is our sixth
instance of it and so we've gone through
the product selection we've gone through
the ordering process all the way up till
now where we finally get to start
putting it together
so tonight we hope to get the processor
on the motherboard we're gonna learn a
little bit about how the motherboard
works and what kind of components were
going to need on there we're going to
see if we can install the m2 storage
card and we're gonna get started on the
case itself so installing the power
supply and things like that very cool
it's gonna take some time so I don't
know if you realize what you're in for
and if you are going to be doing a
computer build this is going to be an
exciting process for you and maybe even
a little bit of a reality check and so
far as the amount of work I feel like we
can knock this out of the park it's
gonna be fun though you want to be fun
do you have here's what's coming up in
the category 5 TV newsroom Echo faxes IP
leaders have retired as the company
reveals it knew about the bug that
allowed hackers to access their data
long before it happened
malicious Android apps with more than a
million downloads of slip past Google's
defenses twice Best Buy has pulled
Kaspersky Kaspersky from their store
shelves worried that Russians are using
as a spy on American computer users and
have you downloaded ccleaner lately on
your Windows machines if you have you
should know that it was loaded with
malware stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show
this is category five technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IV welcome to category
five technology TV and again this is
episode number 522 I'm Robby Ferguson
please help me welcome for the first
time ever
sasha Rickman hello everybody
it went so well Saturday where you've
been married for like a week in a bit
Wow yes okay nothing went like according
to plan at all but everything went
perfectly Hughes what day was the actual
wedding the 9th of September which is
what a Saturday it was a Saturday it was
a Saturday than quite a week yet cuz
today's Wednesday Oh a week oh yeah so
we could go to week that's right she
goes away for two weeks and we're just I
have no idea what's going on anymore
and Newfoundland is an hour and a half
before oh here we go now we're messed I
know so I got like married at two
o'clock local time here 3:30 there well
now you know yeah now you know how it
works in case you're wondering next week
is a very exciting week for us here at
category five TV now one day sashay
you're gonna be celebrating a tenth
anniversary well next week we're gonna
have a little run-through category-five
technology TV is celebrating 10 years
and it's my own personal five year with
the show because my five year
anniversary I hope you can be here be it
vicariously through your computer screen
or TV or perhaps you could be here live
in studio
at the category five studio D in Barrie
Ontario now if you want to join us it's
a free event and the only thing that you
have to do though is you have to have a
ticket so you gotta go to category five
dot TV click on tickets and you'll find
out how you can get your free tickets
that's right I hope you can be here
carry web is going to be here we're
looking forward to seeing her we've got
a lot of fun stuff that we're working on
it's going to be a bit of a crazy show I
can't let the cat out of the bag but our
10th anniversary we're gonna have a lot
of fun
so looking forward to it that's next
week Wow did you catch that next one
week from this very moment take action
now just pause the video go to category
5 TV and click on tickets and of course
you don't need a ticket if you're just
gonna be watching from home that we're
gonna be broadcasting live as we usually
do okay so tonight though I mean here we
are a week away from our 10th
anniversary and we got to get started on
this sash have you folks seen all this
stuff the computer extraordinaire
oh my goodness sometimes I build a
computer you know sometimes first time
so this is yeah like the Raspberry Pi in
about 3000 parts right yes what are you
most excited about this this this the
motherboard like the sexiest piece of
technology I've ever seen in my life
like it's actually so super sleek it's
beautiful it's amazing you folks want to
close up I'm gonna grab a camera here
that I can just kind of get right in
here
look at that it's the the Maximus VIII 8
from a Seuss beautiful it is so sure oh
I love it so we've got it we've got a
couple of things here that we're really
really excited about first of all it's
got an m2 header so that's this guy
right in here
so that allows us to connect an m2
or MDOT to card and we've talked about
it through the course of the series this
being part six of the series we've got
one X 16 2 X 16 s 3 X 16 s plus 1 2 3 X
ones those are your PCI Express lanes
and we're gonna be able to do a lot with
those as you know Sasha what do you
recognize here she takes in her bike
yeah this is where a processor is going
to go our RAM is gonna go here notice
the solid state capacitors there
gorgeous you're not gonna have any
trouble with this motherboard and it
looks great we're excited about this
folks so tonight we're getting started
right we're just gonna get right into it
it's a big job to build a computer did
you realize that I don't even know that
yet even though you keep saying it I'm
like woo me and I'm gonna have to stand
here with my hands behind my back
because this is all you girl yeah you
have to be very instructional ok alright
because I don't know well know how to
start
oh yeah okay might want to help you
there instructional starting now how do
I like am I just plugging those into
there popping them in like the Raspberry
Pi into the case not exactly okay
first and foremost this is your computer
case the chassis we got okay so a couple
of things here if we get in real tight
you can see that we've got a 120
millimeter fan it looks like we've got
this is the bay on the back of the
computer this is where your stuff is
gonna go that's where your power supply
is gonna go down at the bottom and the
motherboards gonna go in there so we
actually have to install all this stuff
but what order do you do it inside well
you wanna know my guess okay the
motherboard first no oh if you put in
the motherboard first so think about
this and remember this if you're gonna
get into your own computer build if you
put in the motherboard first for one
thing this guy here this opening is not
gonna it's just going to be all the
parts wide open on the back of the
computer okay
if I pull this out let's see if we can
get this right out of the the box I want
to show you what the back headers look
like okay oh if only it could be that
easy they've mounted good now we've all
we've both grounded ourselves tonight
mm-hmm just FYI and that just makes sure
that going to have any static
electricity on us now this is the back
of the motherboard okay
so you see this that's what we'll show
through the back of your computer so the
the computer that pardon me the
motherboard in the box is going to come
with this guy here
so before we install the motherboard I
want to put into the case okay
this is the simplest thing I'm allowed
to open stuff for you thank you okay
what should I be doing in prep okay well
here we go don't want to forego my phone
looks like that okay so that's where the
keyboard is gonna be that's where the
USB is gonna be things are upside-down
so we know that it's gonna go in this
way so what I needed to do sash is I
need you to actually mount this on the
inside of the computer case so it goes
on goes inside and pops through yes okay
are you want to give it a try I do can I
just move am I allowed to shuffle this
yes it is yours okay and then this goes
does it pop in it just snaps right in
okay
I don't know this is now gonna be a
twenty seven part series just step one
sash will just pop right in okay maybe
I'm not gonna break anything here I feel
like you like lip pen no this can't be
me there we go did a snap nope it just
fell out okay
alright you've got it right I've got it
right so okay yeah you've got it the
right way up so what I would do okay and
I'm trying I want to try to show you as
much of this process as I can folks so
what we want to do is kind of put it in
like this like a door okay and then
close the door and then push it nice and
snug so I'm gonna I'm gonna try that now
I know I'm not supposed to have my hands
in here but hear that
Oh see be a little forceful with it
it's that little little guy in the
bottom there we go
is that Clifton there we go oh yeah
see I don't know all right so now the
back of the computer looks like that
okay so that's step one and and for
obvious reasons because when we put the
motherboard in we don't want to have to
then take out the motherboard to put
that silly thing in right
the other thing before you put the
motherboard in it's important to note
now because we've got this big old
heatsink right okay and your computer
you're gonna need a cooler to keep the
CPU cool the central processing unit but
sometimes sometimes Sasha the mounting
plates to do that to to mount that on
the computer on the motherboard are
gonna go on the back okay
okay so because that's the case because
sometimes they go here if you first
screw this into the computer case you're
gonna have to take it out again which is
very tedious if you've already done the
you know you've already put some paste
on and you go to it yeah could be a mess
so first thing first thing we want to do
is we want to see if our mounting
hardware is going to go on the front or
the back in this case it goes in the
back right
it could it might we've got to get into
the box okay and find out remember I'm
allowed to open stuff for you that's
right
okay so there's your mounting plate this
is going to actually be what the CPU fan
mounts to okay okay so in this
particular case sashayed does go on the
outside Oh
on this side of the computer on the
motherboard okay okay so we're gonna
have a couple of other things in the bag
here looks like a power extension for
the fan it's got the clips for the fan
to put it on the on the
the the heatsink and then we've got
these kinds of screws to to mount this
on to our motherboard okay so I want to
do that because of the way this is laid
out do you see that yes I want to do
this after we've mounted the CPU the
processor okay because then this can go
on top and then we can put some pace and
we can put the fan on okay we're not
gonna put that on just yet got it okay
so we kind of choose our order based on
the hardware that we have yeah sense
okay so let's each build would be
different than these build will be
slightly different not it's not gonna be
you know over the top you know
everything is completely different it's
just going to be you know the processors
may be different socket set and things
like that this is an 1151 LGA 1151
processor so when we install this now we
have to be very very careful here Sasha
there's a couple of things when we
install the CPU which is this chip right
here first of all this chip has a
gazillion we pins on the underside of it
okay now this one actually these ones
are a little different you know what the
pins are going to be on the motherboard
itself not on the processor like the
days of old so if I get in there oh and
I suppose you're supposed to do this bed
so this is a little trickier so you've
got to pull this lever here and when you
pull that it kind of it springs up okay
and we have to be very careful that no
dust gets in there no dirt okay can I
leave that to you so just you want me to
do just gonna push down and those down
and out okay all right and then just
open it like that yes okay and now sash
I can see all of the Wii pins in there
so we just match those up exactly okay
so yeah and there I noticed that there
is a like a cover on that so what does
it say install processor first then
remove and keep the cover it actually
says that right on there so that kind of
answers our question the Zeus has done a
nice job
making it kind of so this cover will
come off after yes okay
the processor has to be that you can't
have a piece of plastic over top of the
processor between the cooling fan this
is a heatsink right see this this
massive thing over here if you had a
piece of plastic in between at 95
degrees Celsius in some case yeah melt
that plastic away in cause now I don't
want you to open this over the table
like this and like that you need to get
down and be really really careful here
but before you open that we need to look
at what a soos is included here which is
the CPU installation tool okay so this
is a handy little thing that they've
included in order to help us to install
the CPU in such a way that we're not
gonna damage the okay so it's just a
cheap little piece of plastic but it's
going to help us exponentially because
quite frankly a lot of times when you're
installing a processor especially as a
rookie you could Bend Bend those pins
and if you do your processors shot it's
not gonna work okay so let's get let's
get right to this now I'm gonna move
this guy aside we're gonna close the box
here just so that we can use this as a
surface okay so okay so we're gonna set
down this installation tool and we're
gonna look for the little triangular
arrow do you see that yes you folks see
that at home see that little triangle
now that is going to match up with a
triangle that is printed on the CPU
itself oh look at that okay yes so
that's where we're going to line it up
so once we've got that lined up we know
that it's going to go that way okay now
you can open that you want me to open
this yes so we're just gonna and you
notice I'm just doing this really really
low to the table because I do not want
to drop a central processor use a
central processing unit very very
fragile and this is the brains of the
computer so I don't want to touch any of
the pins I'm gonna cause some problems
with the conductivity there if I do
I want to grab it by the corners okay so
when I'm holding the processor I'm only
ever holding it by the edges never touch
the dye never touch the pins okay so I'm
okay with you doing this well you know
what I'm gonna do I'm gonna balance it
on here okay I'm gonna let you pick it
up and we're going to line that up so
that the triangle is so there's the
triangle there as you saw so we know
it's in this corner okay so so when you
get this processor it's on this corner
right there's the triangle so it's going
to go in just like that
and I'm just putting it in there yes
okay okay you ready you nervous yes if
you're nervous
okay so I just drop it in here like
place down I'll turn it over make sure
that you're lining it up correctly yeah
so we see that triangle on the bottom
corner yes Little Master by your finger
but we know that it's going into the
right corner and I just I'm scared
nice and gentle okay I'm gonna use my we
don't have to be so like I I'm
purposefully cautious okay okay good
think I did it I think it's right now we
just need to kind of snap that in a
little bit let's see it seems to rest in
there just fine yeah but on the edge
here there are some clips which like if
I just kind of push in and I want to be
careful that have not put my grubby
fingers on the contacts but you hear how
that kind of clicked right in yes so now
the processor is attached okay
this installation tool okay okay do you
want try that nope you sure yep positive
time it's good time okay and then now
that we've got the installation tool
mounted and it's ready to go it's with
the processor okay
yes now we need the motherboard okay so
open that bad boy up
okay yeah just like that now we need to
find the triangle which is here okay
okay so turn over the processor cuz it's
gonna go the other way this way yeah and
sorry I'll change camera angles for you
folks and the triangle is here yes and
the triangle doesn't do that okay
doesn't snap or anything like that right
on yeah okay so now close it just like
you opened it okay do I push push
just with the handle okay oh sure a
little guy close it close it first yeah
yeah and then the handle down yeah yeah
it's a little tighter this time there
yeah and do I lock it and everything
don't you don't touch any other don't
touch it like you don't want to push on
like a capacitor or something cuz you
could break it off that's all so okay
now you see what happened oh that thing
that we need to get out of there is now
it popped right off okay okay so now you
see what the processor looked like it's
mounted can you folks see that I'm
operating everything by foot switch
today see that okay okay so now we've
got the central processing unit who take
a breath and it's not scary though with
it once you've done it now do you have
confidence you can do a hundred of those
right I could do that yeah you know that
I can and it doesn't help that I'm like
backseat driver over here don't hit that
person I'm like thanks mom yeah thanks
okay so next up okay so we've got slots
for RAM we're not gonna put those in
until we've installed the board right
what else do we need to do I mean
everything looks good next up we really
just need to set up the mounting plate
for our CPU cooling system is that what
this is that is what that is
okay so the screws for that I pulled
those out
put them in a little baggie right front
of you little baggie right in front of
me of course all right so there's some
numbers on here yes what numbers do you
see 775 1156 1366 and that's it okay so
these are now again this processor is an
Intel 1151 so we may need to look at the
instructions for Intel installation
because you want to make sure you get it
right okay
pretty simple stuff Intel okay so what
does it tell us
11:5 x11 5x is in the middle yes that's
where we need to put it okay so the pins
that we need for that are these itty
bitty plastic guys they're clear plastic
guys there they are so they look like
they look like light brights and they go
they go in the middle one what do you
mean in the middle one like well you see
no if you see this yeah there's like oh
I see either on the outside inside or in
the middle okay and if you line them up
correctly for the LGA 1155 these go in
the middle yeah and I can do that too
easy and this could be done with the
motherboard installed okay so what you
actually want to do see cuz that's loose
right yeah it's gonna come out you need
to set it down on the motherboard okay
so now that you know anyway yeah well
you see where it lines up right yeah so
now how they lit up put in the first one
into the middle hole okay
and then find the hole in there and push
it well now do the next one oh okay you
just need to make sure that they go in
the right spot
I believe I'm doing that what's going
into the hole on the motherboard right
yeah perfect oh yeah it's still us I
think great and next and final and
remember we're not going to touch that
die on the CPU that is okay is that in
that is in okay so now what we need is
these guys so these are the final touch
to solidify this so this is going to go
right down into the middle of that so
we're just gonna elevate the board just
a little bit and push those down you see
how I can just kind of click okay okay
so you've just kind of hovered them on
the outside of the board just lift up
the board a little bit and push down so
that it clips okay yes when is it going
well let me try the other one first that
one was good that one clipped there we
go okay and if you need to give a little
bit of support on the back of the
motherboard so now these things are
going to actually lock those into place
so you push that down into the center of
those oh that was actually really easy
yeah I'll do the other way this is how I
pictured the whole thing would go just
push it in done oh and then there was
that one it's pretty tool-less eh all
it's in there it's good now just give it
a nice little tug give a nice little
lift on that motherboard yeah yeah see
that it's on there it's on there she's
good well done okay so next up we're
going to actually install the
motherboard into the chassis before we
do that we're gonna need power from the
power supply so that's all part of it
stick around we're gonna be right back
after this Jeff Weston Jemma you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you okay you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name so your own com dice to
put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't put that on the papers on just
don't do it
but hey it's a great deal folks best
deal you're gonna find five dollars and
change per month go to cap five dot TV
slash dream host welcome back this is
category five technology TV and tonight
we I mean Sasha is building a gaming PC
yeah how cool is that
so cool alright so now that we've got
this kind of set up for Sasha I
mentioned that we don't want to touch
the die if you ever accidentally do a
couple of little things little tools
that you want to have handy cotton pads
commonly used for removing makeup yes
and some isopropyl aka rubbing alcohol
seven seventy percent okay not like
vodka in your t-shirt you know in a bind
but what a waste that would be you might
want to just wait till you can get some
isopropyl okay so all we need to do in
that case is just get a little bit of
alcohol on the cotton
and then just give a nice little wipe to
the processor just like that okay just
in case here's what you just want me to
yes exactly and then just give it a nice
little dry with the other side and there
you go nice and clean we've gotten rid
of any kind of grinding gook from our
fingers which can happen all right
next next up now I mentioned we got to
put a power supply in definitely but
first I actually want to get the m2 on
that board to be honest with you yes the
m2 I keep saying m2 but it's an m dot -
is the actual designation so looking in
the motherboard box we've got a couple
other things cool stickers what else
have we got more clothes Oh Sasha they
gave you a four when dave is playing
video games and you don't want people
you shall not pass nice okay what else
we got
you may enter I'm not gaming okay we've
got some SATA cables we'll use that for
the SSD a few of those and here's what
I'm looking for a riser and a screw for
an MDOT - so that's gonna actually screw
our SSD into the motherboard okay
because we're not using an SAT a
traditional 2.5 inch hard drive we're
using an SATA MDOT - right it looks like
a ram module cool that's what it looks
like so if you've never seen one now
this is an 80 millimeter so it's 20 by
88 KLC it's called oh it's a 22 by 80 so
22 80 is the designation that means it's
22 millimeters wide and 80 millimeters
long so when you see that designation
and wonder what it means that's what it
is so when you buy a motherboard or
anything else you need to make sure that
your motherboard supports the length so
in our case it goes all the way up to 20
to 80 22 6 20 to 50 and 20 to 40 - okay
so we could go with a nice little small
one or we can go with the long one which
is the 20 to 80 and our
okay so you're gonna get into that sash
because is your job but first you need
to put a riser see this guy yeah first I
put the riser where there you go the
riser needs to go into the 20 to 80
screw hole oh and it goes all the way up
to 20 to 110
whoa you guys see that 20 to 110 is all
the way over here so a hundred and ten
millimeters is the length there and
here's the riser oh boy
it would have been smart to get some
scissors but they make it out of a very
stretchy plastic okay so we need to just
with your thumb and index finger just
screw this riser into the 2280 slot into
the 2284 okay that's right
and that's because ours is an 80
millimeter length you have to have like
elven fingers to do this
how's it going over there who me yeah
I'm good I'm good
is it done my work perfect nice and snug
well done
okay and then we've got this handy bitty
screw that we don't want to lose okay
got the MDOT - yeah but I don't have it
open because I have a question yes this
is a what
okay open it all right forget this I
brought my tool kit okay
scalpel
okay thank you you're welcome
all right you in I think so yes
this is a Kingston M - it's an SAT chip
but it is 240 gigs of storage for the
operating system it's going to be a chip
on the motherboard so you don't have to
have a bunch of cables going to your
hard drive and things like that
this is strictly this is for your OS so
I'll just hold it here so that the folks
at home can see and you see that just a
tip so that's gonna go right onto the
motherboard there and chip chips up
right down here so it's going to plug in
there take this way other way
oh this is the chip that's this way no
nope this way yeah okay hold on okay
let's let's let's look so that we can
understand why I'm saying no see the
connectors here these are the contacts
that connect it to your motherboard this
side here these are just some resistors
and a screw contact for the screw hole
itself to screw in okay but the contacts
that the leads that go to your
motherboard are right there you can see
just by looking at it that those are of
course the ends they're gonna connect
into the motherboard okay okay so you're
just gonna plug it in now motherboard
steady okay it looks it looks as though
they go here is that right yes yeah so
just push it in
I must I'm scared you're right to be
gentle that's all there whoa Nellie
okay alright so now you get that little
screw that you've got I've got my trusty
screws here hold that down yeah of
course now you don't want to screw it in
so tight that it cracks you just want to
screw it in enough here you know what
let go let it fly up okay put the screw
on the end of the screwdriver it is a
magnet thing oh yeah okay oh the
precision just told so this is good
everybody can see my ring okay there has
never been until this moment anything
shinier than my forehead on the show but
no now folks all right there it is the
m2 is in there okay just check your work
yes you may a little bit of a turn more
and we're in so this is your hard drive
what so you look at that you think
where's the hard drive well it's already
there it's built in to the motherboard
yeah it's fast it's reliable and it's a
chip so you can like be like yeah yeah
it's something about having an MDOT -
and your motherboard it's really cool
but what it does is it bypasses the
traditional SATA connectors and
everything you don't have all these
wires going out and it's gonna be faster
plain and simple
now because we've got the MDOT -
installed
yes some of the SATA headers on the
motherboard are now going to be disabled
okay so keep that in mind as you connect
your your MDOT - because this is an SATA
MDOT - right it's going to automatically
disable some of the headers on the
motherboard so you want to look at your
manual find out which ones those are
because if you plug in an optical drive
into the SATA one or zero and then
realize that neither of those ports work
what's going on and it's actually that
you've got an MDOT - it's disabled the
first two ports which is pretty common
and then you need to plug into port 2
which is actually the third port
how many headers yeah I know right
that's how many headers do we have here
okay they're all right here 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8
what are those little guys I've never
even seen those those are new to me and
it's okay that it's new to me you guys
know what it is cool yes all right how
are we doing for time
well best to do the news at some point
but I kind of want to keep I keep doing
this
no this is this is what the show is all
about tonight
okay so move your stuff out of the way
okay take a sip of your water and we're
gonna get going on the actual
installation I'm gonna just kind of move
some things aside here
that's neat how she just kind of cuts
herself off like that sorry got a duck
in behind the computer all right so I'm
just gonna move the trash out of here
who's on cleanup anyways oh oh right
that's how this works so this just flops
over just flops over this is the video
card folks oh we're gonna get into that
next week
well not next week because of the
anniversary but next time next yes the
next and the seventh installment
Kingston HyperX fury ram ddr4 it's gonna
go on that mobo it's gonna be screaming
okay what else we got okay let's get
this out of the way I don't know if I
need the manual I'm gonna keep it handy
just in case okay this is your Arctic
silver this is the pace that's gonna go
on the processor to make it nice and
have a good contact Oh create a funny
story about that
yes it's the only thing that I had to
pay shipping for I know right everything
else because I have Amazon Prime
everything else was like free shipping
completely thing that the shipping was
as much as it was unbelievable
hey twice check this out folks this is a
beautiful Corsair RM 850 X power supply
now what do you notice about it sash
on it it has a fan on it yes very good
two points for you it has no cables
coming out of it none not a one because
it's 100% modular so the only cables
that you're going to have coming out of
that power supply are the ones that you
choose because you need them for your
dealer computer now traditionally a
power supply is going to have all the
cables coming out you got to wind them
up and try to get them out of the way so
you got air flowing that it looks nice
this one silent operation at low to
moderate loads in this mode the fan will
not spin oh nice
learning too because you know if you
didn't know that you'd be like oh the
fan is defective first time you fire it
up you'll know if the fan is spinning
then you're in more than moderate load
yes when you're gaming yes okay so let's
let's get over here
I'm gonna bring this right the center
stage for us and on the back here sash
there are two thumb screws yet I need
you just to I'm gonna get that one
started there it goes if you could just
get those out for me right out yeah so
this we're gonna get into the back this
is a pretty cool case because everything
is kind of contained and hidden that you
don't want to see right I mean we've got
a beautiful power supply but it's
actually going to be hidden so keep that
in mind if you are purchasing one of
this one of these cases of the Versa c22
from from thermaltake gorgeous case yeah
yeah it looks sharp but one thing I
notice is that our power supply is going
to be 100% hidden down here I'm gonna
change cameras there for you so that you
can see there we go so this is where the
power supply goes inside this see that
so don't go getting one with big LEDs
and things like that because if you do
you're not gonna even see it so the
power supply is gonna go in there but
how do we get in that's the question so
we're gonna get around to the other side
and Sasha if you just give this a little
bit of a tug this thing yeah you're
gonna see that side panel come right off
now that you've taken those thumb screws
and just pull out Oh out that way yeah
oh don't oh oh don't do what I'm here
over this way not have been things no it
was just my my rap it just only wants to
come up I think so Missy okay you do it
no see so this is what I wanted to avoid
bending and we didn't so don't worry see
these these clips had you opened it up
that way it wouldn't bent all these
clips been able to close the case so
when you open it so it kind of clips in
yeah this is awkward for me I'm looking
around like this so it you push it in
and then you push that way and then you
put the thumb screws in so then when
you're opening it you pull back and then
out okay just like that okay kind of
like what I did yes so and I'll show you
guys what what the clips actually look
like okay so knowing what they look like
helps for wedding yeah so there they are
on this side of it okay
so now that we're in there can we get a
good look at the where the power supply
is gonna go right uh-huh
it's actually wide open on this side of
the case so does it just slide in there
kind of sorta doesn't look like it
connects to anything you want right do
the Faneuil pointing up yeah mangos
pointing up because it's gonna actually
I really believe so let's let's get a
closer look at the bottom here no Stan
goes pointing down we've got a filter at
the bottom okay oh and there's a couple
other things so here's a filter here for
dust so it's actually blowing down and
we've got some risers to keep it off the
ground if you can try to put this on a
wood floor not a carpeted floor because
you can get a lot of dust if you do
although this has got a filter so you
can take that off and clean it okay okay
the other thing that we didn't know
about before because we hadn't remove
that panel is we've got some drive trays
for three and a half inch drives oh
there you go nice
not sure is there there's no backplane
so there is no backplane there but it's
somewhere that you can put your drives
that's completely hidden and doesn't
affect airflow right so we want to stick
that power supply in there okay okay so
fan down here you go I gotta let you do
this so then just put it in just put it
in I feel like there's not a really a
way to do this okay nicely okay okay now
just kind of push it right up against
the back snug and I'm not sure if you
folks at home can can really get an
impression of that can is it back snug
okay oh yeah so just kind of line up so
that the screw holes are in the right
spot
see those force oh yeah that's what's
gonna actually hold the power supply in
place so it looks like they've included
some screws here
so as we're doing this sash yeah are you
realizing how much work this really is
yeah I'm realizing that I would never
actually have done it it's not for the
guidance of you so it's it's a lot of
work but it's not it's not overly high
like it's not hard it's not difficult
it's just that it's you got to take your
time yeah it is time-consuming okay so
those holes are lined up and good to go
four screws I don't know what the top
hole how come I don't see you no idea
was saying I'm just up here assuming
that it's going well all right okay gee
willikers
do you get this going oh maybe that's it
okay you got it no it's only four screws
oh you know but I can't okay you look at
this and tell me what you see
all right
I see that you simply need to turn it
over I simply need to what turn it over
maybe no you know what it's only the
three of them line up okay there's only
three of them actually line up which is
fine and reasonably normal reasonably
normal yeah okay
now while sash is screwing that in last
week no no last week a couple weeks ago
when Jeff and I were looking at this
chassis I had mentioned that on the
inside there are there's a three and a
half inch bay and a five and a quarter
inch bay on the metal part of the
chassis but what's interesting is on the
other side of it is the LED panel so you
can't actually put an optical drive into
the vs. seat 22 from Thermaltake so keep
that in mind if you wanted to have like
a blu-ray drive so Sasha it's a good
thing that we opted out of that able to
put it in this case on the very other
side of that what are you doing can I
get around to the other side of the
table I feel like I need to push this
guy in you can do anything you like you
want me to push like resistance just ah
yes see it takes to make sure they go in
straight
I want to strip anything I'm trying
I'm the good backseat driver so tonight
we've got the CPU installed we've got
the CPU cooling mounting plate installed
we've got the MDOT two installed and
we've got the power supply installed
right that's a good start
it's a good start I mean it's a one hour
show so we don't we're not going to you
know finish a computer build all in one
show I feel like that one might be
stripping okay so we'll just never take
this out
that's the answer now I told Sasha that
she was gonna do this if she's gonna do
this okay so Dave when you're watching
this I'm so sorry
they don't observe the bat the the
screws on the back it's going in already
yeah I think oh yeah oh yeah so if you
do have an issue with a screw that's not
going in straight I don't know if you
just ignore it no no here give me the
screwdriver
that was not screwed so I just want to
take that out and and turn it
counterclockwise until you hear it click
and then turn it forward and that's
going to give it a good grip and that's
because if it's if it's cross threaded
turning it the other way is going to
simply give it another chance to grip I
don't and the right spot that looks
great sash okay thanks yeah I'm just
gonna tighten things up looks real nice
so we've got air flow at the bottom you
folks can see that we've got the power
supply at the back and everything's
ready to go sweet happy with that so far
yes okay this thing is all going to
light up when we power it up to it kind
of like Darth Vader right now it kinda
does yeah
beautiful alright we're gonna come back
to it in two weeks time on episode
number five twenty four Wow Zack and
we're gonna finish installing the
motherboard we're gonna learn how to get
that in there
we were basically well prepped yes and
then we've got to get once we've got it
up and running and booted then we've got
to get into software so get over to cat5
dot TV slash cpu 2017 great opportunity
for you to tell Sasha what software you
think she should run which flavor of
Linux
that's right it'll be Linux right it is
going to be Lin it I I think because
it's a gaming PC steam is a must so
think about that as you're recommending
which flavor of Linux we want to go with
which one's gonna run steam the best
observe the specifications of the build
itself and and make your decisions there
and post in the forum cat5 dot TV slash
cpu 2017 so Sasha yes where would you
like to go tonight to do the news now
Jeff is not here so we had him on the
news desk and last minute unfortunately
he couldn't be here tonight so where
would you like to be what are my options
places scenes types of buildings really
did you see a you are like Jamaica
Jamaica it is really nice here are the
stories we're covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom
Equifax is IT leaders have retired as it
the company reveals it knew about the
bug that allowed hackers
since their data long before it happened
million downloads have slip past
Google's defenses twice Best Buy has
pulled Kaspersky from their store
shelves worried that the Russians are
using it to spy on American computer
users and have you downloaded a ccleaner
lately on one of your Windows machines
if you have you should know that it was
loaded with malware these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category-five dot TV network by shopping
gearbest
that's the right Jeff cat5 dot TV slash
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cap 5 TV slash gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you could ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices
did they have cellphones you bet you cap
5 TV slash gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets
what about computer consumer electronics
those make a great gift absolutely from
hi-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 dot TV slash gear vest has you
covered they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a super store
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah
there's no way they have it all it's
true that's just a bunch of random
electronic Sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket it's available for less than $30
plus free shipping a cat5 TV slash gear
best yeah all right you kind of got me
there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff now
that the winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals on say to
encompass oh my goodness well check this
out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again well you're gonna
find gearbest on our partners pages for
any of your favorite category 5 TV shows
like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest so
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right
happy shopping I'm Sasha Rickman and
here are the top stories for the week of
September 20th 2017 chief information
officer and chief security officer are
retiring and the company has admitted it
new Apache struts needed patching in
March but looks to have fluffed attempts
to secure the software the retirements
and more details about the company's
mega breach are revealed in a new entry
to Equifax security Equifax security
2017 dot-com in which the company
describes what it knew when it knew it
and how it responded the update reveals
that the attack hit the company's us
online disputes portal web application
and that the source of its woes was CVE
- 2017 - 56 30
which allows remote access to execute
arbitrary commands via pound CMD equals
string in a crafted content type HTTP
header equifax acknowledges that the bug
was disclosed in early march 2017 the
next point on the company's list says
Equifax the security organization was
aware of this vulnerability at the time
and took efforts to identify and patch
any vulnerable systems in the company's
IT infrastructure but elsewhere in the
statement Equifax just about confesses
that those efforts either missed the
struts implementation or fail to patch
it properly the company observed
suspicious network traffic on July 29th
continue to monitor network traffic and
observed additional suspicious activity
on the 30th and took offline the
affected web application that day it was
only then that Equifax patched the
affected web application before bringing
it back online the company says its
investigations are ongoing and that it
continues to assist the FBI with its
probe into the matter researchers
recently found at least 50 apps in the
official Google Play market that made
that made changes for fee based services
without the knowledge or permission of
users the apps were downloaded as many
as 4.2 million times
Google quickly removed the apps after
the researchers reported them but within
days apps from the same malicious family
we're back and infected more than 5,000
devices the apps all from the family of
malware that security firm checkpoint
calls expensive walls Europe
surreptitiously uploaded phone numbers
locations and unique hardware ident
identifiers to attacker controlled
servers the apps then use the phone
numbers to sign up unwitting users to
premium services and to sent fraudulent
premium text messages a move that caused
users to be billed checkpoint
researchers didn't know how much revenue
was generated by the apps Google Play
showed that the apps had from 1 million
to 4.2 million down
loads expensive wall named after one of
the individual apps called lovely wall
used a common ops ops free office
keishon technique known as packing by
compressing or encrypting the executable
file before it's uploaded to play
attackers can hide its maliciousness
from google's malware scanners key
included in the package then reassembled
executable once the file was safely on
the targeted device although packing is
more than a decade old Google's failure
to catch the apps even after the first
batch was removed underscores how
effective this technique remains even
after Google removed the apps from play
many phones will remain affected
infected until users explicitly
uninstalled the malicious titles Google
reminds users that a security feature
known as play protect previously called
verify apps will automatically remove
malicious act apps from affected phones
u.s. big big box retailer Best Buy has
pulled from its shelves capper skis lab
labs PC security software admit fears of
Kremlin spies using the antivirus tool
to snoop on Americans despite there
being no concrete evidence to indicate
that the security software is a threat
the retail chain is ending its long
relationship with Kasper Kaspersky a
Best Buy spokesperson confirmed on
Friday as to the reasoning the store
chain has just said that it doesn't
comment on contracts with specific
vendors it was a lousy week for
Kaspersky on Monday US Senator jeanne
shaheen introduced an amendment to the
National Defense Authorization Act that
would ban Kaspersky software from any
federal computer following on from her
earlier band on the software being used
by the Department of Defense she said
because Kaspersky serve servers are in
Russia sensitive United States data is
constantly cycled through a ha ha a
hostile country under Russian laws and
according to this person's lab
certificate certification by Russian
Security Service FSB the company is
required to assist
the spy agency in its operations and the
FSB can assign agency officers to work
at the company Russian law requires
telecommunication services service
providers such as Kaspersky Lab to
install communication interception
equipment that allows the FSB to monitor
all of the company's data transmissions
do you use CCleaner on your Windows
machines the official build was laced
with malware antivirus firm Avast has
admitted inadvertently distributing a
trojan eyes version of ccleaner a
popular PC to tune-up tool for nearly a
month infecting an estimated 2.2 7
million users Cisco Talos Cisco Talos
discovered the servers distributing the
program were leveraged to deliver
malware to unsuspecting victims
researchers explained pardon me for a
period of time the legitimate side
version of CCleaner 5.33 being
distributed by Avast also contained a
multi-stage malware payload that wrote
on top of the installation of ccleaner
on September 13 2017 Cisco Talos
immediately notified Avast of our
findings so that they could initiate
appropriate response activities
apparently attackers hijacked and hid
malware inside versions of Avast
ccleaner application by application
available for download between August
15th and September 12th anyone who
downloaded the 5.33 version or updated
their existing product during this
timeframe became infected with a covert
backdoor capable of spying on everything
they did big tanks this week - Roy W
Nash and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your attack news with
a slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman thanks Ashley this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
our website at category
dot TV don't forget next week is our
10th anniversary
can't believe it it's gonna be amazing
can't wait to to celebrate with you
but that I can't believe also we are
completely out of time so hope you all
had fun tonight we're gonna be picking
up in a couple of weeks with the
computer build series and we're gonna be
as I said installing the motherboard
hopefully getting all the kind of wiring
done so that we can boot it up for the
first time to see those pretty lights
and then the following episode will be
our chance to start working on the
software impressions of building your
own computer so far so far did you come
into this tonight thinking that we were
gonna be done well no I came into it
tonight knowing that I have no clue what
I was expecting
oh okay a little bit of me thought that
it would go faster yeah yeah but I feel
like we were dilly dallying or no like
we were going on I just realized it's
kind of persnickety these things are
tiny I pictured it to be a little bit
more like like here's a box with all the
parts preassembled here's the case for
the computer snap it in and it's ready
yeah like that like because you did the
pie yeah the Raspberry Pi which isn't
really like that it's a all-in-one board
yeah I pictured it like that only bigger
so easier to know it's actually a bigger
unit with smaller pieces thank you
that's it alright folks but that's all
the time that we have for tonight it's
been so nice having you here and I hope
to see you again next week so have a
great week everybody see ya
[Music]
