welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 537 tonight we've
got a jam-packed exciting show for you
we've got a big announcement about an
early edition of Linux that is coming
back from the gray also we're gonna be
showing you how to create and operate
the poor man's mic kit for your video
camera you're gonna be able to do that
less than the cost of a latte but is
with me coming up in the category 5 TV
newsroom the loss of an expensive
Russian satellite was due to an error in
the coordinates that were programmed
into it at launch Apple has apologized
after facing criticism for admitting it
deliberately slows down aging iPhone
wallets
Google has developed a human-like
text-to-speech AI and as it turns out
the nigerian prince is actually 67 year
old man from louisiana stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drive in Kingston
SSDs category 5 TB streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble screamer
tune in every week on roku cody flex and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category 5 TV category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat 5 dot TV
slash TPM and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 dot TV slash ia IB it's nice to have
you here and as you know if you've been
following the show over the past couple
of weeks each and every week for four
weeks consecutively we are trying four
different 4k cameras valued at under
$2,000 each so last week we were looking
at the Panasonic HC WX f 9 9 1 the week
before that was the Sony AX 53 so if you
want to tune in to episodes number 535
and 536 you'll get to see those two
cameras this week the camera that we're
using is called the Sony FDR a x100 so
this is a little on the higher end as
far as pro suit like consumer into
prosumer I would say this is really into
the prosumer line the X 53 from Sony is
more of the consumer end of the 4k and
then the X 100 brings us into the
prosumer which is borderline between
professional and consumers so the price
point is still is still really good and
it's going to give us some pretty good
quality so why are we doing this well
first of all if you are interested in
starting your own webcast or maybe
you've got church services that you want
to stream every Sunday or anything else
maybe business meetings and things that
you really want to be able to do
broadcast with well what we're doing is
we're checking out 4k cameras to see
what one you would prefer to take a look
at all of these cameras are provisioned
by B&amp;H photo video and of course they
are one of our partners you can check
them out at cat5 dot TV /bh and by
checking out their website now they
probably have I would say the best
pricing so
do some comparative shopping make sure
you to go to camp five dot TV /bh and
they are American based but they do ship
to Canada obviously we're here
broadcasting from Canada and they're
shipping to Canada is exceptional so if
you're in Canada or outside of the US in
any way check with them if if they ship
to you because they're shipping is is
superb they take care of the the import
taxes for us and it comes in and it's
just delivered like anything else yeah
it's fantastic so great company to work
with and the products are superb so why
are we looking at 4k when our show is
only 1080p do you have a guess it's for
digital zoom right yes yeah because when
you have a 4k video coming into the
computer through our made well capture
card so you do need to have a capture
card that's pretty high-end this is the
X I 100 de - HDMI - 4k so that's five
times that's I can't even say it once
fast I have to look down but it's the 4k
mage well capture card it's a fantastic
card with HDMI input so any of these
consumer prosumer cameras which have
HDMI rather than HD SDI output like a
professional camera they go out from
HDMI into the input on a computer like
our system here that is running
Telestream Wirecast 8.2 now I found
version 7 did not support the input at
full 4k so you don't need to have
version 8 + 8.2 is a free upgrade if you
have version 8 so so that works really
really well so the as Sascha mentioned
digital zoom is where it's at so we've
got a canvas that is 1080p and then
we've got a video source that is four
times that all right so I can go like
this and I can get right in tight like
that and I can I can say hey Jeff like
let's set this up like this is a camera
shot or if I want to go over and talk to
Sasha this is now another camera shot so
with one 4k camera we've got all these
digital zoom positions within the camera
shot and we're able to set that up in
such a way that it looks like we've got
multiple cameras it get or even somebody
in this case I'm kind of I'm using
Telestream Wirecast
smooth panning feature which is cool
because that allows it to look like
somebody is kind of moving that camera
around that's not a feature of the
camera that's a feature of Telestream
Wirecast and how we can set that up of
course you can do cut shots and it looks
more like their individual shots so it's
pretty cool so this is the FDR a x100
from Sony enough about that but just
know this entire episode other than the
overhead and the computer screen
everything that you see from the front
that is shot on the ax 100 so if you're
looking at a 4k consumer prosumer camera
and you're not sure which one you want
to try this is the AAA X 100 so it gives
you a good opportunity to see these
cameras in a studio environment where we
have controlled lighting controlled
sound of course we're not pulling sound
off the camera we never would those are
coming off of our headsets just like
yeah and I'm excited because this camera
and the one we're covering next week are
the two that I've been waiting for over
the ax 100 and the JVC J is that the HM
170 which is equivalent to the 200 but
the 200 has a HD SDI as well as the HDMI
output so yeah so when you first showed
Sasha and I the four cameras it was like
oh I can't wait for the last two just
because they are that next level up and
yet if you're gonna go big
this is the way to go without being big
on budget and when we're all done and
when it's all said and done epic and
part of this being in the studio is that
a lot of the reviews that you see on
YouTube and things like that mm-hmm
they're shot in a big field their
close-ups of ducks and you know things
outdoors and perfect sunny days and
everything else you don't really get the
sense of well how is this thing going to
operate on a tripod in a studio with
controlled lighting and control exactly
so this is your opportunity but of
course each one of these cameras can be
removed off the tripod and used to shoot
your family home movies maybe not so
much a high end like 4k camera oh well
yeah I just I'm picturing like going out
there would you oh yeah okay like I
break things that are like five dollars
on
right I would be so scared of taking
this off of a tripod and whole zone
think about this so think about this a
4k camera like a red for 20,000 30,000
dollars Blackmagic has the $10,000 4.6 K
so would you rather drop a twenty
thousand dollar camera or a two thousand
dollar camera neither actually I know I
know I'm not saying it's okay to draw
but the fact is is that these are the
price point much more reasonable to take
off the tripod and to family events and
things yes so Sasha you asked like would
you actually do that in case in point
with this one I'm thinking about kids
presentations at the school oh yeah like
how often have I been to a presentation
and maybe you as well where you go to
your your kids whatever and you're stuck
at the back so you pull out your cell
phone and what's wrong with our world
today exactly so the idea of this I'm
like I'll happily take the back seat at
the gym because I gotta zoom in my kill
my kid is still gonna look amazing and
with 4k with any of these 4k cameras you
put it on tripod and just get the wide
shot of the stage in your goal and as
long as you've got your your exposure
level set correctly then you can
actually in post-production in your
video editor zoom in on your kid yeah
move around on the shot and stuff after
the fact so you don't have to worry
about missing the funny thing that
happened off to the side other people's
kids and tell them those videos there
you go oh you can be the camera guy
there you go somebody goes I didn't give
you authorization to film my kids no
they have to sign off on it they do that
just by allowing their children in a
concert where everybody's filming things
fair enough hey you know what's
interesting about cameras because I knew
we do I know we do want to get to the
show yeah but I happen to look at our
video camera the other day cuz we have
our personal one yeah our personal one I
forgot it's still tape oh no way no yes
is it even in 1080p it's no it would be
like 6 720 by 480 those do yes yeah it
was the little DV and I was like oh this
is just painful Wow yeah that's how well
we bought it before our kids were born
cuz you know like there's timber
the other maybe just need to upgrade
your home cam what's nice about digital
too is that you can just copy the files
off exactly tape ones you have to dub
them in real time I don't there's
nothing I do i or wire no yes I can't do
anything oh yeah we need to import those
get them onto digital for sure yep by
the way I'm Robbie it's nice to see you
hi Robbie hi I'm Jeff and I'm Sasha and
we've got a great show planned for you
tonight lots you know as we kind of
prepare for our 2018 season we're
looking at a lot of ways that around
here we can improve our broadcast and
that's a big part of what we do is we're
broadcasters and we're and we do this on
a budget and part of the fun of category
5 technology TV is that we like to teach
the things that we learn as we grow and
that's where you know you come in
because maybe some of the things that
we're doing are going to be applicable
to some of the things that you would
like to do so beyond our 4k cameras
tonight we're going to be looking at an
audio system that for a very cheap price
crazy - you're gonna be able to record
yourself out in a field somewhere while
the camera is way far away so stick
around we're gonna be looking at that in
just a couple minutes time just a
reminder that our patreon page has gone
monthly and I want to remind our
existing patrons if you were a patron
before everything changed
make sure you note the post that has to
do with your your perks because January
31st is the cutoff for those perks so
make sure you follow through with that I
have received many of your emails and
it's your opportunity to get things like
stickers and business cards that are
personally autographed by the cast and
things like that
cool things happen when your patron oh
yes
speaking of what happened this week we
had a hangout we had our first ever
patron exclusive hangout it was good
times it was fun and I want to say
thanks to Bill for showing up and taking
us on a tour of the basement aka the
server farm yeah there he had a
Raspberry Pi 3 cluster so there was what
eight of them I think he had like eight
Raspberry Pi threes it's correct and
connected all together it's pretty cool
but I loved his rationale though whoa
to do that because I can perfect the
other reason perfect now even if you're
not a patron you can still watch the
patron exclusive Google Hangouts you can
go to our website category 5 TV click on
watch the show category 5 technology TV
and then you'll see Google Hangouts you
can also see it on roku on our category
5 TV network channel and it's going to
be coming to our other platforms as well
speaking of watching shows I discovered
a show called designated survivor have
you ever heard of that no you just
discovered it I just discovered it or
something I think it is yeah but so
we're in season 1 because we just
discovered it like it was a YouTube
recommended trailer the very best thing
when you discover a show and it's
already a few seasons in oh yeah
and we don't binge but this show we have
done I love to episode nights of course
that's our that's our binge but it's
cool Kiefer Sutherland we really liked
him in 24 but 24 got to the point where
it was a sedative
it was repetitive but it also got to the
point where they were looking for ways
to make it exciting and so it became
more less to my taste it was kind of
hokey it was more violent and it became
yeah just it got to the point where we
just didn't like it so it wasn't for us
we like more of the drama end of it and
the thriller aspect of it so this really
brought key for selling them back to us
in that he is the designated survivor
and if you're an American you know what
that means you are a part of Parliament
and they set people aside during big
Parliament meetings that should anything
occur they can take over the role of the
president right and so enough said
Kiefer Sutherland becomes the president
of the United States and it is a thrill
ride I love him too yeah politically
recommend it like I love shows like that
yeah my wife not so much so it's not a
show that we've watched together ok so
it's good see the problem see sorry to
interrupt but the problem Dave and I
have is we have like the
same tastes and shows which means that
when he's at home I can't watch it you
can't watch I can watch that show when
she's not Homer you know if I've got a
couple nights where I'm in a hotel for
work it's like I'm binging what shows
have you been in before it came out I
watched it all because you like which
releases the whole season in one day
doesn't mean you have to watch it in one
day does alerts
okay so here's the thing about me is
that I will and I did this with that
show this is us I just read all of the
episodes because I wanted to know what
it was about first it'll give you a
story so that's the reason why I have to
watch things fast but I don't want to
get too off track here before I tell you
how amazing episode 1 of season 4 is a
black mirror I do not care if you don't
watch anything else as soon as I saw it
I got on our group chat and I was like
it's recommended watching for the next
show and you actually mentioned that
during our Google Hangouts yeah and so I
watched it and it should be noted that
black mirror some some episodes are not
necessarily great some are a little
disturbing but each one is like a
mini-movie
exactly so they stand alone action you
can watch you can watch episode 1 of
season 4 without having seen general
ideas it takes it takes the idea of
something in the tech world some ideas
text it's always tech stuff and it
brings it to like the furthest darkest
spot that that tech could go like I feel
like it's everything is how Jeff feels
but never watched the Ricky Gervais show
or listen to the podcast and here
karl Pilkington talking about his you
know ideal movies and and the crazy
thoughts that he has in his head no
somebody made the connection that that
is black near if you love karl
Pilkington and his crazy mind this is
this is definitely for you huh even if
you don't even if you don't yeah so I'm
not gonna do any spoilers or anything
but I will just like Star Trek I
we'll say yes just not the show Episode
one of season four exactly just watch
that one you will love it it is
hilarious
just watch it Jeff shows that you've
been into Sherlock we just we just
finished Sherlock okay I think it was
season four Sherlock
with Benedict yes okay so good season
four very trippy though yeah
like enough that I'm going okay that
like this one's tough to follow but it
was good I'm I love analytical thinking
and so it's fun watching that one um
what else have we see my wife does this
is us I just I never even heard of it oh
don't get into it it's a waste of time
I don't want a good there's her sale if
you want a good cry that one and what's
the other one we've been watching they
just upload Netflix just uploaded season
six of Last Man Standing
Oh Tim Allen yeah it's been cancelled it
has been cancelled so this is the final
season so it's like knowing that it's
coming to an end we're like but it's
it's well that's good to know that so
because there's a final season did they
get to wrap it up well that's this
season six okay yeah fantastic master to
master if you have you watched any event
I I've seen it I'm not a fan of it
because I just realized that that's just
on human it's super human what shows are
you enjoying comment below let us know
and let the community know we'd love to
hear from you and what you think about
our selection as well we've got to take
a really quick break everybody when we
come back we're gonna be talking about
the most techy gifts that made their way
under our Christmas trees
Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash DreamHost welcome back this is
category five technology TV we're having
a lot of fun tonight as we kind of kick
off the new year welcome and nice to
have you here happy New Year to you
so what techy gift did you receive this
year that really stands out to you and
what do you love about it can I say - I
suppose we have time for two two of them
okay so I received the jeebies
lamp oh yes the one that charges your
phone and not only do I love it I
actually don't even know where my
Charter is anymore you don't need it I
don't you got gee but we've been having
people over and I've just been super
like nonchalant just like put my phone
down on the lab so I don't even say
anything I just act like it's natural
and blow people's minds
you see them explode Oh your phone's
well set it down on my lamp you want to
burn my lamp nice yeah love it and I
have the new Fitbit suite what's it
called
iconic or ionic ironic its ionic yes
okay cool it is the new Fitbit
SmartWatch what's it do what's different
can you reach over here like can you get
over to this camera here because we've
got this kind of over
let's let's see this oh yeah so just
kind of move right here here yeah
day what I've done so my steps might
just turn your TV's on their side guy
how many steps have you done nice now
you're just showing off so it's like
touch screen and it's like smart does it
connect to your phone
nice so I use my bluetooth headphones my
sweet you can put you can play music
from this music music no way it has a
little breathing exercise because my
heart rate goes up when I do my
breathing exercise they get so excited
I'm doing well it has my alarms and
timers has a couple of games has the
weather it's it's sweet it's waterproof
which I haven't tested but I love I love
Sasha that it connects bluetooth yes
didn't your old one have to like use a
wire or something exactly you can still
see it I can show you whatever yeah get
out of here I think it's just that you
have walked that many steps how many of
you done buddies with their Fitbit 1214
I've been very like chill today she'll
nice those are cool Jeff gifts check
gifts so - I think first one was a
dashcam for my car nice with all the
traveling that I do the amount of
accidents I've seen I think a dash cam
is gonna be great so I could prove that
a was my turn around and vlog well I
could use it to vlog yes I could but
it's it's also one that's got microphone
in it so they can hear what I'm having
in the car yeah so I'm like awesome
well the farts an accident and they
could hear that I wasn't on the phone
right yes you know it's it's good that
way but the big gift I got was new
speakers for my computer nice which
apparently the - you had a hand in and
do I do squat no idea what you're
talking I'm opening it up and I'm going
look at Jen I'm like how in the world
did you get this here without me knowing
she's just the classic Sasha it's just
the classic your wife didn't want to
ship it to the house
yeah have you see it I know which is a
good call because Amazon sent one of my
wife's better gifts and they just
slapped a sticker on the box the retail
they did that - Dave - yes yeah they
shipped in not an Amazon box in a Walt
box we did with Dave's computer is it
all shipped to mind we've all got each
other's addresses that's true I got a
new battery for my laptop which is cool
which doesn't sound like an exciting
thing but that is a six cell
it's a six cell and it gives me four and
a half hours of battery life nice yeah
four and a half hours
so I do a lot of production from the
laptop and that's kind of my computer at
home now that we have a studio here my
home computer if you will came to the
studio so right that's pretty cool
I also got a Bluetooth keyboard which I
love because it has no touchpad Oh has
no like Mouse thing so when I'm coding
like a Raspberry Pi or setting up an old
royde or something like that I don't
like to have that touchpad in the way I
have it I do everything in the Linux
terminal so that's perfect and it
careful even connects to my phone and
I've been typing messages through my
phone because blue team's entire
sentences like that rod is typing Robby
hit Enter gifts that you that you gave I
gave this sounds so hokey now that I
received this but I do Dave
I'm the Everlast notebook have you heard
of this No
so it's an app you download on your
phone you get the notebook itself you
can write notes in it take a picture
with your phone yeah but all you do
there's like there are little icons on
the bottom of the page now it's kind of
like a whiteboard in that it's a
completely reusable page it just looks
like a notebook okay and all of the
eight icons you can link them to
different places different emails so say
I say Dave wrote me a note and he wants
me to get it at work he would just like
put a cross through the diamond one
which is my work I don't know why yeah
yeah
yeah handwritten Bluetooth puts an X on
it takes a picture of it and it sends it
to work no so do you get the picture of
what he wrote or does it convert it to
text I get the picture of what he wrote
so it is a PDF that's cool it's amazing
but I gotta see this thing so at the
risk of sounding why don't you just take
a picture of it and send it what a
spread on a notepad and that's what he
said okay to love it in that okay cool
eight different destinations so so it's
just it's an automatic we don't have to
load it into the email type of email and
I mean you can set like your picture
album as one of the destinations so I
mean I told them you don't have to write
anything on that sheet you can put down
a picture cross off take a picture of it
and it'll send it to whomever or
wherever right so it really worked well
for the grocery list sweetie what did
you guys see it what did I give a couple
quick things my wife
I got gave your wife no I gave her a
neck massager that is the most
sophisticated neck massager I've ever
seen it's so cool entirely wireless so
you charge the thing and it's got a
remote control that's a wireless remote
it's infrared so as you're holding it it
communicates with the device and you can
set it up and it has everything from
vibration to heat to what they call
acupuncture but it's not actually
stabbing right it uses electrolysis and
I tried it and it's crazy I've never
felt anything like that it felt like
somebody was pushing on my neck that's
cool there was no movement it was using
the electrolysis to move the muscles and
stuff kind of like a dr. ho second thing
my son who's 10 years old is really into
he wants to learn to be a maker and so
we got him a old school style
electronics kit like learn electronics
okay about resistors and relays and
lights LEDs and things like that you
remember the one with the Springs and he
put the wire and then it gives to
another spring with another wire and so
he's making all these circuits this way
and but no soldering involved no
soldering involved but it's teaching him
how to be how to be able to actually
create these kinds of things that's all
we're really excited about that what
about you I gave my wife in
yes instant pop instant pot so I I don't
understand it I don't get it I don't
know it I just know that she said hello
everybody's getting these instant pots
and I'm like okay sure enough our phones
are listening to us and we up on a phone
it goes hey Alexa says I have ordered
you well insta pot a so I'm like okay
well clearly Facebook's listening so I
went to Amazon and I found a good deal
for an instant and she loves it she did
a water test don't know if that means
yeah nice it's it's an electronic
pressure cooker so what how is it
different than my electronic pressure
cooker in that it also has a sautee
feature and it has room so you can saute
things same pot right one pot cooking
well you chose before the show you
cooked creme brulee yeah I make creme
brulee in it I've never pressure cooked
a creme brulee well you can need yeah
that's what is quite made soup in it
last night I made a butternut squash
curry soup kinnison squatchin it's one
pot to clean and Dave and I are our
apartment doesn't come with a stove we
don't have a stove or an oven in an oven
yeah you can steam in it you can there
is nothing you cannot do
and I am a vegetarian as with most of us
no but I have heard that when you make
ribs in it there fall off the bone so
I'm gonna win meat against Dave I'm
going to make better ribs and he's ever
made so I did look at a review kind of
like a consumers report insta pot versus
frying pan vs. pressure cooker and and
pretty much hands-down it's a winner
it's faster it's better so I was like
yeah it's a good deal cool so yeah
that's that's what I gotta have check
that out so I used to use a stovetop
pressure cooker and then I upgraded to
the electric electrical Wyden that you
plug in yeah and love that and cooking
it weekly at least so but that's
it's the evolution of the pressure
cooker so we've got to take another
really quick break when we come back
we're gonna be showing you the poor
man's mic kit
so if you ever shoot video if you want
to do some interviews if you want to
walk around and shoot video without a
bunch of wires leading to you we're
gonna show you how you can do it for
less than the price of a latte stick
around
you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Linda learned software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat5 dot TV slash
Linda tonight on category five
technology TV we're going to show you
the poor man's wireless microphone as
far as that goes now as you can see I'm
an awful distance away from the camera a
wireless microphone can cost two three
hundred dollars and you may receive some
interference a little bit of some
strange anomalies in the sound but as
you can hear tonight even though I'm
probably a good couple hundred feet away
from the camera you can hear me just
fine completely wireless nothing to be
seen and as far as Wireless goes I'm not
actually using a wireless pack
but this is great for conducting
interviews if you need to do something
in the field and you want to be flexible
you want to be able to move around
here's an opportunity to do that so with
a wireless pack costing in and around
two hundred to three hundred dollars
what could this possibly cost sounds
great
what if I told you it was five dollars
that's why it's the poor man's
microphone pack and I'm about to show
you as we head back into the studio
exactly how this works you're gonna be
amazed at how simple this is it's almost
like a life hack if you will because it
is just so unbelievably simple and we
see videos that promote you know buying
a zoom recorder and a lapel microphone
and then sticking the zoom in your
pocket and things like that as I
mentioned there in the video just before
the show that I recorded you can buy a
wireless mic pack that will connect to
your camera and it's several hundred
dollars and then you're susceptible to
interference and everything else so a
lot of times what we'll do is we'll
stick a lapel on or we'll use a hidden
microphone and stick a recorder in our
pocket but what is true about 2017 that
was not true five years ago or ten years
ago especially it was 2018 right 2018
that's right what is true what do we all
have in our pocket do we all have a zoom
recorder no what do we have
cell phone we've got our smart phones so
do you remember how phonic we had them
on the show just a few weeks ago it is
good yeah so check this out so this this
program here well hey this was Walmart
thanks dear great time yeah I'm on the
air just kind of like tell her to like
quiet down over here hey darling
mute I hate Facebook like we're live on
the air and this is like that's what
that's what happens amazing I am so glad
she didn't send me some sweet muffins do
you remember a phonic I do remember how
do we get off track I don't even
ah phonic is an audio tool that we
showed on the show check it out on our
past episodes do a quick search for a
phonic on our website and they actually
have an app let's bring it up on your
screen so that you can see it look at
that okay it's the most simple thing hey
please add recordings sweet ok so we all
have a smart phone in our pocket with
the off phonic app which is available
for free it doubles as a recorder nice
high end one at that now if you've got
the new iPhone sorry you're out of luck
but my Android device has a headphone
jack combination microphone jack sorry
they don't know okay they're combined
into the yeah one jack right so
depending on what you plug in is what it
does so let's get a quick overhead view
and for under five dollars and the link
is cap five dot TV slash lapel for less
than five dollars you can pick up this
cheap little mic that that over as you
heard on why there you go
as you heard they're in my demo it
actually sounds pretty good so this
microphone simply plugs into our sonic
recorder which is available for your
device as long as you've got this
microphone input on your device and then
we simply hit record and when we do you
can see that the levels on a phonic are
starting to move as I speak and I can
hit record and there we go it's
recording my audio so this is a trick
that we've used for years in video
production which is to have a separate
audio source to the video so home home
users we tend to think about the audio
needs to come from the camera res per
hear tonight our microphones are not at
all connected to the camera the camera
is strictly video and our microphones go
in through an audio processor into the
same computer so for you if you're
producing video you use this to record
your audio and then you use your video
camera to record the video and then
afterwards you simply sync up the audio
and then you end up with what you saw
there in my demonstration video so
sounds fantastic it's nice and close so
we can get this right on so in my case I
had it clipped on to my shirt here with
my coat over top of it which screens
some of the wind noise and again this
microphone is available for under
five dollars that's crazy and I do
recommend that you check out the off
phonic app check this out it's nice and
simple it's still recording and as I
talk into the microphone it's like that
and as you know from uh phonic and I
think I just lost connection oh there we
go can it's wirelessly connected
obviously I don't have any wires going
here so there you go so then I hit pause
and then I can hit save recording there
and it'll just save to my my filesystem
and that's what it looks like and then
in order to actually use it I need to
save to file or in my case what I like
to do is I share and when I share I
share it to my Google Drive right and
then I've got access to it from all my
devices and I can bring it up on my
computer and so on and I don't have to
connect anything to my phone so that's
pretty brilliant so one thing to be
aware of this though is if you do have a
large audio file before you share to
your Google Drive or something you might
want to be on Wi-Fi you might want to be
but I mean it's a WAV file it's audio
only it's not HD video coming off of
that so it's not really big so my
demonstration today including all the
shenanigans getting everything set up
was 90 megabytes yes and that's not bad
but if somebody's got say like a one gig
plan sure yeah you want to use Wi-Fi if
you've got it for sure absolutely good
point so check out the phonic app it's
called a phonic edit it's available in
your App Store for any of your devices
check it out it's a great recorder and
it also incidentally connects to your AA
phonic account if you've got it set up
to do so and then you can automatically
process the audio just like you saw but
you'll do it from your phone so all of
the levels will get matched up
everything will get nice and clean for
you and then it will sound absolutely
fantastic in our case I import it into
my video editor and then I run it
through auphonic anyways so it's
fantastic for less than the price of a
latte we just solved the problem of
being able to walk a hundred meters away
from my camera and still pick up perfect
crystal-clear audio that will later be
dubbed in and edited into to match up
with the video well Sasha we're about to
head over to the newsroom if you if
you're gonna prepare yourself there just
want to make a quick mention as she's
getting that up dead affect to VR jeff
has it Hacha and Dave have it it's so
good
and it is a virtual reality game
available in steam we are giving away
tons of copies we've got something for
you what we're doing is as we kind of
got through the holiday season and into
January we're collecting your ballots
and then we're gonna be doing more
drawers to give it away for absolutely
free all you have to do is send an email
to contest at category 5 TV tell us how
you're watching where you're watching
from and when I say how you're watching
like what device or maybe you're
watching it on YouTube or through our
website however you're watching the show
we'd love to know that and and then
you're gonna be that's your ballot and
we're gonna be doing a draw and giving
away more of that game so over to the
newsroom Sacha Rickman here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom the loss of an
expensive Russian satellite was due to
an error in the coordinates that were
programmed into it at launch Apple has
apologized after facing criticism for
admitting it deliberately slows down
aging iPhone models Google has developed
a human-like text-to-speech AI and as it
turns out the Nigerian prince is
actually a 67 year old man from
Louisiana these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman in here the top
stories were following this week the
loss of expensive Russian satellite was
due to an error in the coordinates that
were programmed into it at launch the
Russian Deputy Prime Minister has said
that the loss of a multi-million dollar
weather satellite in November was due to
programming errors Dmitry rogue rigs
Odin said meteor M had been programmed
for a liftoff from a different launch
site and speaking to Russian state TV he
blamed human error he told the TV
channel that the rocket was programmed
as if it were taking off from a launch
pad nearly 2,600 kilometers away from
the actual takeoff point the rocket
contained 18 smaller satellites
belonging to research and commercial
companies from Russia Norway Sweden the
US Canada Germany and Japan Russia Space
Agency rosco most said last month that
it had lost contact with the weather
satellite which was worth 2.6 billion
rubles the equivalent of about 58
million dollars or 43 million pounds
wowsers you know I shouldn't laugh at
something like this but I'm thinking if
you're in charge of a multi-million
dollar satellite like that's a big oops
you would think there'd be some
checklist that would go did you check
that we reap perfect I can't help but
think this was a programmer who made
this mistake well blame it on AI oh I
you know what I just feel a little bit
better when I make mistakes now like I
have calls that's a big mistake like
what is 2600 kilometers away from you
that's probably the next launch pad yeah
they just say they probably had a scroll
down list and they just click the wrong
one laughs turn right turn left go
straight for 10 kilometers and but now
start that from 2600 kilometers away and
see if you end up at Starbucks so makes
me wonder though like what was it in the
calculation that made it get like
because obviously it goes up into orbit
and then it's supposed to go around the
or so but if it thinks it's here and
it's actually here right so it went
outside of the gravitational pull is
that would happen and just killing right
there like windows that they can get
through in the atmosphere that well
all has to do with like trajectory and
rotation of the earth and all that kind
of stuff yeah but I I'm thinking what if
it happened to go the other way and
instead of going too far out because of
where it was it goes oh we're here also
boom crash back to earth or something
are we at risk or parts of it going to
come through back through the atmosphere
I don't think so my understanding of
this one is it's gone okay
so we don't have to worry about them I
think it's like nothing that's my
understanding on this one it's just it's
on its way somewhere else more space
debris - that's right it's becoming a
bigger issue I think that the the whole
kind of like that I don't know if you've
seen this but there's an orbital diagram
that shows the Earth orbit of all the
junk yes the satellites but the junk and
it looks like the rings of Saturn we are
just kind of disgusting species yes we
are bad the earth is bad air is bad
let's take it to space it's bad but now
shoot a rocket up into space shoot a
satellite up into space or try to fly to
Mars and get hit by thousands of pieces
of space debris traveling at tens of
thousands of kilometers and that is a
concern now I mean I the last 15 20
years they've been talking about how do
we clean that up yeah yeah
clean it up space and they they've said
that over the past 50 years one piece of
space junk hits the atmosphere per day
and presumably either burns up or makes
its way down to earth are we waiting for
a Chinese yesterday crash or something
I've been watching this in the news I
think there's like a satellite that's
slowly getting close to Earth and
they're waiting for it to crash oh yeah
and they're concerned that it might land
hit land depending on what it Falls
think about but it's really scary and by
you don't think about I mean you don't
think about I think the programmer for
the satellite did I think it's the early
90s where they saw
big portion of a space shuttle or so it
came down in the desert right and then
we think you know what are the risks
involved right so yeah I start thinking
okay well you know a big piece of space
junk fallen to earth and what's gonna
happen if it hits the city or something
and the reality of it is I found out
that it back in the 60s it actually
happened a woman got hit by space junk
really yes
see if heard of people getting hit by
the blue poo water from planes Oh gross
but Oh gross Jeff I did not need to know
that but so she got hit by space junk oh
and turns out she was fine it was like a
like take a piece of paper and throw it
at someone like yeah that's that's the
effect that she because it was a piece
of the fuselage that was like a mesh and
it fell it was like 10 cents 10
centimeters by 10 centimeters and just
kind of drifted down in the wind or
whatever and tapped her on the shoulder
but it actually happened but it could be
a giant piece of an engine or something
I feel like most of the time it would
incinerate like you have to get four
reactor you don't you that's why people
are white scary when people come in
don't they have to be at the right angle
or else they burn apart yeah yeah they
come in too hot when you get something
like SpaceX sending up satellites and
shuttles that explode or rockets that
explode
that's an uncontrolled thing it's not
planned we didn't intend for it to
explode on his way up into the into the
atmosphere that's why they should they
ship them up off of the water yeah
because we are present predominantly a
water-based planet so okay well we have
to clean up our space
Apple has apologized after facing
criticism for admitting that it
deliberately slows down some of its
aging iPhone models the company now says
it will replace batteries for less and
will issue software in 2018 that will
enable customers to monitor their
phone's battery health some customers
had long suspected that the company slow
down older iPhones to encourage
customers to upgrade Apple admitted to
slowing down some phones with aging
batteries but
it was to prolong the life of the
devices in a statement posted on its
website the firm said it would reduce
the price of an out of warranty battery
replacement from $79 to $29 in the US
for anyone with an iPhone 6 or later and
in the UK the price will drop from 79 to
25 pounds it said it was pushing ahead
with measures to address customers
concerns to recognize their loyalty and
to regain the trust of anyone who may
have doubted Apple's intentions the firm
has had eight separate lawsuits in the
US filed against it over the matter and
had also been facing additional legal
action in Israel and France Apple
acknowledged earlier this month that it
does deliberately slow down some models
of the iPhone as they age and said that
they made changes to the iOS operating
system in order to manage aging
lithium-ion batteries in some devices
because the battery's performance
diminishes over time I feel like this
isn't uh really I didn't see this story
because how often you go oh my phone's
like a year and a half well it's pretty
slow now like we had iPhones that was
our biggest complaint and that's why we
stopped using them yeah because the
users know yeah now they got found out
and they have this story they're like
we're not doing this planned
obsolescence thing we're doing a battery
protection thing sure if you were doing
a battery protection thing you would
have told us at the purchase that you
were going to protect our batteries you
did not do that so I'm calling your
bluff and yeah really this is not how
reality works yeah if I sell you
something that is my product I don't
make that product worse and worse and
worse because it's getting older and I
want to extend its life for you see
we're interested to see though is are
these lawsuits going to allege that this
is a ruse by Apple's part to force you
to get a new phone because yours can't
handle it I'm sorry but that is Apple's
business model sureness that's how yeah
make their own product obsolete so you
go with the next one absolutely right I
feel like maybe Apple should just be
really honest and
like of course we made your old phone
bad you don't want your old phone you
want your new phone and it's at the
store so go get it I was interested to
see now if somebody gets a battery
replacement puts it in an older phone if
suddenly the life is restored and if
they're gonna turn around and say I
bought a new phone when I didn't need to
mm-hmm
you owe me that the price but hold on my
camera the batteries just don't last as
well as they used to so what do I do I
take out the battery and I replace it my
camera works perfectly right the Eifel
jamming did not make my phone my camera
not work anymore
right but see what the iPhones most
people don't know how to replace the
battery I replaced Jen's battery when it
slowed down yeah
brought new life to it did it yeah it
was a pain in the butt sure because you
have to completely dismantle the phone
you void your warranty and all that but
it I did it and it was great I mean we
got an extra year out of it okay so what
are your thoughts planned obsolescence
or try and be a longer life undoubted
and obsolescence in my opinion in a
major step towards it's AI first stream
Google has developed a text-to-speech
artificial intelligence system that will
confuse you with its human-like
articulation according to reports the
text giant's text-to-speech system
called taco Truong 2 delivers an AI
generated computer speech that almost
matches the voice of humans the internet
giant has announced it is shifting its
focus from mobile first to AI first and
we've seen them launch several products
and features in line with that goal
including google lens smart reply for
gmail and google assistant for iphone
the new text-to-speech system first
creates a specter gram of the text a
visual representation of how the speech
should sound that image is put through
Google's existing wavenet algorithm
which uses the image and brings a AI
closer than ever to indiscernibly
mimicking human speech the algorithm can
easily learn different voices and even
generates artificial breaths Wow that is
awesome
on the basis of its audio samples Google
claimed
that Taco Tron 2 can detect from contact
the difference between the noun desert
and the verb desert that yes and the
noun present and the verb presents and
alter its pronunciation accordingly it
can place emphasis on capitalized words
and apply the proper inflection when
asking a question rather than making a
statement Google's engineers did not
reveal much information but left a big
clue for developers to figure out how
far they've come in this develop in
developing the system they did this by
dropping a handful of wav samples and
leaving it up to developers to guess
which were the real human speech and
which were created by the AI that's
amazing now first of all us humans have
trouble differentiating ok if you want
to hear you want to hear so head over to
cap 5 dot TV slash taco and here she is
generative adversarial network or
variational auto encoder that is a
really difficult sentence to save
generative adversarial network of oh I
can't even do it they're national auto
encoder Oh way to go he has read the
whole thing I think we'd be hard-pressed
to tell if that was a real person like
if you heard that on the phone
let's try another one this one the buses
aren't the problem they actually provide
the solution the buses aren't the
problem they actually provide a solution
ok what I find funny about that one yeah
is you actually read it wrong sorry it
so much better than me in every way you
said the buses aren't the problem they
actually provide the solution and in
this case it's actually written a
solution so your brain automatically
replaced a word because you're used to
the solution not a salut yeah let's get
the the grammar right it's funny how the
AI
how would she doesn't have that thought
process of assuming what the text would
be is she really good with your key city
names
okay so that's that's what I'm thinking
as you're reading this is what like okay
do accents
how would she handle this though so
here's this is really awesome this is
really awesome okay now how about a
tongue twister okay
Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled
peppers how many pickled peppers did
Peter Piper pick so natural and so
incredible it's it's just amazing
that's so okay but here is the thing
about it before you take the thing from
me I will take it so when you answer the
phone and you think you're talking to a
robot's the phone but you're talking to
a person you don't hang up so now we
implement the AI portion of the thought
processes and the machine learning and
can actually communicate yeah that was
my thing so Ashley used to I'll let you
have it this time but next week don't
steal it from me yes close to Lieutenant
Commander data yeah yeah I feel like
this probably is going to be one of
those situations where we can see some
good and some bad
I still want to go back to the accent
piece like I think okay when Siri first
call it's gonna happen absolutely that
Siri couldn't understand Irish right
like yeah could you use this to create
accents and different maybe dialects I'm
sure machine learning would say let's
learn from our self it's like the
machine teaching the machine right so
now I'm gonna listen to this speech that
I have created come up with better words
for us maybe you can using this word the
way too often you don't need to so what
I'm wondering is how cool would it be to
use this to recreate lost vocabulary or
maybe a certain dialect and the way that
it was said the accents like been lost
because the civilization has disappeared
nah well my mind is blown on English
fair enough
Klingon would be a nice addition but
let's take it one step further and bring
back lost languages sacré back to you
an American fraudster has been caught in
relation to the Nigerian prince scam
that's right according to police they've
nabbed a 67 year old Louisiana man who
swindled people out of thousands of
dollars as a middleman in a Nigerian
prince internet scam Michael knew of
Slidell Louisiana about 30 miles north
of New Orleans is facing 269 counts of
wire fraud and one count of money
laundering the scam involves the victim
receiving an email from a Nigerian
official who claims the recipient has
been named a beneficiary in a will and
will inherit at least 1 million dollars
they are asked to sent personal
information which is then used to con
them out of their money
new is allegedly participated in
hundreds of scams and has wired money to
co-conspirators who do in fact live in
Nigeria the 18-month investigation
remains ongoing Slidell Police Chief
Randy FanDuel warned police people never
to give out personal information over
the phone or via email or to wire money
to anyone they don't know the chief
warned if it sounds too good to be true
it probably is ok hold on is this real
life this is real life but the guys name
I know I digress
Randy FanDuel yeah Randall FanDuel from
CID doubt that's true
see I just when I saw this I just kind
of chuckle for myself because I'm going
when I first created an email address
back in I think it was 1994 or get this
one I got the Nigerian prince that and
he's still going around you would think
over 20 years later people are aware the
Nigerian prince is not actually going to
give you money but somehow it happened
Gates is giving out money and stuff too
yeah you get yeah share this and we'll
give a penny to every share the Nigerian
prince one is hilarious but it's sad to
me very sad to me that it actually still
works and when people fall for it people
were traveling to Nigeria to meet with
the Prince I feel like you should only
fall for this
if you
maybe I lived in Nigeria and think oh
yeah the Nigerian prince we go way back
wonder if this is mainly the agit who
fell for it maybe you're not as fans
like there are 30 year olds that are
travelling overseas too and then getting
captured and yeah it's very weird if it
seems too good to be true it is nobody
in a country you have never been to that
you are probably not their heir you yeah
no sorry
other people have right to their
imaginary money just be wise people why
like you got a question this stuff you
have to I mean not to deviate from what
what I'm seeing right now going on
Facebook is oh you get a Tim's card
share this we get no sorry that's just
mining all your data yeah don't do it
it's a scam yeah we're people now that
said if you are a Nigerian prince my
address is on the bottom the web haha
I'm fine with you sending a boatload of
cash big thanks to our community of
viewers for submitting stories tests
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman Thank You
Sasha this is category 5 technology TV
you've been watching episode number 537
it's been nice having you here happy new
year TIA
have either of you two ever heard of
Lynne spire ladies fire I just looked at
my disk the other day oh you did yes
they'll have it I still have my linh
spire disk nice could you bring it in
yeah I wish you hadn't told me before
the show I will bring it for ya next
week okay yeah I also have my Lindos
Lindos the original I got Lindos and
Lynne's fire this guy is the king I felt
a floppy disk Wow four four megabytes
have you ever heard of Lynne spire or
its predecessor Lindos this was an OS
way back in the day
and I was back when we were doing cat 5
in your basement that's right
and it was a Linux OS geared
specifically to the desktop so good it's
what got me into Linux in me too it was
my first 100% transition to Linux now I
dabbled with caldera and Red Hat and a
few others leading up to my moving over
to Lindos at that time but Lindos let me
move completely 100% over to Linux so it
has a special place in my heart but the
company fell apart it was sold off as
Andros Andros was shut down by chorale
and it's just a big mess and then the
patents and the trademarks and
everything came up for renewal and
nobody renewed them and guess what
somebody bought them and lynn spire lo
and behold is coming back from the grave
they got a source code and they have
updated it and version 7 of lynn spire
and a follow-up of free spire the free
version of Lynn spire is also scheduled
to come and I believe it's actually
coming out this weekend so next week on
the show we're gonna be taking a look at
Lynn spire 7 the new release just
actually sent - I think we have the
first copy that has ever been sent out
it's not available on the web yet there
was a trial that was available a couple
of weeks ago but so we're gonna take a
look at that on next week's show make
sure you check it out if you're any if
you have any interest in Linux or
alternative OS as this is an exciting
time and we're excited to see what's
what's gonna be happening and in
addition to that we're gonna be speaking
with the developer as well so you want
to stick around make sure you're here
next week and we look forward to to
sharing the the exciting news of Lynne
spire but kitty you bring those disks
okay I will have you do yours
take care everybody that's all the time
that we have for tonight and we'll see
you next week
I said tonight I'm not supposed to say
time we have to go back and redo the
whole show Oh
