hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
if you're going to pick a fight you
better know who you're fighting against
so stay tuned
[Music]
and
hi and welcome back to new every day
thanks again for tuning in we're still
in the book of Acts Jen and we've talked
about a couple different things through
chapter 5 Ananias and Sapphira the
apostle starting their ministry on
solomon's porch healing people the
Pharisees Sadducees got really angry put
them in prison and Angel busted them out
but they went back to teaching doing
exactly what God had told them to do go
back and share the words of this new
life of forgiveness helium and Christ
and now they've been pulled back in
front of the the rulers and they said
hey we told you not to speak in this
name the apostle said we need to obey
God instead of you and at left you with
some homework last master I to write out
verse 29 we must obey God not human
authority you're supposed to put five
priorities around there of things that
you would do because you're under God's
Authority not human authority and so I
had to do with that this past week and
so we're going to pick up reading / 33
verse 33 when the Jewish leaders heard
this so we saw all these things happen
the Holy Spirit whom God has given to
all who obey Him also proves these
things are true so verse 33 when the
Jewish leaders heard this they became
angry and wanted to kill them the
apostles but a Pharisee named the mat
Gamaliel I stood up in the meeting he
was a teacher of the law and all the
people respected him he ordered the
apostles can leave the meeting for a
while then he said people of Israel be
careful what you are planning to do
these men remember when status appears
he said he was a great man and about 400
men joined him but he was killed and
that all his followers were scattered
they were able to do nothing later a man
named Judas came from Galilee at the
time of the registration he also let him
group of followers and was killed and
all his followers were scattered and so
now
I tell you stay away from these men and
leave it alone if their plan comes from
human authority it will fail but if this
is from God you will not be able to stop
them you might even be fighting against
God himself the Jewish leaders agree
with what kamailio said they call the
Apostles in beat them and told them not
to speak in the name of Jesus again when
they let them go free the Apostles left
the meeting full of joy because they
were given the honor of suffering the
straights for Jesus every day in the
temple and in the people's homes they
continued teaching the people and
telling the good news that Jesus is the
Christ huh so his good advice was just
chill if this is a work that they are
doing on their own even of it's going to
fail but basically if God is helping
these men and sending angel to get them
out of prison you're just going to be
chasing your tail yeah and nothing's
going to come to fruition oh yeah
anything out of here well because it's
like don't try to fight against God yeah
and it's interesting at and he talked
about wine to read some something from
Exodus but my mind went back to Exodus
to not exits chapter to exodus as well
where God's whole desire was to move the
Israelites out of Egypt and God gave
Pharaoh a chance to be on board but he
fought against God and he did not win no
and even he Pharaoh admit that but too
late he on the floor of the Red Sea yes
so when God brought the Israelites out
of Egypt and he used plagues to try and
soften Pharaoh's heart its heart
continue to be hard and eventually after
sending the angel of death and firstborn
sons in all of Egypt's died Farrah's
like okay fine leave and God brings them
to the edge of the Red Sea the Pharaohs
army is coming after the Israelites
Moses holds out of staff God blitz the
Red Sea and the Israelites go through on
dry ground he then Pharaoh's army
runs in after them and there ain't there
on the bottom of the Red Sea and here is
what he says now it came to pass in the
morning watch that the Lord looked down
upon the army of the Egyptian through
the pillar of fire and cloud and he
troubled the army of the Egyptian now
God is fighting against them and he took
off their chariot wheels so that they
drove them with difficulty and the
Egyptian said let us flee from the face
of Israel for the Lord fights for them
against the Egyptian god was fighting
for them they picked the wrong fight
they picked the wrong fight like if
you're going to get a fight like know
who you're fighting again yeah but I
also kind of see that sometimes like
troubling times can seem like it's not
an act of mercy of God but it is in a
way that God is giving them an
opportunity to turn oh yes look at
here's a plague of frogs the pale of all
these things boiled now's your
opportunity to turn and you too could be
saved essentially and even Jesus in
Matthew near the end of Matthew is
sharing the parable of the of the
landowner who had a vineyard and people
were running the vineyard he sent his
servants to go and collect the fruit and
come back but his servants were beaten
and killed and was like oh man we could
have enjoyed this fruit together
whatever he sends more servants to go
and try and collect it those servants
are beaten and killed by the people that
he rented to land to in filings like I'm
going to send my only son this is it
this is the last chance I'm going to
send him as an opportunity to reach out
to get the fruit and share it you know
but they killed his son because they
think oh we're going to we're going to
get his inheritance and Jesus is like
and what do you think the judgment is
going to be on those landowners he's
painting the picture for ya for the
Pharisees actually and they said oh it
is going to be lots of question he's
going to put them staff and he's like
yeah exactly but they had opportunities
because through a history God sent the
Prophet to tell yes
turn from your waist turn to me because
I love you yes and and those who listen
there's there's life in that but it
didn't and it's that and that's what
Gamaliel is saying yeah he is saying
okay look at sadis he you know ah said
he was a great man who did great things
people joined him he died done then
Judas did great things people followed
him he was killed followers are
scattered like so let's just wait and
see how this pans out yeah and we don't
really wait very well at all and so as
we take a minute and pause go to our
break I want you to think about just ask
yourself the question maybe need to ask
God how am i doing at waiting okay maybe
that's not for something maybe you're
waiting for something but how you doing
in fact and we'll come back right after
these messages Jeff Westham Yemen you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know where Arctic you're
supposed to act okay building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website it's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
account how many domains can point to it
well we've got an amazing deal for you
for a very limited time cap five dot TV
/ dreamhost for just five dollars and a
bit of change per month you are going to
get unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name
but your own calm dice to put that
amazing website that you've been working
on on there if you run if you want to
build a wordpress site fine sign up cat
five gb flash dream hope don't forget
about papers on it just don't do it but
hey it's a great deal folk best deal
you're going to find five dollars and
change per month go to cap five dot TV /
dreamhost hey thanks for sticking around
we are coming back after we've had some
time to wait Jen you left us with a
question how good are we at leading have
seen how good are we at waiting and
seeing I gotta say like I find it really
hard to wait and see if Scott's gonna
answer prayer if someone's going to call
me back is it I just want to like taking
it into my own hands and and make it
happen the way I think it should happen
yeah totally guilty tonight as am i I
always want to get things done i get my
list and like okay let's forget it dun
dun dun dun dun okay that persons not
home to answer the question okay I'm
going to call the White we're going to
call the child's and the mother-in-law
do you know where soldiers it's like can
you not just wait wait and see and my
dad would often just say wait hold on
hold your horses that's just the proof
will be in the pudding yes later just
wait and that's what Gamaliel are saying
is like let's take and test this and
it's interesting because you don't
really expect this kind of wisdom in
this situation because it seems like
these people are rising up against what
Jesus is doing so everybody in that
circle should be rising up against what
Jesus is doing and so for Gamaliel to
stand up and say well no let's actually
taken test this let's see if it's of God
and it's weird to hear that in the sunny
because you're like well is he it's
about God solver where is he like what
and yet what he is saying is very wise
yeah like let's just because and I agree
with him we do not want to be fighting
against what god is doing I think so
often we take things into our own hands
instead of waiting for God to work
things out deceived it really is of him
and so I think we push things sometimes
yeah whether it's a job opportunity or a
relationship we push them instead of
allowing God to work things out and I
often and like I said I often struggle
was waiting and then so I wonder how
much have I missed out because I didn't
wait on God's time and then how much I
have anything so I wreck because I
didn't wait in God's time that is a good
question so when it says you know you
might like but if it is from God you
will not be able to stop them you know
what I like release says there is like
okay if it's God you will not be able to
overthrow it so he knew the influence of
the people sitting around him you can
their power within that culture and what
they were capable yeah and yet he still
think but if it's God none of that's
going to matter so he had a fear of God
which is the beginning of wisdom yes so
it shows that he does fear him so yeah
surprised that he's able to make some
wise decision yes so it's very
interesting so that's a home is don't be
surprised when you're in a situation
where you don't think there's or doesn't
perceive to be any godliness don't be
surprised that someone isn't able to
stand up and actually speak wisdom into
a situation like this keep your ears
open there might come from someone you
might not expect yes yes keep those ears
open that's very interesting huh so and
then they agrees with him because it
actually was good advice they meet the
Apostles let them go and it says that
the possible the opossum of the Apostles
to the part of the puzzle so they
departed from the presence of the
council rejoicing that they were counted
worthy to suffer shame for his name and
daily in the temple in every house they
did not cease teaching and preaching
Jesus as the Christ man they had their
minds on the mission and that motivated
them but I just it's so crazy to think
that they just got beat up and then
they're like yay well because that's one
thing that you said would happen he said
you will be persecuted in my name so i
guess it kind of reinforces the fact
it ok Jesus Christ because we he rose
from the dead but he also said this was
going to happen so yes it kind of
validates his words to them because it
was happening yes and so it goes right
back and it says they continued to teach
in the temple and in people's homes like
it goes right back to the beginning
where we where we started a couple weeks
ago with they were sitting and teaching
on solomon's porch and healing people
like they just went back to doing what
they're supposed to do like the mission
can change and like i was thinking about
i was listening to a commentary on
chapter four or five and six by dr.
chuck Missler and he said um one of the
evidences of the Holy Spirit filling
someone is that there's boldness they
have the movements that doesn't even
make sense the righteous are in bold as
a lion they're made right with Chrysler
and they have this boldness to do it and
I think okay if I have if I'd so like if
I've stepped out in the pasture like
shared like trace with someone or or
like about my faith to someone I'm
thinking about someone particular that I
had worked with in the past and he was
like vehement we opposed to Christianity
and could really it was quite articulate
and so he kind of like would make fun of
me and I didn't necessarily have more
boldness and faith in God to give me the
words to say I kind of like was like
only you know it wasn't the same
reaction Apostles you know what I mean
yeah when we get in the more i dint of
that fullness and it's interesting
because last week we talked about
Richard one brand who he said to his
wife if I stand up I'm probably going to
go to jail again and the wife was like
I'd rather have him I don't want a
coward yeah I don't want a coward and so
he stood up money and he said no we're
here you know tacos and Jesus is that
Jesus is the Christ and it's like that's
what the apostles were doing they got
beaten and released and they
said and it goes back to Peter what
Peter said when Jesus gave him some
really hard teaching and disciples left
them and he turned to them and said are
you going to leave me too and Peter's
like where else would we go you have the
words of life of eternal life and so go
back to verse 27 Peter and the Apostles
answered we must obey God not human
authority so if you didn't do it last
week want you to do it this week write
those words on a sheet of paper we must
obey God not human authority and then
what are the five priorities like what
are the five things that you're going to
say out of obedience to God I will do
these things yeah and so we want we want
to challenge you to do this because we
believe that when we do what God has
asked us to do that creates opportunity
for him to do miracles increase your
faith and draw more people to him and
that's really why we do what we do we
want to sit here and encourage you in
your face and we want to tell people who
don't know about Jesus about how amazing
and awesome Jesus's but more importantly
that God loves you and he wants to have
a relationship with you and so our
responsibility is actually to tell that
and that he died on the cross for our
sins so we wouldn't spend eternity in
Hell which is the punishment of sin that
we could spend eternity with God in
heaven because he's a just God and He
loves us so can you pray for us John and
maybe for the listeners or viewers who
have not accepted Christ who have maybe
been listening to not wise advice sure
Heavenly Father I thank you so much for
your opportunity that you have given to
us that we can tell other people about
you that is what you have told us to do
and so father we ask for the courage to
do that and then Lord for those who are
listening today
and are saying you know what I want that
kind of boldness I want that kind of
life I want that I want to use us to
hold on to then Lord God asked that you
would meet with them and as they confess
their sins I ask that your Holy Spirit
would let them off as far as the East is
from the west and that you would fill
them with your Holy Spirit and lure
their life would be changed and made
meal I ask this in your name amen amen
thanks shed thank you for tuning in
again this week and please feel free to
go to our website heal every day TV
leave us a message go to our partners
page and check out the amazing
organizations who are supporting us and
the businesses who are supporting us if
you need to do any shopping if you go to
Amazon through our website and that help
support this show we can just keep doing
what we're doing cheering with you so
we're hoping that wonderful week and
we'll see you next week same time same
place
you
