we have Rob Gore Rob Gore hi Ravi and
gang up Rob Gore and all viewers who
have been around for some time it is so
nice to hear from you it's been a while
and we've missed you and I hope you're
doing well so thank you very much for
reaching out to the show yes okay I have
resized some images using the GIMP so
that they are the same height not
concerned if the width is different
I checked the images the image
properties and made sure that they are
all set to 400 pixels 400 pickles
pickles 411 for the height and the XY
resolution is set to 72 pixels per inch
when saving the images I have used to
save for web option with 90% quality
when adding these images to my website
using WordPress they are showing a
different height any ideas or
suggestions yeah okay let's understand
the inner workings of how WordPress is
is treating your images I'm going to
head over to pixels comm we're just
going to grab a real quick stock image
so like a whole line like a cardinal
when I just grab these clouds okay so
poofy makes you want to fly doesn't a
Henri
that's just like outside right now
Robbie so you got to go yeah I'll just
throw that on my desktop for you here
Rob Gor okay so I'm going to take that
photo and I'm going to make you know
what I better grab a second photo here
as well because because I want to we
want to be able to demonstrate the
difference here's the perfect example
this one's super wide okay so that one's
a perfect one to use okay now we've got
two pickles okay grab these photos let's
bring them up into the GNU image
manipulation program okay so we see that
and we see oh that's a big high-res
image from texels nice
yeah you know it's a high-res image when
your system fades for a moment and like
this window is not responding oh yes it
is
like oh the lights flicker it's like you
don't know how hard to download it love
it okay so here's image number one let's
choose our height we're going to say our
height is going to be 600 because if if
I'm hearing this question correctly
rongeur is setting the height to a
static height so that it's the same for
all his images right but he's not caring
about the width correct okay so we're
going to use 600 as our height so this
one happens to end up as 393 with the
width or the oh sorry no I
Oh Jeremy just as I clicked it I
realized no that was actually backwards
its width and height now the GIMP has
reversed things and now I have to wait
for this massive image to scale yet
again holy big image here guys we're
looking at it
18.2% still there at least nighttime
yeah it's just kind argh this is the
Halloween episode version oh come now
then you said why did I choose such a
big image for you around 8 million maybe
I'm just gonna use thee what did the
height end up being let's use that uh
holy 400 pixels for the height because
we're live I would never do this I'm
gonna force quit cuz I don't want you to
have to wait for me to look at a
progress indicator that's your deal go
go what is this Microsoft Windows uh
totally no it's good here we go ok a
nice picture yeah that's a lovely
picture you're travelling it oh sorry go
guys alright let's grab height not yet
because you're doing it by height sorry
I thought that that one was height for
some reason I don't know ok so I'm going
to do 600 height and notice that it's
locked proportionally so it's going to
rescale correctly and we're going to
scale it down
so there is our image with 600 height
and it ends up with 916 width okay so
I'm going to export as now you said you
used save for web you must be in an
older version I'm going to export as and
I'm going to call this for web okay and
then we'll do the same as you did 90% I
usually go for 98 because I'm a beast
for quality okay
600 quality 600 height is what we're
going for image scale image 600 height
so now I think if I follow your question
that I am essentially now at the point
that you're at where you've created
these images you're not caring about the
width but the height is the same for all
of your images so when I look at that
it's the same height as the other one so
I'm going to export that as for web and
again we're going to give it 90% quality
which is 10% compression Nagesh mm-hmm
all right so we now have two new images
I'm going to throw those ones away so we
don't get confused for web I'm going to
maximize that that's the size that's the
size notice exactly the same height they
are both 600 pixels high beautiful
WordPress is responsive it's the word of
the day so the whole idea behind
responsive design is that when I look at
a website a wordpress site on my
computer it's going to look great
the images are going to fill in the
space it's going to look really nice if
I look at it on my phone same thing it's
just restructured and moved around
that's called responsive design so when
you upload an image to WordPress it is
it's going to do scaling proportional
scaling based on its responsive layout
so that has to do with your template
your theme and your settings in for
multimedia in WordPress itself under and
I think it's general so with that said
when I upload this image it's going to
get resized by WordPress to a responsive
size so let's bring them both up again
and usually how it's going to work is
it's going to have maximums so let's say
our maximum is so WordPress thinks the
maximum is 300 by 300 for this
particular allocation of the image so if
the maximum is 300 it's going to look at
this image and it's going to go okay
that means 300 width which is going to
result in a 197 height because if I make
it a 300 height the width is now over my
maximum which is 300 so we have to do it
that way so this is what happens in the
background of WordPress so now we've got
an image that is 300 by 197 take this
other image use the same math and say
okay the maximum is 300 so if I put 300
as the height this is WordPress talking
now that's going to make it seven
hundred and seven width which is over my
maximum which is 300 so my width has to
become 300 so now the height because
this is proportional is now 127 pixels
on that image so now I end up with an
image that is 300 by 127 it falls within
the maximums the WordPress has
established for your layout but now we
have one image that's 300 by 127 and one
image that's 300 by 197 that's what's
happening there so if we want to have
our images be exactly the same every
time we need to have them be the same
the term that we're going to throw out
there is called aspect ratio so you've
heard of your TV is 16 over 9 so that
can be 1920 by 1080 pixels but it can
also be 1280 by 720 pixels it's the same
aspect ratio even though they're
different sizes on your screen first
example is 1080p second example 720p so
in order to achieve that so if we know
I'm going to just undo both of these so
that we're back to having a 600 height
so I'm going to look at this one and
let's let's pretend that this is the
this is the perfect shape for our images
so we're going to call
are shaped but it's the aspect ratio
this is the the aspect ratio that we
want so the way that I can fix the other
image so that it's the same aspect ratio
is I can look at this one and I can go
okay this is 9/16 by 600 so now go back
to the other image which has already
been scaled down to 600 but now I need
to right-click and this time I'm going
to go image canvas size and I'm going to
change this so that it is not linked
make sure that these two are not linked
proportionally and I'm going to change
this what did I say 9/16 was that
correct right nobody made notes no 913
that's right okay image canvas size 9/16
now you see what happened does it
position that in such a way that it's
cutting off the right-hand side of the
image so I can the left-hand side
no the right-hand side yeah that's right
so I can drag this you see that crop box
that's the size that we're going for
9/16 by 600 so I can reposition this
anywhere any way I like
and then hit resize and what it's going
to do is it's going to crop that image
to the exact proportions
so now if I export that image and then
close out of those now I can look at
that image and look at the next image
and they are exactly the same okay that
is good that said what happens if you
end if you start off with one that is
see I'm cropping and I'm scaling down to
600 remember that WordPress is going to
scale anyway so you don't necessarily
have to scale it down to 600 first let
WordPress do the dirty work for you so
if we have a high-resolution image let's
grab one because now that we've learned
what we what we what we don't need to do
is scale the image we don't need to
resize it so that it's 600 height
instead once we know our desired aspect
ratio and I just lost access to my mouse
again sometimes this happens on a boon
to me
and they are mattei and I think that it
might have to do with the video drivers
I can get in there that way that works
now that I know that really what I'm
looking for is the aspect ratio I don't
have to actually rescale this down to
600 hight I'm going to show you how to
do this so here's my massive high-res
image there it is so now if I go image
canvas size notice I'm not going to
scale this to 600 first now what I'm
going to do is I'm going to copy the
either width or height it's going to
vary depending on the original original
aspect ratio of the image so I'll show
you the the process here and then you
can figure out which one is which for
your photo I'm going to copy the height
now I'm going to go 9/16 by 600 that's
the aspect ratio that I'm desiring now I
can turn on the link that makes it so
that it's proportional and then paste
back in the original height now I have a
proportional aspect ratio crop for this
image that is 1847 high hit resize and
there's my image it's twenty eight
twenty eighteen forty seven and yet it's
exactly the same aspect ratio as my nine
sixteen by six hundred image because of
the way that I processed that so Rob
Gore I hope that that helps shed some
light on why it's happening how it's
happening and how to avoid it
use the highest resolution images that
you can because WordPress is going to
automatically scale those down for you
it's not like old-school web design
where you had to scale it down because
it's too big
yeah save your save your image once it's
ready do some touch-ups if you need to
but high res is great and then WordPress
is going to shrink it down the only
reason you want to do it any other way
is maybe if you have a very finite
amount of space on your server then you
might want to reduce the amount of space
that's being consumed by your images by
rescaling but
hopefully that helps
[Music]
[Applause]
