here the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom oneplus
confirmed on Friday that thieves have
sizes 10 mm of credit card numbers from
its online store buses used to transport
Apple employees to their offices have
had their windows smashed possibly by
pellet gun a new botnet is infecting
cryptocurrency mining computers and
replacing wallet addresses with pone our
remote-controlled drone in Australia
saved two boys in the water on its first
day of use by lifeguards these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on thinkgeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bytes
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week oneplus
siphoned tens of thousands of credit
card numbers from its online store the
Chinese phone company admitted after a
week of probing that about 40 thousand
of its customers have had payment card
details and nicked while they were
buying stuff from its webshop crooks
were quick to start plundering victims
accounts using swiped information going
on shopping sprees with the stolen card
data here's how it went down one of the
storage servers was hacked and it's code
modified so that between mid November
2017 and January 11th of this year bank
card details that were typed into one
plus dot nap by shoppers were copied and
then sent over to miscreants
specifically the software was tampered
with with to harvest the numbers names
and security codes on cards before they
were encrypted
- oneplus payment processor the server
had since been quarantined and the
malicious code removed oneplus said
people who opted to use PayPal were not
affected
nor were anyone who had paid with a
credit card that they had saved to the
site prior to November 11th because
those cards had already been encrypted
by the payment provider and saved only
as tokens by 1 + Wow so if the credit
card information has been stolen mm-hmm
and then those thieves have gone ahead
and gone on these sprees
do you know and you would buy a boat do
you get your money back is this
something that's I mean credit cards
typically have insurance
sure they do yeah and credit card
providers have insurance so that they're
covered from this kind of thing just
like any theft right some some credit
card companies if you do not report it
as stolen you can be liable for a small
fee so in America for example I think
that the cap is $50 so so if they spend
more than that you're you're still only
liable for $50 and this is not legal
advice it's just a statement so I have a
follow-up question okay did that answer
your question this is like oh this is
like a bullet point would oneplus
automatically be alerting those are
stolen to the actual credit card
manufactu already card they'll be
alerting the customers providers oh
right is it on the customer to say hey
my stuff's been stolen or is one
reliable for sending that information I
think well oh well this is a different
case because these are not stolen credit
cards these are stolen credit card
numbers and when your credit card number
is stolen but you still hold the
physical card you are not at all liable
good okay so that is that's that's
covered so you do need to report that
your number has been stolen in this case
yeah you're probably right oneplus has
most likely gone ahead and notified the
credit card companies however if you're
a oneplus customer and you've shopped
them
website I would suggest that you still
reach out to your credit card company
and just let them know hey I'm a little
concerned about this so they can note it
and noted on the file so that if there
is any odd spending then you know that
that you're covered at least the point
to the point where you've reported it to
be honest with you I think one plus
should probably just to the actual
credit card companies yeah
just and I realized that this is
encrypted information really and
probably not no it's not it's not I
guess no understand what's happened here
is a man-in-the-middle attack so when I
go on and I enter my credit card
information normally it goes through an
encrypted connection to the payment
processor the oneplus never sees the
credit card number the payment processor
responds with the first four and last
four and says yes that was a good
transaction you got your money or no it
didn't go through and here's why so one
plus would never actually have the
credit card number that's why they use
tokens so the payment processor which is
the bank they hold the credit card
numbers they know the credit card
numbers oneplus has a token that refers
back to that transaction okay so in this
case a man-in-the-middle got into the
code and started making it so that when
that credit card number is being
transmitted before it gets transmitted
to the payment processor it first gets
transmitted in an unencrypted form to
the miscreant so it's going to two
places right so they're not stealing
credit card numbers from one Plus's
database that wasn't possible in this
case they're they're copying the credit
card number as it's being submitted for
a processed payment right I mean I check
my balances and my activity on the daily
I really and I have my phone linked so
that if I any purchases made it messages
me oh yes so like I know what comes out
of my account yeah but some people don't
some people wait till they get their
bell at the end of the month and could
you imagine if a boat had been like you
went on one plus dotnet and you bought
like
and then all of a sudden you're like my
new phone cost me forty million dollars
really all right
buses used to transport Apple employees
to their offices have had their windows
smashed possibly by pellet guns there
have been several such attacks on the
morning and evening commutes to and from
Apple headquarters in the Californian
city of Cupertino local news website s
sfg SFGate reported that a Google bus
had also been targeted there have been
no reported injuries and there is no
suggestion that the perpetrator is
targeting a particular company the
attacks could be linked to previous ill
feelings about how the tech sector is
causing a gentrification of San
Francisco in the surrounding area in
2013 a bus carrying Google employees
also had its windows smashed following
the followed by protests over how well
paid sector has pushed up house prices
in the city
the current attacks all took place on
highway 280 with reports suggesting that
Apple is now diverting its buses from
that road adding 30 to 45 minutes to the
commute
yikes so now that autonomous buses and
transport is happening do you think that
this will increase because now there may
be yeah I mean if you think about so
gentrification is happening whether you
want to deny it or not and and what that
means is that the tech sector is
bringing in high paid employees so
because of that now the demand is there
for higher grade restaurants more
expensive grocery stores better
convenience stores and all this kind of
so the price of living goes way up so
then the people who have already been
living there whose income does not go
way up are affected and so would a bus
that is autonomous yet carrying
employees would it not be a target in
that it's a symbol of
it is a symbol of that of what's going
on in the community but also because
it's autonomous it almost feels like I
don't know why the driver makes it feel
this way whether there's a driver or not
a driver but the autonomous nature of
that bus makes it seem like it's like
attacking a robot versus attacking a
person right you know what I mean they
just need to have a security person
sitting in where the driver would maybe
maybe there is I mean autonomous vehicle
still require somebody behind the wheel
right I would honestly say if I was
being attacked on a commuting vehicle
and then the route was changed so it was
adding 30 o 45 minutes bring your guitar
well drive myself right well why would I
take a shuttle if a I knew it was
getting attacked and B if to to keep
from getting attacked I was gonna have
to take this huge detour so it's no
longer saving anything right cuz if you
were gas savings or if you were doing it
you know in some sort of environmentally
friendly reason you're not any longer if
you're diverting by 45 minutes Wow
so then that's so much to it though
drive yourself yeah a lot of these
people may not have vehicles even sure
they're highly paid but you're there on
a internship or whatever and you're
there for six months you don't need
vehicle are you gonna rent a vehicle are
you gonna buy a vehicle maybe they've
been you know they've come overseas to
work at Google it's a tough thing that's
a thing tough and there's just got to be
some sort of
I don't know maybe video cameras on the
outside of it then that's privacy I
don't know I can't solve armor armor
just like it's gonna look like Total
Recall the first one
it's like armoured vehicles traveling by
way of Johnny robot Satori the malware
family that wrangles routers security
cameras and other Internet connected
devices into potent botnets is crashing
the cryptocurrency party with a new
variant that secretly infects computers
dedicated to the mining of digital coins
a version of Satori that appeared
earlier this month exploits weaknesses
in the clay miner after gaining control
of the coin mining software the malware
replaces the wallet address the computer
owner uses to collect newly minted
currency with an address controlled by
the attacker from then on the attacker
receives all the coins generated and
owners are none the wiser unless they
have taken the time to manually inspect
their software configuration records
show that the attacker controlled wallet
has already cashed out slightly more
than one aetherium coin that was valued
at as much as $1300 when the transaction
was made the records also showed that
the attacker is actively mining more
with a calculation power of about 2
point 1 billion hashes per second that's
roughly equivalent to the output of 85
computers each running a Radeon X 480
graphics card of more than 111 hundred
computers running a GeForce GTX 560 M
it's not clear precisely how the new
variant is infecting mining computers
what is known is that Satori works
primarily on the Claymore mining
equipment that allows management actions
on 3333 point ports with no password
authentication enabled which is the
default configuration
yeah no password no password so now is
there a way if you realize that this has
happened to you for you too you have to
you have to check see because the whole
idea behind a Bitcoin miner is that you
create a server that goes and mines
currency non-stop and you just let it go
the whole idea is you do the work little
server right and I want I want to be
hands-off and just make money off of
this and it has to be that way because a
lot of the folks who are really into
this and making money off of it are very
you know it's it's built it's running
it's 24/7 and it's making me money right
what happens when you when currency is
mine when cryptocurrency is mine is that
it goes into a digital wallet if you
will okay that's the term that we use
and what is happening quite frankly is
that this wallet is being replaced with
the wallet of the thief so now as the
coin is being mined it's going into
their wallet and your wallet is gone
right so you can look at your wallet and
you'd say huh my miner has been running
for two weeks and I haven't made even a
nano scopic amount of money how's that
possible and then you might look and say
okay from this you know the hash that is
my wallet would you notice that wait a
minute that's not my wallet right that's
someone else's well the average person
noticed that with the average person run
a Meijer
not likely so there's somebody who runs
a miner would probably know the first
few digits of their of their wallet hash
for sure I mean you'd recognize it like
your credit card you may not memorize
your credit card number but you know you
know the last four digits I'm sure
probably know what's not your credit
card yeah yeah exactly so but boy that's
so this has created a botnet of all
these stolen computer like hijacked
computers that are distracted are
putting their money into this guy with
this person's wallet
at a crazy rate so I don't know a lot
about all the different types of
cryptocurrency I thought there was only
one turns out that there are more than
one there is a whopper coin yes all
right yes Wow
so yeah check your wallet double-check
that your whopper coin is going into the
correct whopper savings account and also
password everything don't stick with the
default config yes oh my goodness no I
know that yep
all right we've reported in the past
about neat ways that drones can be used
like a combination defibrillator and
first-aid kit that can fly into disaster
areas much more quickly than emergency
responders but now put to the test in
Australia little Ripper the lifeguard
drone saved not one but two young boys
on its first day of service little
Ripper is a remote-controlled
multicopter that carries a floatation
device on its first day of service off
the coast of lennox head in australia
the drone was used to drop a flotation
device for two boys in distress
traditionally lifeguards would have had
a great deal of trouble reaching the
boys who were struggling in the waves
far out from shore it's estimated that
it would have taken lifeguards at least
6 minutes to reach them but the drone
controlled by an onshore lifeguard
reached them in only 70 seconds the
lifeguard launched the drone spotted the
boys flew it over to them and remotely
dropped the flotation device the boys
were able to grab it and swim to shore
the drone is manufactured by a company
called little Ripper lifesaver founded
by Kevin Weldon after he witnessed a
drone canvassing the streets of New
Orleans after Hurricane Katrina and
realized its life-saving potential the
Marine pod that was dropped in this case
contained a water triggered floatation
device which is repack Alandra usable
the company is now testing
salt water activated electromagnetic
shark repellent device with plans to
include it in its future kits wow what a
great story that is one attack win
awesome win for the drones finally a
drone that's a good guy and to be honest
with you this this shark repellent one
that's neat that's gonna actually save
the lives of sharks and people because
now they'll be able to drop the shark
deterrent in and then they will be
lowering the number of shark attacks and
perhaps then changing our views on
sharks which are also awesome beasts
even though they like to eat people well
this got really dark really quick yeah
well they don't like to eat people
really good job so big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight lenox bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
you
