welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 347 for Tuesday the 13th
of May 2014 nice to see you my name is
Robby Ferguson I am Sasha drew made us
tonight Sasha we've got an exciting show
of course Linux is taking over your
laptop can't wait a new laptop and gave
us permission to wipe it clean stick
around we're gonna be checking that out
also we've got the francois crew who is
joining us from password box to talk
about all the different kind of very
technical questions that have arisen in
our community since that we had megan
Smulders on her ship on the show had to
talk about their products so he's gonna
be answering some really interesting I
almost deeper questions with regards to
the platform and how it works so stick
around I'm excited to get into the
geekiness of how that works if you have
any questions make sure to get them in
the chat room as well and in its all
drones robots and video games tonight
here's what's coming up in the newsroom
a new robotic arm and hand is making
headway for amputees the increased use
of root drones is bringing new risks to
airplanes a UN Convention is actually
going to be discussing the viability of
killer robots for war and the next
installment of Unreal Tournament is
coming straight to Linux which I now
have for free
stick around these stories are coming up
later in the show wait a minute you have
the game or Linux not Linux oh you've
got a prelim pre-release I want to see
that exciting stuff we've got a Google+
live hangout with us and you following
tonight's show so you want to stick
around after the show get onto Google+
get over to cat 5 DD / G+ on to our
Facebook channel
on to wherever you want to find us in
their chat room or in the post links and
everything and don't go anywhere because
this is gonna be an exciting show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring
sascha Germain des
[Music]
hilary rumble
christow wells
your kid and your host
Ravi Ferguson
this is category five technology TV hey
nice to have you here tonight it's
episode number three there 346 847 right
smack dab in the middle of May three
hundred and forty seven weeks of tech
geekiness I've been on for about seven
of them maybe nine yeah yeah
3:47 Ravi that's awesome cool category
five TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech is here in cat5 dot
TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV i a IV so okay your laptop all
set up let's get this paperwork out of
the way I'm just gonna unplug it and
plug everything so this is the laptop
there it is
there is Linux there's no windows on
there yes you are officially a Linux
geek now yeah there it is
so I went with Zorin OS we're gonna talk
all about it a little later on in the
show as you can see it works
fantastically well what I want to
encourage you to do as I plug back in
the u.s. be terrific is throughout the
course of the episode tonight's actual
because the other first experience with
Linux mm-hmm let us know what it's like
you're coming from Windows right I'm
coming from Windows is it difficult is
it different is it exciting is it nice
yeah I'm nervous but excited you said it
was pretty
it is pretty that's a pretty good idea
to pre sunset
matches the color of the laptop I'm very
in and obby girly about yeah good secret
plan annex wallpaper also burn I mean I
seriously all about like the small
things like the trash bin looks nice
perfect nice like on set so yeah it's
not I'm not very for the fact that I am
a co-host here I'm not very technical
cool so that's good this is a great time
for you to be checking out Linux yeah
tonight we're gonna be taking a look at
that for the very very first time with
Sasha who's experiencing Linux for the
first time tonight exciting so stick
around we're gonna be doing that a
little bit later on in the show before
we get into our interview just a
reminder make sure you visit our mobile
website it's m dot cat v dot TV if you
scan that QR code that's going to take
you there
we've got on-demand video on-demand
audio if you want to just listen to the
show that's kind of cool and you can
watch and listen live which is it's
absolutely free yeah m dot cat v dot TV
well it is our pleasure tonight to be
joined by Francois Prue who is a
security engineer from password box as
you remember in episode number 332 that
is correct I think the last I was here
it was it was an exciting episode
because we got to talk about this
product called password box which I
immediately went home and downloaded and
I have on my phone and on my well I had
on my laptop or Linux yes we'll get that
on there for you okay for sure but I do
have questions so I am like over the
moon excited that I'm here for this
episode and that's it is that Megan
we had an amazing discussion about the
product but after the show I started
getting a lot of emails saying okay well
I need to know more about this this and
this right Francois joins us tonight
Francois it is so nice to have you here
thanks for being
security engineer with password box
can you explain what it is that you do
at the company yeah
products so quite moment Francois I
apologize but it seems that we're having
some audio issues there on your channel
can that be confirmed in the side I
don't think that anybody said anything
quite yet just want to be absolutely
sure here because we are live and those
things can happen chat room are you
hearing Francois okay oh no they lost
audio okay can you give me a sound check
please Francois yes can you hear me now
is it okay yeah that sounds good and I'm
gonna switch back to your camera and
we'll double-check that sound stays with
us and I apologize for the technical
difficulties folks all right and just
bear with us here folks were just having
a little bit of audio difficulties and
I'm glad we that's at least a good thing
oh it's working now okay it's working
right now yeah they can hear you just
now but as soon as I switch over to your
camera that's where that's where we lose
it how much I love to chat room right
now and how much we love live broadcast
there we go
okay so this is category 5 technology TV
and we are live tonight and Francois I
appreciate your patience and you at home
as I just kind of work that out and this
is a beautiful thing that we're able to
correct this live on the fly but
Francois you've got microphone now the
question was and I apologize the
question is as a security engineer for
password box what is it that you do at
the company sure thanks for having me
so I joined password box about six
months ago as a full-time security
engineer the company is growing really
fast so my main focus is really to lead
what we call secure development so that
is our our products are you know we
developed software components across
multiple platforms that includes browser
extensions in Chrome's our
Fox in Internet Explorer and all adept
and mobile platforms so we have a number
of engineers developing the product
improving the features and I'm over
viewing all aspects related to security
on on in all these themes so I I do
training with each each and every team I
do what's called auditing so I reviewed
the source code to make sure that it
doesn't have any issues and also as we
design new features that will be coming
soon I'm taking the lead on making sure
that before it even reaches the the
source code level we have thought of the
various problems and addressed them
beforehand it sounds like a pretty big
responsibility as far as that it was I
mean it was something like password box
where you are literally quite literally
making it possible to eliminate
passwords the need for passwords in a
manner of speaking yeah it's a big
responsibility most definitely and it is
one that I take very seriously and at
heart I I've been and I've been you know
for many years a developer myself so I
know I know what what it's like to
develop products and because of various
projects I've worked in the past I've
been focusing more and more as as the
years passed by towards secure
development and and now with password
box it's definitely a very cool and
exciting opportunity to to do that with
a such a great team here very cool very
cool one of the things that is really
one of the questions Francois that has
come up here at the show with our
viewers one of the biggest things
concerns with regards to putting our
passwords on an online service is what
keeps our passwords safe from prying
right even you know these days a lot of
people have concerns about governments
forcefully as they should you know and
and and I as a security engineer and
also involved in various community group
open-source projects and and such it is
definitely a topic that I care about and
we take it at heart the design of our
product in terms of security takes this
from the very start and that that is how
we were able to achieve something that
that that that protects the users
password but then also provides them
with tremendous usability improvements
ok so can I be can I be incredibly blunt
yeah okay we're gonna be blunt I I work
for the American government I'm NSA or
whatever and I've come to you with the
official documentation to say you need
to give me Robbie Ferguson's passwords
what happens so what what is stored in
our databases so that let's say that
that that that happens what is stored in
our databases for each and every user
accounts is only encrypted data so
obviously there is for instance a few
metadata so for instance the email we
need we need to keep that unencrypted
because we need to send you an email so
that you can receive the confirmation of
the account creation and and other
things but apart from that the the
critical assets such as the the password
assets and also all the wallet items
that we call so you can store credit
cards contact addresses and other things
those are all I would say encrypted in a
black box manner so okay what we we
receive on the server side is is a is an
opaque blob that we then store and then
for later retrieval and syncing across
devices okay
so so you don't have the passwords to
share no so right
so it was probably briefly discussed in
the first podcast with with Megan but we
do ask users upon account creation to
create a strong master password that we
call so it's it's called a master
password because it it really is the one
that that will be protecting all the
other assets that that you didn't put in
in password box so in terms of a little
bit more tech technical details we take
this master password and and using
well-known cryptographic algorithms were
able to derive a key that will then be
used to protect those assets and that
that derivation process cannot or at
least cannot be reversed in a matter of
that that like short enough let's say if
if you if you choose a strong master
password and we help you do that
the in terms and technical terms we you
might have heard of brute-force attacks
so that is essentially guessing the
every combinations of characters in in a
password one after the other so let's
say you were to guess a 10 10 characters
password against the technology that we
use with password box it would literally
take hundreds if not more years in it to
to go through all the possibilities by
then I probably am not too concerned
about my facebook login information
right yeah Tiger deers yeah so from
we're speaking with Francois Prue he's a
security engineer from password box and
we really want to get to the bottom of
how this product is able to we've talked
about how the service makes it so that
it's easier for us to use our computers
because we don't have to memorize
thousands of really difficult passwords
nor do we have to keep them in securely
in a text file or a spreadsheet this
software uses a master password
to protect our data so then you can make
stronger bigger Longer passwords because
you're not you know picking a word like
Yahoo is your password well if I have to
change my password on this site it needs
to be something I can remember so I can
log in well not with password box if
you're having an absurd right it's long
and strong so Francois the question
arises in our chat room Garbi is
concerned about the legacy Locker
feature because legacy Locker unlike
your you know like what you're
describing with our master password
we've actually set it up so that for
example my wife and I think this is a
brilliant tool and we can go into
details and everything but you can think
of so many scenarios so if I were to die
mm-hmm what happens to all my online
particulars my login information
who's gonna renew category five dot TV
as a domain name if nobody else has a
past that has the password to get into
my registry renew it for me to keep this
thing going after I'm dead so you know
as much as we don't like to think about
that Mac is you know if that were to
happen if there was some tragedy I want
my wife or next of kin or whoever to be
able to access my information password
box makes that possible
how can you make that possible how can
you transfer now my private passwords to
my wife I understand that we need to
verify death and everything but you were
able to actually transfer them over to
her in such a way that she can use them
even though she does not know my master
password how is that possible yeah so
just for a first start let me so I'll be
happy to answer your question that that
is definitely something it is a a
patent-pending technology this isn't you
are quite proud of can I say I'll be
very happy to share details okay that
the question came up and and now I'm
very very proud because my assumption
was that this is proprietary and that
there are some proprietary things that
go into it so but the and and so I sound
like I was pretty correct in that so be
it
this is a private you know a private
process so you're not going to reveal
how can you give us confidence that this
product is in fact because if I can
transfer my passwords now over to my
wife or Sasha or to whoever using this
next-of-kin legacy Locker feature how
can that be possible if the can a the
Canadian government can't step in and
say write the passwords so when I say
it's patent-pending its patent-pending
to protect some aspects some very
specific aspects of that technology yeah
but the over the underlying
cryptographic primitives that are used
are standardized and you can go on our
website and look up the security white
paper and it does describe this in
further details that that ll be I'll be
happy to transfer here and at a more
high-level explanation but people who
are interested can definitely go on our
website and we also have a security
mailing list they which I respond to
questions are very similar to what you
have right now okay III did just I think
last Friday I received the exact
question and I was a happy to to answer
it so the gist of it is that for this to
work the both parties so the one that is
is wanting to to delegate their their
their assets after their life okay so
someone yeah so and the receiving party
the one that will receive let's say in
the case of a parent and a child that
that could be an example so both both of
these parties need to create their own
password box account so that that's the
first require okay once that's done and
that that can be done throughout the the
the activation process of the legacy
Locker feature so first party let's say
the the parent creates a password box
account and goes and click on the legacy
Locker feature invites there
their child that he then receives an
email asking him to join password box
he's gonna create his own account and
he's gonna be able to use it on a daily
basis just like his parent yeah but once
that's done they'll be able to share
passwords during their lives so that
that's a typical P like another feature
that we have where you can share
passwords between people during your
life let's say might be happening for
say a receptionist or something right
now but cannot partnership be terminated
yes exactly you can't you can revoke the
the sharing at any time okay that's good
I mean cuz there are things like a
receptionist with a boss you know where
the receptionist would need to know all
of the passwords or like an estranged
son or you know a partnership dissolving
a marriage dissolving and then now you
don't want that person to know all of
your passwords but if they are worried
recipient in the legacy locker you can
actually change recipients yeah right so
and definitely so you can you you can at
any moment after you you've asked
someone to be your legacy locker
recipient let's say I don't like the
exact term of my idol err that would be
the correct term so you can you can
revoke it at any time so how it works
technically is it uses I'm gonna use a
few technical words for a moment so that
people who know them will know what I'm
talking about after then I'll jump to
something a little bit more visually so
somebody any anybody can understand in
terms of real-life examples so basically
we use RSA key pairs which is a
well-known a cryptographic standard it
hasn't been invented in the 70s yeah so
this is encryption to keep our data safe
yes
so RSA the neat the neat thing about RSA
the RSC system is that it is what we
call a symmetric so
contrary to other types of encryption
which are symmetric so that is you can
encrypt using a key and you can decrypt
using the same key so that is a
reversible process so that is what we
use when you want to store your own
passwords in our database so you get
your master password you're then able to
derive the key as I said previously
which is used for encrypting those
assets and later you can retrieve those
assets and decrypt them for your own use
using the same master password that's
one thing okay ah regarding legacy
Locker as I said it uses asymmetric
encryption that is a type of encryption
that allows someone to encrypt the data
using one key but then for a decryption
it requires in another key so that is
something very interesting and in
various specific to those those types of
algorithms and it is something that
everybody uses every day yeah when they
browse the internet they you might not
even know it but when you see it in a
URL bar the HTTPS URL the magic that
happens behind it is is is based in part
on RSA okay so nothing nothing new err
we did not invent a new algorithm in
terms of encryption and and when you you
talk between security focused people it
is definitely not a good practice to
reinvent the wheel
sure yeah absolutely yeah absolutely I
have I have a question it's kind of it's
my question and also somebody on the
chatroom had said that he was happy that
his ex-wife doesn't know his password so
he would want to likely change all of
your passwords if you were going through
with divorce right and saying what the
heartbeat bleed bug you were told to
change all of your passwords now I have
password box and my question is is it
easy is there a way that's easy to
change the passwords on password box
because I was finding it difficult I
actually
ended up changing one password because I
was having a hard time kind of
navigating through because it always
wants to log me in with the password
that I have so then I had to show the
password copy it to the clipboard you
know like it was there was a lot of
steps is there some sort of easy step to
change your passwords once they're
already in password box it is as as you
just explained it is a like if you have
to do it fully manually it is there
gonna be a very tedious process you go
side by side and find where you can
change your password so each and every
site has a different UI and and
oftentimes it's gonna be kind of hidden
somewhere up you know you click on your
account profile then you find how to
change the password and because of that
because each and every site is is very
different in their way they they allow
you to change password I mean even more
than they are different when you look at
the the login form so the login forms
are typically different but their their
similarity is is definitely closer than
if you compare that to changing password
and and that is an active area of
research of a team here at password box
that we call the the machine learning
team and they use sophisticated
algorithms based on artificial
intelligence to essentially nav like
browse the Internet automatically using
algorithms and detect those those forms
and identify the various features on
each and every site so one thing that
they would do is identify the login
forms and also where the URL is to
change the password and all that to
answer your question at this moment we
do not have kind of an automated process
to to change your passwords but you
might imagine that it is something we
are working really really hard
and I just say Francois just to be
absolutely fair to password box oh yeah
that heartbleed was an unfair initiation
for any security company plain and
simple
mm-hmm because nobody the banks not
Twitter not Facebook while Facebook but
nobody saw this coming so right the the
need to go on to the internet and change
all of your passwords up until now would
happen every time you got out of a
relationship right every time you and
anything you know a divorce is an
example now I've got to change all my
millions of passwords well with password
box now I only typically have to change
one password all the other ones can stay
the same because my master password is
the only one I need to change if I've
shared that for some reason which
there's no need to so to be really fair
to password box this was a nun you'd
never have to do this except for the
fact that heartbleed happened to happen
and nobody saw that coming and it's not
password box's fault just be absolutely
fair and kind of goes along the same
vein of what good guy was saying the
chatroom about Darren at hack five
creating a key log or a clipboard
monitor that can track what you put in -
you know for passwords and things well
with password box if somebody were to
get your master password again all you
have to do is change the master password
because the main passwords are
automatically filled in on the forms
automatically submitted through your web
browser so they're never actually
touching your keyboard they're never
touching your clipboard they're just
going directly oh yeah that's true so
again similarily you only have to change
one password so is that a question that
similar did that - was it the two-factor
authentication is that that's a little
different does that is that that's fair
enough hey Francois just to put that out
there about Harleys yeah definitely it
was a let's say a worldwide security
issue that affected a number of
companies and I'm glad to see you look
like you
I've caught up on your sleep that's good
because a lot of sleepless nights for
security engineers for sure we have lots
of questions that have come in to us
Francois just - we just mention we we
are speaking with Francois proof from
password box if you're just tuning in
and we're talking a little bit more in
depth about the technical aspects of
password box how it works
you can find out about the application
get a copy of it for your browser on
Windows Linux and Mac cat5 dot TV slash
password is our quick link that's going
to direct you right over to their
website mastermind
zette H has a few questions for you
Francois maybe oh yeah I can leave it to
101 of them yeah now there's a there's a
few of them one he wants to know if
there's a way to export his passwords to
a file like an XML file or something
similar just to to have them I guess on
hand himself - is there a future so at
this moment no but it is it is something
that is getting higher and higher in our
priorities list right as as yeah he's
not the the first person to ask we do
support importing from a standard like a
comma separated value which is a fairly
common type of file so it is it it is
possible for you to import your existing
password you may have but in terms of
exporting at the time we are speaking it
is it is not in our product but again if
if if it is something that you you care
about you can definitely send us feature
enhancement requests and and the more
the more people we get the priorities
are adapted and and so generally in a
vote for masterminds ed age well there's
no real name yeah that's right he has a
second I guess enhancement that he'd
like which is a category option for the
passwords you know they're listed
alphabetically he would he'd like
categorically as well
alphabetically that's interesting which
is I mean but something you get a long
list eventually of passwords if you've
been to a thousand sites you now have a
thousand passwords right is that
something that is is on the horizon at
all yeah I mean it's your head so yeah
it is something that we've already even
the the design aspects of it has been
thought of yeah again we have a lot of
great great cool features that are
coming up and some of those that we just
discussed they'll be coming at some
point I guess at that point
technically password box becomes not
just a password management tool but also
a bit of a accessible cloud-based
bookmarking tool right so that I'm
actually keeping track of my websites as
opposed to just my passwords that's kind
of a neat yeah way to look at it I think
now one of the questions is and I don't
quite understand what the two-factor
authentication is okay to like is that
when when you have a password and then
you have that crazy scrolling letter
thing though also okay well the question
for you
francois comes to us from masterminds at
age who wants to know knowing that of
course heartbleed is one of those
examples that have made a lot of people
aware that single factor authentication
is not as safe as we once thought it
could be so that is just a password is
that what single factors actually okay
one of one way of authenticating you as
a user so knowing that and knowing that
okay and this is this is a hard question
and because I'm I have to be blunt about
it I have to be this is for the
community all right this is for your
users as well as my viewers password box
is a single factor authentication master
password when are we going to see second
factor authentication so that we can be
more assured that our gross list of
thousands of passwords is protected
mm-hmm yeah good very good question and
and for that and in that I can I can
tell you it's even closer in terms of
timeline than the previous two features
is literally short a few short few a few
short weeks away from okay um now I
would say our goal is to to put it in
production in our products in June Oh
June of 2014
yes this work to us very good well I'm
glad to hear that
and I'm sure the community just went hi
yeah we we've we've pretty much
completed the design aspects of it I've
reviewed the security we are just right
now dispatching the the the various
tasks for each and every team and in
terms of obviously we don't want to to
rush things to to to fast because we
want to ensure the quality of our
products so in terms of Q way when you
talk in terms of adding a second factor
that adds a number of other more complex
scenarios to test when we want to look
at the quality of our products so that
is a big aspect we want to consider
before rushing second factor but it is
coming there so cool good to hear good
to hear I know I don't I I know we kind
of got sidetracked from a very very
important question that I know we're
running really really short on time and
we're milking your time here Francois
and I appreciate it going back to the
legacy Locker feature yeah were you
describing if I'm not mistaken when I
have somebody who is my digital err that
my passwords are then replicated into a
second database in a different with a
different encryption algorithm then you
are you are very close to to guessing
how it works so okay so I explained
previously that there is this this
well known encryption algorithm called
RSA that has a very unique capability
where you can encrypt using one key and
decrypt with another key so the way it
works is really like if we take
real-life examples that would be a
scenario where you have some someone
you'd like to share something with that
that person who's gonna be the recipient
is gonna give you a box and so where the
it's fun to think that password box I
wasn't here when they came up with the
term password box yeah but I'm I'm quite
certain that this has something to do
with it
so let's imagine the the the the person
you wanna you want to delegate your all
your passwords after your death gives
you a box okay
so you you take I got a physical box
with it yeah yeah exactly so they give
you that box and they also give you a
padlock that you can put to to secure
the that box and you don't have the
either the combination or the key
whatever it may be for that padlock but
so that person keeps that that piece
secret so either the key okay for the
padlock or the combination yeah so you
have you have the padlock that's opened
at the moment you receive the box so you
can put you know all your passwords so
basically as you use a password box you
use the technology we discussed
previously for encrypting your own
passwords but when you activate the
legacy Locker feature for each
modification of your password let's say
you you add a new password to your box
it will be encrypted for you and for
that digital hair put inside that little
box that he gave you okay mm-hmm but
what's what's very important here to
understand is that let's say you have
multiple recipients okay they will each
have a different key so so
if you in a different box and a
different bad luck let's say okay so is
now my digital Ayers key encrypted with
non-reversible encryption in their
account pretty much so it so that box
you essentially manage it during your
life the the password box product does
it for you so it will seamlessly encrypt
twice so or a number of times X number
of times that you you have recipients
okay you put those in that that extra
box yeah it gets protected in on our
servers as well because it is encrypted
with with a key that only the recipient
has right but the key thing here and
that is really what distinguishes it
from a regular shared password so as we
said you can share passwords normally
but the the key thing is that on our
servers
when you activate it the legacy Locker
those those items are marked as not to
be released until an event that you I
mean you have essentially decided what
it will be so the simple example is
would be your your own death yeah and
when that happens that digital hair
comes to to us okay they descend us an
email call us over the phone or whatever
how they do want to contact us and at
that moment they'll they'll be required
to provide us with legal documents that
we can validate yeah we understand that
aspect of it for sure I think it's the
technical aspect that is kind of gotten
people going so I is the digital heir
and I have to say this out loud so that
you can just go hmm yeah because you
know because people are gonna say oh
you're not supposed to reveal trade
secrets but I is the digital heir have
an encrypted key that will unlock a
different database storing all my
passwords and so I need my master
password in order to get that key
right so the NSA can't show up and say
give me the key for that person for that
other persons because they don't have
the unlock key for this person's which
reveals the key to that yes correct
so so they're there as we said in the
beginning that receiving party needs to
have created a password box account yes
so they have their own right there and
then that master password is able to to
recover the essentially the the magical
padlock key that they've given us at the
very beginning of the process okay well
thank you very much Francois I I really
do feel like okay we comprehend this now
and and I know that you know these are
these are important factors of how your
company works but for the users they
need the confidence to know that this is
actually a secure process that's storing
our password so I appreciate you helping
us to understand that can I just go back
to two-factor authentication finally
just because we want to know people in
chatroom akimoto wants to know are you
gonna have eyeballs scanners I saw in
the chatroom are we gonna be able to use
our cell phones fingerprint readers what
can you reveal about how the two-factor
authentication is going to work just in
a couple of moments time okay so one
thing we've announced recently is
integration with the new Samsung s5
which has a fingerprint scanner yeah so
that that that already exists for the
Android version of our app also we've
announced integration with the nimi
bracelet yes the texture your heartbeat
is a toronto-based company actually and
we will partner closely with them on
integrating the nemi with our products
okay so you know biometrics as an area
research is something that we are really
focusing a lot of efforts on let's say
the timeframe would be in the next few
months for those two to come to get
ready for a production adoption
but in terms of the exact details of the
second factor which will be released in
June
that's let me just say that it will be
very very similar to what Google does so
if you look at the way Google does it or
or Yahoo will be modeled in a very
similar fashion okay so we've got
multiple different ways to enter
two-factor authentication so you know
what francois this has been very
informative it looks like our chat room
is satisfied with regards to everything
that was said here one question coming
in here just want to proof it here
okay well I'll touch that one in the
chat room France why because I believe
that we've already answered that and if
anyone here who's watching this right
now doesn't quite grasp the security yes
because I feel confident now that's what
we set out okay if I get it then that's
good because I can because I can explain
it to you so if you have questions pop
us an email live at category-five TV if
it's above me I'll forward it on to the
the folks over at password box but I do
feel confident that I understand how
this thing works so it is also very user
friendly because I use it and I am NOT
ultra tech savvy and Francois
forgive me but I and and viewers I don't
want this to sound like we're sales
pitching password box because we're not
this is as much about understanding
security and the the importance of
having strong passwords and having
multiple passwords all across the board
and password box simply is the tool that
we've chosen that really works well in
order to help us to establish a good
safe online presence but then these kind
of questions come up where okay we need
to understand that our passwords are in
fact safe and Francois I really
appreciate your time here tonight thank
you for joining us a category-5 thank
you my pleasure and again just just to
close the people who are interested in
in diving even in more depth they can go
look at our security white paper on our
website or reach us at security at
password box calm which
our security focused mailing list and
I'm I'm the one who's responsible
friends answering those those kinds of
questions and we'll be happy to answer
those
thanks for us well thank you and again a
note that we do have a short link for
you cap v dot T V / password Francois
great having you here thanks for joining
us tonight
thank you this is category five
technology TV I'm your host Robbie
Ferguson and I am Sasha dramatis now
ready ready for the news it's like wow
that was a lot of grab was great
information okay you take it away this
is also big so here are the top stories
from the category five TV via newsroom a
robot arm capable of picking up delicate
objects has been approved for use by US
medical authorities the deafhope arm has
fingers that can move much like real
ones making it easier for the amputees
to feed themselves
zip up clothes what are you doing and
unlock doors the arm has much greater
range of movement than existing devices
many of which are based around metal
hooks and designs more than 100 years
old now just before I go on I just want
to touch on that that I think that the
idea of a metal hook or anything like
that is is is sort of better I think
really yeah well here because a hook
I would claw your eye out no well
because I think that things that look
humanoid that aren't exactly human they
fall into like the uncanny valley of
creepiness okay dr. Pulaski right so I
just feel like things need to look
overtly robotic if they're not actually
human not fair enough fair enough
sort of humanoid looking like this guy
with the he's not he's a real guy that's
not that robot arm it's a hand yeah the
guy is fine yeah he's not kidding yeah
while prosthetics have improved in
recent years much of the development
work has been done on legs rather than
replacements for lost arms and hands
okay this is because of the formidable
engineering challenges of reproducing
the coordinated movement of hands and
fingers the DECA arm has been designed
to resemble real
limbs as much as possible therapists
folksmen Justin Sanchez told Reuters
this prosthetic limb system can pick up
objects as delicate as a grape as well
as being able to handle very rugged
tools like a hand drill the Decker
research firm behind the arm was founded
by renowned engineer Dean Kaman who
invented the Segway scooter and many
other devices and we know how that went
yeah I just I just don't want it to look
too human I want it to look like an
interesting point before the show I
would like to have the fingers you know
be tools like she says why give the guy
a fake hand that can hold a drill when
you can just give it a can that is a
drill exactly okay so like there's a
personal aspect to this my mother is a
thalidomide baby so my mother was born
with only one arm okay right and while
she was growing up she tried prosthetic
limbs thank you well not limbs
she tried one person at prosthetic arm
continuously it wasn't functional it was
heavy and clunky and it was creepy as
all guys would this not be that beam or
this yeah but it's still yes it would be
a miracle to her yes in many ways but it
doesn't change though maybe it's just me
I don't think it's just me I think we
robot thing yeah it's the creepy robot
thing of it like it needs to look less
humanoid if it's not human in my opinion
in my styling yeah there's a certain
fine line I'm sure right I just feel
like like with people with prosthetic
limbs like the legs when they look like
blades like yeah but it looks stylistic
it looks fine I know it doesn't look
like slightly if you're gonna be part
robot be part robot right I just feel
like even like marionettes they're
creepy like it's something about almost
human but not human but I'm not saying
the person wearing it isn't human I'm
saying the limb itself
it's almost cyborg as far as you know
half
human half robot kind of yeah patient
but and you have an interesting
perspective because of your mother
yeah and so that's that's kind of neat
and strange but to me I would think if I
if I didn't have an arm and maybe it's
different for someone who was born with
that one but maybe it was someone who
had one gran had this ability right and
then lost it because of an accident say
a work accident and they had their hand
crushed in the only option was a
prosthetic a hook is not gonna work for
that person right because they're gonna
it's gonna feel so foreign so would this
not be Wow I can pick up a pen so to
that person maybe that's the difference
maybe that would be pretty cool I love
the I love the technology behind it now
onto clones a drone almost collided with
a US commercial flight in March an
official with America's flight
regulatory agency has revealed Jim
Williams of the Federal Aviation
Administration's unmanned aircraft
systems office that it showed the risk
posed by such aircraft the near
collision was reported to air traffic
control as the pilot approach to Florida
Airport
the FAA currently only allows
non-commercial and pollute police use
for drones but it requires the drone
pilots to alert the airport when flying
within a five mile radius of the airport
mr. Williams said that a drone
conference in San Francisco that the
airline pilot said that the UAS which is
the unmanned aircraft system was so
close to his jet that he was sure that
he had collided with it thankfully
inspection of the airliner after landing
revealed that there was no damage that's
kind of scary yeah it's it's it's
completely freaky because now we have
all of these very small small drones
drones flying around similar dangerous
right this is similar to what Amazon
wants to do eventually right maybe one
time was it real or was it a publicity
stunt that's true but there's but I can
see police using them
camera you know but then it's dangerous
what about I mean there was just a hot
air balloon accident that caused this
huge tragedy at a festival I wish that I
read the article better but I'm just
picturing if you had a drone that
collided with something like a hot-air
balloon
neither of those if they're outside a
five mile radius of an airport have to
report anything would that harm a hot
air balloon but my fear would be more
like you think about the devastation of
say a seagull flying into a jet engine
versus a metal drone how much more
damage would that cause
could it take out a jet engine for
example that's where I would be kind of
concerned so I can see them being
concerned about something like that so
be careful and and I guess that means
that flying drones is gonna have some
stricter regulation yeah it says that
they're aware of the report and they are
investigating this this is on to the
next crazy story a killer robot is a
fully autonomous weapon that can select
and engage target without any human
interaction but it looks so nice okay
they do not currently exist as we know
so far what advances in technology are
bringing them closer to reality which is
completely scary and I think that even
the fact that we're thinking that means
they're probably already happening those
in favor of killer robots believe that
the current laws of war may be
sufficient to address any problems that
may emerge if they are ever deployed
arguing that a moratorium not an
outright ban should be called if it this
is not the case however those who oppose
their use believe that they are threat
to humanity and any autonomous kill
functions should be banned I agree with
those people killer robots will be
debated during an informal meeting of
experts at the United Nations in Geneva
two robot experts professor Ronald Arkin
and professor KNOLLE Sharkey will debate
the efficacy and necessity of killer
robots the meeting will be held during
the UN Convention on certain
conventional weapons the CCW
a report on the discussion will be
presented to the CCW meeting in November
this will be the first time that the
issue of killer robots will be addressed
within the CCW probably not the last
time I just yeah the idea of having its
its unmanned drone Savannah laughing
they're autonomous so you're right about
okay the the last story was about a
drone that is controlled by somebody
programmed control this is a robot that
thinks on itself and is programmed to
kill - yeah so it is programmed to
recognize a threat and then to take it
out all right what if it doesn't
recognize the right thing as a threat
and I think we've been there before and
we should know better I'm scared
but the fourth story is exciting the
next installment of good yes the next
installment of Unreal Tournament they
acclaimed first-person shooter video
game series made by epic games will be
available on Linux what is exciting cuz
I now have Linux the news comes just
weeks after initial Linux support was
announced this part of the Unreal Engine
4.1 Wow
the engine prevented the engine powering
the game development on the Unreal
Tournament 4 will start from scratch
with a focus on Linux Mac and Windows
unreal caution that it will take months
many months until the game is playable
by gamers but that when the first alpha
arrives it will be available for free
development on the game will happen in
the open on github a more elaboration
between FX the fans and the the fans of
the title and developers developers of
the Unreal Engine so it'll be free Wow
and develops that is awesome yeah so
this is gonna be like open source yeah I
can download it code it myself and
re-upload strangely enough you think
that we did a Google search for killer
robots because these stories seem to be
running together and he looks strikingly
like a killer robot dad he looks like
one of those crazy ones real tournament
they say from the very real Engine 1
from the very first line of code the
very first art created and design
decisions made development will happen
completely in the open so
Epic's plan is to create a marketplace
where developers mod markers gamers can
give mod makers and gamers can give away
buy and sell content and the earnings
will be split between them and the
content creators which is how they
intend to pay for the game to play I
love it that is now they're taking on
the a whole different type of
distribution take it you know that is
along the lines of say libreoffice or
something like that it's just a
beautiful thing yeah brilliant games of
all time and I believe if there's so
much collaborative work done and it's
gonna be one of the best games ever
absolutely an unreal tournament has
always been up there with moderate mod
creators offering different spin-offs
and things like that so to be able to
make those open I'm not I'm not 100
percent a gamer yet but I intend now
that you can put that on your Linux Wow
look at this thing huh okay get the full
stories at category 5 TV slash newsroom
I have to do this really quick because
I'm really excited about my computer's
the category 5 TV newsroom is researched
by Roy W Nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a news
story that you think is worthy of on-air
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV newsroom I am
Sasha tomatoes okay okay let's get this
party started check it out okay now
you've been using this for a whole hour
yes even on Linux did you find it was
incredibly difficult to use compared to
Windows so far no no so far it's working
okay you know what I'm gonna I'm gonna
put this back but I can do that I love
it isn't that cool okay actually bring
out the screen so can you do a little
tour for me oh yeah well I'll let you
give the tour okay I'm actually gonna
put this right in front of you okay
there you go here you go and so we're
gonna bring up your screen okay so
without okay here let's quickly I'm
gonna close I'm gonna close a couple
things that I had open so that you can
figure this out
okay we don't have okay so now first
time i linux find out how to get on the
internet because this is the big thing
people say okay well i need to be able
to get on the internet i need to be able
to get email i need to notice guys i put
in pidgin there with the chat room so
satchel is gonna be joining us through
the week is that right that is right
awesome okay so find out anywhere close
no that's right we're going on the
internet i'm going so when i just touch
you sir i'm sorry guys i'm on the
internet you're on the internet i'm not
there yes okay okay i'm you're there
okay sorry okay well there you are
you're in Google clang that's fantastic
quick tip for you there's a Google
Chrome button down on the bottom left
there
you recognize that little icon that's
cool
you found the quote unquote we'll call
it the Start menu that's it's your this
is that yes said yeah and what does that
give you that gives you access to all of
your stuff so right when like the
applications that have come
pre-installed and a couple things that
I've installed like pidgin and things
one of the the first thing that I did
with your laptop and this is and I say
this so that you can follow suit if
you're interested in switching over to
Linux first thing I did was backed up
your files
so that's your pictures your documents
anything like that that's important to
you right then I created what's called
an image of your laptop with Clonezilla
it's a free piece of software that let
me take your whole computer and move it
into a file on my server so that if for
some reason Sasha ever says ah this is
crazy I can't handle it I need to go
back to Windows we can go back will that
happen
no I deleted it but we do that because
it's a matter of process to doing things
correctly because if something goes
wrong and I'll admit I did have some
problems get a finding a flavor of Linux
that ran perfectly on this particular
laptop right you settled for Zorin OS
and it runs very very well you notice
that it's running quite fast so then I
installed Zorin OS just from a DVD ISO
that I downloaded and burnt it to a DVD
RW inserted it into your computer booted
up
and hit f12 and installed it and it was
easy breezy and then set up your email
account imported your IMAP settings
everything's working just fine and then
got onto the server and copied all your
pictures back okay now what you're
looking at is actually a Linux version
of your original desktop so everything
that you had is there all your pictures
so if I go back down here yeah so all I
have really is my dark souls complete
strategy and that was on your Windows
desktop yes yes and you've also got your
pictures and things so there's that's
files right ok so I'm gonna pop top
files files so ok oh that's something
that I've crazy so look at the left-hand
side there you see pictures videos
desktop documents and things and so
everything is is still there Christmas
Day you know pictures are actually
imported into your Linux computer and me
on Christmas Day long hair cool ok thank
you there you have cats hey I want a
progress report I want to know how this
thing runs for you right in a while I'll
have is great you're obviously on
wireless and no wires at all we
completely disconnected you can hold it
up in there's no wires running Zorin OS
just fine
Zorin OS is just another flavor of of
Linux it's absolutely free to download
Doron - OS comm and it's it's quite nice
for I think a Windows user to transition
onto sorna less you can see that that is
a very Windows 7 ask kind of operating
system
XP version using these zorn look changer
which is included with that so if you
prefer Windows XP luck you can actually
switch it to that I have questions
already I can't wait to be on next
excellent you're writing them down yeah
and we'll see you next week everybody if
you are on Google+ stick around because
a Google+ Hangout is about to occur
we're just gonna start uploading the
files then we'll be on Google+ join us
in the chatroom then nice having you
here
always a pleasure I love the Merrill
effects it'd be your every single
takeover kuraby just take my spot off
next week Raceway night on I will not be
here can you get them to move into
Wednesday's happy nice could you get
them them $5.00 premium draft on
Wednesdays if you ate any viewers any
viewers that are in Bury how do you say
good oh there's the the advert for the
show hangout from st. Louis we hope you
enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7 p.m. Eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category-five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 Canada
see you next time thanks for tuning in
