hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're talking about
shattering loneliness so stay tuned
[Music]
hey everyone welcome back to new every
day thanks for tuning in today we're
talking about shattering loneliness and
as soon as you suggested that title for
our discussion Jen I was like yes
because everyone whether they admitted
her or not I think has experienced
loneliness at one time or another mm-hmm
I know like that's been true for myself
even like I was just in New York City
right one of the busiest cities in the
world okay yes it is I've been there let
me just say I don't think I'm a city
girl I just want to throw that out there
but despite all the busyness and and the
comings and goings and the flashing
lights and like crazy stuff I saw how
you could still feel so alone because
people aren't necessarily engaging with
you you can be in that city with
millions of people and not be connected
to anyone yes and I was there as a
tourist right so I didn't really have
any connections apart from the people I
traveled with but yeah loneliness I
think is is ubiquitous yes ooh good word
do you like that I like that word
ubiquitous and it's interesting because
being single and being single for all of
my life except for you know the few
random boyfriends that showed up I have
become quite okay with being alone but
I'm starting to learn that there's a
difference between being alone as and
not with someone but being alone because
we've had this conversation quite a few
times the difference between being an
extrovert and you when you're around
people you feel filled up versus an
introvert you get filled up when you're
by yourself so I tend to be an introvert
being filled up by myself my my energy
just spills back up when I just I have
15 or 20 minutes by myself good to go to
go
and and so I was having this
conversation with my mom after probably
my sister passed away and she would say
but I'm I'm just I'm lonely and I'm like
mom like I'm I have been alone my entire
life like I don't understand what you're
talking about you just get used to it
right and I realized that the difference
between her my being alone as an
individual and her feeling lonely is
because she had experienced sharing life
together with someone she had been
married to my dad so it must have been
after my dad passed away but we didn't
talk about it till later and she because
she they had been married for 42 years
it's a long times a long time to be
married to someone and and so when he
passed away there was just this sense of
loneliness like what do I do with myself
because the other person you make your
identity as part with that other person
in a way right yes because you know in
the evening they would have supper
together and then they would you know
play Scrabble together and mom would
always make my dad a cup of tea every
night at 10 o'clock
like that's just for 42 years yeah a cup
of tea
ten o'clock like that's just until
suddenly not have that there would be
that void there for sure right
and yet we have also I understand the
concept that you can also be alone in
marriage so even though you're married
to someone you can feel alone yes so
it's really got me thinking a lot about
this concept of aloneness yeah and the
things that people seek after in order
to fill that loneliness yeah and and I
wonder Jen and I don't know you think
about this but is the drive to fill that
void intrinsic or extrinsic because I
think that there's a lot of cultural and
social pressures for for exam
to be with someone to be married and yes
this marriage is a good thing God said
family is a good thing marriage is a
good thing
yay but I can't tell you how many times
he will be like oh my goodness Kari I
haven't seen you in so long
why aren't you married like it's a
Friday yeah like what is wrong with you
so I think that there's there's cultural
pressures to try and fill the void or
like people identify you as like okay
you're alone Yeah right oh my gosh
you're away from your family you must be
lonely
how are you filling your time so maybe
Jen like speak to some like you've had a
lot of conversations with people on all
walks of life like what are some of the
ways that people try and fill that boy
that's a great question that's a great
question I think some of the ways people
fill that void is they get into bad
relationships they think they're good
because they're giving to this person
right yeah oh I'm able to help you here
and I'm able to help you here and I'm
able to help so this is giving giving
giving so they feel this need of
accomplishment sure and that they're
needed and their life is now worthwhile
because they're giving themselves to
someone else
Wow you're investing it feels purposeful
yes but after a while of the giving
giving giving giving giving it's like oh
I don't I don't feel like this is going
anywhere I don't feel like I'm actually
fulfilled right because they are only
feeling fulfilled when they are giving
mm-hmm and often when we give and it's
not reciprocated then we can start to
feel taken advantage of like taken for
granted and and so we know of people who
some of them will say well I didn't
think anyone else would come along so
yes I chose to marry no friends say that
and it's just so sad and it's not
healthy no because they feel like there
is this is my last chance yes nobody
else nobody else and it's like yeah and
you know on the other side too I've run
into people where it's it's just obvious
they are in the rat race like they're
trying to climb
climb the the business ladder and feel
accomplished and purposeful and made
whole by you know their paycheck order
by yeah the sense of accomplishment or
their standing within a company or how
many possessions they've accumulated and
and I think people know that that's kind
of superficial yeah but we people run
after it but I at what point do they
realize that it's superficial I think
that's part of like so often we hear of
people who have run run run run after
this whatever it is the diploma diploma
or the scholarship or the promotion or
the recognition from their boss and then
they get it and they're like okay now
what yes and then you're looking for the
next thing right and then depression
sneaks in yes because it's like will I
find anything will I ever get to that
point where I'm satisfied with with that
with where I am in life and I think so
you have like finding your sense of
fulfillment and ease of loneliness and
other people or ease of loneliness in
our accomplishments yeah but I think we
can also find are these our loneliness
with ourselves I'm fine I'm good enough
I don't need anyone else because as soon
as I reach out to someone else and
they're gonna hurt me they're gonna take
advantage of me I don't need anyone else
and this whole concept for Lyons yes
yeah and and a big thing in the world is
do whatever it makes you feel happy yes
but it doesn't lead to loan it doesn't
it doesn't lead to feeling more
fulfilled or connected with other people
no it does not and actually becomes very
well self-serving and empty because if
you ever like the coolest thing happened
the other night Carrie came home from
her trip to New York City and and in my
mind I'm like well she's gonna need
lunch tomorrow and she's got any
breakfast and she's gonna need no so I
just text her and I said would you like
this and would you like this and I'm
realizing inside of myself I have no
other agenda right now
now except to make sure she's okay to
make sure she's okay oh great and and in
my head I'm like why are you doing this
I'm like I don't know why I'm doing this
except for I know Carrie needs something
to eat tomorrow and it was in that
moment where I was like that's a god
thing yeah that because so often we do
things for other people for what we can
get in return and it was this it was a
selfless moment and I like bad she was
selfless I was like wow God this is what
it feels like to do something to do
something that's in a Jenny Wiley
selfless for no other motivation except
your care for someone else like I wasn't
thinking well I'm gonna feel good or I'm
gonna get to eat this and I was just
like no like she she needs this and and
I realized at that point that
completeness or peace comes from when we
act towards one another in a genuinely
unselfish but kind and loving way mm-hmm
and and to be honest that doesn't happen
a whole lot like it was this like wow
that was a really cool moment yeah
because so often we do things for other
people to sort of meet one of our own
our own needs mm-hmm so when we talk
about you know shattering loneliness
there's those three things that people
often do they often get into bad
relationships or any kind of
relationships because maybe they're not
bad but usually they're self-serving to
fill that void I feel a complete now or
climbing the corporate ladder or just
filling their life with stuff if I get
enough figurines it'll be good or if I
you know go bird-watching and check off
all the birds that I've seen I'll be
fulfilled right if I see all 50 states
I'll be fulfilled because there's always
another goal
there's always another goal or the last
one is myself if if I can just make
myself happy yeah yeah then I won't feel
alone yeah I'll feel like I have purpose
yeah so I think some of them of the
I guess ultimately it's a self-serving
reason and I've even thought this to Jen
to be honest it's like well if I'm not
in a relationship
like I'm no one's most important person
hmm and like there's no one who really
knows me do you know what I mean yeah
like who can really bear witness to my
life but then I looked at that statement
I'm like that's about me it's about me
wanting to be known it's about me
wanting to have someone say you're the
most important person to me yeah and so
on that note we'll be back right after
these messages so stay tuned Jeff Weston
Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what aren't you right
you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name so your own com dice to
put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a WordPress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
just don't put that on paper sorry just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dream host hello everyone
thanks for staying with us we just want
to say thank you to our partners who
help make this show possible and thank
you too Robbie Ferguson and the team
from category-five who literally make
this show possible thanks to our
partners if you go to our website new
every day TV click on our partners page
and you can see all of the wonderful
organizations companies and sponsors who
help again yeah make this happen make us
happy or e grateful yes we are and thank
you to you for for faithfully tuning in
and if this is your first time watching
we're so glad Jenna and I are friends
we sit down here every week and just
have a conversation about life
whatever's going on and about God and
how he is real in our lives and how he
has transformed our life and given us
meaning and purpose and ultimately
shattered loneliness but let's go back
to that conversation Jenn shattering
loneliness and what's interesting is he
talks about the whole idea of looking
for that right someone someone to
complete who's going to bear witness to
my life
really know and really know me like a
soulmate
so me and which is so interesting
because the question is where'd that
whole concept of soulmate come from yeah
because kids i I've been a youth pastor
for many many years and the kids would
always be like so how do I know that I
found the right one that's only the
right one and often I would I've just
learned to say you choose to make it the
right one like you choose out of because
you are going to be unselfish in a
relationship you can actually make any
relationship work like that's why I
arranged marriage is the majority of
arranged marriages work because they've
chosen to make them work yeah
and so this concept of soul finding your
soul mate that one that completes me who
knows everything about you and it's
funny because after I've had
conversations with people who have sat
down like after one day I know this is
the right person now they have ended up
getting married and yeah but so that
kind of like connection happens where
they just know they just know that this
is the right person and sometimes it
takes a while but what is where to come
from well as far as I can figure is it's
Plato who came up with this idea he he
was basically came up with an idea that
the Zeus split what basically desire
that he there would be more humans to
worship him and so he splits now this is
the story that Plato was coming up with
and I am really I am NOT an expert on
Plato or Greek mythology but Plato wrote
the story basically saying that they
split a human in half creating male and
female so number one there'd be more
humans to worship Zeus and so they these
men and women would look all over the
world to find literally their complete
person right their soulmate their
soulmate so that's where the idea comes
from from Plato this is very interesting
mmm anyhow so but what's interesting
about that so that's that link
that language plays into our heart
because we're so like I need to find my
soulmate that person that completes me
and as I got thinking about this all I
could think about was the person that
truly could ever complete us is Jesus
Christ because at the fall it says that
we were separated from God and ever
since then we have been longing to be
reunited with God
like there's this god-shaped hole in our
heart and until we come face-to-face
with our need for him we will never
truly feel complete and that's why you
can be in the most wonderful
relationship and wake up one day and
just go something is still missing from
my life yeah because you will never be
complete in just a person-to-person
relationship we have been created with a
God space in our heart that because of
sin we have been separated from God and
sin basically is just choosing to do
what we want instead of what God wants
and we need to come to this realization
of until I stop choosing my own way and
focus on God learn about God desire God
I will always have this longing and
desire for something more mmm because
one of the coolest verses that I keep
repeating to myself it says my God will
meet all my needs according to his
glorious riches in Christ Jesus and we
often attribute that that some
Philippians 4:19
we often it should be that - like my
material needs yes I'll have a nice home
I'll have nice clothes but I won't be
hungry I won't be yeah but we never
think I won't be lonely
yes he meets our emotional needs he
meets our emotional yes he fills that
hole in our heart and what's interesting
is there's this language especially in
the New Testament that talks about being
filled with the Holy Spirit and often
when we are lonely we feel empty there's
an emptiness there's a longing and yet
Jesus says to the woman at the well in
John 4 he says you know you drink of
this water and you're going to be
thirsty
again but whoever drinks of the water I
give will never be thirsty again there's
this idea that we will not have need or
longing for anything other than what
Jesus has to give and I'm thinking that
shatters loneliness that idea that we
can be filled with the Holy Spirit that
James 4:8 can you can you read that for
us I love this passage but and what's
interesting is what comes before it
talks about basically get over yourself
like repent and then it goes on to say
how how we can wheat with God so James
4:8 says I'll read seven okay oh no most
this is eight
most important of all continue to show
deep love for each other for love covers
a multitude of sins
we're looking for it okay
might not be James 4:8 but it's a kind
of shames we're gonna look for this
so anyways yes but when the Bible also
tells us that that Jesus is the head of
the body yes which is the church yes and
sometimes we want to have physical
relationships with people yeah and if
he's the head of the body which is the
church the physical representation of
Crace and we were made in His image I
think we're also designed to like be in
that community we're supposed to be yes
we're supposed to be in the church
community loving each other yes but you
need the both and it is both James 4:8
reading I have no idea carry on then
come near to God and He will come near
to you that's funny so this idea is when
we step fall when we step forward and
receive Christ get you know because it
goes on to say
wash your hands you sinners and purify
your hearts you double-minded like get
rid of the sin come to God get rid of
the sin and allow him to fill every area
and that often is because he draws us
into fellowship because there's so many
one another's in the Bible so so it's
the both end you come to God let him
fill your heart because if the only
reason you're going to church is so that
you can hang out with people but not
meet God you're still gonna have the
hole in your heart so you need to let
God fill that hole in your heart with
his presence which is like just
unbelievable then the knowing that he
truly loves me he truly knows me
He gave His life for me to know him and
experience him every day I know she says
come to me yes come draw near to me yeah
and and also in James it says like abide
in me let my word abide in you he wants
that fellowship and and intimacy with us
that's that's real and satisfies our
deepest longing yes and that totally
shatters loneliness so we want you to
join us again next week as we pick up
this topic we're not finished just in
case you're thinking oh that was a
one-week topic no no we're gonna dive
into this even deeper to explore how
deeply God shatters our loneliness so
let's pray dear Lord Jesus thank you so
much that when we draw near to you you
draw near to us you call us and we abide
in you and you abide in us and so father
help us today to trust that you really
can shatter all the lonely parts inside
of us thank you God in your name amen
amen
thank you so much for tuning in we're
gonna put a link to a youtube video of a
song called come to me and I just
encourage you to put that on listen to
it
talk to the Lord invite
invite him into your life and share a
couple of moments from just sitting
there inviting the presence of God amen
have a wonderful see you later
you
