over here right see where my hand is
behind my monitor here is my Raspberry
Pi 3 running plex Pi and I have simply
plugged in a USB flash drive it's just
my standard USB flash drive that I carry
in my pocket it's loaded full of stuff
but I put some videos on it ok ok I put
some music on it as well because I
mentioned last week Sasha that we can
put music on our plex server right so
I'm a big fan of UK TV shows yes UK TV
shows so many years ago oh yeah yes yep
alright so Kelsey and I as a matter of
fact showed how to copy your DVDs onto
m4v files like to convert your DVDs into
video files or ADA so I've done that so
i've got i've got stella season 5 and
season 4 mm-hmm I've got Trollied I have
not heard of that season 3 you are
borrowing this my friend season 4 okay
so these are just so I just grabbed four
seasons of of my favourite shows here
some of my favorite shows Beck and I
really enjoy the UK comedy and I've got
a movie sideways lots of fun great movie
not appropriate for the kids
oh I've got a Josh Turner CD okay music
you remember these guys I know they're
discontinued now you can't buy them at
Target or anything like that but that's
what they looked like so what I've done
is I've just copied well have copied
sideways in and I've copied a couple of
episodes
what throwing this there goes one of my
seasons I've got all I did was copy a
couple of episodes of each of these from
the DVD using handbrake so I've got
those on that USB flash drive so that we
can show you how to set up your library
good times
alright ready to see how it's done oh
yeah okay so in order to do this you
have to have Plex pi 1.2 or one poor
higher not one point one because during
the first week of release so Plex 1.1
came out last week yes
and then during that week plex media
server was updated in such a way that it
broke everything you imagine we got
thousands of downloads happening last
week right and so you know the forum
becomes abuzz with people saying I can't
access my media on the USB flash drive
so flex one flex PI 1.2 fixes that okay
so I've got my laptop in front of me and
you'll notice what I'm going to do is
everything is going to be done through
my web browser okay you can do this by
plugging a keyboard and a mouse into
your Plex PI if you want but you don't
have to do that you can just access it
from any of your devices so the comfort
of your desk and do it that way so I'm
gonna jump over to our laptop here and
so I know I believe I know it's
192.168.0.1 o5 : 32 400 slash web and if
my IP address has not changed and it has
fantastic because we had some problems
before the show where we had to restart
the router a couple of times and
everything else so let me just grab the
IP address now I could do that if I had
the Plex PI plugged into an HDMI
directly so that I could see the screen
then I could just go in and type IP ray
and see IP space a-going headless is how
I do it at home as well yeah because my
I mean where I've got my Raspberry Pi is
way off in another location you might
near my router ok and then I just
through the network access it headless
Lee and and it's so much easier to do
yeah I love any computer I can log in
and deal with it so I could be in the
living room on my laptop and I love as
well that you can access it from any
device yes my IP has incremented so is
now 106 is what my so I just checked the
DHCP pool of my rhetoric I don't know if
you knew this was that you didn't that's
case maybe you don't know this but I
have accessed my Plex PI remotely oh
yeah I got in but you have a Plex pass
ID now Plex pass keep in mind that's a
commercial thing so you have to pay
extra for that feature what it was you
can leave thanks you can do that
but Plex Pi it's in the in the to-do
list yeah you'll see that there is
actually a feature coming in an upcoming
release that allows you to do that
without having to pay for a flex pass oh
okay well I do it now because I pay for
but it was really nice to be able
because I know how to get in through the
web it was nice to be able to do that
remotely because I was sure I'm away
from work all the time yeah and my wife
called me yeah if you're in a hotel and
you want to watch well your yeah watch
but also our Plex went down and so there
was something in the backend that didn't
work with one of the files yeah so I was
able to remotely log into the act oh
perfect
nuts and bolts of it yeah yeah just it
from the home it was amazing I loved it
well so you remember last week sash and
I set this up and this is what we saw so
in order to get here all I needed to
know was the IP address of my plex
server which mine had changed to
192.168.0.1 o6 then you go to : three to
four hundred that is the port that it is
running on and then slash web and so I'm
actually accessing this through my
Raspberry Pi it then redirects over here
to App plex TV the first time I run it
because it needs me to log in so if you
don't have an account you can create one
so you would just you would continue
however you want to but if you already
have an account you don't have to create
one in my case I already have one so I'm
just going to sign in so then it's gonna
let me in so the very first time that I
I run it this is what I see on my Plex
PI I just make that full screen here so
that we don't have the the bar up at the
top so it tells me that plex media
server is running on a computer where
you put all your media and then Plex
scans your media automatically organizes
it makes a beautiful play your media on
any screen with the plex app got it nice
now this is the first time I've ever
connected to this particular Plex plex
pie instance that is a tongue twister if
I ever did hear one yes plex pie
instance okay so it's asking me do you
want to sign up for a plex pass now this
is where yeah you can do this for mobile
syncing and camera uploads that's cool
that's a cool feature cloud sync all
that kind of stuff there's there is some
great stuff here remember
Plex is absolutely free yes
flex pi is absolutely free so far your
expense is negligible mm-hmm
Plex Pass is your way of contributing to
plex media server you know not - plex Pi
it's completely now going to Plex yes
how much does it cost you per month oh I
pay for the lifetime exactly exactly so
you get the lifetime you just pay for it
once you're done yeah so then you get
all those features if you are absolutely
opposed to spending any money on this
right now and you just want to do it
you'll notice there is no option to just
go ahead where's the one to do it for
free right and it's right up here the X
the X so subtle yeah okay so now we're
done so what do we want to call our new
server I'm just gonna call this Plex PI
or you can name it you know Ferguson
family server super happy funtime media
allow me to access my media outside my
home I'm gonna leave that checked but
remember it's not going to work without
a plex pass at this point next now what
it's doing is its created my profile yes
so remember that the only thing that
I've done differently from last week
other than upgrading to 1.2 is I have
plugged in my USB flashdrive mm-hmm I
did not have to mount it I didn't have
to set up any FS tab entries nothing
like that I just simply plugged it in so
now if I go add library this is my first
step right now there are no videos known
to plex so I need to teach it where my
files are let's start with movies so
these library types are important ok
what I'm doing I'm not telling it I want
to call this movies I'm telling it the
classification of this is a movie or a
TV show or music or my photos or other
videos would be like home movies for
example right and that's important to
recognize that that is the
classification because that is going to
control how Plex will interpret the
content yes if it's a movie
it will look for the ratings it will
look for the description of the movie on
the internet database it'll look for the
artwork and all that stuff and the
description in the movie database yes if
it's a TV show on the other hand it's
gonna look for season 1 episode 1 season
2 episode 1 season 2 episode 2 &amp; 3 and
so on and then it's going to put it into
a menu system that is appropriate for
television series where you can select
the season select the episode and push
play if it's a home movie it then knows
that because this is other videos it
then knows that it's not going to find
any of that information online right so
it generates a thumbnail based on the
content of the video and simply names it
whatever the file name is so it's
important to assign this correctly so
we're gonna start with movies because
I've ripped sideways so I'm going to
click on movies and then hit add folders
or next so I'm just gonna click Add
folders and then browse to my media
folder and you'll see what my 128
gigabyte external flash drive is already
detected now that could be a USB hard
drive that could be that's a great idea
like having an external hard drive so
that it's not being stored on the SD
card of your time yeah and then that way
you can you can safely shut down your
plex Pi unplug that hard drive load up
more videos yep and then plug it back in
turn it on you're good to go it'll
automatically detect the new stuff in
the library so I'm gonna browse to my
128 gigabyte Drive and you see like this
is a drive that I use for the show so
it's episodes and everything but then
I've also created a folder called plex
demo files in that folder I've got a
folder called movies and so I like to
keep my files organized and it helps me
when I add it to plex you see that it's
detected that there is a video there so
I'm gonna simply add that but so you're
adding the folder not the file that's
correct I'm adding the movies folder on
my flash drive so if I unplug that flash
drive it loses it right he loses access
to it but then I plug it back in and
it's back again right so keep that in
mind as well this Drive needs to be
always connected to this device if you
want to be able to watch these I can
click on add library or I can go
advanced
and in advanced it will say you know
what do you what other options do you
want to do you want to show the
collection and other items do you want
to use the plex media scanner you can
probably just click on add library and
just leave all these settings as they
are but it's interesting to see what
kind of options are available there I'm
gonna add library and it says ok it's
scanning movies it's already matched
sideways on plex pi see that at the
bottom
downloading metadata for sideways it's
doing that all in the background I can
click on add library and keep doing
other things let's add our TV shows and
I can name that something else I could
call this if I wanted to be so organized
I can call it TV shows comedy and I
could have folders that are specifically
organized with comedy so that it's more
organized for me so in this case I'm
just gonna go TV shows add folders
browse for media go to my 128 gig drive
zip down to my plex demo files and in
there I'm gonna go TV shows it's
recognize some folders so I could click
on a folder but then I'd only get that
one show I want this top-level TV shows
folder and i'm gonna click add and then
add library now it's scanning watch what
happens at the bottom they're scanning
matching stella UK on plex pi and it's
gonna start downloading the metadata for
that let's add some music so i've also
ripped this CD that i've got here the
Josh Turner CD so let's browse for media
go on to our drive again I like to keep
things nice and organized so I don't
just have one folder for everything I've
got my music in a folder called music
and then I add that now it's going to
add some music what do you want to do
you want to create a premium flex
library or do you want to just create a
normal basic music library which is what
I'm going to do because it's free and
what do I want to do include in the
dashboard yep use embedded tags or would
it scan it from the internet that's fine
too and then you've got last.fm settings
you can stream this to your devices all
that kind of stuff bad okay now I've got
some home videos yeah I I just saw yeah
as you are closing there there is a
feature that will log where you are in
the album absolutely now that's all neat
a logging where you are in the videos
where you are in oh yeah
not at Christmastime with our Christmas
playlist with thousands of random songs
it's nice that it remembers where your
adds a great little feature absolutely
and our series like if we could you
imagine having to find where you were
yeah there Sears that's so old-school
I'm gonna call this folder called Home
Videos and we're gonna go add folders
browse for media and you'll notice that
on my drive I've also got a folder
called home videos add that oh your
wedding and then add library and would
you like to see a clip of my wedding
because it's importing and when we come
back we're gonna see how our Plex pie
looks now that we've imported some of
this media stick around
[Music]
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
oh I don't know I think you're supposed
to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back to category five technology TV we
are going through Plex PI yes so you
have added the files to your library
it's done all the metadata syncing why I
assume so I mean if we look at our
screen here we've added the libraries
yep so I've got movies TV shows home
videos and remember Jeff these are now
these are stored on my USB flash drive
yes so I'm not wearing down the SD card
of my plex server the Raspberry Pi
because an SD card in a Raspberry Pi is
if you use that for video it's gonna
wear down real quickly and it's gonna
crash and then you're gonna wonder why
your Plex PI server is not working this
way your media all the playback is
happening there the only thing that the
that the SD card is used for is the
operating system the software and the
library data like the metadata so saving
the image they artwork and things like
that and where you are in your video
playback now right before we went on
break you teased and said do you want to
see my wedding I will see if it works I
want to see it because I forget how
young you looked oh I had hair I know I
was around then like we work together
then and I'm intrigued to see how I saw
a picture today our old employer posted
a video of their Lobby that has pictures
from back in the day and back in I saw
that 1999-2000 area there's a picture of
you and I and we were kids yes and I had
a full head of hair it was
beautiful did you know do you remember
the time we threw back to an old episode
and you had hair and I just lost it I
had well I had I had clown hair yes I
was bald on the top no this was full
hair do you know how far back our
Technology interaction goes well when we
met you sent me my very first text
message did I it took me two months to
find on my phone I know you figure out
why I couldn't get rid of the stupid
voicemail icon oh boy I was that was my
first cellphone you sent me a text that
day fantastic yeah beautiful yeah look
at that it worked
yeah well we're and now we're here and
we're building servers that fit
literally in your pocket take that with
you like when I go to my in-laws and I
want to show them all of our new shows
or if I'm going away for a holiday take
it with you plug it into the TV at the
hotel it's got all your stuff on it your
shows it's amazing it's fantastic all
right let's get into it
okay Plex PI what's next let's find out
all right what do you want to do do you
want to get some Plex apps
we'll get there don't worry about it
we're not gonna do it just now done look
at that look at this oh and we've got
some videos at the bottom there our
wedding and berryhill farms and so we've
got sideways let's see what happens if I
click on it
we've got a description we've got the
actors and if we click on it it's going
to actually search through what push the
right buttons and if I click on the
actors it's going to instantly search
through my library and find other videos
with those actors in it so if I like one
of the actors I can click on it and boom
there's a list of all the videos now
I've only imported one movie so there's
not going to be any Paul Giamatti in
there but there you have it so it shows
me the length of it it shows me see the
Rotten Tomatoes score up here it shows
me the that it's in the drama comedy
category it's got the description and
everything else and I can actually rate
it and I can click here to say how many
stars I give it so how cool is that
alright so if I go on the left hand
panel here now Jeff yes see how easy
this was to set up it's crazy so I've
got TV shows I've got music
I've got movies and remember folks like
this takes up a fair bit more space
these are this is exactly what's on my
plex server right now it takes up a fair
bit more space than this mmm-hmm with a
USB flash drive added to it this is
exactly what's on my plex server right
now and there you go so let's click on
music and see what happens with our Josh
Turner CD so now you see it's playing
down there at the bottom oh look at that
and I think it's playing it's playing
out of my speakers locally right so my
laptop it's playing out of my laptop
speakers because that's where you're
loading it from though right so we tend
to think well if I push play it's gonna
play out of the pie so it needs to be
hooked up to a TV and no it's the device
that you are on so my laptop right now
is what is streaming it to those
speakers if I want to stream it on my
phone with a pair of bluetooth
headphones I can do that and I can be
listening to my music library that way
or if you're like me at home you've got
your Roku yes it's hooked up with the
plex app and you've got plex installed
on that so that's hot so we can listen
to our music all the time on our TV
wonderful a through sale system it's
great alright so let's take a look at so
if I actually click on the CD rather
than pressing play yeah it gives me a
tracklist it shows me what all is here
let's see how this that is cool
what's this Josh Turner on tour it even
shows me his tour dates how amazing is
that
oh and I've gotta bring up the screen
don't I go oh that's why her that that's
ok boom there we go don't worry folks
I'm just on the Josh Turner CD and it
shows me his tour dates March 4th and
today and today it is what the end of
February so
it's yes that's cool so it shows me
again
a bit of a description and the song list
everything else and I can click and I
guess I can create playlists based on
this play and it starts playing down at
the bottom here and it's gonna keep
doing it as I navigate like if I have it
playing and then I click on home movies
it's still playing oh ok so keep that in
mind too so here's my home videos and
you'll notice that what it's done is its
created thumbnails based on the videos
themselves so let's click on my wedding
and it is simply called our wedding
right so and it the date of the file is
2013 that's because that's when the file
I guess was created it's not actually
2013 it was 20 2001 when we got married
so if I push play here it's got a little
window down here and I click on that
there you go so when I was singing I was
even singing nice rocking it at my own
wedding oh there I am
this is back before the days of HD
cameras folks yeah so they didn't have
HD back then so that's why I look like a
raccoon you're so young I know right
okay
back in home movies again I can mark
things as watch but notice at the bottom
of that video it shows that we've
watched almost halfway right because you
yeah because I pushed play and that's
where I skip to so if I push play now
it's gonna pick up right where I left
off or I'll start from beginning so I
can actually click there and it will
continue right there oh my goodness
you're so yeah I know I was just
adorable
oh let's jump back into TV shows and
let's see how this looks in Stella now
again I only ripped two episodes of each
sees each series because I didn't have
the time to rip the holes discs but
there you go so you can see how it puts
it all together and if I click on it it
even gives me a description of that
episode Wow ok so again I'm in TV shows
I can click on Trollied then it shows me
the season and remember I had season 3
on desc
so that's the one that I ripped two
episodes from and if I click on it now
I've got the episodes episode 1 episode
2 if I click on one of the episodes I
can see a description of the episode
that's awesome how cool and then hit
play and instantly it starts playing now
remember here that it's not playing from
the Raspberry Pi it's playing on my
laptop right and it's like boom boom
boom lickety-split so Ken the Plex
PI handle HD video I mean this is this
is not quite you know 4k video throw
some 4k video and see how it does
they've done it I've yeah I've got some
at home yeah in another good how many
devices can you have access in the video
simultaneously that's a question that we
get quite a bit uh I'm trying to think
how many I've had all at once
I think you've maxed it out though like
you've seen the buffering or yeah I
think the most I've had is three and is
it a problem no no I don't think so
I mean well we had our daughter watching
some My Little Pony or something like
that I was watching one of my movies up
in my little pony yeah and then my wife
was was watching a show on our other TV
they were accessing through the
PlayStation it was great cool yeah no
issues that's another thing to mention -
I mean Netflix you have to pay for extra
devices yes I think it starts with like
three and then if you want more than
that you have to fit is it one it's one
it's one now Wow
so you have to pay more to get access to
it on more devices with Plex I don't
think there's a limit no I've never
encountered it essentially I mean the
limitation we have at home is based on
our bandwidth like just how much can our
router handle I mean really our entire
house is all hooked up it's everything
yeah and that's an interesting point too
because the Raspberry Pi 3 has Wi-Fi so
the temptation may be to use Wi-Fi to
run it your Plex by server should be
connected directly to Ethernet yep now
it may not even be your router but it
could be the
Ethernet port of the Raspberry Pi being
that it is only a hundred megabit yeah
that's just so that's a limitation of
the Raspberry Pi I don't I don't know
that that's gonna be a problem though no
this is worked for you for years oh yeah
ever since that episode so I mean it's
been two years yeah so and a lot of our
movies that we have that we've ripped
from our blu-ray we're not there okay
much higher quality I'm ripping DVDs so
they're right 480p some of them came in
at 720p I don't know if that was just
the settings I had or but I mean
we've got some big files like some of
our movies are like 10 gigs like so
they're mass and they're playing on your
PI they're playing on the PI mil props
and even with the downgrading because
like our TVs only 720 transcoding yes so
like it looks still looks right so
understand that's another feature of
Plex Pi and it's because of Plex Media
Server but your Plex PI server will do
this so you've got your Raspberry Pi you
stick a 4k video on there and you think
well I don't have a 4k TV so this is a
problem it's not because what happens is
is your Plex PI server transcodes it on
the fly so it instantly changes the
resolution of the file and makes it so
that it plays properly on your device
without having to change settings now
the other neat thing about that is it
also it changes the format of the file
yes you mentioned Roku yes Roku will not
play for example mp4 files natively
correct you might be able to play an mp4
file on your phone if you imported it
and had it on your internal SD card and
then you open the file it will play but
a Roku will not other devices have their
idiosyncrasies with regards to file
formats the Plex pie will automatically
stream it to any device doesn't matter
what format it is so if it's an MKV if
it's an mp4 avi some of our old family
videos are probably gonna be AV eyes and
things like that so it takes care of all
that for you now one thing that I really
loved about Plex is it it works like the
middleman so to speak we used to have
all of our like the movies that we had
ripped and all that we're on
hard drive when we were playing them
through the PlayStation there was an
upgrade of PlayStation so oh yeah while
ago yeah six years ago maybe wow it
would no longer play those videos
because they weren't it wasn't however I
wasn't it didn't have some sort of
signature and so this in an effort to
prevent piracy Oh play them okay so I
was like oh so we started looking at
other options we got a Western Digital
and the same thing happened there so
when we went to the Roku we use Plex
because it's running through the app all
of our files now play on the Play
Station because rope our the Plex acts
as the middleman right so it made our
PlayStation accessible isn't it
interesting that this makes your old
PlayStation work again yeah this makes
your current devices future ready
because even if a firmware update
changes things
this will continue to stream to your
device yeah it's it's beautiful I love
it is there anything else that that I
should be showing here Jeff I think this
kind of covers a good little run through
a lot at all how flex works so it's
pretty straightforward it automatically
checks for updates and does all that we
can check out the one final thing that
I'd like to do with our plex server here
is actually get onto our website
category 5 dot TV and scroll way down to
the very very bottom you know that's
where you'll find the button that says
subscribe
and there's Plex so get our Plex plug in
and when I click on that it takes me to
this page and it gives me some
information about how to do it alright
so we need to download this file ok boom
can I just copy it is there a way to
have you ever installed
have you ever installed a plug-in just
directly in Plex panels the channels yes
I don't install it don't think I
installed the category-five channel this
way ok all available plugins
it'll be nice once category-five is an
official plex plug-in because they'll be
available for us just by searching in
plex for now you've got to do it this
way so you would
you would download it extract it we
don't have enough time tonight to go
through it but I'd encourage you to get
over there to our website category 5 TV
click on to to the subscribe
icon at the bottom and then get the Plex
plug-in and it's really really
straightforward so you just need to
download that zip file unzip it rename
the folder move it to your plex media
servers plug-in folder which I can do
again by simply copying it over to my
USB flash drive and just follow the
prompts there launch with the channels
button and boom you're done and done
I'd love to have the time to show you
but it's it's really quite simple yeah
and that is because plex also supports
the channel architecture so you can add
shows like category 5 TV without ever
having to download the shows so it
streams just the episodes that you want
to see and again once that channel is
added to your Plex PI server
it is accessible on all of your devices
yes so yeah easy peasy
nice and simple I love that program yeah
that's life changer it really is I love
things like Netflix but having it on my
own kind of server and being able to
control the media yes brilliant yep the
kids love it the kids absolutely they do
they know how to use it so well it's
like it's really easy to use too easy
folks you can download the Raspberry Pi
image it's absolutely free cat 5 dot TV
no pardon me plex PI com I forgot we got
the com oh is that Plex PI calm download
the the image from there and you'll be
able to install that on an SD card and
boot it up and you'll be up and going
with Plex just like you saw tonight but
do watch for version 1.2 or higher so
if you're only seeing one point one just
wait we're just uploading one point two
so it'll be ready this weekend
[Applause]
