thanks for tuning in to category 5 TV
i'm your host Ravi Ferguson thanks for
coming along you've got a very busy show
ahead of us today and lots to do so
you'll remember from last week we're
working on a pc linux OS computer system
and our goal is to set up the system to
be able to virtualize we're going to
have a 3d rotating cube right now we've
just got to base a pc linux OS
installation so we're going to get
through that today and we've got to
really move along because we've got to
install windows XP onto one of those
cute faces so we have of course that's
going to take a little longer than the
installation of pc linux OS itself our
phone lines are open and you can just
call me up anytime throughout the show
we're on the air for one hour live at
wwt vref calm and of course you can call
us up at seven oh five seven three nine
1056 let's jump right over to the pc
linux OS computer and the first thing
that we want to do now we left off last
week we installed the the pc linux OS on
the system and we've installed the
drivers for the nvidia chipset graphics
card so today we're going to pick up
where we left off of course there was a
little bit of a problem last week I
fixed that don't worry about it it's
never happened to me before and it was
just a bandwidth issue that we were
running into because we were downloading
so many things at once and streaming the
the show at the same time so first thing
we want to do is just log right out of
our user session this is just a quick
nitty-gritty way to get that 3d desktop
installed and running on pc linux OS
so now we've gone over this last week
just bringing up the sessions menu and
we just want to pick break 3d and that's
going to allow us to configure your 3d
graphic environment so we're just going
to log in as our root user because again
we're going to be changing system
settings here and rather than jumping
into the regular desktop that we
normally see we see the 3d desktop
effects wizard here so we're just going
to turn on full 3d desktop effects which
is only available if you have hardware
and drivers that support it because
we've installed the nvidia chipset card
and the driver sport we can use native
support we don't have to install xgl or
anything like that and the default
option has already checked used barrel
that's going to be perfect for us
because that's going to give us that 3d
cube lots of great special effects on
the on the desktop and everything that's
automatically restarting now that I've
hit OK and now we just want to switch
back our session to KDE make sure we do
that otherwise every time you go to log
in you're going to be logging right back
into the the Drake 3d now log back in as
your root user ready here we go pc linux
OS with barrel now that's that going
white like that is when barrel is
actually activating there is a way that
we can we can avoid that if we'd like to
have barrel run after everything is
loaded now holding ctrl + Alt + in my
left mouse button that's all there is to
it now we can scroll around and we've
got a 3d desktop q not to mention we've
got some really great features such as
what they call the wobbly windows really
cool desktop effects you'll get used to
them and you'll never want to be without
them different things that other
operating systems just don't offer this
is all included in this operating system
that's absolutely free of charge
just a reminder that you can email me TV
at Ravi f calm and also visit our
website for our web forum and that is
wewt er ah BF calm got a few people
coming on right now feels excited that
we're using KDE today now speaking of
that Phil I should mention as well last
week I had made a mention the pc linux
OS was a debian based operating system
and to my surprise I found out today
when I was doing a little research that
I was absolutely wrong well not quite
wrong but it was actually it was built
upon the technology of the mangria
operating system so that was like the
derivative of Mandrake back when
Mandrake was around so but here's the
catcher is that they've also used source
code from gen2 opensuse fedora debian
and ubuntu so the operating system has
got some some of the core components now
of course the first few times that i
have installed pc when xos i've been
using apt-get so of course appy usually
just comes with the debian operating
system so i made that assumption that it
was debian-based but yes it is KDE and
it's man Riva base but it's got some
code from all different operating
systems so it's almost one in its own so
jumping right back to that again our
phone lines are open at seven oh five
seven three nine 10 56 we've really got
to move along today so what I've done
what we're going to do is we're going to
take a look at the vmware server Edition
software what VMware does is it allows
us to virtualize so our computer can can
run multiple operating systems
simultaneously through by running what's
called a virtual machine it's like a
pretend computer within your computer so
we all we're going to do is just type in
VMware
that's going to take us right to vm ware
com
let's jump over to our products page
here and just scroll down until we see
vmware server right there a reason that
we're going with the server version now
it's not going to be ideal for everybody
and it certainly it doesn't carry the
same multimedia benefits the VMware
Workstation carries however the vmware
server edition is absolutely free you
can download it you can try you can play
with it you can create your virtual
machines you can install windows XP into
linux and there is also a windows
version so if you'd like to do the
opposite if you'd like to try linux now
you can install Linux into windows
operating systems so the reason that
we're going with that that server
edition isn't for the feature set it's
just for the fact that it's absolutely
free so back over at the vmware server
website we're just going to click on
download here and then clicking on
download now I mean it's very
straightforward you're going to find
your way around now of course we've read
over all of this so we're just going to
say yes to that we're not going to read
it while we're live on the air now this
is the trick here is we need to know
what version we're looking for now
here's the windows version so that's
easy it's an executive will file and
then we've got vmware server for linux
so we've got basically two different
versions we've got the target gz the
that you would have to compile yourself
so you would decompress the source code
and then compile it so that would work
on ubuntu and in the operating system
that doesn't support rpms but this
operating system pc linux OS does use
the RPM system from andreeva so we can
just click on that binary RPM download
that to our desktop and that's not going
to be a problem we're going to be able
to install that without having to go
through the having to compile so now
I've already I've already download this
it's about 100 Meg's so we're not going
to take the time I've downloaded it to
the desktop here and we're just going to
double click on that RPM file now it's
never worked with our p.m. files before
so it's going to ask you what you want
to do so we're just going to type rpm
dash I for install dash F for file so
what's going to happen here is that that
command is going to proceed the name of
the file name so the actual command
being sent to our p.m. is I for install
dash F for file and then the file name
that you
they're on your desktop so now the next
thing that we have to click is run in
terminal because this is a terminal
application but we don't really need to
see that we can just hit okay so we are
running in terminal it's not going to
look like it's doing anything and then
as soon as it's done installing it's
going to vanish that wind up
so we'll see it doesn't take a whole
long time but again there okay it's done
so that is actually installed in your
computer now now this is where some
people get a little intimidated because
we do have to jump to console that's
basically the Linux equivalent to
Microsoft DOS so that's like your
command prompt where you have to enter
commands no but this is very very simple
so just follow along and you'll be able
to pick this up very quickly and of
course i'll post in the forum as well
these instructions so now that vmware
server is installed we can just use our
vmware config PL so that's vmware dash
config piya so you just type that
command in and then that's going to go
true it's going to automatically compile
VMware it's gonna ask you a whole bunch
of questions for which pretty much every
single question here we go where do you
want to install the mime types enter I'm
just going to keep pressing enter and
that's just going to keep on selecting
because pc linux OS is already laid out
with all the things that vmware needs
your CS your c compiler everything like
that you can just hit enter you don't
have to worry about can you know having
to find these things because they're
already laid out in the proper locations
so when vmware it goes to use the
defaults it's going to find exactly what
it's looking for so this is just a
process of just hitting enter several
times here we go remember our phone
lines are open at seven oh five seven
three nine 10 56 you can also msn main
TV at Ravi f calm okay that's all there
is to it now I should mention as well
when you're back over at the at the
vmware website you'll see up here now i
know you can't really see it on the
screen shot but if you bring up this
website yourself you'll see a button
that says register for your free serial
numbers again i've already done this so
you just enter your first and last name
it's just your information and this
gives you that free serial number so
that you have the right to install this
software so i've already done that it's
ready to go so now it's already
configured I just hide VMware and that's
going to pop up the vmware application
it's going to ask me where i want to
connect to so this is looking for a
server if you have a remote VMware host
you can do that but we're just going to
connect to the local host here
so our first window that we see is going
to be asking us for our virtual machines
so if we have one we can open it if we
want to create a new one you can do that
so I'm just going to do that let's
create a new virtual machine this was
going to sin and guide you through the
steps of creating a new virtual machine
will click Next do we want to use
typical or custom settings in this case
because it's our first time around we're
just going to typical do we want to
install microsoft windows linux novell
netware sun solaris or other we're going
with microsoft windows and then version
we've got this whole long list of all
the different versions of microsoft
windows that we could install including
vista and vista x64 as well as the
server operating systems but today we're
going to be installing the 32-bit
edition of windows XP professional so
now we just hit next it's asking us what
we'd like to call it we're just called
windows XP professional and it asks you
where you'd like to save it to I'm fine
with just the default location at this
point networking options you can play
around with once you get a little more
advanced but for now just used a brick
use a bridge Network that's going to
allow your virtual machine access to
your internet connection your resources
your internal network if you have shared
printers and things like that then it's
asking how big would you like your
virtual hard drive to be cool thing
about virtual machines is that
everything within the virtual machine is
virtual hardware so you can add virtual
ram let's say you've got a virtual
machine that has 256 megs of ram but
then you find okay we've installed
photoshop i'd really like to have a gig
of ram well as long as your host
computer can support that my computer
for examples got four gigs of ram in it
right now so if i put an operating
system in there I can easily allocate
one or two gigs of RAM because I know
that I don't really need that much all
at once so in this instance it's asking
us how big we'd like our hard drive to
be the default is 8 gigabytes but we can
set that as big as we want as long as
it's within the limits of our own
physical hard drive within the host
computer so if you've got a 60 gig hard
drive it would be pretty foolish to
install a virtual machine that's going
to use 55 gigs of that because that only
gives you five gigs for your your host
computer so we're just going to leave
that at the default of eight gigs
because we're just experimenting today
and we're going to disable the feature
that says allocate all disk space now
the reason that we're doing that is for
time constraints if you have the time
that you'd like to allow it to do that
when you're doing this yourself you may
want to leave that on and that will
actually allocate all of that space and
once so that you get increased
performance by not doing this what we're
doing is we're going to be able to
create this file quicker which is
perfect for the show but it's going to
basically the file that is your virtual
hard drive is going to grow as you fill
it with that with information within the
Windows operating system so now we've
got our windows XP professional virtual
machine ready to go it comes
pre-installed with 192 megabytes of RAM
an eight gig hard drive and we can
change any of those settings if we want
to change the size of the hard drive add
another hard drive we can change the
memory just by dragging the slider I can
go on this system which has 512 megs of
ram and and then of course swap space is
allowing me to go up to 7 52 of course
that's going to affect performance on my
host operating system I don't want to do
that so we'll just go with 192 megabytes
of RAM whatever it whatever it's giving
me that so we'll just get out of that
and then we're just going to power on
our virtual machine for the first time
and that's going to give us
our virtual machine Dahlia our message
that I just received was saying that I
don't have a floppy drive nuts because
there's not installed in the computer so
here we go it's booting from my windows
XP CD which I've already placed in the
drive and of course if you've ever
installed windows XP you will recognize
this right away there we are so now you
can see that we can spin this so we've
got our Linux and we've got our windows
XP installation but we want to get that
up to you know full screen that's quick
switch mode switch over to full screen
okay so we'll even quick switch for now
because that allows us just to pop
between the two operating systems really
simply and let's get back to here we've
got lots of questions to answer while
windows XP is installing so we'll just
get right on to that and of course I'm
on msn TV have Robbie f calm and the
same as for my email and you can visit
us online for the forums at TV IVF calm
they've got a question here from Tassos
who would like to know how hard or easy
it is to make a simple detector of
internet activity like when someone has
visited specific sites so I'm gathering
from the question taslitz that you're
asking about basically tracking hits on
your website finding a web pages are
getting the most the most hits
throughout your website that's very very
simple if you're using advanced language
such as PHP you can create that very
very simply but it's one of those things
why reinvent the wheel there's a program
from google called analytics and i'll
just pull that up to the link at the URL
google.com / analytics and that's
spelled aan a el y TI CS it's a free
service and that's phenomenal I mean you
just basically cut you add your website
to analytics you couldn't pace a
JavaScript code so of course because
it's javascript is going to run on HTML
PHP ASP it's going to run on anything if
you play it place that within your code
so you basically place that within at
the bottom of every page these days most
people are using a template anyways or a
frame for their site a theme so it's
usually just like one index page that
runs the entire site so in that case you
just paste it at the bottom and it
tracks what pages they're visiting where
they're from information about you know
how they found you refers including
search queries and things like that so
definitely a good way to go take a look
at that let me know if that works for
you if not we can look into other
options back at our windows XP
installation here just prompting us to
hit enter the tons of questions that we
have to go through for windows XP
installed i'm going to format the
partition quick ntfs
and we'll just let that go it's going to
start copying our windows files as well
to the hard drive for installation okay
looking at our next question got another
email here coming from Holly
and Holly is asking about her web camera
apparently it's not working unless she's
using msn okay it's the acer orbicam on
windows vista so it's no secret that
Windows Vista has had quite a few
problems being the new offering from
Microsoft one of the big things that's
been an issue is the webcam support what
I'd recommend that you try and I'm not
sure because you don't mention here in
your email what what's been done so far
but if you're watching right now feel
free to just drop me in msn or another
email just let me know if you've if you
pride different drivers but with the
acer orbicam acer themselves is actually
recommending that you try the logitech
drivers so I'm just going to pull up
that website so their support website is
HTTP colon slash slash so support dot
acer dash eurocom so that's basically
acer europe so acer dash Euro comm so
I'm just pulling that up now up the top
you see drivers and utilities and then
you can click here to find necessary
files right under driver downloads over
on the left you see they pull down for
acer aspire so you want to use your
model number so let's see what that is
and this is going to be the case with
any acer notebook that's using the the
orbicam so just punch in your model
yours is bas 9300 so over/under acer
aspire we're going to go a aspire 9300
so just scroll down a little ways both
three quarters of the way that's going
to take you to a page that offers you
windows XP and Windows Vista under
windows vista drivers and utilities
click on acer orbicam logitech and
that's going to give you the logitech
drivers for the orbicam make sure that
you now download those just save them on
your desktop or something but then
before you install them make sure that
you uninstall the ones that came with
your computer okay install this make
sure that everything is using your
webcam is is off and then install those
drivers allow it to detect your career
camera and let us know how it goes
alright windows XP is just copying files
over to that hard drive picture your
questions tasos and holly if you have
any more questions please feel free to
msn me a TV at Ravi f calm
got several emails coming in we'd love
to hear from people by phone 705 739
1056
he can Emma send your questions to TV
acts Ravi f calm or you can email the
same address visit us online at wwt
b.r.a.v.e calm today we're installing
windows XP professional onto pc linux OS
with the barrel project 3d on on pc
linux OS we're going to have basically
vmware with windows XP running on a cube
faced with in there so that system is
just about to reboot now
so now when this installs things when it
formats hard drives when you see it
rebooting the computer this is remember
this is rebooting a virtual computer so
you're not actually causing any damage
to your computer or rebooting your
computer when you do that now you'll see
that we're booting directly into windows
XP professional it's just still the
Installer as it will be probably for the
rest of the show we'll try to get that
up and running within the within the one
hour that we have any questions please
pawleys got one other question here
about a laptop hard drive that she's
trying to access with the USB and I
presume that she means and Holly correct
me if I'm wrong but so you mean that
there's a USB device that you are
connecting into the the bus of the hard
drive itself so like an adapter to allow
you to do that but the problem that
you're running into it is that there's
protection on it and you need to break a
passcode so in order for me to know more
I have to know kind of where you're
seeing that that prompt for a password
what you're what you're encountering
there it's um to be honest with you it's
probably not a good idea to be
experimenting with that kind of thing
just because of the potential of data
loss if there's something on the hard
drive that you might lose you might want
to have a qualified technician service
that just because you're working with
parts directly it should be done within
a static free environment and certainly
if you're going to be hot swapping it
back and forth between a USB port you
don't want to risk any damage to the
hard drive itself so but but let me know
a little bit more information about that
unfortunately I don't have enough to go
on based on your question sorry about
that
got a question coming in from Jean and
she's asking let's see here
Jean was set up another second computer
at home and has moved basically wants to
move her email upstairs onto the new
computer trying to move email contacts
documents pictures and files for
business to the new computer
after setting up the business email
account on the new computer she had sent
and received and the computer started to
receive 1700 emails lots of fun I have
you along download they date back to
January of 2006 emails were copies of
emails that she had already received in
the last year and a half okay so what it
sounds like is that you've got well
obviously your email is still sitting on
your server so there's two things that
could be going on the first is kind of
the most obvious is that it's possible
that you've been using webmail to access
that email server since January 2006 in
which case if you've been doing that if
you've been logging in through like a
squirrel mail panel or something like
that then the first time you connect
you're going to be getting all of those
emails that even though you've already
checked them within your web panel
you're going to be getting those on your
computer so the way if that's the issue
the way around that is rather than
setting up your account as a pop3
account on your new computer try setting
it up as an IMAP account that's going to
allow you to synchronize your computer
directly with the server so all the
emails that you've already read will be
marked as read so they're not coming in
as new emails and then what you do is
you just create a new folder on your
local folders on a look and then drag
all of that stuff into the local folder
so now you are moving it you're getting
it on to your new computer but it's it's
keeping all of the attributes so if it's
been read if it's been flagged if it's
been responded to those attributes are
going to be moved along because you're
connected through IMAP the first time
you connect to the imap because there's
1700 email it's going to take a little
while to synchronize all those emails
but I think that's going to be the best
way if that's the problem the other
instance is that if within outlook if
you're checking with outlook on the old
computer you might check in your tools
email accounts and then
go view or change existing email
accounts and then just bring up the
properties dialog to the account that's
in question and let's see here
I think it's it's under more settings if
you just click on more settings and then
off over to the Advanced tab you'll see
down at the bottom there's a delivery
option and the first check box says
leave a copy of the message on the
server so if that's checked on the old
computer then that would explain why
that's been going on as well so what you
can do to to resolve that is just
probably the best thing to do would be
just to check off the box that says
remove from server after 10 days is the
default just change it to one day and
then hit a send and receive and that's
going to remove everything off the
server but again if you want to move
those emails on to the new computer you
might rather do the imap thing first
just delete them off of the the old
computer so give that a go if you have
any more questions for me just drop over
to TV Ravi f calm
okay our windows XP is prompting here so
this is just standard windows XP
installation questions we need to set
our region information or currency so
we're going to choose English in Canada
our location is Canada rest is fine name
a product key here just grab that
and i'm just going to switch cameras
here we don't need any piracy going on
not that any of my viewers would do such
a thing typing in those microsoft
license keys is when you like to know
where the keys are hunting pack would
take you a while okay so now we're
moving along with the installation here
change our time zone and it's moving on
looks like we should have that set up
before the end of the show that's good
remember you can ask me or technical
questions live right now you can call us
up at seven oh five seven three nine ten
fifty six if you're watching this
pre-recorded after the fact just drop
over to our forums at wwt vver ovf calm
and you can also reach me by msn during
the broadcast TV at Ravi f calm love to
hear your questions love to help you out
we're just going to use some of the
typical settings here for microsoft
windows it tends to continually prompt
you for little things here and there
throughout the insulation so if you
leave the room you're going to find that
your installation has been halted so
when you're installing windows XP make
sure that you're keeping a close eye on
it
love to take your questions TV at Robbie
f calm any technological questions
whatsoever
as we're waiting for Windows XP to
install it would be nice to hear from
some people here
ok
you're watching category 5 technological
technology TV with Robbie Ferguson and
I'm here to answer any of your
technology questions all you have to do
is just drop me an msn at TV at Robbie
app com you can also email to the same
address or you can call 705 739 1056 and
ask your question live on the air
according to our Windows installation
we're looking at about 19 minutes left
I'd love to fill that up with some
questions if anyone has any in the
meantime once this is ready we're going
to have a fully working windows XP on
our pc linux OS desktop with barrel 3ds
and button 3d environment
alright well doesn't look like we're
taking any questions right now so let's
just pop back over to our Linux computer
here just for something to to show you
guys so now you can see the performance
here is excellent even though we're
looking at you know we're installing
windows XP we've got our 3d environment
going things like that a lot of the
performance is coming off of that video
card that's the nvidia 7600 card that's
in there so the 3d accelerator really
helps this out and having the latest
drivers also is a great thing because
that's you know what's giving us the
ability to run this without using xgl so
with pc linux OS and it's similar for
any linux environment there's always a
package manager for the desktop
environments and in pc linux OS the
program is called synaptic this program
allows us to easily install pretty much
I mean there's there's just a vast
number of Linux applications so once
this loads up your your package lists
like all of the list of all the programs
that are available it will give you an
ability to search to scroll through by
category let's say we want to look up
the game or something like that we can
just drop over two sections here and
it's the greatest thing because
everything and we've discussed this
before but with Linux a lot of stuff is
accessed just through the web so you're
not having to insert discs or CDs and
things like that and because most of the
programs are free you can pretty much
just that you know find what you want
install it and start using it so let's
say for example let's just add a puzzle
game or something
and I don't know how to play it but
let's do Sudoku sodoku is it consumed
oku just because that seems to be a
popular one so
and I'm accidentally clicking on things
here so
working with a screen captures a little
difficult okay so let's say su doku I
think that's the pronunciation i'm just
going to right click on that and market
for installation so i'm in games puzzles
and there's a couple of options there
and i'm just going to apply those
changes so if I'd like to see it's going
to show me what's going to be installed
its program called que su doku and then
I can just apply that so now that's
going to download that game right off of
the internet it's installed it for me
it's configuring it supplying the the
changes to my menu things like that and
this goes for basically any program that
you'd like to install so you can see the
kind of the ease of you know because it
uses the internet it's very very
straightforward
ok so that is now installed so I can
close out of synaptic
okay so games puzzles que su doku so you
can see it's already added it to my menu
under games and puzzles so it's very
well organized you can find what you're
looking for really easily and you don't
have all the you know there's just the
program itself you don't have the
addition of you know the uninstaller the
readme all of that stuff that you may be
used to
they're all different options here
so you can see how simple that is just
to install a basic program and that goes
for anything whether you're installing
office packages drivers things like that
it's often quite simple
if you have any questions within the
four guards to any form of Technology
just drop on to our website at TV Robbie
f calm there's a link there to email me
directly you can also msn me TV at
Robbie f calm as my msn address and I'd
love to hear from you have any questions
we also have opened up a special live
phone line if you'd like to call in and
be heard live on the air it's 70 5739
1056 during the broadcast we're on the
air for another 22 minutes and I'd love
to hear from you any questions
whatsoever dealing with technology this
is a free service that we're offering
and category 5 is just so that basically
been designed so that you can if you
have any technological questions you can
call in to a professional technician
namely myself and how these questions
answered have no charge to you so we'd
love to hear from you tonight
we've got about eight minutes remaining
on our windows XP installation so that's
coming along quite nicely
you can see how we can just switch the
view there what I did is I just made it
fullscreen and that's a you know
instantly you don't have to change any
settings or anything like that it's just
a click of a button virtual machines are
excellent not only for I mean looking at
it practically if you run a server let's
say your business needs to have multiple
different servers running so you can
just rather than purchasing multiple
servers we can fill one power horse
server something like a dual xeon or
something along those lines depending on
your needs of course the using
virtualization technology we can have
four or eight simultaneous operating
systems running at any given time and
each operating system as far as it's
concerned is its own server it shares
the resources beautifully on the vmware
product is able to use the
virtualization technology VMT systems
and it's also able to tap into the power
of multiple core systems and you can
even have dual processor operating
systems running within your virtual
machine so the virtual machine is
actually utilizing the power of two
processors so that's in a business sense
that obviously makes practical sense
it's going to save you a lot of money
because you're only looking at software
expenses hardware you're just going to
be upgrading one server if you need to
upgrade your entire basically network of
servers in a residential sense what can
be done there if you want to be let's
just using an example you want to be
running Linux even if only as an
experiment just to see what it's like
you want to try something new so you can
run Linux is your core operating system
and then you know you may have some
windows applications Photoshop is a
great example where you may want to be
able to still use that but you're you
know you you can't really transition the
Linux and that's holding you back
because of the fact that you can't have
photoshop in linux / say no and we're
not getting into how to install
photoshop into linux because it can be
and things like that but just looking at
practically from from Al a man or from a
beginner standpoint it's really really
easy to set up a virtual machine within
your Linux environment just as we're
doing here and then you'll be able to
anytime you need photoshop or any of
those windows applications I use it for
my video production when i'm doing DVD
production thing it's just because i
purchased windows DVD production
software before i started using linux
and so you know I've always just you
know rather than purchasing new software
or or making the switch it's just when
I'm comfortable with so that's what I've
done so you can do the same where you
can boot into your Linux use it for your
day-to-day use but then when you need
photoshop or your DVD production suite
or whatever it is you can just boot into
microsoft windows right on say a cute
face so then you can switch around and
it gives you a lot of productivity so
we've got about three minutes left of
this installation now it should be noted
that virtual machines are not good for
gaming at this point and I say that you
know it's kind of a tongue-in-cheek
statement because it can be done VMware
Workstation edition now we're installing
the server Edition today the workstation
Edition supports much more in the way of
multimedia I use that edition of VMware
to power FL Studio 7 and I'm able to run
my my basically audio production suite
in real time with absolutely no lag and
no no clipping or anything like that so
it runs better actually than it did
natively on windows XP so it can be done
but specifically using virtual machines
as for is going to be more for standard
applications it's not necessarily for 3d
because 3d is going to run into some
problems in that instance if you're a
gamer and you still want to try linux
what can be done is what's called a dual
partition system and what that means is
that you would install windows and linux
simultaneously on the same hard drive so
we're virtualization you can be running
them both at the same time so you have
both linux and we
those running at the same time on
different cube faces as opposed to that
a dual partition system when you turn on
your computer you'll actually choose do
you want to use Windows or do you want
to use Linux and you can only run one or
the other but you could just have a dual
partition with windows XP and Linux and
then within Linux have a virtual machine
with windows XP so that for gaming you
can boot into your windows XP by itself
but for photoshop and things like that
you could move into Linux first and then
into Windows XP just a couple of five
starters for you and of course if you
have any questions about virtualization
or anything that I've said on the show
today feel free to just visit our forums
at Triple WTV Ravi f calm that's exactly
what the forms are forced so that after
the show is finished and it's been and
it's been put on on the archive you'll
be able to comment ask your questions
and things like that even if you were
unable to watch it live ok looking at
our windows XP box we're ready to go the
installation looks like it's complete
just resize in the window
and here we go booting up into windows
XP on Linux for the first time
feel free to msn me your questions at TV
ad ravi f calm or call me up at seven oh
five seven three nine ten 56
all right windows XP is ready to go just
going to click Next a few times do our
networking configuration we're not going
to register we're not going to turn on
automatic updates are registered today
so there we go it runs within the
virtual machine within linux and in real
time now when we when we're using our 3d
cube the keystrokes are ctrl alt and
then rotate your window so when you do
that within the server Edition it seems
it's going to pull you away from that is
it from full screen it's not a big deal
you can always switch right back control
alt is also your escape character but
when we escape out of windows it's some
dropping us out of full screen so there
we are so we've got windows XP installed
directly onto a cube face and that's as
easy as it was I mean you've seen it
step by step through the whole process
none of this has been can none of it's
been I mean the only thing that I did to
speed things up really was download
vmware ahead of time so that was just
sitting on our desktop ready to go but
this is a true windows XP installation
so everything that you would expect in a
real windows XP this is it because this
is Windows XP so you can configure that
up however you like
now if you ever get the VMware
Workstation addition there's there's
lots of other features as well as like
snapshots are a wonderful thing they
allow you to basically take a take a
snapshot of your virtual machine in that
if anything ever happens to that if you
get a virus within windows XP in your
virtual machine you can revert to the
snapshot and then it will allow you to
it will basically undo anything that's
happened between the time the snapshot
was taken at the time that you that you
clicked on it so with the server Edition
you can take a single snapshot and that
will do the same thing but you can only
take a single snapshot I believe unless
they change that since the last time
I've used in server edition but with
workstation this edition it is seems to
be unlimited you can just keep taking
snapshot after snapshot and and
continually add to them so if you have
any questions I'd love to hear from you
at 70 5739 1056 you can email me or msn
me at the same address TV ad Ravi f calm
when you clicked on your virtual machine
one of the things that you'll notice is
that you're most kind of tends to get
trapped in there you can't hit outside
of that and that's again you want to hit
your control off which releases your
mouse back to Linux so now my mouse is
belongs to linux and you can see the
mouse cursor still sitting there for
windows but then when i click on the
windows area i regain control of the
windows mouse cursor and then again to
get back control and alt gives me back
my linux mouse cursor so now if you'd
like to we can jump back here we can go
and create another new virtual machine
we can keep installing virtual machines
and then we get these tabs up here in
quick switch mode that allows us to
switch you know if you wanted to have
windows XP professional let's say you
run a company where you're providing
tech support for various operating
systems you could have a tab for windows
XP professional windows 98 windows 2000
basically any of the core operating
systems so that you can be providing
support somebody calls you up and says I
need support on this operating system
you can just open her up
so general commands for barrel control
and all left mouse click is going to
allow you to spin your cube and we've
discussed that you've got your special
effects for your window opening and
things like that
and those are just you know they're
controlled just like you would expect
there's some other cool things like if
you hold in your alt key you're going to
be able to drive this without having to
grab the top bar here and you can drag
it right around the cute
so productivity wise if you've got a lot
of programs open you can start to
utilize all four desks as well as how
your windows XP operating system if
that's necessary if you need that but
then when you're not using this you can
just shut it down
Lord lady is asking how she can obtain a
screenshot of something that she's
viewing online basically that will
depend on let's see what operating
system she's running
in the linux get set it's quite
straightforward and I'll hold that up on
our pc linux OS system here
basically you just push the print screen
button and that's going to ask you where
you want to save your screenshot to it's
that simple could not be easier in Linux
again anything that you have open you
press the Print Screen button which
every keyboard hands and that just asks
you you know you want to save it do you
want to copy to clipboard do you want to
print it let's go back to okay now lower
lady is running windows XP so
I'm just kind of inquiring about what
kind of stuff she's running there
let's pull up our windows XP
it's been a long time it's funny that I
have not done a screenshot in windows XP
for a very long time
well the quick nitty-gritty way is now
obviously there's software to do it I'm
just checking if print screen does
anything in windows XP in the listing
but you can you can assault program that
will do screenshots for you and of
course one is a graph genuine image
manipulation program GIMP which is just
online hat I believe that they're
confirmed yeah wwm org if you just
download that it's available for Windows
and Linux when you go file a choir
screenshot and that's very very quick
just gets it done for you and then you
can edit the image as well so hope that
helps but what I'll do Lord and I tend
to do this just because I don't know a
quick really really quick answer to that
just because i've been using linux for
so long I've never needed to do a
screenshot on windows for probably ten
years now so so i'll i'll look it up and
all I'm sure there's just a really quick
little utility that we could just put in
here in your tray or something and i'll
put that up in the forum at tgif calm so
i'll keep an eye on that it'll probably
be up tonight ok any more questions just
grab me a msn message at TV at Robbie f
calm
if you have any questions with regards
to technology all you have to do is eat
email me or msn via the same address as
TV ad Ravi f calm or you can call us up
and be featured live on the air at 70
5739 1056 this is a free service
category 5 technology TV with Robbie
Ferguson and I'd be happy to answer any
technological questions that you have
for me we've got about six minutes left
of the show tonight and of course if you
if you miss your chance tonight what you
can do is pop on over to our website at
WOWT vref calm and click on the forum
all right we're always happy to help you
out answer your questions if we can
okay you know it's been so long it
really has been a long time since I've
done screenshots in windows and what we
need to do when you push the print
screen it's actually going to copy that
to your clipboard so let's just pull
this up here I'm just looking at our our
new virtual machine that we created here
when I just brought up Internet Explorer
so just going to try this I hit print
screen and then let's bring up say
their paint actually do for us edit and
paste and there we go so there's our
screenshot it's not quite as quick as on
linux but it's obviously fairly simple
so you can just create that so now that
I've pasted it into paint you can just
go file save as and paint since XP I
believe has the JPEG function so you can
save that as a JPEG alright so that's a
lot quicker for you Laura I'm sorry I
didn't have that readily available i
know it's such a silly question that's
just been so long since i've done that
not one of those common things they've
done run windows XP
any other questions drop me an msn
message at TV at Ravi f calm you can
also email the same address or give me a
call at seven oh five seven three nine
10 56
lori's just asking about paint shop yeah
that would be fine paint shop will have
the same feature where you can paste
into a new image or whatever like that
but when I brought up paint that's just
because this is a fresh install of
windows XP that we're looking at so we
haven't installed anything like paint
shop paint is a program that comes with
Microsoft Windows so windows XP so yeah
you can you to paste that into any
program that supports image pasting you
could probably even pace not directly
into word if you like so and then
stretch it and resize it and things like
you're watching category 5 technology TV
with Robbie Ferguson I'm a technologist
from Barrie Ontario and I'd love to
answer your questions the service is
provided free of charge you can call us
up at seven oh five seven three nine 10
56 or you can also msn TV at Robbie F
com you can visit our website at triple
WTV short for television at Robbie f
that's short for Ferguson calm you only
got a few minutes left to our show today
I'd love to take a couple more questions
if anyone has any what we've
accomplished so far in the past two
shows is that we've installed pc linux
OS which is a linux operating system
which we discovered is based on meander
eva as well as has some source code from
multiple other linux distributions and
then on top of that we've installed
vmware server which is a free
virtualization technology from vmware
and you can download that i'm going to
be posting the links and everything up
on our on our website at triple WTV
robbie f calm within the next 12 hours
or so and then on top of that within
vmware server we've installed windows XP
professional so now we've got our pc
linux OS running with the barrel 3d
plugin and that's giving us the 3d
environment so here we are with windows
XP running within our 3d pc linux OS
very straightforward if you follow the
show you'll be able to basically do all
that yourself and if you had run into
any problems or if you have any
questions about virtualization anything
that we've covered on the show just
visit triple WTV Ravi f calm and click
on the forum and that will be open to
you for any questions that you have with
regards to tonight's show
but I wraps up this episode episode
number two of category five technology
TV don't forget to visit us online at
triple WTV ivf com thanks for joining us
today and hope you have a great night
you
