welcome to new everyday I'm Jeff Wesson
and that good-looking guy over there
good morning screws oh well thank you
thank you for that I'll take it's not
even my birthday
what do you know friends we do have an
exciting show for you we have some
special guests with us our good friends
Jeff and Renato Walton who are real live
missionary right now appointed to the
village of hope in Malawi Africa and so
we're gonna learn about who they are how
they got to be missionaries their
transition in life from Canada Oh into
Africa we're gonna learn the value of
prayer and much more this is new every
day with Jeff Weston and Laurence Cruz
as a teenager I remember hearing
missionaries talking about their work a
village of hope and thinking to myself
and I would love to do that someday it
was a big step to take our four very
small children to Malawi and to ask him
to use us we were just regular people
and we felt God calling us to learn how
to live by faith
kkoma is a community that is very
vulnerable many of the children living
in the community come from broken
families that leaves the community at
such a disadvantage when most of the
children are being parented by only one
adult and that's not even counting the
orphans what we do is provide
opportunities for quality education we
have a healthy feeding program every day
where the children receive a very
nutritious meal and we have a health
care program so if kids get sick or have
some other health care need they're able
to access that through village of Hope
village of Hope has a wonderful way of
partnering with families so that the
needs of their children are met while
maintaining respect and dignity
and to give these families the
opportunity that they wish their child
would have anyways the future ability
for Malawi is really exciting in the
last year we've bought a new piece of
land it's about three acres the reason
we are developing the land is because
the program is growing the the people
are already there the children are
already there and now we're working to
get caught up with the buildings that we
need to support them every day it's
worth it
the constant things that we have to deal
with the sweating the working the
striving it's here's the challenges to
know that a family is staying intact
because the village of Hope is just
incredible friends it's so good to have
Jeff and renata Walton with us today
they're our good friends from Malawi
Africa we're gonna dive into the world
of missionaries we have some real live
missionaries with us here today and boy
how did they get there
like why are they still there what do
they do what does the missionary do
anyway we're gonna discover all of this
and more today on our show so thanks so
much for being here now for anybody who
doesn't understand what a missionary is
they they're going are I have to fill me
in first off what is your job
description what would you say you are
as a missionary I guess I would have to
say that a missionary is just someone
who says yes to what Jesus asks us to do
us as Christians and in our context that
is an orphan care program in Malawi and
through a village of Hope we provide
health care education nutrition and
discipleship so that is what our job
description is as a missionary in the
context we're in excellent now before we
get into what all you're doing in
village of hope and
and all the exciting stuff that God has
been making happen through you and your
ministry which I can't wait to get to I
want to go right back to the beginning
before you jump down this road to say
we're going to become missionaries there
has to be a point where God puts that
little inkling in your heart that says I
have something planned for you
I created you for a purpose and I want
you to dive into that purpose and you
might not know what it is but when was
that moment for the two of you as a
couple or did it come individually how
did you get to that point where you said
I think this is where we need to go okay
that's a great question because that
applies to every one of us doesn't it we
who follow the Lord we've said yes we
want to do what he wants us to do it's
like and it can seem like a great big
step to get there well we understand
that that it is a big step sometimes and
yet people are doing it fascinated to
hear what you've got to say to that yeah
I guess I can jump in on that one as a
teenager really is when I started to
feel the call pretty strong in my life
to missionary service and I think we're
not it was a little bit later though she
was already planning on engaging in
full-time ministry for her she didn't
realize we'd be flying halfway around
the world quite at that point but yeah
as a young teenager in youth group
seeking Jesus asking him what was next
for me what pursuits I should have
that's when I really felt like okay
Jesus can actually use somebody like me
and and that's where it all really
started for for uh for me okay so it's
in the youth group in a local church
somewhere yeah what did you hear a
message was it where you're reading a
book
was it the influence maybe of a
relationship from a worker a pastor you
know well how did you get to that point
where you thought hey even me would you
remember was it a specific time yeah
in fact I was I do remember I was on the
phone with my lovely wife who at that
time was just my lovely girlfriend I
know I wanted to ask a little bit of it
okay that'll be another show anyway back
to the missionary story oh really
it was talking together about our hopes
and dreams for life that I really
finally heard clearly from the Lord that
he wanted to use me so you must have
been well into your adult years already
or well old were you at this point I had
just finished high school so like 17
turning 8 so long yeah somewhere there
all right so yeah from there it was just
a matter of planning out my education
and getting trained with proper theology
and also engaging with a cross-cultural
bent on what I was learning so that I
could just know better how to engage
cultures outside of my own Canadian
culture and and better relate to the
people that God would would leave me to
some some day down the road yeah amazing
okay now did you guys as a couple jump
into it
right away was there a period of time
where you know he kind of got married
you did your own thing just to you know
explore this new adventure of you know
being newlyweds or was it right from the
get-go this is what we're pursuing and
that was a driving factor yeah I knew
right from the beginning of our marriage
that that this would be a goal a plan
and we had five years and we gave God a
timeline organized
and yeah so within that time we wanted
to pay off debt and buy a house and have
a kid or two and by the time we actually
got onto the field it was about nine
years into our marriage okay and four
kids okay so four kids did that make the
decision to become missionaries that
much harder to be able to take a family
into you're not just newlyweds with no
other responsibilities you've got four
people here's another way to ask that
question
are you nuts you must have heard that
you're doing what with these kids you're
going we're right yeah we did hear that
a lot and the first time we came to
Canada on home assignment I remember
seeing our prayer card on someone's
fridge from when we had first left right
and I looked at that with that tiny baby
and I thought those people are crazy
that was your picture and you know a
friend of mine said well to be honest I
thought you were crazy yeah and we
didn't get a lot of people actually
saying it to us when we were leaving but
I think a lot of people were thinking it
but just to answer just question you
know did it make it harder
the truth is we had known from a young
age before getting married even that
this was something God had put into our
hearts and so we just had to trust him
that whoever else came along with us
however many they would also that he
would care for them the same way knew we
knew he would care for us right and I
think like I'd even say in some ways it
made the decision easier as crazy as
that sounds because we wanted our kids
to see us living out our faith and we
really did believe that God would keep
them safe and keep us safe and be with
us through any
adversity we faced and we wanted to live
a life where we were trusting God daily
and we wanted our kids to be part of
that right okay now before we get into
the transition of going to Africa I know
that for yourself Jeff there was kind of
a pinnacle moment where in that journey
that was five years that turned into
nine where there was a bit of a struggle
so to speak with God are you still going
to do this well I want to hear a bit
about that sure yeah you know I remember
those days so clearly and I had entered
into a career as a plumber I was working
for a great company I was making good
money and I loved my work and I remember
we were actually looking at upgrading
our house we just had a town house we
were wanting to get like a bungalow it
some more space and we really just came
to this point we really felt the Lord
saying to us reminding us of those
earlier dreams and saying you can go
down this path of the Canadian dream and
and during your career and that sort of
thing but what about what I spoke to you
about as a young man and are you ready
to engage that life and that was a that
was a turning point and so around that
same time our church did a missions trip
to the Dominican Republic and I was on
that team and I had the privilege of
preaching in a church down there
pastor Lawrence he was on that trip with
me and after the service the missionary
who was there just came up and said I
just feel like the Lord saying to me
this verse and I don't know what it's
about and I have no idea what's going
through your your life and
but it comes from the book of Mark and
Jarius comes to Jesus and his daughter
is sick and story you know she's begging
Jesus come please come and help my
daughter and on the way Jesus runs into
that lady who is bleeding and he stops
to help her and you know he turns to
Jairus and he says to him don't be
afraid just believe and it was just
those simple words that totally rocked
my world because I was so full of fear
and worried and concerned for my family
my career I was giving up a lot but when
when that missionary who knew nothing
about me
I told me that they felt God wanted me
to know that it just quieted all of
those fears and totally gave me the
strength that I needed to take the step
with my family of investigating hey what
happens if we really do become
missionaries so awesome that's quite a
story do you remember that like what's
your perspective Renata when Jeff was
going through that you were going
through it yeah I think I had been
waiting for a long time waiting for him
to be ready yeah and when he went on
that trip we only had two children and
the youngest one was just about four
months old and so when he came back he
said okay it's time let's start filling
out paperwork and making application to
become missionaries and I just felt
relieved yeah because we had been
weighing the options right to me do we
stay do we go and just to have that
other missionary just doing her normal
day-to-day life speak that word that she
definitely heard from God to give to
Jeff that just calmed all of the
concerns that he was feeling it was such
a relief I felt relieved that finally
okay
and we can go now interesting yeah thank
God now we're gonna take a quick break
and when we come back we're gonna hear
about that transition from life in
Canada moving to the wilds of Malawi
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap v dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts well we're back with our
friends missionaries Jeff and Renato
Welton now you need to know something
about Jeff
it's j:e it's only one f-friends and he
tells us do you know how much time in my
life I'm gonna save over not writing
that extra F and a and Inc well I see
so that's who you've got with us here
today we're thrilled to be learning
about the real life of real life
missionaries Jeff and renata that's Jeff
with one F I've got to have some Jack
hey another check of how much time I'm
wasting in my life now before the break
we were talking about the call into
ministry the call into missions and that
pinnacle moment where God said don't be
afraid I've got this and so as a family
with four kids in tow and young and I
think your youngest was what two months
at the time yeah yeah so you pack
everybody up you sell off all your
possessions I mean I remember the the
garage sale and the hey does anybody
want this and you know it was such a
altering of your life in order to
take that leap of faith and trust God
you know to get on that plane and then
get off and be devoured by lions you
know in Africa
what was that perspective like and did
you get eaten by line you're looking
pretty good yeah I mean it's a huge
transition to go from the cold Canadian
weather to the very hot Malawi and
sunshine and you know my job before I
left Canada was in administration and
going to Malawi is in administration so
those things were fairly similar it's
just the cultures could not be more
different so trying to understand learn
a new language so many things that you
know we hadn't really understood when we
got on the plane quickly became reality
when we got off the plane even with all
of the preparation there was lots of new
was there yeah interesting okay so what
was the biggest challenge in the first
couple of days was it simply language
barrier was it that separation from home
and all that is familiar like because I
mean I think back to before the break
when God said don't be afraid you know
you step off that plane and there's
there's legitimate fear because of the
unknown and one was that biggest
challenge that you had to face as
missionaries I think like some of just
the obvious ones like transportation
there we are six people we don't have a
vehicle big enough to get us around
there was a pickup truck that we could
drive but it wouldn't fit all of us and
then we had to find a vehicle and buy it
and leave our kids alone with a family
friend had come with us and thank God
for her but still we're leaving them
alone in Africa we don't know what's
what to expect really and that was hard
for me not to mention I was the one
driving a standard on the other side of
the road
well you were used to the other side of
the road stuff anyway okay that also is
another show okay there you go yeah so
here I am shifting with the other hand
trying to navigate the roads this you
know there's no electricity half the
time so the street lights aren't turned
on there's roundabouts there's no stop
signs at four-way junctions you know
it's a bit of an every man for himself
sometimes on the roads and that was that
was hard like getting used to that it
was sink or swim yeah I just think - it
was the hottest time of the year when we
arrived and that sounds kind of a like a
whiny thing to say but with tiny
children and trying to help them adjust
to those temperatures sure was a
challenge but Jeff made an observation
that really especially those first few
weeks we felt carried like we really
felt that the prayers of God's people
we're carrying us through these times
and Jeff said you know so many we know
so many people are praying for us and I
think we do ourselves a disservice by
focusing prayer I'm you know these
pinnacle moments if we prayed for each
other the way we pray for a new
missionary when they leave can you
imagine the the victory that Christians
would be able to enjoy every single day
because even we went through those
challenges but we saw time and time
again that God provided he answered he
protected he cared it was just it was an
unbelievable feeling that I've never
experienced before or since of just
having a real sense that we were being
carried by the prayers of God's people
we're not you you bring something to my
memory now is you I grew up in church
listening to these stories of
missionaries just like you and someone
would be wakened in the middle of a
night usually because of a time change
or something like that
and I remember being impacted because
they were saying they were they were
awakened they were compelled to pray and
if I'm not mistaken that has recently
happened to you yes can you tell us
about that
sure so I was in a in a very rural
location driving in Malawi and a car had
come very close to my car and I swerved
out of the way and he went off the road
and I was with a number of my co-workers
and they said oh it's it's fine let's
just continue like there's no accident
he went off the road but his car is fine
so we carried on and we kept driving and
it must have been 45 minutes later that
driver of the truck had gotten onto a
motorcycle and had overtaken us on the
road and stopped his motorcycle in front
of my car and jumped out of or jumped
off of the bike onto my van pounding on
the windshield yeah he jumped right onto
the hood and it was terrifying
I can't it's hard to explain but I after
I got home you know I had a real sense
that I don't know how it will end up but
I know I will be safe and I will be in
my own bed tonight
and I got an email from just you know an
average guy who works as a church
janitor down in another city here and he
said I woke up in the middle of the
night at this time because I needed to
pray for you and I'm not kidding you it
was the same day that all of this was
happening and you know I actually just
saw him this past weekend and he said I
just want you to know I haven't had any
middle-of-the-night promptings yeah the
Lord he uses the body to protect us and
to keep us safe and it's just been
amazing and I'm hearing you say Renata
just how important it is to have that
prayer support you're watching today you
may have wondered I could never do what
Jeff and Renata are doing well that
might be true and yet maybe you could be
the one but I'll tell you what
you know you can do and I can do this as
you can say Lord I'm willing to pray for
these missionaries and through
relationship with missionaries I've
learned it's not just a cliche
it means the world of difference it can
be the difference between life and death
and you watching right now you're
willing to have the Lord speak to you
and pray well go ahead and do it and
here's you mate saying well how do I
know I'll tell you what if someone comes
to your mind you go ahead and call out
to God on their behalf because it won't
be the devil put in that urine in your
heart and when you cry out to God you're
gonna be part of God's kingdom part of
his plan of making somebody else's life
fantastic prayer does make a difference
absolutely absolutely and with all that
you have gone through in this experience
of you know giving up the life in Canada
and becoming missionaries in a foreign
country you know just before we wrap up
today's show is there a you know a story
or you know some sort of anecdotal piece
that kind of brings some you know some
delight to the situation you know
whether it's something you know funny or
just a real victory moment some of the
made you go that's why I'm here you know
is there anything just to finish this
off on a high note that way well we have
so many I'll start by saying that and oh
yeah I'll tell a recent story we had a
team come from Canada and it was pretty
hectic busy lots of things going on and
I remember I was driving to the center
and it's in a slum location so the but
right around a tower built these very
large homes that have been basically
built with stolen money and I remember
driving by them and thinking just that's
discouraging you know just garbage
everywhere oh that's discouraging and
you know so much poverty and feeling
really heavy in my spirit and I got to
the center at village of Hope which is
at actually at a local church and all
the doors were shut and it was
totally quiet and I opened the door and
inside were about 70 children sitting
down eating their porridge for the
morning and it was like every burden
that I had picked up on the way there
just fell off because I was reminded
again this is why we're here
it's not about these bad things are the
terrible things and yes there are all
kinds of pressures and you know just
sinful things going on but to see those
children in that moment just quietly
everyone eating together it was just
beautiful
that is great all right well we got to
wrap it up for today but we want to
continue this conversation next week
with the Waltons we want to hear where
God is taking them hear a little bit
about what they're doing now with
village of hope and all the exciting
opportunities that are presented
themselves so you don't want to miss it
join us next week thanks for being here
I'm Jeff Renata Jeff with one out and
Lawrence with a with one L catch a new
episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku cody plex youtube
google play music podcasts and
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
[Music]
you
