here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
jawbone is shutting down to pursue
medical tech the world's first
glasses-free holographic phone is coming
and you'll never guess who's releasing
it there's now a self-driving transport
truck that doesn't even have a spot for
a human driver disappointment as intel
plans to cut jobs from its iot division
a german computer company is spinning a
new version of ubuntu to include on
their computers and update your linux
distro immediately the new PG crypto
library has been cracked these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you alright you're a
terrible actor what this where acting
comes into play I don't know where our
thing you're supposed to act ok fair
enough I mean building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website it's sure how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it well we've got an amazing
deal for you for a very limited time cap
5 dot TV / dream host for just $5 and a
bit of change per month you are going to
get unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own calm
guys to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash
dream host still ahead of a paper start
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find 5 dollars and change per month put
a cap 5 dot TV / dream host
I'm stashing tomatoes in here the top
stories for the week of July 12 2007
themes in May of last year's speaker and
fitness tracker company jawbone and in
production of its fitness trackers and
started seeking a buyer for a speaker
business leading to speculation that the
company was going out of business
jawbone denied claims that it was
shutting down and plans to pivot to
medical products for direct sale to
clinical practitioners but that may not
have panned out as the information
reports that the business is officially
shutting down jawbone has reportedly
started liquidation proceedings and
notices have been sent out to its
creditors jawbone co-founder and CEO
Hussein Raman has moved on to a new
company called jawbone health hub that
is designed to make health related
hardware and software services many
existing jawbone employees have already
transitioned to the new company jawbone
health will reportedly service existing
Javal products which may allow existing
jawbone customers to get help with their
devices jawbone has been ignoring
customer service requests for several
months making customers unhappy
starting in January Javal and customers
were unable to contact jawbone support
and it did not receive responses to
service requests for faulty products
that's unfortunate especially because I
thought about jawbone when I use ister
yeah I I liked it I liked it that makes
me a little sad in that they were one of
our early partners on the show jawbone
was you know one of our first big
sponsors and we loved working with them
so I'm so I'm sorry to see them go guys
if they're going into a medical field
who knows what will develop from there
but I don't know that they would
liquidate their company if they were
planning to continue supporting it
really what did you say that they were
looking to use existing products they're
liquidating the company they're
liquidating okay maybe maybe I misheard
you so I mean you can buy something and
it just won't be supported like right I
love their Bluetooth headsets but oh
they were the best yeah yeah you know
the one thing that I thought was
interesting is their name is Java
they're going to health it almost sounds
like there should be a dental company
that's right it stems from their
original headsets that's right with a
little round and a standard microphone
which picks up all the noise around you
when you're biking or doing right
exactly
it came in contact with your jawbone and
would sense the vibrations so as you're
talking forget it gets rid of all the
background noise and I came this close
after after I just I bought a Bluetooth
headset for my for biking and my sister
couldn't hear me she said all I can hear
is Wayne microphones it's a microphone
and then you attack well what about a
jawbone and I came very close to being
okay fine a javo and all I won and now
this story yeah we can still buy one
it'll still work yeah right it's just
you know if it breaks you can't revive
too at home there's no warranty or
whatever right right
true mm-hmm read the company that makes
for professional digital cameras for
shooting Hollywood movies is making a
holographic phone called the hydrogen
the company is touting the hydrogen is
the world's first holographic media
machine and says it doesn't require
glasses to see the suppose at Holograms
the 5.7 inch phone runs Android and
pre-orders are available in two tiers it
costs one thousand five hundred and
ninety five dollars for the titanium
high-end version and one thousand one
hundred and ninety five dollars for the
aluminum slightly lower end version the
phone is planned to ship in the first
quarter of 2018 according to Red's
announcements a hydrogen has a
professional hydrogen holographic
display which seamlessly switches
between traditional 2d contents 3d
contents and interactive games the
screen is according to the company
capable of displaying holographic red
hydrogen for view contents h4v
stereo 3d content and 2d 3d VR AR which
is augmented reality and mr which is
mixed reality high quality audio is
another feature to drool over with a
special algorithm that report that can
reportedly convert stereo sound into 5.1
surround sound like the company's
modular cinema cameras the hydrogen is
all about attaching accessories you can
attach camera extras like future
attachments
shooting higher-quality motion and still
images as well as hydrogen format
holographic images the caveat these
accessories won't ship at launch
additionally the hydrogen can be
connected to the company's scarlet epic
and weapon cameras as separate control
input and camera monitor and that's
basically it
we have no idea what processor it has or
how much storage or RAM or anything else
about the camera the teaser image
clearly shows a headphone jack USB C
port and a rather big and serious
looking camera protruding out of the
backside Reds website says it'll have a
micro SD card slot so holographic guys
that is not that is the best I hate that
I take so many pictures with my phone
and now red comes out with a camera
phone Holograms imagine how much data
that's going to take up oh yeah it's got
to have massive storage but you consider
red is like the company that all the big
movie makers use yeah like these are
high high-end cameras you're talking
base model $30,000 like nuts really
that's not actually even though that the
price point seems a little bit steep
it's actually not that much money to
have a holographic phone camera right
under that leading edge a new tack the
yeah if it happened before September 9th
then people could just watch me in real
life get married there you go grain I
just be a hologram you just have to get
one in time so that they can know what I
like about the photo and I mean I don't
know if you can throw it down on the
screen to you that body looks rugged it
looks like - like you know and just you
said it was titanium yeah Wow titanium
ok that's a that's a really shiny
plastic but you know like it looks like
a solid solid phone I don't know maybe
that's just designed to make it look
cool but I thought what I mean even you
can see the hexagon screws in there for
the body it's like man this thing is
just going to withstand everything
that's a conversation starter if you
walked around with that phone in your
hand you
be the man the boss you're driving a
Hummer I know what going to be
interesting about this though keep doing
this to me I know I'm sorry because I
keep on thoughts this is going to now
change the way that we do social media
as well sure because you're going to
have like say for instance Facebook
you're going to want to upload
holographic images to Facebook how is
this going to factor in like this is
going to take the tech industry and
social media and everything to a whole
new level because it's going to force
change and what rolls out because of
this you'll never miss a major life
event ever again and picture the
people's meals will be incredible oh my
chicken you were floating above the pond
you went to that Wow
most experts believe the first industry
to be upended by autonomous driving will
be the trucking sector what better use
case for driverless technology than
long-haul trucking where most of the
driving is confined to the highway the
Swedish startup on an Ride certainly
buys into this vision it recently
unveiled a prototype of a self-driving
truck that completely lacks a steering
wheel pedals a windshield and well the
whole cab really the all-electric T pod
is much shorter than your average
traditional tractor-trailer clocking in
at just 23 feet long which is likely due
to the absence of the cabin I ride says
that the tpod will weight 20 tons at
full load which is comparable to a class
8 truck the company says that the tpod
can be controlled remotely by a human
operator or can operate autonomously
without human intervention and ride says
that it aims to deliver a complete
transport system between Gothenburg - hi
hi Olson borg by 2020 this transport
system will involve 200 T pods with
associated charging stations on the
route the system's first route will have
a capacity of up to 2 million pallets
per year the full-scale product
prototype was on hand last week at a
week-long Swedish political event which
took place on the island of Gotland
that is really great for everyone except
for perhaps long-haul truckers but I
will say working in the chiropractic
industry they really suffer because of
their jobs oh sure so if they could find
a healthier profession and somebody else
can do that back-breaking literally job
that would be perfect so yeah and I'm
thinking of you know if they roll this
out into other countries like take for
instance the issues that we're starting
to hear about with you know the sensors
where it's you know maybe not able to
pick up light or something or you've got
animals on the road how is this going to
affect insurance liability if as a
trucker what happens if your truck goes
off the road and all of that product is
lost where does that play into it you
know there there's things that
definitely come with it but very very
interesting area me day I could see a
fleet of this kind of thing yeah right
like and then where does it end like
trains would be next I guess and yeah
like it just makes sense because it
because you think about like a long-haul
driver is really driving in a straight
line for hours and hours at the same
speed in a lot of cases unless you hit
traffic but away from family and yeah
but you're just you just driving yeah
you know it's not like you're in and out
of traffic now you're pretty much just
driving in a straight line there isn't
somebody at the border control you know
between countries and truck rolls up and
I you see papers please
okay they down at all so we scan a
barcode and the papers upload or
something yeah yeah it makes me wonder
if it's to be you know only local
shipping within a confined country
unless you've got open borders like you
would have in the EU right be interested
see it interesting in Newton Intel is
shedding nearly 140 staff from its
Internet of Things business lines the
layoffs were probably inevitable since
during June until discontinued three of
its IOT product lines the Jule Edison
and Galileo compute compute modules and
boards
those three boards were once the
flagships for chip villas pitch to the
wearable and maker markets the Silicon
Valley Business Journal says 100 of the
layoffs will be in Santa Clara another
40 staff will be cut in the company's
office in Lex lip Ireland the IOT
division at turn turned in 721 million
dollars u.s. in the first quarter
revenue this year up to 11 percent
year-on-year but that's but overall
that's less than five percent of Intel
sales until employs roughly one hundred
and six thousand worldwide so it's
interesting to hear of tech jobs like
Internet of Things you think that's huge
do you think that's big right and then
now they're cutting jobs yeah I don't
know what the reasoning behind it is
that it's certainly if it's such a small
portion of your business maybe you're in
the wrong you know focusing assets and
things into the wrong place
right but see when I hear this story I'm
wondering if you what's the undercurrent
because it was a hundred and some odd
jobs you said yeah 40 140 jobs but their
revenue is up 11% year-over-year so the
revenues going up they're getting rid of
jobs so that tells me that it's some
sort of amalgamation either of roles or
an updated technology that has made some
jobs obsolete that would be my guess
robots
it could be robots you know they've laid
off Sasha's grandma for making food in
the kitchen I got the kitchen robot
legacy thing my grandmother alive I
would be great before she died she was
able to like save her recipes like I've
heard this before
you have yeah but no I just went UT when
you when you when you go through the
story that's what it sounds like to me
is this is amalgamation in order to save
profits I mean not minimizing it's 140
people it's it's not like you know
laying off 50% of the company to save
cost measures it really sounds like you
know hey we've you know made some
improvements you
so what should make investors happy
that's Transpo sono tuxedo a German
computer company selling a range of
Linux laptops has announced it is
launching its own a boon to based Linux
distro we've done our best with Google
Translate and in their announcement they
say we have been working on this project
for several months we have been thinking
about the usability of the desktop have
included user feedback in our
considerations and made some surveys on
desktop usage the computer outfit plans
to ship an in-house expo to spin
pre-installed on its devices this that
spin is called somewhat confusingly
tuxedo expo to Xubuntu as tuxedos ubuntu
16.04 LTS they say what we have done is
deliver a desktop that is strongly
adapted to the needs of our users with
our own theme own icons own boot logo
and the latest firmware the latest
Nvidia drivers if necessary and Linux
kernel for points 11 pre-installed whoa
yeah
not to mention our configuration
adjustments on grub and optimizations to
other system relevant files this
modified image is said to deliver a much
lower memory usage lower even than a
boon to Matei and improved battery life
hard to imagine but the company
tested its infinite ebook pro 13 with
Linux Mint 18.1 which gave a battery
life of 66 hours and it's a boon to fork
which saw the Ultrabook last almost
twice as long clocking up nearly 12
hours that's unreal that is crazy I just
want to say this is one of the things
that I love about Linux now tuxedo aside
you know because some people will say oh
it's there they're using Xubuntu and
they're making changes and they're
making claims and that's always the case
whenever anyone does a spin right but
fact is they can take the operating
system spin it for their own branding do
changes to it and prove it for those who
aren't aware of what sasha is saying
there this is pretty bleeding-edge like
they've
at the brand-new cutting-edge kernel in
there like yeah and so you know it's
it's pretty up-to-date as far as that
goes
but I love that Linux and Linux users
can do that you take it make it their
own and then customize it and distribute
it and share it and really all they're
doing is improving exposure to desktop
Linux
yes it is true which that's a win so
good on them exactly we would now Linux
users need to check out their
distributions to see if a nasty bug in
live decrypt 20 has been patched the
software fix which has landed in Debian
and Ubuntu addresses a side channel
attack published last week the
researchers published their work at the
International Association for
Cryptologic researches eprint archive
last week what they found is that the
live decrypt library uses what's called
sliding windows a method for carrying as
the mathematics of cryptic cryptography
but that's but one that's known to leak
data the researchers looked at the
left-to-right sliding window calculation
in Lib G crypt in which the sliding
window data was leaked leak was
tolerated because it was believed only
part of the key was recoverable what
they found was an unpleasant surprise a
complete break in the library's RSA 1024
they say we show for the first time that
the direction of the encoding matters
the pattern of squarings and
multiplications in left-to-right sliding
windows leaked significantly more
information about the exponent than
right-to-left the fix can be added to
either Debian or Ubuntu as well as
potentially other distros by running an
upgrade on the lips decrypt 20 package
so make sure that you do know what just
to be safe
apt upgrade date and then apt upgrade
and just you know for good measure apt
dist - upgrade that will update all your
packages and everything and that way you
know you're safe you don't want to have
something like a like
cryptography exploit run wild in your
system thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha tomatoes
you
[Music]
[Applause]
