welcome to new every day we are
continuing our seven part series on the
roles of the Holy Spirit and today we're
looking at the Holy Spirit in his role
as our guide
this is you everyday with Jeff Weston
and Lawrence Cruz
[Music]
welcome to do everyday so glad to have
you here on Jeff Weston I'm learning
more hello and I'm Laurence Cruz thanks
you're making it easy for you that's
great thank you all right you know it
really helped to find something the guy
be sure that I should have shown up well
oh my goodness you wouldn't guess Jeff
today we're talking about the Holy
Spirit is our guy though we are covering
the seven rolls of the Holy Spirit
through a Jay Lee Grady a devotional you
can get through the YouVersion Bible app
it is week three now we've covered two
before this and we've got three more to
go we're kind of or four more to go
sorry I can do some math flying on the
spot there so we are in episode number
three as far as this series goes and as
the Holy Spirit is our guide when I
think about being a guide I kind of I
picture like a trail guide you know
you're going to some National Forest or
something and you have no clue where
you're going and you know maybe you're
climbing Mount Everest one of my wife's
friends just climbed Mount Everest of
months ago and you know they hire the
Sherpas to carry all their stuff and the
various base camps and they know how to
get there and how long the wait and
climatized of the weather and stuff like
that if you're just like Jono bunny and
decide to go do that you're in trouble
well yeah the I respect they absolutely
get up that yeah no kidding yeah there
was a day where I thought you know I'm
healthy good shape and I was healthy mhm
and I was in good shape but it's not
just like you can climb this mountain
without the expertise of dare I say a
guide that's right someone who can help
us navigate right somebody who knows the
way inside and out and that is exactly
what the holy spirit is yeah and you
know when you having talked about some
of the other roles we've got you know
being the empower and what
like the Holy Spirit has a diverse
profile yeah and so he's kind of got to
be a master of everything yeah well he
is
I mean he's God just that simple exactly
and you know like I say I've been in the
church since I was 10 years old so
hearing about the Father the Son the
Holy Spirit just like second nature to
me but someone who perhaps is introduced
to a conversation about the Holy Ghost
or something
Wow like again we were mentioning this
in the week spastic that could
potentially sound like a spooky thing
sure you know and and yet he's not
spooky he is he's God and knows
everything past present and future and
longs to guide every one of his children
mm-hmm like what a gift we have in the
person of the Holy Ghost for sure and
just that right there is almost enough
to say okay well thanks joining us like
that's all you need to know because he
knows everything but a lot of allowing
the Holy Spirit to fill his role is
recognizing the importance of that in
your life I mean if you're a Christian
you go on the Holy Spirit I don't need
you I got this you are walking away from
the biggest wealth of knowledge in the
universe right and quite frankly I don't
have the experience to make all those
decisions myself right I don't know
what's coming up in the future you know
and that doesn't mean winning the
lottery or anything like that it means
where is my life going what what am I
here for what's my purpose what's the
endgame you're right and we can't know
that and that's why we have the Holy
Spirit to be that advice as long as we
recognize his role in that yeah well
that's a good point it is about knowing
who he is and availing ourselves of all
that he is and who he wants to be to us
absolutely like the Bible says to us in
the book
first John chapter 2 verse 27 that the
Holy Spirit is our teacher so imagine
the days in school there were some
teachers you were sorry that you had
class now then they were others that you
were just really glad that that oh I got
this teacher she's a good one or he's a
good teacher right yes made all the
difference in the world well you know
I'm glad to say that knowing that I'm
going to the class with the Holy Spirit
as my teacher it's like okay I can't
wait to get there
because I know he's on my side right
he's not looking to bust my chops and he
literally knows everything about
everything that I could ever want to ask
him right it's like you're saying it's I
guess but the question is do I do I ask
him and you're telling me like he's
there for me to ask about anything right
yeah yeah I mean I I think of you know
before the show started we were talking
about Jesus mm-hmm and the fact that
throughout his entire life at his
ministry he didn't have to really worry
about where he's going what he was doing
he was sent there with a purpose come on
on every step of the way it was father
what do you want me to do mm-hmm guide
me and because the Holy Spirit is God
himself it was all right there and so
Jesus didn't have to worry and the next
step was always before him and he lived
by faith and he did what he was supposed
to do and I mean I think his life turned
out pretty well you saved the world
that's pretty high on a list of
achievements I take so go ahead and try
and talk exactly Jeff you know you
mentioned something we were talking
earlier about the wrestle of our wills
yes and here it is that Jesus himself
wow what an example and thank you Lord
for showing us this right he never
wrestled one day in his life
to wonder whether or not
it was going to be his will instead of
the father's well right and so Wow I
think that's a good undercurrent maybe
to bring rate to the surface is that one
of the ways we can avail ourselves right
of all this wisdom and the teaching of
the Holy Spirit who longs to be our
guide is just to settle once and for all
who's the boss of me mm-hmm and right
that is what Christ asked us to do he
very clearly says if anyone wants to
follow me like hey everybody's invited
you can all come but I need you to let
you know the parameters you first got to
die to yourself and then once you've
done that hey come and follow me and
life will be fantastic and that's
exactly how Christ Himself walked on the
earth when he was with in relationship
to his father rights right yeah never
once did he arm wrestle with God saying
well I wonder you know that's right
that's right but wouldn't you look at
the Bible on a whole you look at all of
the prophetic words and everything that
transpired everything that the
Israelites went through all of it was
building up to the arrival and
crucifixion of Christ yeah like from the
moment that Adam and Eve sinned that
entire journey was bringing the world to
that point and God orchestrated all that
mm-hmm and the Holy Spirit is aware of
all that and knowing what the end game
is as far as we know where revelation
says things are going yeah so between
Christ's death and Revelation there's a
huge span of question marks right what
happens what does that mean what yeah
where are we going how like when do we
know we're there and the Holy Spirit
knows all this and so when you look at
that and you figure we're not figure you
just you know from reading the Bible it
was all planned out in the in the Old
Testament and how those stories
progressed we are in that New Testament
time we are in the the New Covenant time
of you know post Christ's death and
leading up to Revelation the holy spear
nose at all so it is still very much a
relevant thing for us to go god where
are you taking us we know where we're
going to go but how do we get there yeah
you know what do you want in our life
you know it we're not talking like hey
what am I in for cereal tomorrow god but
it's more God where are you taking my
job where you taking my family what do
you want for us in ministry yeah he
knows all of that and all of it as part
of a master plan where when you do your
role and somebody else does their role
the two come together and then that
impacts with another role and has this
massive impact for the kingdom and he
knows it all he incredible okay this is
stirring me up here so Jeff I mean come
on you listen to podcasts I'm sure yeah
you avail yourself recently I've landed
on dr. David Jeremiah okay host a man of
God I mean many of you know who he is
listen just to two of his podcast
recently happens to be on the subject of
the sovereignty of God
alright and in a nutshell he's just I
left feeling so encouraged he basically
says you know there's no such thing as
luck the bottom line is God's got a plan
and guess what that's the plan that's
working that's the plan that's gonna
happen it's like I love this it's like
okay deep breath no I mean just okay
settle in and it's like exactly what's
that settle in no more arm wrestling
from me about whose will is it going to
be my will or sovereign God's will are
you kidding me
not at all it's about doing what Henry
Blackaby says I've also referred to this
guy Oh knowing God knowing the will of
God what is it knowing God knowing and
doing the will of God what an amazing
study by this man dr. Henry Blackaby and
he basically says this simple thing
about about the will of God and God
being our guide he says find out what
God is doing and then join them that
makes sense
kinda makes sense and so that is I think
a key factor it has been for me
in determine
what's God's will for my life Lord what
do you want me to do will you guide me
in this decision and where I want to go
and how I want to do that and all of
that he helped me understand well here's
here's a good thing I'll do to guide you
Lawrence how about you learn to submit
your will if this is God's will how
about you submit yours to the will of
God and then you're gonna find that even
as you submit yourself to him everything
he does will be to guide you because
you're satisfying the very sovereign
plan that he has from the beginning oh
my goodness man that's the Bible in a
nutshell right there that's good news
all right we got to take a quick break
but we're going to come back we're going
to continue this conversation and I want
to bring up two different points one
driving on the highway following a
transport truck and GPS okay I don't
know it's good don't go away friends
it's gonna be a good second half stick
around for more from new every day for a
limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5
dot TV slash shirts to support us and
get your official Network shirt today
cat5 dot TV slash shirts hey friends
we're back we are here talking about the
Holy Spirit as our guide and Jeff you
you left me hangin man
you said there was at least two things
and I know you you could talk about more
but I know I could I could but there was
two things you wanted to talk about and
I think one of them was something to do
with traveling on the highway behind a
transport yes and something else else it
had to do with Egypt Asst yes the GPS
yes that's right talk to me man
so when I think about the Holy Spirit as
being our guide I mean the the easy one
is like a GPS you're going somewhere you
pop in your GPS you pull it up on your
phone maybe you've got the old school
units that you stick to your window or
maybe you got a new car that I can't
afford we're taking just a second it's
that I just bought one of those like
last year and that's well old school oh
okay
so I just let me recover for a second
for all of you who have an old school
you'll be it'll be okay all right okay
okay so back to you so when you use the
GPS quite often in my job I'm traveling
all across the you know the province of
Ontario and I don't know where I'm going
somebody's like oh I'm gonna meet you
here it's great wonderful that's like
eight hours away I've no clue so i plunk
it into my GPS it tells me exactly how
to get there right and I've been using
an app on my phone lately called ways
which you introduced to me I did yes
it's a new favorite that's fact you feel
this isn't a plug for ways but this but
it is good it is but it's how it works
and so it's not just how to get from
point A to point B it also alerts me to
pitfalls whether it be fog on the road
or roadkill stuff like that or police
police as well
yes so when I think of the Holy Spirit I
think oh my goodness that weighs as a
prime example because it's not just hey
this is where I'm taking you
it's hey here's things you need to be
aware of here's what you need to watch
out for you know that thing that you're
considering doing yeah it might trip you
up it might be a problem I'm gonna I'm
gonna be that little nudge right here
that goes you don't want to do that Wow
you know and that's kind of that
conscience that everybody talks about
that's the Holy Spirit you know what
Jeff oh you know what I found I think
most people deep down they know if maybe
they're hearing or feeling that nudge or
don't you think that's been the case for
me honestly it's been people say how do
you know how and I get it's a tough
question at times and there's times
where I don't know but deep down inside
there's usually this knowing that nudge
and I'm thinking hang on a second and
really what I'm doing is wrestling for
my will as opposed to submitting to his
yes well you say he'll nod yes or he'll
whisper to us yeah and sometimes it's a
very loud scream like don't do that
right you know and you just you know
yeah but the interesting thing I've
found is that over time if you
continually ignore that sometimes the
voice just gets quieter yeah and quieter
and then God allows us to turn over to
our own devices and we kind of have to
live with the consequences yeah you know
so that as far as the GPS goes every
time I turn on my GPS and I see that I I
think or rather when I think about the
Holy Spirit I think about turning on my
GPS and how that impacts my drive and a
lot of times I also get rerouted based
on traffic and the Holy Spirit knowing
what's going on with other people's
lives
sometimes our life is going to converge
with somebody else for part of God's
master plan and when that person is not
obedient God has to reshape that plan
Wow
and there's times you get rerouted you
might be on a path and the Holy Spirit
goes hold on we're gonna close that door
we're heading over here because I've got
something else now and maybe that's
because it's something better
maybe it's because somebody else was
disobedient and through your obedience
he's good
use you in other ways yeah and you know
that concept is always tough for me to
wrap my head around that yeah I'm taking
a path that might deviate to another
direction but it's all part of the
master plan and a lot of that has to do
with our free will yeah because we can
choose not to listen yeah so yeah and
the master sovereign God he knows how to
weave it all together absolutely yes it
reminds me of a story I know you're
gonna talk to us about a transport yes
but it reminds me you got time for story
I got time for story so I'm it's back in
the day it's all good my wife and I have
talked about it as a joke but I had a
girlfriend right back in the day before
your wife before Mike okay there I go
why did I even mention that I say to you
that I do like my wife hold on yeah okay
yeah oh we should clarify let's say can
you rewind so anyway where I'm with this
girlfriend and we're heading out to
actually visit a relative of hers who it
was actually a prison ministry visit oh
this guy you know fell into some tough
times found himself behind bars and we
thought we're gonna go be some nice
people and visit him right and we did
all that so we're in the area and then
we we head into a mall and we're just
walking around just kind of stretching
our legs a bit and I mean I get lost in
malls to begin with right so it's like
not my first place to go necessarily but
anyway we're walking around and and you
know we're just kind of like I'm kind of
thinking about having just done a I'm
you know a visit in a prison it was a
bit of a new thing and wow just what's
going on so I'm thinking through a lot
of things anyway it's not even a big
mall in comparison to what I was used to
and we'd walk then when we circled twice
and then we kind of circle the third
time and by now I'm saying hey you ready
to go like have we stretched our legs
yeah okay let's go and she says to me
she goes where did you park the car I
said well it's over at these doors and
so we walk to these stores when we open
up the doors and sure enough I'm like
what is wrong with you Lawrence this
isn't where you parked and then I looked
at her and and see you know like I'm
feeling embarrassed
and then it's like I am so embarrassed
no it's not here then it's over the next
one we go to the next door and guess
what singsong wrong door and I'm like
Lawrence what is going on so when we
walk we do a third time now now I'm
circling in this small little mall no
and I've totally hear this I've lost my
bearings right okay so this is out there
a bit friends but I'll tell you what it
is my testimony and I believe it's true
here's the deal we're walking around we
circle around at least two times maybe
three times I can't remember because at
this time I'm so embarrassed and I'm not
seeing anything about the third time
we're walking down and don't we then the
two of us walk in and we run into one of
my girlfriends her cousin okay who who
was a different guy who had was in so
much trouble and they hadn't seen each
other she falls into his arms sort of
thing he falls in her they they embrace
they cry they're saying I can't believe
I saw you here what are the chances and
now hmm
Jeff I know that's out there but if
there's anything called divine delay I
actually think that the Lord caused me
to you know just to not be able to find
my car sure in order that we would meet
with this person then we soon as we said
see you later we walked right to my car
you know and this gal is weeping saying
I can't believe you know what are the
chances and we both look at each other
knowing this wasn't chance at all it was
God the guide supernaturally as you're
saying weaving the lives of people who
were willing to be used by him to
intersect to bring love to bring grace
to bring a message of comfort incredible
you know that's exactly how he works
he's our guide and and how cool is that
well for sure it's I mean I think you've
used the phrase you know when you know
I've chatted in the past chance
encounters yeah a true divine encounter
yeah
what it was yeah and that's exactly and
I mean as we fall in line with the Holy
Spirit and let him be our guide those
kind of things become more and more
prominent and so this is a good lead-in
to my transport truck so if you've ever
been driving down the highway and I
travel travel on the highway all the
time for work
yeah there's nothing I hate more than
being behind a transport doing you know
speed limit or slightly above and having
to pull out behind them right because of
that wind tunnel that they create oh
yeah and it's no different than I learnt
this in Days of Thunder the FOB cruise
oh yeah about that that wind tunnel
where they ride the bumper right so it's
the same deal with transport right and
so if you view the Holy Spirit is kind
of the transport truck for your life
when you are falling in line with him as
leading yeah you can coast through life
you're not burning as much gas yeah it's
easier to stay in the lane because
you'll even notice if you're going fast
enough when a transport that starts to
change lanes because of that wind tunnel
behind it will pull your car yeah and so
if you are submitting to a life led by
the holy spirit when the Holy Spirit
takes those turns
you'll go with them and actually pull us
along that's right and it won't be hard
to live the life that way but when you
decide you know what I want to go my own
pace and you pull out from the Holy
Spirit you have that instant hit of the
wind that causes you to burn more gas
and then it causes you to potentially
lose slight control and if life is not
going well and you're dealing with
storms you can wipe right out well Jeff
I'm a motorcycle rider as even more so
and so been there done that and that
whole just coming out of the draft
position if you will it would be enough
to you'd feel the bike and I remember
when I first started riding you know
this was like two decades plus ago three
decades ago it's like oh my goodness
there were times where I feared that I
was going to
right and totally get what you're saying
and I even I used to tie it when I would
when I Drive for two or three hours I
would find myself tucking in behind a
truck on purpose yeah and I would get in
that sweet spot man it's almost like you
can be drinking your lemonade if you had
one you know you wouldn't even worry but
until I realize it's like what if he
goes over something that's big enough at
his apples there and I'm like I'm in bad
shape that's right so that's some other
factors there but nonetheless I agree
what any easy right it was for me when I
just followed in what would you get in
the wake or in the draft of that I call
it the wind tunnel to the rift whatever
you want yeah very cool yeah so but that
I mean that is a really tangible example
of being led by the Holy Spirit and how
he fills his role as your guide and
we're out of time
we're out of time I keep going but that
is it we're done so we got to wrap it up
if you were sitting there listening
going oh this is really speaking to me I
believe I need to be led more by the
Holy Spirit drop to your knees yeah
take a moment say God would you would
you lead me would you be my guide help
me to put myself aside and fall in line
with you and where you're taking me on
your life and you will not regret him
well he will for his glory on the
authority of his word in our life
experience God will do exactly that for
you god bless you thanks for watching
new everyday we'll see you next week bye
catch a new episode of new everyday
every Friday morning a new everyday TV
we're
so on roku cody flex youtube google play
music podcasts and news book or if
you're in Southern California tune in
every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb TV
channel 33 television for the high
desert
