hello my name is Kari and my name is Jen
and on today's show we are in part 4 of
living in the danger zone the scattering
of the people we'll be right back
[Music]
okay everyone welcome back to new every
day
thanks for tuning in again and for
speaking with us for part four of our
series living in the danger zone we're
talking about Stephen and we've looked
at the first three parts Jen so setting
the stage for Stephen they were looking
at what were the we were looking at the
circumstances around what was going on
at the time the Jews had come from far
and wide to the temple to worship yeah
and then Stephen is accused of yet
changing the customs of Moses and then
he gives this wonderful sermon the
history of Israel and then we finished
off last week where they gnashed 30
fathoms and they stoned him yes and they
didn't want to hear the word of God and
and Stephen just like the Lord asked
that God would forgive them in his mercy
and so we're jumping into chapter 8 and
when we just go ahead and start reading
again yes I'm going to do it Acts
chapter 8 first one to four Saul was one
of the witnesses and he agreed
completely with the killing of Stephen a
great wave of persecution began that
date sweeping over the church in
Jerusalem and all the believers except
the apostles were scattered throughout
the regions of Judea and Samaria some
development came and buried Stephen with
great mourning but Saul was going
everywhere to destroy the church he went
from house to house dragging it was men
and women to throw them into prison but
the believers who were scattered
preached the good news about Jesus
wherever they went so last week we asked
the question well what good is it if you
know here Stephen was at the temple
preaching and people were listening so
what good is it if he was to guy because
then that would end and that's often the
question we ask in our very simple ways
and I'm saying that because I'm poor and
just you know as I'm looking up I'm like
Oh Jen when Jen in my mind I'm like wow
if that ends how will they know like I'm
convicting my own self because that's
what
I believe sometimes is well if that
person like I remember a Domon die well
it often happens with death but when
somebody dies were like well who's going
to look after that I'm just going to
fill that void or who's going to work in
that workplace and if you leave that job
who's going to share the word in a few
yes and I remember very clearly saying
to the Lord
a gentleman in our church died and I'm
like Lord ah like he did this and this
and this and this like come on like
who's going to fill that role what are
you doing to me we're trying to reach
people for you that's exactly what goes
into my mind is do you not know what
you're doing guy what we're doing right
and it gets back to you not see what we
are trying to do Yeah right which comes
back to what is the content of your
heart are you truly seeking God or is it
really about what you can accomplish
well look in the New Testament right
so Peter the Lord disclosed to his
disciples that he was going to die yes
and and Peter was right upset about it
and he was no Lord this will not happen
to you and what is what does Jesus say
he says get behind me see yes do you
have it there yeah this is a Matthew 16
Jesus turned up 16 23 Jesus turned and
said to Peter get behind me Satan you
are a stumbling block to me you do not
have in mind the things of God but the
things of men yeah BAM and I mean those
sound like heavy words and this is right
after right after Jesus said well who do
you say I am yes and Peter was like
you're the Christ jury you are the
Christ so there's no one else that we're
going to even follow and and then he
says this the same guy who said you're
the Christ now Jesus was calling scene
but it points to the severity of what
was going on yes that they did not have
the same shared vision it did not have
the same goal and Jesus weight was the
best way yeah and and Steven knew that
Steven knew that he could not deny
Christ yeah he could not deny Christ and
it wasn't his responsibility
worried about what would happen if he
died his responsibility was to stay firm
in the faith because if God so chose she
could raise him up from the dead because
he because God had raised up Jesus from
the dead so like Stephen was not afraid
of death he just knew he had to stand
firm and preach the truth like he
couldn't just back away he needed to
stand firm and let God defend him and
that's what Paul says in Romans 12 it
says and this is probably one of my
favorite passages and I use it all the
time to myself I preached myself all the
time but I said if your enemy is hungry
feed him if he is thirsty give him
something to drink in doing this you
will heap burning coals on his head do
not be overcome by evil but overcome
evil with good
and previous says if it is possible as
far as it depends on you live at peace
with everyone I believe Stephen was
trying to do that but he could not deny
the gospel and if those do not take
revenge my friends but leave room for
God's wrath for it is written it is mine
to avenge it is mine to repay and then
it goes on to in the contrary and so
Stephen was realizing this that you know
what I'm doing what God has asked me to
do he will defend me he will avenge me
and so but we get caught up in the yeah
but like Peter did and he's like you do
not have the things of God in mind your
thinking your your small thoughts and I
say I know that sounds harsh why I'm
saying it to myself I think small
thoughts might think of God and I forget
about how awesome and glorious he is and
that's why Stephen starts it off God is
awesome and glorious and and he desires
to have relationship with us and it's
like and and what happened after he
submit is truly incredible and we're
going to come back with that in just a
minute
Jeff Weston Jovan you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you alright
you're a terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play I don't know what
are think you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
calm dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a WordPress
site fine
sign up cat five dot TV slash dream
house don't put a little papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
hey everyone thanks for staying with us
here on you every day and we just want
to take a minute to say thank you to our
partners and if you go to our website
new every day we'd click on our partners
page and you'll be able to see all of
the amazing businesses and organizations
who help make this show possible and
thank you also to our new addition
audible.com and you're like she said
this now for the last three four she
really likes it like she talks about it
all the time so it all the time when Jen
was like hey Keri guess what audible is
now a partner I was like oh are you so
happy you need to talk about that so
hard she talks about she loves it great
yes I also visit amazon.com or dot CA
through our partners page you know
there's so many cool things there just
go on click it and you'll be supporting
us as you do that yeah we're going to
just jump back in here yeah and we would
just talked about how God God works
those things that we can't even imagine
and Jesus paints the picture of like
well the importance of him dying and I
think you know we can kind of see yeah
I'm just going to read it any
contributor okay here we go John chapter
12 verses I'm just going to start at
verse 20 and this is Jesus interacting
with some Greeks and his disciples now
there were some there were certain
Greeks among those who came up to
worship at the feast
then they came to Philip who was from
Bethsaida of Galilee and said to him and
asked him saying sir we wish to see
Jesus Philip came and told Andrew and in
turn Andrew and Philip told Jesus but
jesus answered them saying the hour has
come that the Son of man should be
glorified most assuredly I say to you
unless a grain of wheat falls into the
ground and dies it remains alone but if
it dies it produces much cream
he who loved his life will lose it and
he who hates his life in this world will
keep it for eternal life if anyone
serves me let him follow me and where I
am there my servant will be also if
anyone serves me him my father will
honor Stephen yeah that's so Stephen he
died yeah and it created a great
persecution but the I don't even want to
call it a silver lining because it's so
much more than that it's the birth and
scattering of the church yes and it's
really the grace of God because in verse
4 verse 4 therefore those who were
scattered went everywhere and preached
the word like is that not the grace of
God it's not like well you know what
yeah you guys you killed my servant and
that's it I'm just turning my back he's
like yeah no this is so this is what's
going to give you life I've come to give
you a life to the full and because of
that death I'm going to use that just
like in the Old Testament when Joseph
was sold by his brothers and display
varese here we're harkening back to the
a testament telling the story what you
intend for evil God intended for good
yes what they intended for evil and
killing Stephen God intended for good
because they used that as
in ISM the catalysts yes to explode the
words throughout the world yes and it's
just you know she carry read the passage
from John 12 and once again it comes
alive right this is why we read the Word
of God and were like that's totally like
Stephen is totally following that like
he he let God use him to the point of
death to full surrender and his body
died right unless a kernel grain falls
to the wheat that the earthen dies how
can it bring forth fruit and so his
death even though it's sparked
persecution under persecution the word
was preached and we're told that when
the doors of communism closed on China
that and and all the Christianity was
basically squelched and we people were
so concerned so concerned and actually
because they're like well if we can't
get in there how are they going to hear
about God but there was already a
flourishing church there and it first
like there was even more when the doors
came back open again there was even more
Christians there than when they left
isn't that awesome because it flourished
because persecution causes us that do we
am I really going to believe this why
are you believing this because you're
being appreciated because I've met Jesus
and he is real and I want to share that
with you because I get here like true
it's so true that in persecution do I
really believe that Jesus is who he says
he is because that's where the river is
meeting the road that's where the rubber
meets the road and and that is what this
whole series of living in the danger
zone and I do not like living in the
danger zone
I don't like danger I like to be quite
safe and yet I believe that God calls us
to live in the danger zone and just this
past week one of a young lady in our
church said would you come and speak to
my class about leadership in camp and I
was just like I said you know I'm going
to talk about Jesus and she's like yep
I'm like because everything I do is
about Jesus is she's like yeah but there
were
so much fear in me because I'm like but
what if they persecute me and yes I know
big person teenagers high school but in
my mind I'm like it's so cute it still
came up and I'm like am I willing to
share about Jesus when he is everything
to me and I'm like dear lord I need you
to help me I need you to help me and I
you know if I got there and for so I
went and bought candy and passed it out
that's always a win although you win and
then you know I said the reason why I do
what you know the reason why we do
Christian camping is because we believe
that Jesus loves everyone has a plan and
purpose for their lives and that's how I
started off and and their mouths were
full of candy they couldn't talk back
and they didn't say anything they didn't
go oh we don't believe that sure there
is none of that they just listened
because it came from a genuine heart and
I was just like oh Lord like you went
before and you prepared forgive me for
being afraid so we want to encourage you
this week in this living in the danger
zone are you willing to go there at
least to think about and just say dear
Lord Jesus the danger zone teach me
about the danger zone because that's
where your faith is going to furnish I
work with this wonderful woman who is
from India but she actually went with
her husband to Saudi Arabia and was
working there and was part of a church
that actually met in a shipping
container oh wow and secret and she said
it wasn't till she went there that she
experienced Holy Spirit and her life
transformed mmm and then she brought
that to Canada with her family and
became part of a wonderful church family
and so God can do amazing things I'm
going to just pray now that God will do
that in your life is yes father thank
you for your word and that sometimes you
act in a counterintuitive way but I pray
Lord that you would help us to be right
prayed on board right on up with what
you're doing and when Holy Spirit we
need ask us to do something that will
just say yes because we know you and we
know that you love us and that your ways
are higher and that ultimately we don't
for our South we're going to live for
you and for other people and the best
thing that they can ever receive is the
knowledge of Jesus Christ and what
you've done for us mm-hmm and so I just
pray for our persecuted brothers and
sisters all over the world in China and
North Korea in Vietnam Lord you know and
I pray that you'd strengthen them
according to your word and that you
would bring more of your word into those
countries and that you shine like a
bright light there I pray this in the
name of Jesus amen thank you so much for
tuning in it is a privilege to open the
word and talk about Jesus with you and
which concurred to go to our website if
you want to give us feedback on our
Facebook page we invite you to go there
as well
so I hope we have a wonderful key later
time so them in the binge line
you
