I
welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's Kim here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 1 92
of category 5 technology TV it is great
to have you here it's Tuesday in May the
24th 2011 hey Kristin but yeah haven't
gone good
it was good long weekend wasn't oh it
felt so long I was that I was so
confused today I thought it was monday
all day I almost don't show up unreal
they were calling for thunderstorms all
weekend we ended up having sunshine I
know it's ridiculous love those
Cottagers must have just been in heaven
there you go I had a barbecue every day
nice to have you here you can find us
online triple w category 5 TV and I'm
Robbie Ferguson I'm crystal wealth and
Hilary is here with us as well and we
have this this issue where we have to
switch microphones really really quick
Hillary hi hey everyone happy long
weekend post long weekend in Canada I
don't know I too was confused I thought
yesterday was Tuesday and I had my heart
set on coming in and I was wrong but I'm
here today so I'm glad but tell you
people I got lost value about the world
of news and technology so coming up in
the newsroom new technology will make
fingerprinting much faster for police in
alberta canada in a surprise move that
nobody saw Connie Sony shut down the
playstation network again today for
maintenance and a single laser has been
demonstrated to transfer data at 26
terabits for a second some people in the
UK will be able to buy burgers by simply
swiping her mobile phone and last unity
will be making its way to open suse
after all so stick around these stories
are coming up in the newsroom and under
30 minutes Lori thanks so much and I
guess we should we should really quickly
off the top talk about why I'm having to
work like that with Hillary Hillary is
actually here in the studio with us and
if she wants to wave to backstage pass
just kind of threw the middle here and
people who are watching backstage pass
on our website will be able to see her
however we're still in this situation
where are our server was was zapped and
we can't hook up a second microphone and
we don't have that capability just yet
I'm very very pleased to announce that
we're extremely close to being able to
get that that new server and
and we got a really good i guess push
forward towards that last last week when
that when we came across a really good
deal friend of mine was able to come
across something through work so so very
excited that very soon we'll be able to
implement will be able to bring back the
the second and third camera and get
things back up and running but as it is
the irony here is that Hillary is in the
studio but we have to use skype on her
laptop so that's pretty fantastic but
other than that we also have to purchase
new microphones at least to this headset
that i'm using tonight i think it sounds
pretty great I think maybe let us know
in the chat room what you think at
category 5 TV that's freenode and the
category 5 chat room but I think it
sounds pretty pretty good and this was a
actually loaned to us from music pro and
Barry I'd encourage you to to show them
support visit them on Barry view drive
just as a way of saying thanks for
helping us through this time that we're
down two microphones due to the power
surge I think that these are these are
pretty good but these as far as the
sound goes I think it's great this is
the apex 575 that they loaned us the
cost of the mic is 140 bucks and then we
have to buy a thirty-dollar adapter for
those of you who aren't sure I can show
you this is how it actually plugs in so
we've got a little adapter that goes in
through XLR and then the the board
powers that so it's 160 hundred seventy
dollars for us to buy one of those mics
and and that's basically afforded by by
your donations which we thank you very
much for we haven't purchased any yet
we're still using a loaner but we would
ask that if you have the means to do so
if you'd like to show your support for
the show and help us work towards that
then I would ask you to go to our
website and consider donating by
clicking on support us that would be
very much appreciated and thank you to
everybody who has shown their support so
far it's been so encouraging to have our
community standing by us again in our
time
I I would say that this is a time of
need we don't have money in the bank and
we don't charge for the service so when
something like a power surge happens
that takes out equipment then it becomes
pretty tough time so but we're glad to
be able to still continue broadcasting
to you and and thank you to everyone who
is pitched in so far tonight we're going
to be awarding a copy of the wire cash
broadcast software speaking of companies
that are just awesome this is the
company that develops the software that
we use to broadcast category 5 TV so
everything that you see that the ticker
at the bottom there the the show itself
all the camera transitions everything is
brought in through wire cast from
Telestream you'll find out more about
them at cat5 TV / Wirecast and we're
going to be giving away a copy of that
this evening also I think we're wrapping
up our series on web development which
is exciting weights well I'm sad you're
excited I'm excited because we've
basically accomplished an entire website
over the course of what is it 11 or 12
weeks now this is our 12 week so I think
that's pretty exciting it wouldn't
normally take 12 weeks to open a website
or the home page for that when we're
doing it one day they're like 30 minutes
at a time basically then yeah that's
that's a different story Rick's Damien
says does that mean Krista's gonna be
leaving us I don't know tune in next
week tune in next week to find out will
she be here I don't know but let's just
say there is a crystal Wells bio on our
website category five TVs don't know why
she would do that if you'd like to learn
more about her go over to our website
category 5 TV I learned some things
about you I am just facet like a
superstar gymnast i was a superstar
Jimmy okay all right it's all in her bio
and Hillary your bio was up on our
website as well learn all about the crew
here at category 5 she's like mm-hmm
doesn't know if we're there she is okay
so tonight honor on our series for web
development were going to be talking
about search engine optimization and
submission which is kind of like the
final thing that we want to be able to
do to our website to get it in there
besides getting it actually hosted
things we'll talk about that a little
later on in the show and I'd like you to
think about kind of some of the things
that you've learned over the course of
this series so you can share with the
viewers as well wait what you've taken
away from the series as well absolutely
we have a very cool feature on our
website at category five dot TV
everybody head on over there see how I
do that category five dot TV for one
thing you'll notice one of the cool
features that we're launching tonight is
high res imagery so right on our website
there's a shot that's taken right here
and that is thanks to a camera set up
that that I've been able to create using
an rebel canon rebel eos xsi very cool
anyways on our website if you go to
about us and oh let's there it is viewer
location map and that is going to take
you to an actual live view of where our
viewers are located so let's just let's
just say a couple of greets here this is
a kind of the northern American
continent so let's let's see down here
in Mexico I'm going to just kind of zoom
in here this is also available in our
app which is mobile mobile cat5 TV and
it is multi-touch compatible let's see
if we can find somebody down here
as about
a whole bunch of people hit the website
all at once and destroy our servers this
is pretty neat though it's a it actually
shows in real time you'll find that if
you watch it it's going to jump around
the screen because every time somebody
hits every time somebody starts viewing
our show it will put a pin on the on the
screen let's see here
my hands get confused between the two
different types of zoom and I think I
broke it here we go later on Robbie yeah
blame it on me huh go to our website
category 5 TV and click on about us and
you'll see the viewer location map which
i think is just a fantastic feature and
it does show pins for where all of our
viewers are located you could probably
bring it up on your Mac a little I
probably go super fast it would profit
look like I say it is a it's also in our
app on mobile cat5 TV and if you go to
about us you'll see that here we go
probably always has too many things
running okay so there is our basic
viewership at the moment all over the
world we're pretty much represented on
every continent well every continent
it's pretty awesome to see how many
people are actually checking out
category 5 there are some places that
that I notice that we do have some
viewers but that have not shown up on
the map yet so I'd encourage you if you
you know if you don't always go to our
website i know for example that we do
have viewers in Kenya I'd love to see
your pins showing up on our map so let's
just say hi to viewers who are joining
us from Saudi Arabia Nigeria where else
if we got Wow
we've got the Russian Federation suomi
finland nice to have you joining us
tonight yeah let's see couple more we've
got viewers joining us from mini
Annapolis we've got viewers in
washington DC welcome edmonton alberta
lethbridge alberta nice to have you
joining us tonight and that's just to
name a few so check it out I think
that's sad that's pretty neat cool yeah
I'll close it before I crackers
everything I know because it's like
everybody hits it all at once and brunch
at checkout there goes all right so
fewer points for this week we've got
some pictures that have been submitted I
I'm gonna try this yan Olaf who joins us
from let's see I don't have it in front
of me but I will find it Norway who has
submitted a viewer testimonial by way of
video which i think is very cool and
shows that there is his TV says somebody
watches category 5 TV on and that's very
very cool you can check out the viewer
testimonial that that he's submitted on
our website category 5 TV under interact
and I've got a whole bunch of points for
this guy so we're gonna let's look at
this we've got a cardigan hundred points
I mean he's really thought this through
this is this sneaky sneaky okay so we
got a hundred points for the cardigan
I'm gonna make a note here hundred
points we've got a TV which she says he
watches category five on now I'm gonna
I'm gonna pull back on that one and just
say what I want to see is I want to see
a picture of you actually watching
category five up on that screen so
actually bring up the show no cheatin
and and I'll give you some points for
that but in the meantime because you did
submit this by way of a viewer
testimonial i'm going to give you
another hundred points because i want to
incur
viewers to submit their viewer
testimonials so so far you've got 200
points for this this evening and i'll
give you some more points if you can
take a picture just a still shot or if
you want it to be another video of the
TV planks in category 5 that would be
awesome okay so thank you for submitting
that and again a viewer testimonial
submitted by video on our website now
we've also got this one here which is
actually a shot from Joe and this is a
view of category 5 being viewed on on
his mobile device which is very cool
looks good looks like it displays quite
nicely yeah we show up well yeah so uh
yeah we'll give you a hundred points for
that point happy I guess this one comes
to us from jot who has an antec antec
fusion remote chassis for his home
theater PC and while the while the
picture is not the clearest you can see
that that there is watching us up on the
screen and he's got this really nice
home theater system here and watching us
up on the show on the screen so john i
will i'll give you points for that
moving along i've got one here from
raptor 222 who has submitted a cardigan
shot and there we why does it do that
there we go after 222 congratulations
i'm going to award you with 100 points
for that and and really encourage people
to send in their shots of them watching
the show this one here comes to us from
torto who's watching category 5 on his
device there yes and you've inspired a
generation there krista i see that yeah
we kids kids walking down the street
yeah it'll be like ah doing the crista
doing the crista it's crazy kids
fantastic do we have any more that is it
that's all that's been submitted for
this week now there were a couple that
were submitted that that had had shown
us the devices that they used to watch
the show but i really want
see this show actually displayed on that
device so make sure you send that in to
its live at category 5 TV for a fun way
for you to get some free viewer points
and we'll watch for those this week and
see if we can get you in at the end of
the well next week cool roubaix your
questions oh we have lots today it's
like a sprint to get through all these
the initial stuff off the bat and brief
freeze take a sip lubuntu for the wind I
don't see a Mac mug here anywhere for
saying I'll bring my own next time oh I
dropped it while I was coming downstairs
with your water there Krista sorry about
that oh you're not sorry I dropped it
I've got like this raging look on my
face smash it not that I would do such a
thing no I wouldn't ever no no I should
make a quick mention before as you're
bringing up the questions that we may
have some some things to give away in
the in the chat room so if you're
watching this and you're not currently
in the chat room make sure you join us
category 5 TV and join the chat I wonder
what that could be I don't know all
right take it away alright so first
email from sean AKA raptor 222 ah he
says hi Robbie just caught up with all
the shows school work etc I wanted to
ask how I can turn a color image into a
black and white one in GIMP without
using desaturase I want to adjust the
Black Point image to give it more
contrast order to give it a more
contrast you look and then combine it
with the color image love the show cool
alright so let's let's grab this super
awesome picture that i happen to have
here and i'm going to open it up in the
gimp this is this is going to be like a
quick tutorial kind of quest reaume okay
so we want to convert this to black and
white without using desaturate so what
I'm going to do is I'm going to copy
visible okay edit copy visible or
control a edit copy visible I think it
got it in my clipboard anyways and then
edit paste as new image so now i have
two copies of that same image reason
that i want to do that
it's because you're saying that you
don't want to use desaturation you want
to overlay this over top of the color
image so we don't want to lose the color
on one of the images we want to be able
to overlay so I've got to color copies
ok I'll close down that one in the
background and I'm going to right-click
i'm going to go image mode grayscale so
now one of those images is black and
white one of them is color so now back
at the black and white wine i'm going to
highlight all and copy and then paste oh
and you'll see that that has created a
floating selection layer so what i need
to do is I need to convert that over to
a real layer so I'm going to go layer by
right clicking new layer and you'll see
that that floating layer is now become a
black-and-white layer so now you can do
the normal stuff like filters blur
Gaussian blur on our black and white
layer give it a bit of a brush right
eight pixels say if this is what you
want to do change the layer mode to
whatever whatever effect it is that
you're going for there now but you'll be
able to do whatever you like with that
so cool play around and go through the
settings change that to sixty-five
percent it's kind of part color perk
black and white mm-hmm there ya have it
well that's what you're looking for is
the question very cool next question
from Richards ibadah Marsh hey Richard
says hey Robbie I'm currently running
windows 7 due to gaming but I really
miss my linux linux linux all right
sorry Mac um linux install i only have
120 gigabytes solid-state drive as my
main hard drive so i don't really want
to dual boot this with ubuntu i also
have a 2 320 gigabyte hard drives
installed and i want to know how i
installed with two on two one of these
but i but still say this is too small
let's do
grub boot loader to choose which to boot
from thanks in advance and still loving
the web dev section he also says make
sure to bribe Krista with cookies to
keep her on a show after it ends you
know I was considering staying around
anyways but now that I see this I think
I require the cookies it's funny that
you should say that can you meet me keep
them there oh my goodness but you guys
are you okay now you're you take a bite
of that cuz that's uh that's like a
magic potion or so well that now you
can't possibly leave yeah we've got a
locked in people I have to thank you
know she like a cookie thank you Glenny
to go around although I was looking at
that viewer map a little earlier I don't
think we have enough cookies Oh what the
go-by mine that is sheer bliss people
sure bless but now to the actual
question okay so you've got 120
gigabytes solid state hard drive in your
computer you want to take that and you
want to put ubuntu on but you don't have
enough space to really do it on that
hard drive you want to use one of your
separate hard drives in order to do that
so first of all back up back up back up
that is imperative i always have a
backup in your case i think the easiest
thing to do would be to grab a tool like
clonezilla which is free to download up
i'll post the links in the show notes
for episode number 1 92 clonezilla org
and when you're there you can get that
tool boot it up from the CD and create a
clone image of your windows 7 device
that way because it's an actual image
which means it's an exact duplicate file
that's created to be a duplicate of your
computer itself that windows seven
partition if you break it you can just
restore back and you're good to go but
always have a backup but the clonezilla
image is going to create a really easy
mechanism for you to go back in time
basically
undo everything that you do so in order
to then once you've got your back up
because it's the first and foremost
thing that I'm going to suggest that you
always have when you're going to be
doing anything with your boot loader or
anything like that and just have a
backup anyways regardless of anything it
is simply boot up from your ubuntu desk
the live CD tell it to install to one of
those 320 gig hard drive and once you're
going through the installation process
it may ask because you've got multiple
drives but it may not it usually will
put the boot loader on the first boot
device so but what you want to do is you
want to make sure that it during the
installation procedure it does put that
boot loader on your on your main hard
drive which is your windows drive that's
your boot drive so then when you boot up
your computer it's going to ask you do
you want windows 7 or do you want to
boone two and you'll be able to do a
boob but it's going to be loading from a
different hard drive depending on which
operating system you select so and then
when you're in Linux you can mount that
ntfs drive from for windows 7 you'll be
able to access your windows files like
your windows partitions files from
within a boon to so I hope that that
helps steer you in the right direction
cool you got your pin 20 you are beeping
it I know just love pogoplug stop I have
the shirt I got the pen everywhere I got
the pogoplug I just might have a gobble
to give away oh maybe oh did I say that
out loud get in the chat room alright
you got another question the next
question from Greg hey great he says hi
Robbie could you do a tutorial on how to
setup a gnome 3 in Abu to what version
of ubuntu that would be the real
question and i would say that i would
probably steer away from that and the
reason being is that i try to keep
things fairly simple but at the same
time I try to make sure that what we
show on the show is not really it
doesn't have a high potential to break
your system with 11 point 0 for it's
possible to get known three running but
it can be it can damage your boon to
install so not something that we'd
really want to go over
the show unless you break it then maybe
we'll try to help you fix it but there
are tons of tutorials out there and give
that a try but i would probably steer
away from that on our show but thanks
for the question anyways and we just
don't want to step into stuff where
because a novice user would say oh well
i heard it on category 5 here's how i do
it and then something anomalous causes
their system to break so be careful with
that good next question from joe says i
have a donation idea for the series of
web design classes you and Chris have
been doing why not make cds or a DVD of
the series and ask for ten dollars or
more donation and give them the series
as a gift just working the brain cells
always to get you guys funds for the
show measures jowa i've had the idea to
make a DVD set of the the web
development series and that's part of
why we've done such a consistent
multi-part series is because then it
gives us something that is marketable
and something that we can we can offer
that's that's value-added because on our
website because we give everything away
for free there's not a lot of value
added stuff that we can say you know if
you if you donate we can give you this
we use the viewer points a lot and
progressively so more and more but it
would be nice to have something that we
could send you like a DVD so I have
actually talked to unfortunately
cafepress won't do it for us I've talked
to some some printing presses and stuff
and unfortunately they do require that
we buy a certain amount so that's where
cafepress would have been perfect but
they won't do it so so oh you know
hopefully we'll find somebody who can
print them for us and in the meantime
would you be interested in an iso
download or something like that is that
worth your while something that you
could burn yourself or do you prefer to
actually get a DVD set that you can just
basically have shipped to you in the
mail and be interested to know but thank
you for the suggestion I like that idea
yeah sounds really great we've got just
a couple minutes left until the news and
we have any more questions son women so
speak questions okay so from Joe AK Joe
cool hey Joe cool ah this is just kind
of a question for everyone I think he
says how many folks out there like the
new interface for Ubuntu
well I'm no Robbie cool but you know as
Robbie I I forced myself to use unity
unity is like the new 11-point 04
interface and get around it as you as
you noticed we showed you how to do that
in a previous episode you can use gnome
I I kind of thought you know what I'm
best just to install it run it and use
it at first I absolutely did not like it
at all get your feedback in the chat
room category 5 TV or post your comments
in the comments section of the show
notes of this episode number 1 92 a
category 5 TV for me at first it was too
unity is designed to me to be used by a
touchscreen device it really feels like
you want to have a tablet in order to
use this the whole interface the way
that it works is like to touch with you
know one finger to be able to hit an
icon and have it spew out what what it
is that you wanted to do it really
doesn't feel like a desktop desktop to
me like a desktop interface feels really
like a multi-touch screen so that's the
unfortunate thing I don't really like
that end of it because I don't have a
touchscreen and if I did I wouldn't be
using it in business because you know
like you're not going to be doing
graphic editing like this you know on a
screen it's just not practical so as a
mouse user and for you a tablet user and
and I'm going to be using a trackball
for you know to help with my ergonomics
it's just not it's not a good interface
but that said because I'm forcing myself
to use it I'm getting used to it to the
point where it's usable I've set it up
the way that I would want it set up and
it's working but i still prefer no i
have to say just straight gnome gnome 2
that's my opinion but post your comments
in the chat room and again in the in the
comments section for this episode 192
192 Hilary I knew I'm gonna pass things
off to you in just a moment as I switch
the cameras over and we will be taking
care of search engine optimization and
submission when we return hey everyone
it's time for the newsroom ventana done
or evolve eagerly awaiting to hear the
following Gleeson Calgary and Edmonton
are getting a clearer picture of the
Prince criminal Glee behind thanks to
some new technology more biz allows the
police to get a higher definition image
of fingerprints using the most advanced
biometric technology available today it
will allow investigators investigators
to search fingerprint databases faster a
search that previously would have taken
between eight to 12 minutes can now
performed in two minutes the technology
will also eventually allow please to
scan fingerprints electronically and
eliminate the ink and paper process if
you've tried fun playstation network on
your ps3 or PSP today you may have had
no luck as sony took parts of the
network down remain off down window from
A to F 4 5 pacific time no no it wasn't
a hack i was me and another the sky oh
uh tourism and yeah they shouldn't have
down researchers have set I'm who record
rate of down trip for using a single
user you may have heard about 100 per
bit second experiment recently but to
wolf game for Wolfgang for me a
co-author of current paper from a
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology
Germany this demonstration required 370
lasers lasers which is an incredibly
expensive thing if you can imagine 270
lasers they felt a consume several lots
of power a new has been set with just
one laser 26 terabytes per second add
those eight the contents of nearly 1,000
high-definition DVDs could be
transferred in about one second the
technology could be used if anything
from data transfer silicon chips and is
a quick candidate commercial lease the
First Circuit allowed to purchase via
their mobile phone has been launched in
the UK long shop yep for the farm
I eat 18 Fred a manic and some stores
users to use the system tough quick tap
will need orange and barclaycard
accounts as well as a handsets of
contactless payment the service made
possible by field communication NFL is
an algae that underpins any wireless
payment systems we use taps profile to a
payment Tanner rather a khukuri credit
card or debit is forecast for now quick
tap quired nfc-enabled samsung tocco
lite and answer which also want this
friday and while it was looking too
hopeful but smart the open suse
contributor who has been working on
immunity to open suse i na thursday
unity 2d packages will and he be
available stew while unity 3d is still
on marks to-do list unity 2d is planned
for inclusion on the gnome a itano know
a etana repository in the open Suzy
build service very soon neta have yet to
be announced though for the adventurous
one click installers will also be made
available cool you can get his full
stories online a category 5 die TV /
newsroom the category 5e newsroom is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions from our fabulous
community of viewers if you can do story
you think's worthy of honor mentioned
then is me mail because you're my
category 5 beanie for the category 5e
mmm categories I've done to your room I
Hiller thanks al and what were you
laughing about their you're just making
a crumbly mess because I was trying to
eat my cookie over the news I legen it's
like chrome vinyl that's fantastic
thanks Hilary this episode of category 5
TV is brought to you in part by pogoplug
category cat5 TV / pogoplug and planet
calypso join us in the free massive
multiplayer online game cat5 TV / clip
so are you ready to do some search
engine optimization I am so ready it's
ridiculous
let's do the search engine optimization
now what is that well once you've got a
website you've got to basically get it
ready for the search engine so that you
get better results then if you didn't do
search engine optimization and then
we're going to get into search engine
submission you've heard of search engine
optimization no doubt but how did the
search engines know that your site even
exists that's where submission comes in
so you've got actually tell the search
engines hey I'm over here come spider my
website and that's when things start to
get exciting if you've got the
optimization in place then all of a
sudden you're able to start working with
with your website in the search and
you'll see your so your site start to
populate the search engines so what
we're going to do is we're going to set
up demo dot cat five dot TV / 0 1 0
that's where we're going to put the
files for tonight they are there okay so
this is where things get a little bit
interesting because now we actually have
a working website right our site is
actually technically a functional
website even though we're just using
lorem ipsum text and things like that at
the moment but you remember that we used
PHP includes in order to in order to get
in order to get everything kind of
included from separate files and one of
the other things that you'll notice if I
just bring up index dot PHP here we are
and for the little little fixes here and
there just for those of you in the chat
room the little things that that need to
be done will actually be doing those off
the air and providing you with the files
so it includes / header which is shared
among all of our pages you'll see that
I've already included in our demo
mock-up this dollar sign title dollar
sign keywords and dollar sign
description because I'm a firm believer
in planning ahead when it comes to our
web development and actually having
things in place so that I don't have to
go back and redo that even though it
wouldn't be a lot of work that I do
planted ahead
so that said what I'm going to do is in
my header PHP i'm going to do what's
called a nested include which is not
something that I traditionally do
usually I plan things out in such a way
that that it will everything is already
planned out in this case because I'd
like to show you how this works I'm
going to actually do it so and what I
mean by that is normally I would have
all my includes in the file in this kind
of manner but here we're including
header.php and I don't want to have to
go through every file and go include and
add another include to that list so
instead what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go through my head or PHP and
I'm going to go include includes SEO dot
PHP again i use friendly names and so
SEO stands for search engine
optimization I'm going to save that file
and then I'm going to create a new file
i'm going to call this first of all i'm
just going to open and close PHP and
then i'm going to save it and call it it
might includes folder SEO dot PHP
because if i didn't create it even
though it doesn't actually do anything
yet if i hadn't created it it's going to
cause the syntax error failed to include
this file because it doesn't exist so
now that it's created we're good to go
so we know that we need dollar sign
title we know that we need dollar sign
keywords and we know that we need dollar
sign description okay and those are all
going to be called in Hetar PHP okay so
in our SEO PHP let's first of all start
up by creating generic these are our
defaults so if they're not going to be
overridden this is what this is what is
it's going to be and I'll show you why
that is demo dot cat5 TV / 0 10 so
aspire place that's the name of our
website we need to think in terms of
search engines ass fireplace what do
they do they make things Massa make
things awesome now you would use very
keyword rich text there and you want
your title to be short and sweet that's
going to appear in the title in the
title bar of your web site so you want
it to be nice and clean you don't want
it to be overbearing keywords this is
this is where we need to understand how
the search engines work as far as you
know everybody knows what a key word is
but everybody thinks or people who are
maybe who don't quite know how they work
you think that you want to throw in
every single word that has to do with
your product the problem with that is
that keyword saturation changes with
every keyword that you add to your site
a couple of things that you need to
observe when you're working with
keywords first of all what text is on my
site in my case is a bunch of lorem
ipsum but it might be about my products
it might be about the services that I
provide duplicating the same words
within this ok comma-separated
duplicating those words means that their
keyword saturation is now increased
because I've got keywords that match the
text on my website so in that regard if
I sell boats I may have text on my
website that has to do with boats and it
has to do with different types of boat
trailers and so I'm infusing the word
boat and boat sails into my site so i
infuse that into the content on my site
but then i use keywords that also infuse
those and say to the search engines hey
here's here's what i say the sites about
here are my keywords these are the most
important things about my site and then
the search engine says ok well you tell
me that it's about boats but what does
the text of your site say so then it
looks at the text of your site because
they're intelligent these days and it
says oh yeah this site is about boats so
let's increase the rate the ranking of
that site if you told it that it's all
about boats but it's about something
completely different it's going to know
that and it's going to actually lose
standings because you don't have keyword
saturation
so looking at that my keywords or comma
separated values maximum 25 keywords
don't go over that limit if you want to
have multiple words so for example very
Ontario will provide a better result for
very Ontario searches and would vary
Ontario with commas because this is the
exact search notice that I'm doing
everything lower case because some
search engines will make your search
case sensitive if you add uppercase
characters it's not so much the case
anymore google has really set the trends
as far as how the search engines work
but traditionally if I had lorem with a
capital L then I'm going to get good
results for people who are searching for
lorem with a capital L but not so much
for those with lower l if I have all
lowercase characters the search engine
says this is not case sensitive so it
will give me results for everything that
has to do with lorem also looking at
your keywords like I say keeping it
below 25 but we don't want to go any
like that's that's ridiculous to
actually hit that again think about
keyword saturation so understand the
concepts behind it if I have three
keywords the search engines interpret
those keywords is being very important
if I have 10 keywords they're less
important because there's so many of
them right so if I've got 10 keywords
each keyword say is worth ten percent of
my keyword saturation if I have five
keywords and each of those is now worth
twenty percent and so on so and that's
just to put it into real lames like lace
week but the fewer keywords that you
have that are really focused on your
content and on what it is that you're
actually selling and doing the higher
the results for those particular
keywords the more keywords you have the
less the keyword saturation for those
words and so therefore you're not gonna
get the same results necessarily for
those keywords description is a topic
that some will say you don't need and
then others will say like myself that's
best to have it anyways
usually your description doesn't
duplicate the title of your site because
they're usually displayed side-by-side
and you don't want to be marked as a
spammer to the search engines the reason
that I say now the the description can
be a little bit longer but you don't
want it to be too long imagine that this
is the subtext of a search response so
you've got the title of the site and
then the subtext below it a couple lines
of the very very most the reason that I
would use the description some of the
directory services not so much the
search engines like Google but the
directory services like DM 0 Z will tap
into things like the description of your
website and even if they don't like
Yahoo may take that description
information and just use it for further
keyword saturation and say well you said
it's about boats and you talk about
boats in your description and it has
boats in your title and it has boats on
your website and you've got a couple of
boat related keywords so this site is
about boats so when someone searching
about searching the web for boats all of
a sudden I've got much better standings
than the guy who only has you know who
doesn't have the proper keywords ok so
that if I upload it and upload my
includes / SEO and my includes /
header.php both of them r dot PHP of
course so I'm just thrown that onto the
server
so now if i refresh you'll see that my
title is as fireplace we make things
awesome okay that's the only thing that
we see but if we view the source you'll
see keywords are there based on my file
and description is there based on my
file that is because we created these
strings these are PHP strings title
keywords description and in our demo
document those things are echoed out
like this okay ? equals in PHP means
echo it's a quick way of sankt PHP echo
dollar sign title semicolon close it's
the same thing okay so with that done
now we have a default so nothing can
happen to cause our site to not have a
title in a keyword in the description
but we might say okay if str is tr so
string search within a string in case
sensitive the i means it's in case
sensitive if we remove that its case
sensitive so we're going to do a search
within a string so we're going to search
for index dot PHP and we're going to get
that from our server request URI is most
likely where it's going to be found I'm
going to run a test i'm just going to
exit add that and if it works it will
say success and then i'll explain to you
what it is that we're doing there if it
doesn't work we'll see why okay refresh
my site
I didn't get success so my search is not
correct I think it's haystack / common
needle pardon me we're always looking
for a needle in a haystack I think str
is TR is haystack and then the needle
let's see this car is here dad bracket
there we go I'll show you all this once
I've got it there to give you the real
time ok so we're still not getting an
exit success index time ok so what I
want to do I'm going to go this is a
very simple thing never do this on a
live site or in a file that is not you
know that's visible to the public and
just going to run PHP info and I just
want to find out what we're trying to do
what we want to do is we want to search
within the server array which your
server outputs through PHP and find out
the location I've got a underscore sorry
pull out the underscore we want to find
the location of that file and say ok if
it's the index dot PHP we're going to
use these titles if it's the about page
P so this is the output of PHP version
5.2 point 17 on my server that's what
you're going to see so let's see we're
going to do a search for index dot PHP
its script filename see i was using
script uri so under script file name ok
that's what we want because that is
showing us index dot PHP ok so back at
our code
I'll just undo so I'm going to search I
believe it's still haystack which is
what we're searching in and what we're
searching for but we want to change that
too when I say it was script filename
and this may be different for your
server depends on your configuration of
PHP so that's why I wanted to show you
running PHP info you notice it's exited
with success okay it's all part of the
troubleshooting process so you think
there for a moment oh this guy don't
know what he's no it's all part of the
process of getting your website working
and that's how you're going to do it and
that's why I want you to see all this if
we pre planned everything it's not
realistic and it's not going to help you
if you run into that problem okay so
what we've done here so we've said if
okay now we're going to within our if
statement we're going to say we're going
to search case-insensitive within dollar
signs server script filename so we know
that that contains the entire path and
the file name of our current script the
running script which is index dot PHP so
here's what we want to search for so
we've got a comma and then in
apostrophes index dot PHP that's the
file that we are searching for so if
that happens then we exit with success
but now what we're going to actually do
is we're going to go now we're going to
override title equals this is index okay
so now you've got our default title
right there but then if the file that
we're actually on is index dot PHP then
let's replace title with this as index
so now if I save that upload SEO PHP
look at our site let's click on refresh
this is index up at the top if I click
on about us a spire place we make things
awesome because that does not have an
override but my index does okay so this
is how now using scripting we're going
to actually create a dynamic method of
creating title keyword and description
for each individual page
right so now we go a spire place that
looks great that's perfect for home
right but now let's let's clean this up
just a little bit use your indentations
make it clean okay
now we're going to of course you're
going to go through and strategically
place keywords throughout your site and
also change the description to be
relevant to your site ok so we've said
if the file name contains
case-insensitive index PHP use this
title keyword description else if so if
not and also check if this is about us
dot PHP and then we're going to call it
about our awesome team so what happens
is if it's index dot PHP because this is
an else if it's going to stop processing
here so it's not going to keep going
through the through the scan I fit fine
if it found something I'm going to save
that upload my file and remember these
files are all available for download and
it's free cat5 DV / web dev and you'll
be able to get these files so that you
can tinker with these yourself home a
spire place we make things awesome about
us aspire place about our awesome team
right so now we've created a search
engine optimization that is one easy to
update right to what have we
accomplished here based on what we
learned last week we've taken all that
stuff all that search engine
optimization and we've placed it in one
file so if we want to Rio mais our site
if we want to change titles and keywords
and descriptions it's one file we don't
have to open up 300 different files at
the end of the day and if we create new
files those new files are going to
automatically get the default keywords
because they're not going to get an
override basically an override says you
know even it regardless of whether the
title is already set change it to this
and that's going to make it happen for
you so that's search engine optimization
as far as submission goes as I mentioned
earlier on in the show and that's really
really basic I mean delve into search
engine optimization that's just to get
your site to the place that it needs to
be for your search engines a lot of the
stuff is already done for you cat5 TV /
web dev you'll see a blank index dot PHP
that you can download for free and with
that file you'll see that a lot of the
stuff like
you know your distribution Global
Content language is English us you might
want to change that if you're creating a
non-english website content character
type the type of object for certain
search engines and directories this is a
document the rating so that it's not you
know this is not a PG site for example
robots all means that all of the search
engines are allowed to crawl through
your content and index it ie fix for
pings so all that stuff is already in
place for you if you use our source
material i would suggest per me that
you'll learn how it works and go over
that and see how you can you can
actually create search engine
optimization for your own site but a lot
of that is in place so it's you know
it's readily available for you cat5 TV /
web dev I cool a cool site that you can
go to just to give a little bit of a
plug to old friends of mine who have
been doing this for four me and my
company for four years upon years add
procom if you head on over there you'll
see that they offer if you go into
submission plans you can you can
actually purchase a commercial
submission package or on the home page
you'll see free website URL submission
to search engines which as a start-up is
somebody who's just you know getting
your website going for the first time
this is something that's going to get
you started so you click on basic free
index you enter your email and your
website address and say okay and submit
and what they do we've created a
fantastic script that goes through your
site crawls the site indexes that
submits it to a whole bunch of search
engines might be like 50 search engines
of that rate so gets into Google and
things like that make sure your site's
ready for it before you do that make
sure that it's reliable and it's up
because if your site is down if it's
inconsistent if it's not quite working
or if it's not search engine optimized
Google will look at it and say yeah it's
not good enough for search engine so you
want to make sure it's it's ready for
them that's where the optimization comes
in and then do the submission and add
procom is a great place to start there
are tons of commercial
companies that do search engine
optimization and Submission it's worth
your while if you're doing this
commercially but I'm just showing you as
as a friend and somebody wants to help
you get started and this is really just
the bare you know bare escentuals get
you going get you started and I think
that'll give you a good good little leap
on website development get your web
hosting as well for only seventy dollars
for the entire year includes a free
domain name registration cat five dot TV
/ web dev for the details and that that
will be available for you for forever
forever and ever cool so that's how that
concludes our web development series do
you think we've covered a lot yeah I do
milani I'm so sad though yeah done sober
site is like ready I mean we can
populate it with content feel free to
you know put it together and host it and
show us what you've come up with with
the code that you've downloaded from
cat5 TV / web dev we'd love to see and
yeah I think that's been a lot of fun
great so what's next we got lots of
stuff to give away oh no way we do
Wirecast head on over to cat five dot TV
/ win we have received a bunch of votes
there and here's what I'm going to do
this is how we're going to make it fair
okay for every vote that you've received
to win a free copy of wire cast which is
the broadcast sweet that we use to
broadcast category 5 TV I've written
down your number here so you see there's
one two three five six so these are
these are the actual entries so if you
go to cat five TV / win I've written out
an entry like a number for each time
that you've been voted for so it's going
to be whoever gets to I'm just cutting
this up you can see that I'm doing it
it's like laughs yeah it's actually
happening right now here we go so I've
got now number two is like I said
winning by a landslide entry number two
we'll see what happens
cat5 TV / win and you get to see who it
is that's going to win there so we're
going to shake these up and we're going
to draw two well we're going to draw
until somebody gets too so if I see if
we if we dry out number two I still have
to draw another one until number whoever
guess yeah you gotta you gotta you gotta
get to all right so it's whoever is
first to get to thank you for your votes
cat5 TV / wind got all you can hear that
I'm dropping dropping people can see
Robbie patented I know Crosley's my
glasses get here you go okay I won't
even run dum dum dum here ok go for it
take one out just one what's the number
headed up uh 55 ok draw another one
let's see if we get a 5 if it's a five
number five gets it it's a three it's a
three ok so set those aside we've got a
five and a three and an r5 another five
so the winner of wire cast broadcast
suite is entry number five let's see
what let's see what they said cat five
dot TV / win congratulations and entry
number five comes to us from Anthony
fear congratulations Anthony who says I
would love to receive a copy of wire
cast because it is quite simply the best
live streaming software available in the
market I know because I've spent that
last few weeks trying out all the
alternatives and nothing comes even
close my colleague and I have many years
of experience in providing technical
support to Windows users and we wanted
to share some of that experience and
information with our fellow pc users so
we've decided to start a regular podcast
offering support and advice to home
computer users well it sounds like a
sounds like a great thing to do yeah we
are completely biased you can read the
entire entry number five at cat five dot
TV / win and it sounds like we've got
some new competition coming up for
category
hey they're gonna start their own show
I'm gonna do a lot of the same things
that we do wonder if cookies do you have
cookies cuz if not we are sown we're
just waiting wait we got cookies vote
for your favorite episodes of category 5
TV at category 5 burnamy dot TV and when
you vote with the five star system it
will actually be incorporated into our
viewer top ten which was added to the
site this week and you can actually get
that list from our website it is live so
as you vote those numbers could change
and that get your votes in in order to
participate in that cool I think we
covered a lot tonight we did that's a
super fashion that was a super super
fast show the first super fast Hillary
it's so nice having you here and but hey
Vic hey everyone I'm still hearing in
the chat room and it's been a slice
thanks for watching and yeah send us
your cookies attention to first cookies
ladies and your cookies they're
delicious d man 810 is demanding that we
actually give away cookies for you to do
we mail them out do we what do we do
it's kind of maybe you'll come to the
fifth anniversary party and well that
will give you some cookies I'd be
delicious I think well hey thank you so
much for being here with us at category
5 technology TV you'll find our website
at triple w category 5 TV thanks for all
your support over the past several weeks
as we raise funds to purchase the new
microphones and server and you could
also you know if you haven't already
done so when you have the means to do so
please head on over to our website
category 5 TV and click on support us
and if you have a website you can also
add our widgets to your website that's
another way that you can thank us for
for what we do here is just to delink to
us we've got our YouTube widget we've
got a banner advertisement that you can
add to your site things like that and we
appreciate everyone who does that cool
so what have you learned with the web
development series oh so much I'm not
really much of a web
pro so as a graphic designer this was
this was huge especially with the last
part the SEO I had I knew it what it was
I just right yeah actually gather some
of your thoughts I'll talk about it next
week okay but we have a pogoplug pro to
give away no in the chat room no way oh
wait I lie we have to pump up rose to
everyone oh that was all I mean that
wasn't me good luck everybody oh I see
so many wonderful familiar faces there
he didn't think i was gonna get in
on to foco plug
pros you know you'd like to have a
pogoplug II and find a more cat five dot
TV / pogoplug and the winners are jalar
and Jonathan
congratulations
all you have to do is email us live at
category five dot TV with your mailing
address your phone number so that we can
ship it to you as well as the number
i'll pick a number between what 110
billion Oh 5641 send that number live at
category five TV along with your address
phone number and we will send you pay
pogoplug congratulations Joe our and
Jonathan and to you have a fantastic
week everybody and we'll see you next
Tuesday hey guys thanks for being here
everybody
you
