for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
sweet globe welcome to episode number 2
79 of category 5 TV generate 22nd 2013
how are you good to see you yeah I don't
have you okay good keep them busy HS a
word Abigail Smith joining us for a
Canadian winter tonight it is better out
there really Snow feels like winter it
different circuit done yeah we've had
some weird days because it's like super
warm I'm up there late at night fill in
the hot tub you know and super warm
dragging it out of you know just poured
some water into standing over the hose
you know whatever and then all of a
sudden it's like 300 below and here we
are below yeah well you're done ok just
ya working in a long time yeah it's been
a couple months yeah I was thinking
about that was coming here tonight I'm
like wow feels like I haven't even seen
on the show before but a long time
everybody so you you let us know at the
end of the show if it seemed like she
had never been on the show before it's
funny though I was saying before the
show 2012 you were on for one episode
mmm is your yield like the new be as far
as co-hosts go yeah and the episode that
abigail was on was our number 1 episode
4 2012 what gives I don't know my
co-host maybe could be you know that was
I was excessively witty that day I don't
know could have in the future of course
it was you Robbie who's yeah probably
was although like you could say like if
what the number one episode is I was on
it so that's amazing fail right there
cuz it's kind of a given yeah so well
then
it was her she was the only thing that
was out of the ordinary a chat room
akimoto tick-tock JP Troy 70 for garbey
and all the folks that are joining us on
google+ in our hangout tonight as well
on youtube at youtube.com slash category
5 TV nice to see you thanks for being
here tonight Abigail oh no got my Shack
shouldn't question for you yeah what's
coming up in the news whoa let me tell
you Oh tell me what camera throat coming
out this room as as I bring it up on the
street buy myself some time and and go
okay collected mm-hmm don't talk about
clouds or anything like that nothing
like that mega uploads Kim calm has set
up a new club know what's happening I
didn't free read this so I didn't even
know no i said it literally is about the
can i set up a new store miss George and
file sharing site Atari um com was
arrested in all this kerfuffle over
megaupload okay which is a cloud sharing
yep network and all that and so they've
gone he's gone in and done some more
cloud based architecture to see if I'm
to get away with it so uh Atari us has
filed for bankruptcy protection
protection human protection I think
we're gonna go bankrupt will file for
bankruptcy projection imagine okay I
apologize my news is not collected the
glass thing wait till we get half with a
massive data leak of personal
information for half a million Canadians
could have been prevented an architect
in Holland wants to use 3d printing
technology to print crazy buildings and
lastly a dangerous remote zero-day root
exploit has been discovered on some
linksys routers
ground these stories are coming up later
in the show interesting hey okay so
people are asking in the chatroom how do
I get this show on my android device how
do I get it on my iphone how do I get it
on this or that all you need to do is go
to our mobile site it is dot five dot TV
scan that QR code or just go there in
your browser m dot cat five dot TV check
it out that's gonna get you there and
you can watch live you can catch some
past episodes as well right through our
mobile website what is going on in this
side of the studio today I'm just like
why is he like this I guess it my turn I
see there you got the code up on the
screen Abigail we have really
astoundingly basic CGI effects here at
category 5 TV you'll be amazed what you
can do with a navy I file and a little
bit of chroma key it's astounding sound
effects today Oh No Hey tonight we've
got some fun stuff Abigail and I are
going to be talking about creating we've
been talking a little about this on the
side creating our very own photo booth
I'm talking like you know when you go
into a mall and you can sit down with
your kids in front of a little camera
and it takes for pictures and then
dispute them out or whatever we're gonna
be looking at how to build one tonight
and we're actually be using all linux
based technology tonight and that's
going to be followed up with with
another feature in March as well yeah so
awesome very cool stuff we have a net
talk do a Wi-Fi to give away to those of
you who were able to get your ballots in
at cat five dot TV / phone we've got a
whole bunch here there you go we have
converted your ballots in two numbers
your chances are one in 72 and we're
excited to give that away the nettalk
duo Wi-Fi is going to give you a free
year of long distance and phone service
you can call anywhere in Canada the US
absolutely free so stick around we're
going to be giving that away to one
lucky viewer in just a little bit's time
elmer fish paw hey good to see ya dnl s
good to see you too all right well uh
postcards Posey yeah we'd love to
receive your postcards the postcard wall
is filling up fast we do have some space
for you and we are willing to buy
another cork board if that's necessary
so Abigail how can they send those in
all right well if you want to send in a
postcard these category 5 TV p.o.box
2900 9 Barrie Ontario Canada of course
l4n 7w 7 and category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here an international association
of internet broadcast ease broadcasters
scott l is wondering do you really want
a postcard from Barrie Ontario and I
would say yes we'd love to receive a
postcard from wherever you are even if
you're in our hometown and in fact that
would be quite meaningful because it
would be really lame for me to send
myself a postcard memories of mr. bean
Christmas special but that's what it
could come down to scott l please please
send us a postcard from very ontario
alright we appreciate it and you can
send this one from anywhere in the world
check out where our viewers are located
on our viewer location map it's live and
you can get there by going to map dot
cat five dot TV hey we're going to be
right back after this and Abigail and I
are going to be talking to you about how
to build a photo booth very exciting
stuff and don't forget we've got that
nettalk duo Wi-Fi to give away tonight
as well so stick around at eco alkalines
we believe you should be able to trust
your batteries not just here but here
here and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here
eco alkalines of the world's first and
only certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco outlines
provide performance that rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm this is category 5 technology TV
you will find us online at triple w
category five dot TV this is
professional TV okay only if you're
watching them to do you know what goes
on behind the scenes before backstage
pass good to see you too we've got so
many camera angles and stuff the people
yeah how how can people yeah but we'll
try to pay attention to you up front
there so Abigail you and I have been
having a talk about creating a photo
booth mm-hmm what's the purpose what's
the purpose yeah what could you use a
photo booth for what would you use a
photo booth oh oh wedding oh so he's
proposed and you said yes yes you've got
a reception coming up a hey look at that
yeah why careful with these lights yeah
so yeah just like fun for the guests
congratulations by the way I guess
Thanks congratulations from the
community are in order and we're gonna
be building you a photo booth so that at
the reception people can sit down and
make funny faces and probably put on a
silly hat or something yeah like that
get some props yeah so we're gonna try
to do it on a shoestring and do this in
such a way that we're not spending too
much money because you know perhaps you
at home want to give it a try and you
don't want to have to spend you know a
thousand two thousand three thousand
dollars like it would cost to you know
to get one of these professional rigs
even just to rent is easily a thousand
that's just for a basic basic so if you
follow along with us tonight and in the
course of this series because it is
going to be a build series to put
together this photo booth you will be
able to build a system that you could
rent out for thousands of dollars start
your own business stop your
so that that's kind of an exciting
thought so that's one thing you could do
as well is to rent this thing out maybe
you could build one that's economical
and you could rent it out to people who
are looking for a deal do it for 400
would you would you buy it or would you
rent it at 400 yeah like that that would
probably be oh well only 400 what's the
catch right yeah exactly so lots of
congratulations in the chat room mm-hmm
thanks everybody so what we're going to
look at to start as we look at how this
is going to be done is we're going to
start by using open source technologies
we're going to start by looking at linux
and some of the software that's
available for Linux we're going to have
to buy a little bit of hardware that's a
given let's say our budget is I don't
know say a hundred bucks or something
seems kind of that's pretty cheap yeah
think you can do it for a hundred bucks
today I don't know and then later so
helpful imagine that in in march on
march 12th we're going to be following
up and then we're gonna we're gonna be
increasing our budget a little bit
getting into some more you know high-end
software and and actually building a bit
of Iraq Morgan talk more about that in a
little bit's time I think what it starts
with is is making a decision what do you
want this booth to look like and we have
the talk we've been looking at some of
the options what are some of the options
that we've come across we've come across
room dividers yeah that are you know
they're printed double-sided so you can
get like a really nice waterfall scene
or something along those lines yeah
gorgeous I mean there are really awesome
dividers that you may what they cost
that one was a 200 I think 200 or so
save you I think if you wanted the six
panel versus the four panel it was
closer to 300 and you probably want the
wider of the two I would think because
if you've got three or four people
trying to get into the shot you'd be
looking at a wider shot so and that's
not bad i think if you have a budget for
that would be a good idea and then i'm
looking at now one of the things that i
did find abigail is a backdrop just at a
local store and i'll show the viewers
this it's 50 bucks and it's just like I
don't know what's like a that what go
Eve yeah
room divider rattan would divide divider
I don't know what do you think of that
I'm not sure if it's a little too drab
for a wedding I think was something like
that you'd almost need a lighter colors
that people don't blend did you spray
painted I wonder at that price maybe get
some some trim clad or something and
well I guess it depends on the quality
like if that's kind of like a plastic we
profess more cloth it's like a wood a
wood yeah rattan I'm idea oh that's
certainly the price is right i think
it's yes sure oh yeah so then the next
thought that I had was okay well because
we got to plan this thing out and you've
got a plan out your rig as well and
figure out how you're gonna do this on
it on a shoestring budget what if we got
now you had shown me some muslin
backdrops which are typically used for
photography and and studio use and a
muslin backdrop can be had for fifty a
hundred dollars the the bricks behind us
are actually muslin you can see how real
they look it's a very you know muslin
backdrops are excellent but usually what
do you run into you need to have
something to hang them on so you get you
can get a muslin 400 bucks but then you
need to have a good solid stand because
they can be very very heavy and the
stand could be a hundred or 200 or 300
bucks depending on what you need and
quite large as well because you've got
something that's 10 feet by you know 25
feet kind of thing length so that can be
a problem as well so I started thinking
about that though what if we were to
create a PVC type stand so taking some
pipes that are normally used for you
know to run electrical through or
something like that cut it to two size
and make our own stand not for muslin
but for drapes like actual drape panels
with you know the the grommets within
the panel that the PVC would fit through
and then we could do like a bit of a
wave pattern with a white drapes a or
something you know just a nice color or
even find something with a pattern
that's how that would probably work you
could yeah because I mean pipes i'm not
sure what the piping would cause he does
look into what i've done making it for
one thing it's extremely light because
it's like a PVC plastic really really
easy to disassemble and move
so that's great for a wedding and
certainly if you're thinking about doing
this for for any kind of event where you
need to setup and teardown lightweight
and easy to tear down is very important
so with a PVC pipe set up as you know
we'd have to set it up to be solid and
not fall over get a couple of drape
panels drape panels i have found for
about ten to eighteen dollars per panel
there about four feet wide each so i
thought by the time you do a little bit
of this yeah the panel you're probably
looking at about two feet maybe three so
we probably want two panels so and the
PVC piping can be purchased for about
fifty cents per foot they sell them in
10 foot lengths for five bucks kind of
idea yeah so by the time you know we we
could probably do that within our budget
and then we got to look at what song did
she bear fruit compared to some of it
like the muslim for example the mountain
everything you think we'd love to hear
from you in the chat room and also on on
youtube comment below the video also you
can comment on our twitter channel its
category 5 TV i'll put it right up here
for you category 5 TV on twitter and of
course you can catch us on facebook it's
a cat5 TV / facebook is a quick link to
get there and comment also you can get
us on google+ cat five dot TV / g plus
join our community and let us know what
you think what would be the best option
what way would you like to see us go
because on March twelfth we're gonna
actually be doing the bill mm-hmm okay I
know one person commented here that if
it's outdoors it'll blow over now this
one will be indoors but this is for the
reception not yeah photo shoot and I
think a lot of photo booth situations
are probably going to be indoors anyways
for like if someone wants to build them
for themselves right and along those
lines you could you could purchase sand
bags yeah even you know a rice bag a big
bag of long grain rice you can go to a
liquidation store that has you know that
has bought out rice from a bankrupt
restaurant or something and they'll sell
them for two bucks for a great big bag
weighs 10 kilograms so you slap that
thing on the bottom of it and all of a
sudden it's holding your PVC down pretty
good but yeah it certainly would could
be an issue if it was blowing around
so that's the backdrop then we got to
think about the technology how are we
actually going to make this work
obviously we need a camera we need a way
to trigger that camera without having to
have the bride standing by the thing and
showing everybody how to do it and you
know you don't want it to be over
complicated yeah so when we look at our
budget what I'm thinking is that we're
going to do this within heart mostly
hardware that all of us already have a
laptop computer or a desktop computer
that we can just plug in with a
flat-screen monitor you know this kind
of thing but there's a couple things
that we will need yeah and what are
those things Robbie well I thought about
a webcam and I dug through and I did you
know I've got an assortment of webcams
you probably do too for me the one that
I chose is the microsoft lifecam studio
which is a 1080p web cam because it will
do full 1080p and I just happen to have
one its USB so i can plug it in if you
don't have one you can purchase them
usually for about fifty dollars or so
they come on sale when they're not on
sale they might be upwards of about 80
watch for sales though check online go
to cat five dot TV / lifecam cat5 TV /
bh will take you to one of our sponsors
and their website do a search for life
camstudio get the 1080p version not the
cinema that's a 720p version so a 1080p
with a webcam we can actually take some
pretty decent quality pictures yeah so
that's the webcam portion of it from
there of course we're just going to use
a computer so I was thinking the laptop
that you use or something like that
right yeah works for you yeah okay so
everybody wants to know okay well what
software would you use to do something
like this so I got into the repositories
and I've been looking at some of the
options that are available on Linux
because first and foremost we want to
give Linux a try because it's going to
be the cheapest it's going to be you
know we're huge advocates of supporting
free software here category 5 if we can
find something to do it for free or at
least with with freely available
software and we can support that then
that's the first thing that we want to
do
now of course on the twelfth we're going
to also be looking at some commercial
software but tonight we're going to be
looking at just just using free software
so i have linux installed this is simply
zoran or part of me yeah what am i
running I can't remember now Zorin OS
yeah so that's all sad I mean it's
debian-based it's a boon to based you
could be running a boon to you and be
running whatever get in the repositories
and you'll find a program called cheese
photo booth cheese cheese like not she's
like this is cheesy but she's like she's
okay is that a moment there yeah makes
no sense right someone asked me for a
tape gun today and I'm thinking oh what
now but then I clue didn't had hilaria
gap so we're gonna just install cheese
and I've already done so and when now
when I've got cheese running I can bring
it up here it's gonna be under sound and
video once you've got it installed and
there it is okay so that's looking at us
through the microsoft lifecam studio
webcam alright so the next thing that we
want to determine is how can we get
people to actually be able to point at
that take a photo button and take a
photo yeah kind of impossible and what
do we want to put a full-size qwerty
keyboard in front of them and say okay
well push the spacebar do that kind of
thing so I don't really want to do that
yeah you need something that people
cause something like that they might one
person like that's gonna push something
wrong no mess everything up and very
frantic and she's gonna be like know
you've broken it and she's running over
and addresses flailing you just don't
want to see that you know so what have
we do we went to USB button calm all
right USB button comm check this out for
twenty nine dollars so we're still well
within our budget you can pick up this
USB programmable button and it only does
well I mean you can do many many things
but it's got one
toggle so you program it what you want
it to do when I push that button so you
can do a series of things so you can use
this after the fact and use it for
whatever you want have a trigger an
application and do something but for us
what we want to do is we want to just
program it to hit the spacebar that's
all we want it to do we just want a big
button that I can push it and it hits
the space bar so I tried installing the
software on my on my linux computer
through wine it is a windows-based
program in order to program the USB
button okay unfortunately didn't work on
linux it needs a different version of
mono than is available and net didn't
work either and the version of net is
wrong and wine for for what it needs so
I just you know everybody has access to
a windows computer stick it on there and
you'll be good to go so let's take a
look at how that's done I'm going to
bring up the web browser on my Windows
computer oh and I've actually already
installed it here we go so now I can
just bring up the software and choose
space got the button plugged in I can
choose the colors this is kind of neat I
can actually set the colors that I want
it to be when the when I've pressed it
so it's going to go purple when they
press it and when it's not pressed I
want it to be green so you saw it's a
green button there so program the button
and now it's done so now as easy as that
on my windows system i programmed it to
be a space bar okay to get that software
i'm going to go back to my computer here
i had already installed them on the
windows system just bring up your web
browser go to USB button calm there you
go you can also buy it here okay
fabulous little device go to the web
store to buy it you'll see it there it's
29 bucks easy breezy and it glows green
it glows whatever color you want to
program it to me yeah and then you
download the configuration utility right
there so it's all just on this website
easy breezy USB button calm and it works
so now that I've programmed it to be a
space bar theoretically that should now
act as a space bar for four
that software mm-hmm cuz we're gonna be
using cheese cheese yes she's so nice
and easy stuff let's bring back up
cheese here on my screen there we go
okay so watching the chat room if you
have any questions for us this is
category 5 technology TV tonight Abigail
and myself we are building a photo booth
that using some just a couple of little
pieces of hardware that we've purchased
but otherwise doing this on a real
shoestring budget we're not really
spending a whole lot of money we're
using computers that we have you know
computer that we have we're using a
webcam that we have other nice thing
about the the webcam that we chose I'll
just back up a little bit the the
microsoft lifecam studio as opposed to
the cinema and many other webcams has a
tripod mount okay so that means you can
you can put it on a tripod and you can
see some a be able to see the the tripod
here you can certainly see it yeah it's
actually mounted on a tripod right now
for us that's a real bonus so with our
USB button from USB button calm will be
able to actually trigger that software
so I think we should we should skip into
the news you can get your questions in
the chat room its category 5 on freenode
we're going to come back to our feature
tonight how to build a photo booth on a
shoestring budget using Linux right
after the news so stick around get your
questions into the chat room or papas an
email live at category five dot TV ready
to take it away I am awesome megaupload
boss kim
has set up a new cloud storage and
filing file-sharing site mega a
web-based service that lets people
upload and store files of any kind is a
sequel to the megaupload system that was
shut down last january police raids on
the offices in home of Kim calm led to
the closure of mega upload the mega site
went online on Sunday followed by a
lavish launch party held mr. coms New
Zealand mansion mr. calm who was born
Kim Schmitz has said the new site
complies that's not his new net his real
name the new site complies with the law
and said that attempts to take it down
would be futile he said on Saturday
quote this is not some kind of finger to
the US government or to Hollywood
legally there's just nothing there that
could be used to shut us down the site
is just as legitimate and has the right
to exist as Dropbox Box net and other
competitors and in other news the US
operations of Atari have filed for
bankruptcy protection the maker of the
groundbreaking video game pong is
seeking to separate from its loss-making
French parent holding company atari sa
the US operations of Atari have shifted
to their their business from retail
games to digital games in recent times
and have become a growth engine for
atari sa the same and said quote the
chapter 11 process constitutes the most
strategic option for Ataris US
operations as they look to preserve
their inherent value and unlock revenue
potential unrealized while under the
control of atari sa insecurity in
current security news a federal agency
in canada has lost an unencrypted
external hard drive which contained the
private information such as names social
insurance number state of birth of more
than half a million canadian loan
recipients the very information which
can be used in identity identity theft
schemes a human resources and Skills
Development Canada employee who is
looking for a missing USB key containing
the data of more than 5,000 Canadians
discovered the external hard
drive to also be missing from the office
and Gatineau Quebec the drive reportedly
contained confidential information of
583,000 Canadians yikes the RCMP is
calling it one of the largest privacy
lapses in Canadian history the Human
Resources Minister Diane Finley said I
have directed that departmental
officials take a number of immediate
actions to ensure that such an
unnecessary situation does not happen
again endpoint protector from endpoint
protector CA is an end point solution
which would have prevented this data
breach strong device use policies and
data loss prevention technologies in
endpoint protector ensure proactive
protection and safer working environment
and should an external hard drive be
stolen containing the confidential
information of 580,000 Canadians it
would be entirely unreadable to the
thief for more information go to
endpoint Protectorate CA from our
interesting uses of technology file an
architect in Holland has revealed plans
to 3d print buildings inspired by the
Earth's landscape the buildings are
designed to retrieve resemble I know
English a giant mobius strip a
continuous loop which only with only one
side weird now say the least I don't
think this is under English may be crazy
I know jean-jacques oh we shoulda seen
ya reckon speak Dutch for the record I
put that in there on purpose included
the developers name no offense just put
her on the spot ok we'll just say Jim
zap an individual sensor the Impala just
hopes to create the buildings which he
estimates will cost as much as about six
and a half million all around the world
Wow Reese it kind of looks like an
enterprise esque looking thing to me but
that's that's just me
all right researchers of some reason you
want to rewind I did so much better lies
there ok researchers have uncovered a
remote root access vulnerability in the
default installation of linksys routers
the team responsible for the discovery
contacted contacting cisco ensured a
detailed for owner ability you can do
this vulnerability description along
with you something along with the
exploit for the vulnerability cisco
claim that the vulnerability was already
fixed in the latest firmware release
which turned out to be out the beam
which turned out to be wrong same of
that turned out to be wrong anyway
linksys said that this thing was this
fixed and there wasn't yeah ok i will
continue following his links is firmware
4.3 point 14 and all previous versions
are still vulnerable according to
defense code although cisco claims that
the vulnerability exists only in their
linksys wrt54g that's good i am full of
the giggles tonight star eating you know
that router it's the wrt54g it's it's
vulnerable GL GL model so defense Code
stated investigating their claim I
apologize and from what they can tell so
far at least one other lynxes model is
likely vulnerable moreover during the
analysis they discovered clues that
network devices from other manufacturers
might also contain the same
vulnerability they are still
investigating get the full stories at
category so though you're gonna
interrupt me I was like I'm not doing
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by Roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Abigail Smith Abigail Smith ladies and
gentlemen how is it that it's always the
most frightening possible story that
could ever exist and they laugh to
summarize one of it okay the spelling
error then we'll the spelling error with
me but for the red ear I'll just
summarize it would mean we're talking
linksys routers the blue ones you know
everybody's got at least one of them are
has had one in their lifetime there are
70 million of these things out there
that have been sold and to think that
each of those devices 70 million devices
all connected to the Internet all
connected to the Internet all at once
have an exploitable code or an
exploitable firmware something about
them that would allow a hacker to botnet
all of those 70 million devices to
create some kind of a super device
something that could attack something
that could exploit something at at a
grand scale I mean you're looking at the
deadline power of all of those devices
all all put together and D dossing some
military system or whatever else it
could could do anything I mean the power
that's behind that and to think that
Cisco says oh yeah we fixed it and no
they didn't they say the exploit is
still there and possibly actually in
some of their other routers and possibly
on some other manufacturers routers that
is really scary not funny just saying
Abby it isn't funny tonight's stories
are brought to you in part by quarter
eee electric at quarter electric com hey
check them out you need any electrical
work done in in central Ontario quarter
eee electric com and get your free one
month trial of netflix at cap five dot
TV / netflix make sure you check that
out and that is a brilliant service for
watching your favorite movies and TV
shows and everything cap five TV /
netflix for the free one month trial
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show thanks for joining us
tonight please get into our chat room
its category
5 on freenode or just visit our website
category five dot TV re I'm fun I am
yeah what's going on in the chat room
trying to keep up yeah it's looking back
you can keep up yeah hey everybody
broadcasting again tonight on YouTube
I'm very exciting new feature of
category 5 is that we are live on
youtube so check out our youtube channel
category 5 its category 5 TV on YouTube
mm-hmm cool all right forget a little
bit later on so a couple more minutes
we're gonna be giving away a year free
phone service from nettalk duo with the
net talk to a Wi-Fi and very excited
about that let's pick up where we left
off let's take a look at what is going
to happen when we use cheese in order to
every time I say cheese she giggles
alright night it's just one of those
nights I yep ladies and gentlemen it is
water that that I've given her yes water
alright so looking at cheese here and
just bring up the computer screen there
we are okay so we want to set this up
Abigail as something more than just
something that takes a picture because
right now if I click on take a photo
there we go so now we've got this photo
that it's taken there it is okay so
first of all now you know that we've set
this up with our microsoft lifecam
studio camera which is 1080p compatible
so the first thing i want to do is go
edit preferences you'll see that it
automatically in linux detects the
camera but it automatically has set up
to a low resolution 640 by 480 which is
lower than 480 p so if you click on that
click on the arrows let's see you'll see
that it goes all the way up to 1920 x
1080 I'm probably just going to do the
full resolution might as well get the
best quality that we can for burst mode
this is where we're going to actually be
creating our our device that's going to
work as a photo booth we're going to set
the number of photos I would think the
four is probably good a half ago yeah
and the delay between each photo we're
going to set to one's
and so now if I take a picture we get
something that is much higher resolution
so you compare it looks pretty pretty
good pretty attractive yeah pretty great
thanks out again sure going up on your
bile all right so now watch this here's
what we need to do with cheese we're
gonna go cheese countdown important
she's flash there we go okay this is for
your wedding hey come on take take
things seriously videos okay cheese /
i'm finding funny it's the cheese no
yours that you're just talking so
seriously and not the cheese click on
the cheese yeah the flash feature is
pretty cool Abigail pretty cool indeed
what the flash does it because you got
to imagine we're gonna put an LCD
monitor in front of them right the flash
feature is just a fake flash it
basically just makes the monitor turn
white for just a split second alright so
that's a cool feature for our photobooth
we're gonna have that enabled okay now
next step Abigail we're gonna click on
cheese scroll down and switch to burst
mode alright first that's basically
going to give us that it's gonna take
four photos in one second intervals now
we're gonna switch to full screen mode
that was one second enough time for them
to switch their poses one second let's
give it a try shall we and we'll make
that decision it's really up to you so
we're click on cheese again and I'm
going to scroll down I'm gonna go full
screen mode now that is what it looks
like okay so remember we've got this us
five button from USB button calm we've
set it to be a space bar so
I put this here and I touch it it's
going to turn purple see that like I
programmed let's see what happens if it
works as it is I've clicked there we go
okay smile okay down accolade three two
one see it's kind of like photo booth so
how'd that feel with one second in
between it's a very delayed second okay
like it felt like it felt like enough
time let's see what we got out of that
so there we go photo number one photo
number two we didn't really do much
different photo number three and photo
number four just like that so now you
can take those photos and you know you
can take those home after the wedding
and we can crop and set up however
however you'd like to do alright so
again you know it's as simple as that
we're going to go full screen mode and
now we've got that button how brilliant
is that we've basically that easily have
created our first little photo booth
pretend we've got a nice backdrop and
everything and we're able to do that
push the button counts down you can see
on your screen there take a picture it's
dead didn't take a picture in one second
intervals okay which you can change you
can said that five seconds everyone but
I think the one second is pretty good
and it keeps the thing flowing right
first thing I thought it was gonna stop
taking pictures i'm like i was gonna
stand here like this purse it there you
have it ladies and gentlemen that is a
photo booth created entirely with linux
and just a few little add-ons and there
you go cheese photo booth is available
in your repositories on any distribution
of linux so check that out someone troy
sony for suggested you could put photo
printer on site to sure people might be
interested that's something i've
actually i'll be looking at in part two
of this this feature that is actually
going to be going forth on March twelfth
abigail is going to be back with us that
day and we're going to be actually
building the backdrop based on your
suggestions which we're looking for on
twitter
you can tweet us at category 5 TV also
we're looking for your suggestions
through YouTube just comment below this
video for episode number 22 at 279 you
can comment there you can comment on our
facebook channel cat five TV / facebook
or on our Google+ community which is cat
five TV / g plus so we give you lots of
ways and of course if you're not a part
of any of those social media networks
you can also email us live at category
five dot TV we'd love to receive your
feedback we're going to be putting that
all together on the 12 what do you think
so far I mean that how does that feel as
far as I think it works out really well
and gives people time to change and I
mean it it's very clear that they've
taken a picture right so they know and
you programmed it to my wedding colors
did I we are perfect that worked a
supposed to like a be quick hair
obviously I know Dancing's just fluke
wasn't it really was I just thought
green for go and purple for she's a girl
she probably likes it hot spot on it
sounds wrong but you know I know her
well enough they can poke fun yeah all
right here we have it so yogi thanks
folks I saw some some viewer questions
that came in we should touch on those
while we still have a couple minutes
time and then we're gonna be giving away
that year of net talk telephone service
with net talk to a Wi-Fi so if you got
your ballot in there it is so yeah what
do you got for me I have a comment from
coast as 358 oh yeah in the past I had
contacted you asking about installing
ubuntu on a mac mini eventually I
managed to install Kubuntu yeah 12 point
10 it works really well nice faster even
than the native us OS operating system
yet sometimes I know it is even supports
dual monitor although I get no sound via
HDMI hmm thanks and keep up the good
work yeah thanks for the update nice to
hear that you got that working on your
mac mini
very cool kubuntu it's the KDE version
of ubuntu cool boom kubuntu it's like
kubuntu with a keg in there you go what
else I got alright so in the next
question from 70 610 Toby hey buddy okay
I completely forgot to send you a
picture of what unity to D dash looks
like running in other desktop
environments here is unity 2d running in
xfce with a WND and best of all the HUD
works perfectly I being experimenting a
bit i think the HUD will only work if
you have all the modules for the ubuntu
desktop installed this is not the full
on unity she'll just the 2d doc what do
you think oh and unity 2d is still in
the repository and you bhuntu quantal
quetzal don't do that why do they do
this to it it's like Wanda that's really
grateful I mean it looks good and to be
on unity 2d as opposed to 3d is pretty
cool as long as it will continue working
for you I'm I'm feeling more and more I
mean now that finally we've got the boom
to mobile phones coming out I'm starting
to see how unity works with everything
and how it's designed to really make it
so that my my devices all play the same
really so I'm starting to see that so so
unity is not looking as as ugly to me as
it did when it first came out so so I'm
considering it folks considering a
considering i like their background I do
yeah that looks really nice thanks Toby
rissalah next question I've gone to vent
who's this from Scott it's from Scott
I've got an event coming up that we're
planning on recording and streaming
worst case i'll grab an audio feed from
the board at the venue and use my
logitech c920 and shoot it to a google
hangout via wire cast okay i'm wondering
if i can get any better video of the
stage since i'll likely be a bit of a
disc at a bit of a distance so just just
before it looks like a long email so a
c920 is the logitech monitor top webcam
okay so talking about using one of those
and streaming it to Wirecast alright
anytime we get stuck on anything
alcoholic just kind of fill in so yeah
can you continue please so far the ideas
I've come up with have not been
successful I'd like to either find a USB
webcam that has a significant optical
zoom or find a way to confirm my wet you
got my wedding on my mind yeah yeah or
find a way to convert my video cams HMDI
out into a USB feet any thoughts hdmi oh
now as far okay so we need to understand
the difference between hdmi and USB
because USB is a digital connection that
provides you know a device to your
computer hdmi however is a digital video
output so if you have a desktop computer
you could get what's called a black
magic intensity pro pci express capture
card and a an intensity pro is the
opposite of a video card it's a it's a
video capture card but what's neat about
it is that it has inputs for 1080p hdmi
so when you've got that camera that has
an hdmi output you're going to get the
absolute best digital signal from that
camera without going without downscaling
it you're going to get the best quality
using a black magic intensity pro you
can get those through our sponsor cat5
TV / bh again do a search for black
magic intensity pro and that will give
you the pci express for express version
there's also a thunderbolt version
there's also a USB 3.0 as well if you
have a camera that you've converted from
HDMI to USB or it happens to have a USB
output the problem is is USB 2.0 is 480
megabits a second so it has to downscale
a stream that's normally you know huge
and create something that's really low
quality in order to stream through USB
because it's not actually a video codec
USB is not a video transfer mechanism it
is a data transfer mechanism so so
that's not the best way to do it you're
not going to get the best quality that
said I mean lots of webcams these days
have built-in compressors that will
compress the stream and then send it
over USB like our we're looking at the
microsoft lifecam sinister do tonight it
compresses the video and sends it 1080p
and it's great but the webcams you're
going to get very very poor frame rate
in a live setting because you have to
have absolutely perfect lighting
lighting is absolutely key with with a
webcam plain and simple and what happens
is if the lighting isn't perfect the
webcam enhances the lighting which
brings down the framerate so you end up
getting like seven frames a second so
your video starts to look choppy so
webcams are not ideal and you're not
going to find one that has sufficient
optical zoom plain and simple I would
look at like a consumer camera we use a
canon vixia just like an RF 100 or
something like that which are you know
they're obsolete now but it's 1080p and
it gets the job done we use it at full
wide like we're looking at the full
angle so that when i zoom out that's
that's it zoomed out all the way now
what you can do though is it has like 20
times optical zoom and optical zoom
means you're zooming in and not losing
any quality because it's part of the
optics it's not digital so it's great in
a venue where you're having to zoom in
on a stage and again has hdmi output so
we're able to get that a 1080p
resolution and it's lossless so it's
quite good quality is it's a good way to
go so I hope does that does that sound
like it answers your question well he
has um oh please yes yes some more okay
another option I'm not crazy about is to
place a couple laptops around the room
with their own c920 s attached mmm that
lag
my friend yeah yeah so but put them
where they will get a good shot without
zoom then I can add them all to the
google hangout and select machine I want
as a source oh this is a bit of a clutch
but I'm in a bind mm-hmm he says I even
tried using android phones as a remote
IP cameras which seemed pretty cool at
first but I couldn't get them into
Wirecast and audio latency with it was
horrific yeah so chat room what did you
find if you're watching on YouTube as we
were laughing before the show what was
it that we found about hangouts we're
talking away and what happened it's like
I froze no it was a bad delay yeah
what's delay we were hearing away it
sounded like we were hearing it twice
yeah so for us it was hilarious for you
and your live setting not usable right
yeah for what you're looking to do with
placing cameras all over the place
you're looking at more like an IP camera
configuration which can get pretty
pricey you can find some that are you
know not too bad a quality that aren't
too overly expensive but they're going
to go through ethernet and then you can
stream to Wirecast again hdmi you've got
an H let's say you go with that consumer
camera idea because we're I'm thinking
that you're looking for something that's
decently priced that's the impression
that I get we're looking to to build
this thing without being too expensive
if you've got a couple of consumer
cameras and a couple of hdmi extenders
like HDMI over Ethernet or something
like that there that adds to the cost
but that lets you get you know 500 feet
of hdmi cable and it's a cheap cable you
know with what's cat5 cable these days
like 40 cents a foot or something I
don't know so it's cheap cable to run
you can't get an hdmi cable that's that
long because you get beyond 10 feet
you're going to lose signal because it's
a digital just the way the signal is
you'll you won't get any any video out
of it so I would say a single camera
with good optical zoom is a good start
hdmi straight to your computer that's
going to give you the best quality and
if you need position cameras all over do
the same thing hdmi is probably the best
way to go
or hdmi over Wi-Fi be another way it's
going to be compressed though you're
going to lose quality and and the the
disadvantage to doing like the optical
zoom thing I thought about you know
Church scenarios where they've got a
camera at the back with the board
they've zoomed it way into the stage
Lighting's fine and everything like that
but what's the truth about when you've
zoomed in that far is that the very
subtlest movement you know somebody
walking by and you know their footsteps
just moving the floor even slightly
because you're zoomed way in it's going
to give you a real to do like movement
on the screen you can use optical
stabilization if your camera has a
stabilizer built in that can help with
that but when you're zoomed in like that
you're going to still get some movement
so you hit a mine let me know if you
could pop me an email again because your
email is pretty verbose as far as what
you're hoping for and I hope I've been
of some assistance for you tonight I do
believe Wirecast is the way to go it's
cat five dot TV / Wirecast if you want
to give it a free try and and see how it
works for you you can actually set up as
many cameras as you want and and give it
a try and if you want to buy it you can
but i'd like to know more about what you
want to do and pop me an email and maybe
I can be of more help so send me a
follow up if he could thank you very
much for the email all right so we have
one more person um from my hill or me
hail me hail yeah they have a question
for Debian six on how to change the
system language okay oh that's all right
sound like there is more okay so there's
a couple other questions as well um okay
well let's let's just get you there wiki
debian org slash change language with a
capital T capital L I can take you right
there because it tells you a little bit
about how to do it you're going to need
to export what language you want to use
and then reconfigure your locale
settings as well really really simple
you need to know your locale you know
like here it's using Spanish which is
yes understood
yes I'm like en underscore CA or en
underscore us if we want to use us
English for example you should be able
to find everything that you need there
so that's wiki debian org slash change
language with a capital C and capital L
okay and then for his second or their
second question is is there any
antivirus program put on is there one I
like a need for an antivirus on debian I
glanced over your screen second question
is is there a need for antivirus on
debian it depends on your perspective I
think because viruses can spread through
a Linux system you can get emails that
have viruses and then you forward those
emails on and then all of a sudden your
windows using friends are infected with
that virus so it's it's helpful to
protect them to have that antivirus but
also there are new new problems that are
things like phishing scams which you
know you think that you're safe on Linux
are safe on Mac OS because you can't
catch a virus in the traditional sense
of you know Microsoft Windows where you
just oops I actually touched a JPEG and
all of a sudden my computer's destroyed
but there are phishing scams which trick
you into doing things that you don't
want to do and so an antivirus that
protects you against phishing scams can
help against that as well so you can
look at clamavi it's free it's in the
repositories give it a try it's a pretty
common one that that we use on servers
and things like that and of course you
can look at some commercial applications
as well I know ESET has a file system
protection for linux tends to be more
geared towards servers though the
workstations I would just you know you
can you can install it absolutely but is
it necessary it's it's it's hard to say
it's really your call so finally the
last question is do you think Apple
restricts people with their closed
system that's that's an odd question I
think does it do they restrict just as
much as windows does
because it is a close source system it's
not like Linux where you can edit the
source if you really want to but how
many people really do edit the source
it's hard to say I think it's more of a
it's a proprietary hardware so you're
restricted to buying proprietary
hardware stuff that is you know Mac
supported and that's where it gets you
because it's a different scenario
they're building appliances versus you
know windows or linux is more like it's
a personal computer you can add things
to it and remove things from it and it
doesn't have to be a certain brand or
anything like that it could be anything
that's compatible with your computer
it's good to go hmm but no more than the
next guy i don't think so thanks for
your questions i have a net talk duo
Wi-Fi to give away look at this ok this
is a little device simple simple simple
i'm going to give you the quick rundown
because this is amazing i mean look at
this thing it's just a little tiny thing
that replaces your phone company i'm
going to give you this i'm going to give
it to you with a year of service that
includes free unlimited long distance to
canada the u.s. people can call you in
coming like you get a local phone number
and to them it's just like calling
anyone else there's no you know you're
dialing landlines I can call anywhere in
Canada in the US for free and here in
Canada in the US you can actually port
your phone number so that what that
means is if you've already got a phone
line with an existing provider you can
say you know what I've I can install
this I can try it for a couple weeks and
say you know what this is really good I
don't want to pay for a phone bill
anymore i'm going to switch to this you
can actually change your phone service
over to this and you'll keep your phone
number so you don't lose your home phone
all right like the number will now ring
on this so now you take this little
device you unplug it you stick it in
your pocket or your laptop bag and you
take it with you to europe you plug it
in at the hotel and your someone dials
your home phone number here in canada
and it rings there in europe and it is
not a long-distance call absolutely free
you plug this in your hotel room in
wherever let's with you i'm using europe
as the example let's say i head over to
austria because we've got some great
friends in austria
and I plug this in and I call my work
number here and Barry and I say how are
things going anything you guys need to
send me a it's a local call for me they
can call me back and it's a local call
because it's a berry phone number well I
guess because it how do you like that
the Wi-Fi t-ray is that why it uses
internet to make the calls but you're
none the wiser it's just a phone service
yeah now you install the app on your
iPhone your Android device and you bring
up the app and you dial a phone number
and are calling using Wi-Fi and you're
no longer using your minutes to make
that call this is all part of the
nettalk duo experience and it's you know
just going to blow your mind and you're
going to want to fire your phone company
right away you get a full year of
service absolutely free you get the
device you get all that unlimited long
distance I'm going to give you the
honors now we've got a one in 72 chance
of give it a good stir and mix it up one
in 72 chance of winning tonight thank
you everybody for sending in your ballot
drumroll we don't have to roll the
number oh there's two of them in that we
can't do that I only have one to give
away okay look ready dun-dun-dun 865 759
sent it yep any hits enter 86 57 59 is G
Siegel congratulations ji Siegel you are
the proud owner of Annette talk to a
Wi-Fi check it out cat five dot TV /
phone for all the details even if you
didn't win tonight I mean gee seagull is
like boo boo and he's there he's
googling and he's thrilled I guarantee
you but make sure you at home go over to
cap 5 TV / phone to find out more
information about the nettalk duo Wi-Fi
you can pick one up there if you want to
save money on your home phone bill you
can fire your phone company now with
nettalk duo Wi-Fi some check that out
cat five dot TV / phone
and that is all the time that we have
for tonight wow that was why I know yeah
oh look it goes good luck oh that was
really distracting out of Yale hi I'm
excited about all the stuff that we're
doing here at the show I'm excited about
our our new USB button from USB button
calm and how that's going to make our
photobooth work so much easier it's
going to look really really cool once
everything is said and done so make sure
you are here on March 12 Abigail will be
here yeah be da bude continuing series
alright thanks everybody Abigail thank
you you're welcome all right I'm good
night see you tonight
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at 7pm Minister the
Fibonacci unis on demand or through
cable TV check out the local show times
in your area at category five TVs and
find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat where
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
