we're looking at the rock 64 today this
is from pine sixty-four you remember
them from last week's show we looked at
the a 64
LTS now this week we're looking at this
credit card-sized board so half the size
easily and pretty close to the size of a
raspberry pi I would say we're gonna
find out when I measure it there
this one is should we just get into the
box yes because this is an unboxing
right I'll talk while I unbox here we go
so it kind of actually has a reminiscent
look to a Raspberry Pi if you will let's
get in here the rock 64 is are you ready
for this sash I am 4k 60 frames per
second it's got full-sized HDMI we've
got an AV port there we've got gigabit
ethernet Wow okay this has got a 4 core
processor it's the arm cortex a53 64-bit
processor and are you ready I keep
saying I'm excited about this sash this
one comes in three different models they
all look pretty much the same but there
is a one gig model which would put it on
par memory wise so I'm talking about the
RAM here we put it on par with the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ as far as the memory
goes there's a 2 gig model which puts it
on par as far as the capacity of the
memory goes with say and xu 4 and there
is a 4 gigabyte model
it's ddr3 1600 megahertz Ram and let's
get a look at the board itself here so
we've got a microSD port at the bottom
here this is for your micro SD card
which is pretty traditional for these
small single board computers I've got
the 4 gig model yes and then on this
side once again we end up with an emmc
partly MMC interface so that again is a
different type of storage from the micro
sd it's more reliable it's faster and
it's just a chip that we
can snap right onto the board there and
this device already has Android 7.1
available for it it's got a Debian
installation that's available for it
octo which I haven't seen and a lot more
coming now this is a brand new board so
we're gonna see a lot of distributions
coming out on this over the next little
while it has you can see a couple of
different GPIO s here so we've got the
the pi 2 bus we've got the PI p5 plus
bus we've got you move that a little bit
closer to the ruler just for me you want
me to see yes am I out of the frame a
little bit GPIO there thanks Sasha okay
I can't see it like you see it I'm
seeing this live and I want to bring it
closer to me okay we've got USB 2.0
we've got two of those we've got one
blue one what do you think the blue
stands for that's a USB 3 port my
friends I already mentioned Gigabit
Ethernet and of course just like you
would expect with the GPIO that's
available on this board we can do all
kinds of things with this if you're a
maker if you want to add some sensors to
it or other devices connected to this
device you can do that I've got a couple
of other cool little things here first
of all on board we have a power and
reset button that's built right into the
to the circuit board here and there's
also a restore button as well and once
again oh before I get to the barrel Jack
this is kind of interesting this looks
cool we've got the infrared sensor built
right in as well and over here is the
barrel Jack that's a three point three
point five millimeter barrel connector
which is incidentally the same as the
one that we've reviewed in the past so
five volts three amp and that's going to
take it just like that so that's where
you get your power from there's no micro
USB to be finicky or anything like that
what do you think that I love it
beautiful not a lot more that I can tell
you on an unboxing video but it looks
well built I'm excited about it
gonna heatsink I'm gonna put on it let's
get the measurements for you how am I in
the frame good now
fantastic all right this way we've got
five and a half inches that can't be
right what is it what are these
measurements a she took one crazy ruler
Ravi that is one crazy ruler maybe there
we go bring it a little bit it's like
not metric bring it up yeah there we go
that'll be zero okay two inches I'm like
that is not five inches
Wow two inches and three millimeters
four millimeters give or take this way I
don't know what measurements these are
I'm gonna have to look at this out there
maybe it's like some like we work in
metric this is all oh yeah its
centimeters cool and this way we are one
two three and a quarter inches and maybe
a millimeter or two there you go so
roughly the same size as a Raspberry Pi
three in this box here I've got a nice
little case for it can these devices be
powered over p OE this one i don't
believe has p OE as a matter of fact but
you could i suppose do a p OE splitter
you can buy a splitter that has the
correct barrel adapter and power it that
way so we've got these kind of risers at
once again similar kind of design to
ones we've looked at in the past from
pine sixty-four so the board is gonna go
right on there and we've got the riser
that goes up there and then the plexi
with the rock 64 logo this time goes
right up there there you have it so
sharp beautiful I can't wait to fire
that one up as well we're gonna we're
gonna have to put these things
head-to-head and this one with 4k 60p
and a very nice processor and four gigs
of ram and emmc and USB three we're
going to need to put some games on there
as well and see how it performs with
retropie or something like that
now we are going to need if you want
bluetooth for controllers or something
like that you're going to need a
bluetooth dongle or possibly a Wi-Fi
dongle if you want to get it on Wi-Fi
instead of using Gigabit Ethernet but
this is a great looking maker board
can't wait to fire her up
[Music]
[Applause]
