Tuesday to second 2014 and hear the
stories recovering this week a bug in
practically all versions of Microsoft
Windows let's hackers take control of
your system and the patch Microsoft is
providing is braking systems Sony is
breaking the mold with a SmartWatch that
lasts for about 60 days on a single
charge graphene shows promise for
bulletproof armor and password box has
been bought by intel security these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere Operation Christmas five is one
of the great stories it's unfolding in
our lifetime
we are only seeing just the beginning of
this project and these children will
change the world
Sasha tomatoes in here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
early last month there was a lot of
press coverage about a massive flaw and
emergency patch for windows as ESET says
it had detected a real-life exploit for
a vulnerability that's been part of
windows for nearly two decades the patch
released by Microsoft which affects
nearly all of the company's major
platforms is rated critical and it is
recommended that you install the patch
immediately however the patches caused
some servers to inexplicably hang and
software to become unresponsive so
patcher don't patch you've potentially
got a serious problem either way hmm so
yeah so that's a Windows thing a Robbie
don't window thing yeah first of all I
realized how ginormous life savers
really are when you stick them in your
mouth when you're live on the air your
try not to crunch loom try not crunch an
octave because it's huge in my mouth
Sasha what do we say when the windows
updates come out on patch tuesday update
your computer I say not right now delay
and then you just keep delaying and you
never ok to anything we say it's good
practice right you get the security
patches it's good idea so it's a good
idea to upgrade your computer and then
this happens it's bad to update your
computer evidently and it breaks your
computer yes brickset even it breaks you
hear it was a good typo that I didn't
actually read out very nice ok next
story sony has developed a watch made
from a paper as part of an initiative
experiment using the materials in
fashion products the Fez watch has a
minimalistic monochrome design but fall
short of features offered by smart
watches like it however unlike other
smartwatches the battery of the e-paper
watch could last far longer with an
estimated 60 days of use on a sing
charge the device has been described as
retro and cool by gadget Act gadget
expert Stuart miles from pocket-lint he
says one of my predictions for next year
is that fashion is going to play a huge
part in shaping the tech industry having
a phone that's big and square is one
thing but if you're actually wearing
things they have to look good and those
watches look good the watch face and
straps haven't you pay for display
comparable to the technology used in
eBook readers such as Amazon's Kindle
it's not a bad-looking watch it's pretty
cool I think they look terrible you
think really tell this is it when I say
he's the bee's knees when it comes to I
think they look like you know when
you're a kid and those little snap
bracelets that you could have yeah did
it actually look cool they were just fun
to do Yeah right I think those look
terrible 60 days though yeah this is
just my one little opinion ok I'm
looking at the imaginal and I am kinda
seeing as you look closer kind of weird
but it's the future Krista future
doesn't have to look terrible would you
wear one of these that's what would you
wear one of these I'm just saying I
don't wear any jewelry at all because
anything i wear makes me look like a
pirate but i would i like i would buy
that for somebody else like it you could
be in Dave stalking who know you've been
trying on a lot of like I patches or
something just whatever you do don't buy
it for Krista that's all come on she
just doesn't want it's just my opinion
that's all you may like it and that's
you know it's kind of a neat idea i just
think that maybe you should go on a
different look directly from one it
would make telling time kind of
difficult by the looks of things because
if I shine ages and some thing or if
like you're outdoors and there's Sun
outside no see that's where I need to
interrupt because have you seen epaper I
have known it's really neat I was in
chapters the other day doing some
Christmas shopping and they and so you
get to see the latest
oh and I wonder you know in light of
Amazon how does Kobo even sell books
it's crazy but they're there and the
screen doesn't look like a screen it's
incredible it's really cool and I
doesn't care if there's bright lights
above your head it doesn't reflect like
this it doesn't care if Krista doesn't
like it it but it looks real it would
look like looking at paper and it's
moving and it's telling the time and
that's pretty neat I admit the concept
the concept is cool okay you just don't
like that I'm sorry I don't like the
design of it that's all I'm saying I'm
not maybe idea is terrible i'm saying
that if you're calling this stylish i
don't agree that's all that's all not
stylish but cool maybe you don't like
e-paper but maybe you like graphene the
Wonder material graphene could be used
to make bulletproof armor we can you
make watches in 2010 Manchester
University researchers Andre gam and
Konstantin novosel of shared the nobel
prize in physics for their discovery of
graphing graphing consists of a single
sheet of our sheet of single atoms
arranged in a honeycomb structure it is
thin strong flexible and electrically
conductive and it has the potential to
transform electronics as well as other
technologies us researchers carried out
miniature ballistic tests by firing tiny
silica spheres edge sheets of graphene
in science magazine they report that
atom thick layers of this material can
be stronger than steel when it comes to
absorbing impacts the mini ballistics
tests showed that graphene is
extraordinarily extraordinary strength
elasticity and stiffness allowed it to
absorb between eight and ten times the
impact that steel can withstand however
the way in which graphene sheets respond
to the micro bullet also resulted in a
wider impact hole which could
potentially be a disadvantage for
bulletproof armor yeah okay that's a
pretty big disadvantage oh yeah it
absorbs it and blast now I have to do
this as you were talking about this and
as this picture is up on the screen
looking and I thought wait a minute does
anyone else see it it just goes to show
that they thought of everything on Star
Trek oh I see it you're getting out it's
just a crazy moment my god everybody's
blankly staring at Robbie exactly Josh
allagas like do you see it you see it
right encounter at Farpoint someone
ncc-1701 d maybe does not q john de
lancie all right back to be your
everything right intel has bought
montreal-based start-up password box an
identity management service which helps
users securely manage their passwords
congratulations password box way to go
intel announced the deal monday but did
not release financial terms password box
which launched its product 18 months ago
has backing from omers its password app
has been downloaded 14 million times
worldwide the app gives users a
convenient way to log in to all of their
websites and applications from any
device without having to remember or
type passwords using one tap on mobile
devices or one click and a browser they
get secure access to their favorite apps
and sites according to a report from
Deloitte ninety percent of users
generated password of user-generated
passwords are vulnerable to hacking many
of us are suffering from password
fatigue using the same password from
multiple sites and frequently forgetting
their passwords so password solution
could be a powerful addition to Intel
security approach password box has spent
the last two years building a product
that people love trust and use around
the world every day Daniel robichaud CEO
and co-founder of password box set we
share Intel securities vision of simple
secure access and identity protection
across all platforms and devices
to learn all about password box from our
perspective check out category 5
technology TVs episode 3 32 and 347 I
believe both of which i was on here's a
happy little side note for you all 48
password box employees will now become
part of the Intel security plus existing
password box users now get a premium
subscription for free yay nice that is
great news congratulations to password
box i love password box i really do they
don't pay me to say that i really love
it it's become basically my bookmarks
for my browser because it remembers all
my logins it's brilliant so I've got one
really really strong crazy ridiculous
password that I have to remember and
it's so much easier to remember that one
password than a million password so what
does it force me to what is it give me
the ability to do I'm able to create
really crazy strong independent
passwords for every site that I use so
when I go to Amazon when I go to
wherever they are very very strong
independent passwords so I'm very very
safe if somebody somehow ever
compromised my master password on
password box by torturing me or some
other crazy thing is it's not written
down anywhere so how would they possibly
get it it's encrypted everywhere so one
two three four you have spurred one day
how did you know but if somebody ever
got it all I'd have to do is change that
master password and then boom I'm still
entirely protected so it becomes like a
bookmark a hybrid bookmark system that
remembers my logins love that it's so
easy to use
all your tech news with this nice unix
bias visit the category 5 TV news room
at newsroom category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV newsrooms ashes remain
