welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 443 for Tuesday 15th of
March you know what that means it's
called march break here in Canada that
is why I'm here Sasha tomatoes is off
work and joining us live in studio on
the co-host desk and filling in first
after tomatoes over on the news desk
Jeff Weston Jeff man how are you I'm
good this feels like role reversal I
walk in yours like hey you got the news
I'm doing co-host that's just the way
it's gonna be it's just like that right
strong arm listen retro is in folks and
tonight we're going to be reviewing our
retro gaming system the retro pie it's
powered by the raspberry pi
microcomputer Jeff and I built it last
week we're going to be checking in with
it and finding out how it performs with
a ps3 wireless controller so super cool
and also speaking of retro retro style
gaming we have gene like it so if you
remember those choose-your-own-adventure
computer games oh yeah gene Leggett is
from one more story games and she's
joining to talk about turning stories
into video games and we'll be sharing
inside scoop on their brand new game
perfect Jeff over in the newsroom what's
coming up well here's what's coming up
in the category 5 TV news room minecraft
is to become a testing ground for
artificial intelligence experiments mmm
a new computer from Toronto stealth calm
is completely waterproof rugged and
ready for the worst conditions google
has lost their Android appeal in Russia
not appeal as in hey we want this but
appeal is an illegal appeal microsoft
says it will still accept a bitcoin
after inaccurate info was released
amazon is trying to patent hang with a
selfie but they're not the first to come
up with the idea and phillips as their
their latest hue lights may help you
sleep stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha germain des this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show line Robbie Ferguson I am Sasha
dramatis and over there in the newsroom
hi Jeff I'm Jeff West nice to see you
well sultry like not intention hello
Jeff Lewis hey internet is up this week
yeah that's exciting that's kind of a
bonus we can actually bring the show to
you live last week of course internet
was down at just the right time went
down about 10 after six came back up at
eight twenty five in the evening you
know it was funny like every single week
I think to myself on Tuesdays man I wish
I was on the show without fail every
single week but then I watched last
week's show it was the first time I ever
thought so happy I'm hon oh yeah I think
we pulled it off I really do there was
no explanation from the ISP Jeff about
why internet was down however just so
you know from this system here from the
system's here in the studio we have a
small tower in the front foyer mm-hmm
and that shoots the signal across the
road to a great big tower justjust down
over the hill and we can see a line of
sight from our from our studio so we
reckon that probably they were doing
some maintenance took down an antenna to
put up a new one the window was just
about right but it just happened to be
hey let's start at 20 after six
everybody's gone home from work right so
it'll only affect this industrial plaza
and here we are in that industrial plaza
trying to broadcast a show live yeah but
tonight we got it we robbed you will
take one of the vinyl stickers and just
stick it right on that tower with our
hours that's just just immediate just
hey you know come on sable between don't
don't do it we need you know that Bell
Canada they wouldn't care yeah just
whatever pull the plug yeah there's just
lucky that it came back up maybe they
would just pick us up as their you know
pet projects you know how something not
after what I do
said that's true yeah I just burned that
bridge they've been pretty reliable all
things considering mm-hmm so that's
that's been pretty good step for that
one time last week that one time last
week that's what we're gonna say every
week they've been wonderful except that
one time last week all right well it's
gonna be great tonight hey by the way
please show category 5 TV some love we
do what we do free of charge and it does
cost us money so head on over to our
patreon page it's patreon.com / category
5 I did it today daddy it is easy i even
i support the show so we all know here
like let's be frank that I am NOT the
most savvy person as far as technically
savvy technically savvy person so if I
can get into patreon log on find
category 5 and pledge I did one dollar
in episode which is not not not then not
and like it's it's really nothing in the
scheme of things i'm not going to barely
notice that right but anyway or you
might not but we do because there's
power in numbers i say that quite often
but with the number of viewers that we
have if enough of us would all come
together and say hey let's support this
thing we really love category 5 TV and
everything that they're doing everything
they stand for let's keep the lights on
let's keep the bills paid and let's keep
that internet up and running i had a
conversation in the chat room where
someone said well can't you have a
second fallback internet service yeah
I'd love that we're on LTE so if all I'd
have to do is just pick up an LTE card
for another isp and then I could just
pop out the LTE card at the sim card and
pop in the other one the alternate what
you're paying you're paying the fees for
that yeah so we try to keep costs low
too so but I know that it's not for lack
of love people sure I know that people
love us it's just maybe a lack of we
love you too knowledge on how easy it is
it's so super easy we appreciate
everybody who has shown their support so
far and continues to do through do so
through our patreon page through our tip
jar where you can actually subscribe via
paypal to contribute some people for one
reason
they don't want to use patreon so you
can do that through paypal or you can
send checks if you want to i but for
those of you who have supported us thank
you so much and if you haven't yet but
you're thinking you might like to then I
would ask that you go through one of
those means and it really does make a
difference and if enough of us can come
together and do that then our bills are
covered that means less stress for me it
means we're going to hire Sasha on for
thousands of dollars and then she can
take tuesday nights off and be here with
us how's that sound Jeff I think it
sounds wonderful understands it sounds
like you're trying to give her her news
back and I'm just not ready for that I
don't know but the viewers the viewers
love sasha and water bag we all love
sasha i know so you know bring their
banks I feel like I'm told that how's
that for a beg for money Sasha season
Sasha it's like we all we need now is
like good Jann Arden Dianna Saunders
like that yeah that's cardboard there
you go oh dear moving along Sasha
category five TV is a member of the tech
podcast this network where is it it's
the tech podcast network this tech it's
here it's been a while cat5 TV / tpn and
the international association of
internet broadcasters which is cat5 TV /
IA I be mac users got whacked away with
a terrible ransomware just a couple
weeks back so what would that do
ransomware if you remember the episode
and you can go on to our website
category 5 TV type in cryptolocker and
you're going to see a really cool
episode where where christa and myself
spoke with with the gentleman from
malwarebytes about what ransomware is
and how dangerous it is what ransomware
does is once it gets into your computer
mm-hmm it then encrypts all your files
so your pictures your documents your
QuickBooks your email everything that's
encrypted but you don't know the
decryption password so then a pop-up
comes up and says if you want to
have your files back pay us and there's
really like there's nothing you wouldn't
pay for those pictures or files really
but if but then it goes through your
mind if I pay these malicious people who
are obviously untrustworthy shady
practice right are they going to give me
my files back right have they already
been shut down and I'm going to just be
throwing this money in the garbage kind
of thing and it's pretty pricey so
anyways if you are on a Mac and you run
transmission that's a scary thing it was
the transmission bittorrent client which
comes on a lot of systems already
pre-installed and for some reason I
thought Mac was like for some reason I
thought Matt but is it are they not
obviously they're not foolproof I
thought that they were real this change
in Sasha that they were safe they were
not windows safer yeah safer safer not
safest but not like Linux is the same
kind of way where it's a lot safer than
microsoft windows because you're not
always running as the root user but
right the moment that you run an upgrade
say you're updating your software and it
says enter your password for this update
yeah and that update includes ransomware
that update is running as the root user
so now you've got the exact same problem
as Windows users it's able to run as the
administrator user now we've got a
question in the chat room specifically
about that torrent software it is the
linux version unsafe to or is adjust the
mac version the linux version was not
affected as far as a transmission found
somebody had compromised their website
and we're hearing about all this kind of
stuff you know what happened to linux
mint recently where some malware got
into the iso so if you downloaded linux
mint on the particular day you got a
malware version of the the operating
system because people are using and
trusting software on their websites that
may be out of date or able to be
compromised and that's what happened to
transmission so somebody was able to
compromise the website upload a new
version of there
of the update and then users on Mac got
that infection and it only affected Mac
users so transmission when they realize
that the problem existed they
immediately released a fixed version so
it is of course available on their
website make sure you go over to the
transmission website and get that
installed on your mac system if you run
transmission really important to stay up
to date with the software and it's a
scary thing because you think okay i'm
getting my updates that's going to keep
you safe right guys here for right
there's nothing you could do to know you
can actually yeah with this particular
one just look at the version when you go
to the transmission website it'll tell
you what the infected version is or what
the affected version is let's go there
now and just take a quick look is there
any way to to maybe delay update or
something to make sure yeah there is but
then again you have that I'm upgraded
i'm updating because i want to stay up
to date and safe right yes so here's an
update that is recommended for you
though and it's right on the homepage of
transmission BTW calm if you run a mac
this is extremely important so it was
version 2.9 on OS 10 you need to
immediately upgrade to 2.92 and that's
going to get rid of that exploit for you
but yeah it's a strange thing to see
something that dangerous going out on to
my computer's i understand that the you
know like when i when something like
cryptolocker came out tens of thousands
of people were infected and files
destroyed and it was in just a horrible
situation now this is much more
contained and I think it's more around
like seven thousand people that were
affected it's probably not a lot of
people but still a very scary situation
we need to be mindful that hey maybe Mac
is not you can't just go on the web on a
Mac same with linux and just expect i
can do anything and i'm not going to get
infected because it can happen people
can find ways to get around those kinds
of things and usually it comes with a
little bit of social
engineering like I said you had to say
yeah let's run as root let's enter our
password in order to let this thing run
mm-hmm but we fall for it because it's
an update we're not really meticulously
watching those things it could happen to
you all right shall we get into it yes
we shall we had built a retro PI system
last week and this do you see this I did
oh oh cool Jeff I just ordered it myself
you've ordered one yes nice I know after
seeing the episode nice I didn't even
watch the full episode I had to come
here she's just like line metro pie
sweet isla by i like amazon link on
category five dot TV that's what I did
you know what you can actually go to cat
five dot TV / pie and that's gonna hook
you up with the full raspberry pi 3 kit
Jeff I understand you've got one on the
way it's coming after the episode last
week I went home and I got I've got to
get the pie because i want this at home
and i bought the pie three okay so one
point two gigahertz the obverse is my PI
2 which is 900 megahertz yes you've got
one gig of ram yep and the kit comes
with everything yes I think it came with
like a 32 gig card and things like that
so pre-installed with noobs yes got all
OS already ready bought the power supply
as well i just got a shipping
notification today that's gonna show up
in two weeks and then I shows up it's
saying this friday so I'm really excited
that's cool so and do you know I was
telling my kids about the retro gaming
platform I'm like guys when this is done
we're gonna have this at home and look
yeah we want to try I think he should so
I'm excited to get to set up at home now
for those of you who are watching at
home in our virtual studio Jeff is over
here in our real physical server he's
over here oh don't worry he's still
worse so we're both like looking away
from yeah it's like oh we have our backs
to you sir okay let's so we will figure
that out and fix that up maybe flip
things or if ya do I sign up should I be
looking over here then yeah that's where
we are why are you looking away from us
where are you oh hey so we should be
that way yeah but then I get oh that's
so confusing and trippy
pray okay retro pie I yes retro prep
record the retro pie Jeff and I if pi
wasn't pi day yesterday was that pi day
3.14 pi day was yesterday oh yeah nice
happy belated pi day everybody happy pi
day 3.15 today okay looking at the pi
microcomputer we've set it up as retro
pie if you haven't seen that yet make
sure you check out episode number 432 of
category 5 technology TV Jeff last week
we you brought in a ps3 bluetooth
controller I did this is a sweet little
dualshock 3 and we actually have added
these to the link at cat5 TV / pie so if
you don't have a playstation 3 you can
actually buy these and this becomes your
controller for the retro pi so pi 2 did
not include built-in bluetooth so if you
have a PI to that you didn't buy through
the kit because our kit comes with a
Bluetooth adapter if you don't have a
bluetooth adapter we've got one of those
on there the PI 3 however Jeff does have
built-in bluetooth obviously you don't
have to have any kind of separate device
to connect your controller okay but what
we do what we did find last week that we
needed was an internet connection turns
out turns out because when you first
connect your ps3 controller it's going
to say their drivers have not yet been
installed let's go out using apt-get and
install and it download some stuff from
github clones the repository and
installs it compiles it and it's all
automated it's beautiful so we do that
in the in the retro PI dash set up sh
script i showed you that last week and
we went through some of the
configuration options one of the other
things that i have changed is that i did
turn on overclocking my 900 megahertz
system seemed to lag a little bit so i
did bring it up to 1 gigahertz and we
realized that you you might be bringing
down the life of your pie a little bit
because you're overclocking it it gets
hotter you're pushing more power through
it right point as you eat your pie too
fast and it might
you get hard from thinking like to get
hard yeah what you brought down your
life of pot you can you can read so much
into this so with it overclocked it does
a little bit better i still had problems
with n64 however I know however Super
Nintendo brilliant really nes brilliant
Atari 2600 of course oka mazing because
I feel like the reason why I'm getting
this is for pitfall only for the game
pitfall and he asked for Super NES I
don't even know okay Dave said I really
want to play pitfall and I was like I'll
get you it fall was on so many different
platforms it was even on atari 2600 I
think the original I think it's probably
that one yeah the original can you
already we're gonna play Atari 2600 with
a ps3 controller with 20 buttons keine
un mind blown okay so we've got what
I've done now here's all you have to do
to get this controller up and going you
plug in this is standard USB mini you
plug in the USB cord you plug it into
the pie and then you go into the setup
script and you go to just like we did on
the show episode number 432 and you set
it to install the controller then it
detects it and then you'll see the light
actually come on so if this works now
I've got the pie running it's a little
faded because it's kind of in a
screensaver state right now i'm going to
push the power button on the front of
the controller here and you'll see the
lights flash it's vibrating and it's
going through its motions here i'm
watching it on screen so that i can see
what you see there it is it is
controller one we are not cool just like
that so now the screen is no longer dim
and it says holding your button to
configure your device so as I push a
button oh look at that okay I'm gonna
hold it in look at that ok d-pad up
press anything okay well I'm going to
push tpad up obviously do you pat down
d-pad left right start is start select
as select a would be the X the square
maybe you think didn't you set this up
last week well that was on a keyboard
remember right right so this is
this controller first time I'm
connecting it so now it's asking me to
go through the configuration wizard ok
so I'm going to say it's I'm going to
just say that it is the square does it
take it yeah already taken oh no it's 0
because it's just gone to be ok do your
left side is going to be my ex ex is
going to be a triangle and y is going to
be the circle ok left bottom that's
going to be my analogs oh no that's the
button left bottom is number two right
bottom is a number two on the right left
top right top ok left thumb so that's
actually pushing in on the analog stick
so actually clicking in on here ok so
I'm going to do that cl3 there we go
right thumb and push down left analog up
so that's up left analog down left right
right analog up down left right and then
I'm ok so I'm going to push the station
start do you think well maybe this one
no that turns off the controller all the
time yeah there we go I just pushed a
whole bunch of buttons folks and it
worked it let me in intruder yeah just
like that I just pushing a bunch of
buttons like I'm hacking the system ok
so now i'm using the d-pad and look at
that i push the square there we go
here's our games look at that super
mario all-stars anybody gain i am
playing super mario all-stars any moment
now here comes did you see that in the
bottom left ps3 controller this is the
real deal folks and we're doing it with
a ps3 controller there it is
ha Super Mario the original super mario
bros the Lost Levels 23 ok press Start
it allows saving you can create a file
no way ok I'm super mario cool Jeff
super mario is totally cool I think this
is a game that my kids would love to
play wish they were here Oh Owen how you
doing good ok are you into Super Mario
hey you like supermarkets like that's
way too retro ok let's say what I'm
going to do I'm going to change our
screen here because through the magic of
television I can actually put the
Raspberry Pi up behind you guys look at
that so we're in Mariano so now yeah you
are actually well I could so oh and I'm
going to if you come over to my set here
what I'm gonna do is I'm going to
actually give you this controller we're
gonna get this fired up for you you ever
played Mario you have to speak really
loud just because you don't have a mic
this is mario 3 ha look at that he's
never played mario 3 ok folks this is
going to be one of those like kids react
videos ok so here you go I'm gonna eat
now you've got a choice i can bring it
up here and you're here or i can bring
it up on the big screen you good with
that yeah there it is let's see what
what oh one comes up with say you want
it so you're this little red guy up at
the top left there so and you're gonna
use the d-pad he's trying to use the
analog sticks folks he's actually moving
it like a phone there you go ok go up to
number one that's level one and then and
then start see the start button oh you
know maybe it's the X or the square
there's 20 buttons you have to choose
try the square
there we go the sound and this is
awesome too i don't i don't think we
have sound press a whole bunch up push a
whole bunch of buttons until you jump on
the guy Oh didn't they do see this is
the problem with retro games is there so
primitive compared to what kids are
playing with nowadays that they're like
what do we do I mean I get tripped out
by I think pipes pipes just messes with
my head oh yeah going down the pike oh
yes yes yeah okay I'm and now move on
like day you have to actually walk it
took places jump now now I try to hit
those ? guys oh you just line drive
gonna get you how cool is that right so
these are retro games these are like
from when your dad was a kid and and
absolutely classic thank you so much for
coming on and thanks for giving out a go
with us what do you think it's
responsive a like it actually it
actually plays yeah go ahead what do you
think not gonna be any good cocina ok so
it's d-pad controls just like the the
retro yeah you got it yeah I got it
alright yeah uh I don't know we broke it
you're still connected oh well good
demonstration all the same oh that's why
what happened you go I toggled the
bottom part there I don't know what that
means ok here goes Sasha folks oh wait
ready d-pad keypad yeah oh she's got it
i wish that i could give you guys audio
and I could if I turned on the hdmi
audio but we usually turn that off just
because otherwise we get an extra hour
sultry voices are good enough you know
like ding ding ding ding ding ding ding
contain anything thing to do my job ding
Tarantino didn't get anything what do
you do ding ding ding ding ding ding
ding ding ding ding gold that was well
done
gotta love it that's the retro pie check
out episode number 4 42 of category 5
technology TV that's going to show you
how you can build one and the raspberry
pi 3 kit right now is available for you
about eighty to ninety dollars us which
translates into about 110 dollars
Canadian and that kit comes with
everything and you can get that from cat
five dot TV / pie without an e it's not
the delicious kind yeah PS API yeah
there you go and it doesn't come with
kids no kids no kids and games included
nice I'm just gonna leave that up for a
while this is category 5 technology TV
thanks for joining us tonight it's so
nice to have you here you can check out
our website at triple w category five
dot TV Jeff we're gonna head over to the
newsroom and check out those stories
that you were telling us about off the
top of the show don't forget we have
gene Leggett joining us from one more
story games and she is going to be
talking to us about how you if you are
an author if you love to write you can
create your very own choose your own
adventure style video game through the
service that they're providing or if
you're a gamer hey maybe you want to
play some of these games they really
take me back because it really does
remind me a lot of some of the games
that we had when we were kids when those
kind of you know interactive
storytelling games were a real thing
well it's coming back folks and that is
what gene is here to tell us about and
their company is at the forefront of it
so stick around Jeff over to you in the
category 5 TV news room all right it's
Tuesday March 15 2016 and hear the
stories we're covering this week
minecraft is to become a testing ground
for artificial intelligence experiments
ready for the worst of conditions google
has lost their Android legal appeal in
russia and microsoft says it will still
accept bitcoin after inaccurate info was
released amazon is trying patent paying
with selfie but they're not the first
one to come up with the idea and
Phillips latest hue lights may help you
sleep these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere
hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I love being
a vimeo pro member as a web broadcaster
i need an affordable video hosting
platform that's as flexible as me a pro
membership lets you upload up to 20
gigabytes of HD video each and every
week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category 5 TV network will receive a
whopping twenty-five percent off the
annual price all you have to do is go
through our link cat five dot TV / vimeo
and sign up today for your twenty five
percent discount to top it off you get
30 days to try it risk-free if you're
not happy with vimeo pro you pay nothing
the deal is only for a very limited time
go to cat five dot TV / vimeo i'm jeff
lesson and here are the top stories from
the category 5 TV news room microsoft
owner of the popular video game
minecraft which by the way i had no clue
they bought mojang i just blew my mind
when I found that
today Oh Jeff hi Jeff lay it on the x
what can I say anyway so they revealed
that computer scientists and amateurs
will be able to evaluate and develop
artificial intelligence software using
its virtual landscapes beginning this
July the company says minecraft is more
sophisticated than existing artificial
intelligence research simulations and
cheaper to use than building a robot
professor josé Hernandez Oh Rallo from
the technical university of valencia
believes this has great potential he
says this is the state of the art at
this moment there is nothing comparable
and this is just in its beginnings so I
see many possibilities for it to take
advantage of this offer users will need
to install AIX which is a software
platform that hooks into Minecraft and
allows artificial intelligence code to
control a character and get feedback
about the consequences of its actions
AIX will be open source meaning the only
cost involved will be that of buying a
standard license for the game the
experiments will run on researchers own
computers and be roped off from normal
players however in time the aim is to
allow people to interact with the code
now maybe it's not to the same degree
but I know that there's mods for
Minecraft where the AI will do things
for you like you can get a like
non-person players kind of where they'll
specifically go searching around and
mining for certain types of oil really
yeah so you know that's like that
already yeah so there's already bit of
an AI built into it but obviously
they're gonna be taken to the next level
so yeah it could it be more like they're
saying okay here's a platform where we
can see how things react to other things
like physics and how how a non-player
person character can do things with in
the world and then get a feedback
response and then learn from it so
machine learning in a way I suppose I
guess but I mean are they going to be
testing how far you get blown up by a
creeper well yeah I'll have to see okay
stealth calm has released a
high-performance rugged waterproof
fanless PC the WPC 725 f has a small
footprint and has built specifically for
harsh environments where ordinary
computer hardware won't survive
it's completely watertight surviving
liquids chemicals dust and dirt
intrusion and meets all kinds of
environmental specifications the design
lets the CPU and other components cool
without the use of fans or moving parts
making it entirely silent the power
video cereal and USB connections are
coupled through watertight locking
bayonet style connectors typical of
military-grade hardware and a solid
state hard drive is allowed is used to
allow the computer to operate in extreme
temperatures with high vibration high
humidity and high altitude the most
basic configuration of the waterproof PC
starts at two thousand one hundred
dollars us and it's shipping now so if
you've got about ten thousand dollars
Canadian you might be able to get a
different payment for this I would need
for my life because evidently i'm a bit
spilly just do it like I need to like
just put a monitor on it and say here we
go Sasha exactly this one's for you it's
Sasha proof see I know that they've got
those laptops that paramedics and police
use in their cars because they're more
rugged style to begin with but it makes
me wonder if something like this is
going to revolutionize it mm-hmm I don't
know how often it's gonna rain inside of
a police car but maybe by one direction
what it makes me think about is things
like rather than rain think of a
condensation or submersion so think
about in underwater civilizations let's
build Atlantis let's go to space where
condensation is a real problem for
electronic components and here's a
computer that you know Raspberry Pi is
revolutionary revolutionising things
when it comes to portable computers and
small computing but here's something
that is built to be entirely rugged from
the ground up like that's specifically
what they're doing take it to space
that's what I think or to Sasha's house
and it's still safe it's still safe it
didn't actually say Sascha proof on the
box folks so if you think it's Sasha
proof it might not be guys be careful if
there's if there's a real Sasha will
find a way google has failed to overturn
a Russian ruling that said it broke
competition laws by tying together its
Android services to ensure its apps
were pre-installed on smartphones and
tablets the original case followed a
complaint by its Russian rival Yandex
google has denied forcing device makers
to install its YouTube maps and photo
software alongside Android and now faces
having to reward reword its contracts
with manufacturers and pay a fine based
on its local earnings is this not just
the software that comes automatically
installed like hey what's the issue and
I got realized I'm not legally based
when this kind of stuff comes out but I
think there's some kind of wording in
their contract with the phone
manufacturers that makes them think if
it's I think they worded it such a way
that they can say oh no we didn't say
that but they did say it has to come
with it right you have to include the
official YouTube app and nothing but
gotcha you know it's gotta like that
legal gray fancy steps a little bit like
there they are sidestepping the what
they're actually saying and making it so
that yeah the manufacturers understand
what we're saying but we're not actually
saying it right hey Russia's stepped in
and said you know what you need to
change that all right cool bitcoin was
almost dealt a major blow this week when
it's seen the Microsoft would stop
accepting the cryptic cryptocurrency for
digital purchases through customer
accounts but the company now says
through an update to support the to
their support page that was posted
erroneously and contain inaccurate
information Bitcoin microsoft says will
still be honored microsoft spokesperson
said in the statement we continue to
support Bitcoin for adding money to your
Microsoft account which can be used for
purchasing content in the windows and
Xbox stores we apologize for the
inaccurate information that was
inadvertently posted to a microsoft site
which is currently being corrected it's
unclear how exactly the information made
its way to the page but Bitcoin boosters
will take some solace in the fact that
one of the currencies major corporate
bastions is still safe when I first
heard the story that Microsoft was
pulling out a Bitcoin I was like new way
this could signal the end of Bitcoin and
then I heard the Microsoft was back in
and I made me wonder if this is one of
those things where they were gonna pull
out but somebody leaked the information
and then they go no no
just an error my bad my bad you know no
we didn't really write that in the
contract it's not really there let's
check but it makes you you wonder like
how is this gonna is this just some
fancy work to say no no that wasn't the
intent but really it was now they've got
a delay their plan starts making you a
question oh boy conspiracy theories
abound here Jeff thanks man it's never
saw it now I see it all right well I'm
just trying to open your eyes yeah
thanks man take the red pill all right a
newly filed patent outlines how an
Amazon shopper could authorize a
purchase using a photo of oneself
instead of a password selfie pay is
designed to ease the process of
verifying transactions as customers make
more purchases online via mobile devices
it's also thought to be more secure than
punching in a password or pin as Amazon
explains in the filing facial
recognition is more secure than entering
passwords which can be stolen entering
long passwords the company says can also
be cumbersome on mobile devices instead
amazon suggests a computing device may
capture an image of a user and analyze
that imaged in an attempt to recognize
the user using the facial recognition
software mastercard began testing its
facial recognition capabilities in 2015
and USA a financial services
organization for US military members and
their families also started using
utilizing selfies as logins last year
while Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba
is working on facial recognition
software that would let customers pay
for purchases just by looking at a
screen here's my problem with this what
happens if you set up your face the next
day you get hit with a baseball suddenly
got a goose egg and you can't hide your
pie there you go your face is distorted
yeah or maybe sure you know knock on
wood you get in a car accident and
you've got some scars this changes your
face what about facial transplants yeah
you're giving somebody your face so they
could buy your purchases and on top of
that there's been photographers have
gone around the world and they found
doppelgangers it's all
hope so if somebody's I mean it's like
an episode from Joey where they've got
twin hands you got twin faces out there
that person is gonna buy all your stuff
and you're never gonna sit right it or
the magical world of makeup right you
see all of those videos people like
transforming the way their face looks
like girls look completely different at
the beginning of the video than they do
at the end of the video so every bald
man that we encounter my kids say dad
that guy looks like you right don't know
if thats related but but what I what I'm
thinking is I mean you can do makeup to
look like anybody you could make me look
like anybody probably with similar
features with just a little bit of
Hollywood makeup i buy i could see if
they incorporated voice recognition to
it I can me it's gotta be it has to be a
multi authentication can't just be the
it has to be I do like though looking at
the patent here because my first thought
was will just hold up a picture and what
does it say they're in figure 4 40's
please blink you're right I what if you
have a stroke and your yeah we thought
of it all folks we've got it all we
didn't bring her twin angle identical
twins I know and I have twins in my
family but neither of them are an evil
twin right so they wouldn't be that's
unless are you the evil twin
I don't like this I can see paying with
your eye I mean we've got I scanners
that that lockdown government facilities
I can see that because it's you can't
replicate your eye well they've I've
seen this in movies and people don't end
well when somebody's trying to scan an
eye fair enough was that Minority Report
little bug goes in there and screws his
eyeball out and puts anyone in how about
it just is old school with the password
and a pin like I hate to say it but
maybe we have done enough number one
because are used to be just God like
that was one of the most number one
passwords was people would write god oh
really it's it's not like that anymore
now you got to use your face that's
great technology man move with us like a
drop of blood please place blood sample
here what movie was a gattaca gotica did
the blood directly and they'll be able
to check your sugar while you're at it
did you purchase a pie and check for
diabetes and yeah login or GI oh okay
I'm Phillips as smart Hugh light bulbs
that produce flashy colors but what
about bulbs that change just enough to
give you a good night's rest you're sad
after today the lighting firm is
trotting out Hugh white ambience light
that offer color temperatures that mimic
natural light helping you sleep
naturally combined with new routines in
an upcoming version of the hue app that
can shift gradually to reflect day and
night cycles a sleep mode can use
dimming light to replicate the sunset
for example while wake up brightens the
area there's even a night light mode to
help kids get back to sleep after
wanting from the hallway logically the
new Hugh offering should also be useful
creating different moods you could have
a cool crisp lighting in workplace or
warmer temperatures in the living room
or maybe when somebody really ticks you
off get the evil red glow and you're
like welcome to your punishment in many
different avenues of this like the north
it really reminds me now this is this is
a growing market and we looked at illumi
these light bulbs the
are very much like that they're smart
light bulbs we looked at them on episode
number 4 39 same sort of thing you can
actually tone the color and you can set
up a sunrise and it will wake you up
instead of a alarm clock you can wake up
to a nice sunrise that's pretty cool and
so now Phillips is doing it too at the
beginning of the story I was like wow
how smart the people who invented the
light bulbs that help for sleep so all I
have to do is say sell you a ball that
doesn't work like we have created dark
darkness it doesn't work like that how
you sleep it has to do with toning down
certain hues of color at night so that
it doesn't stimulate you right this is
why you're supposed to stay away from
your screen for the last hour before you
read asleep yeah phones are notorious
for ya blue light and keeping you away
check out episode number 4 39 if you're
interested in that sorry to annex your
ear it's stuff here it's all good it's
all good big thanks this week to Roy ww
Nash and our community of dealers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story that you'd like to send email
it to newsroom a category 5 TV for all
your tech news with a slight linux bias
visit category 5 TV news room at
newsroom category 5 TV the category 5
category 5 TV news room i'm jeff weston
thanks Jeff this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
ferguson and tonight I'm joined by gene
Leggett and it's a pleasure to have you
here know what I'm so excited to be here
it's so cool that you and one more story
games are from Barrie Ontario I know I I
feel sometimes like we're the only game
studio north of Newmarket Toronto you
say that now all of a sudden there's
gonna be all these emails oh we're in
you know Barry and there's like 10 of
them and I would really like to meet the
other people and because what we're
doing is already challenging enough to
be a game studio north of Toronto and it
would be really great to meet the other
people cool we are big on retro gaming
and your platform really you know I know
that it's modern I know that you've got
a real modern spin to it and we'll talk
a little bit about that but it does take
me back back to the days when gaming was
storytelling
yes okay tell us a little bit about your
company what it is that you do sure so
my husband is sort of like the visionary
behind the company my job is the
Evangelist I go and I okay all right so
I spread the word of one more story
games yeah and you know Blair really
started making his first game when he
was eight years old and he played a lot
of the Ultima series so do remember
there you go yeah yeah yeah and there
was a period of time where in 2009 he
had worked for EA for almost eight years
and they laid a lot of staff off so in
his spare time I guess he had a lot of
spare time he recreated Ultima 4 in
flash and if you ask nicely me might
tell you where that is could we like
link to it ha no who is it is a
proprietary or is it oh well good old
games has the rights for it now oh right
right yeah yeah that storytelling
recreated yeah it really is it goes back
to you know what what matters and Games
characters events relationships and for
me I would much rather play a game where
I'm interested in what's happening than
be there's some really visually stunning
games that are happening yeah and the
game developer conferences is happening
right now in San Francisco more sort of
like we can't be there right now they're
really focused on virtual reality sure
its like before you can even get to
virtual reality I really think that you
need to have strong storytellers in
there first is it true though with
virtual reality we are going to have to
have a shift back to storytelling
because when we look at things like
Microsoft's offering and the ability to
enter an immersive environment within
your home what would be better than
storytelling in that environment to have
a murder mystery happen right before
your eyes and participate in it kind of
creepy action it's creepy but awesome I
can see it happening it's kind it's true
you know so what we've done is we've
actually created a Blair calls at a
fancy word processing you know it's like
fancy word that you can enter your
people your place is your location so
you're just like uploading graphics and
type in your attacks
and saying okay so here are the
fundamental things that tie events
together so if you've been to our
website and played some of our games
you'll know what i mean by that and then
there's a little bit of a scripting
component using Lua scripting and okay
you know for writers what we're hoping
to do is help them transform from
traditional writers where they're
writing linear stories into narrative
designers so does it almost become an
education process as you've provided a
platform for for a writer to learn to
create a game based on their writing
absolutely because they really have to
think about am i creating something
where I'm just creating a visual
component of my novel or am i creating a
sandbox world where you as the audience
like do column readers we call them
players we just call you the audience so
you as an audience member get to go in
does it matter what order I explore the
world in right am i creating something
that's an open world for exploration am
i creating what we call branching there
it is so one choice here affects how the
rest of the story goes so really it is
absolutely an education of the writer
and getting to think differently about
narrative there's obviously two facets
to it you've got your users what do you
call them the audience the audience so
the audience is really the reader and
the game player and then you've got the
writer so can I as somebody who and this
is not me myself Robbie Ferguson but can
I if I was a writer say okay I want to
take my existing book and turn it into a
game or let's actually write a story
line for a game you can do a number of
different things we are currently in
beta where an open beta it just means
that if you are interested in coming and
writing with us right now you need to be
a little bit patient while we sort out a
few things and we're starting to do
webinar courses so that will sit
everybody will join in on a conversation
and we could brainstorm what your story
might look like in a living breathing
interactive world are using like a
google hangout
I noticed that you do have a youtube
channel will put that below and on that
channel you have a really great
assortment of step-by-step guides hey if
you want to be a game creator just
follow these guides and we so we don't
have to get into the technical stuff
here tonight because you've already done
that you can go to the YouTube channel
we tried to make it as easy as possible
if they really wait now the only thing
that's missing is the scripting but
there's a software there's actually and
that's Lou acumen it is Lou at which is
cool yeah and it's you know for the
people who are really into programming
it's there's some teletype stuff there
so I think it's really cool and it's you
could create something that's like 5-10
min 10 minutes of gameplay you could
create a prequel to your novel if you
wanted to promote your stuff or you can
just play you can show her photographs
it doesn't have to be 3d worlds and it
doesn't have to be illustrations you
could create a murder mystery in your
own house cool this is category 5
technology TV and I'm speaking with Gene
Leggett check out their website is one
more story gamescom what birthed the
idea of one more story games hmm well as
i mentioned blair had worked at EA for
eight years and so he's got the
experience but something must have made
you go you know what let's let's do this
let's make this into an actual platform
that people can use i think going back
to the the time that he spent on
recreating altima i think what he really
wanted at that point was to create
something to let other people create
other altimas i think that was the
genesis 70 and he worked at Zynga for
two years and to sort of see how the
games industry has been changing and
evolving Blair and I both have English
degrees we're kind of nerds that way but
he also has the computing science
background right well and when it comes
down to it who are we as humans that's
the one thing that we have is we have
storytelling we've been telling stories
caveman walls and I think that's the
really thing that's missing right now is
quality storytelling and why not have
writers create the content sure so what
kind of stories are there on your
platform right now right now we have a
murder mystery set of Barry we have mary
my dear you tell us a little bit about
it just brief sure it's your first day
on the job isn't that how they all are
you like is your first time shy
superhero are just a plain old detective
okay a plain old detective is there such
a thing maybe there's a plainclothes
detective oh you never know I might be
spying and so there's a murder at the
construction site and you need to figure
out its it's a homeless person but it
doesn't seem right to you and Buddy else
wants to write it off as a suicide and
they're like I don't think so so you
gotta look for the clues you gotta
figure out we put some subtle clues in
there and you first they were too subtle
so Michael Kay we gotta okay amp it up a
little it's interesting because you
don't get that feedback when you write a
novel uh maybe something's a little
lacking but I guess you would see that
in your platform you're gonna get the
feedback that hey I couldn't you know
you could almost see people going
through the process where are they
getting hung up where are they getting
stuck and hey let's improve it it's
actually have an analytic system in the
background so we can see what mouse
click you made so you as an author will
eventually have access to that
information yeah and so say you're
creating something that has maybe eight
different outcomes maybe the analytics
will show you that ninety-five percent
of people choose path be like isn't that
interesting interesting yeah and so
maybe that will challenge you to uplevel
your writing as a narrative designer we
have to sort of sci-fi we a lot of we've
three stories that have female
protagonist because that's something we
feel very strongly about is diversity
and the latest game that we have that
I'm incredibly proud of is called
mandatory upgrade x marks the spot and
it's a cyberpunk mystery I want to talk
a little bit more about that in a couple
moments time I want to give the
opportunity to you viewers if you're
watching live join us in the chat room
Jeff Sasha you're over there
and I'm sure you have questions for us
as well for gene in particular and if
you have any questions sasha is watching
the chat room and able to get those in
to us here in the studio so far there's
really only one suggestion and it's a
story related to Sasha and spilling
things oh we've actually got a story
writer in the chat room yeah they want
to write a story about Sasha spilling
things all over electronics and what
happens to her in the studio so gene the
question then becomes what can what can
somebody who is has ideas do to
participate in your platform as a writer
I want to talk about the game or two
because a lot of people are going to be
thinking I'm not a writer I could never
write and and that's probably me and and
I don't have the time to write so I'd
like to sit down and just enjoy the
platform so I want to talk about that
too sure but for the writers and people
who have ideas how do they get involved
number one I always say check out the
games that we have first so that you
have a nice idea of what we mean by
story good suggestion yeah because I
feel like we live in that hybrid space
between ebook meets computer game and if
we're going to be publishing things on
your behalf because we do actually pay
the writers kind of crazy right so you
get shoot right game do I have to paint
me right um well you get our software
for free for a couple of months and so
it's a trial and it's a trial period
yeah okay and then it's a very
reasonable fee so do you almost and this
is the kind of sidestepping a little bit
but just to understand a little bit do
you almost become a virtual publishing
company in a way yeah so you're watching
for those good stories you want to buy
those stories that's really fantastic
I'm pumped because now that the software
is more or less solid and complete we
now are looking to publish new content
solid content because there's there's a
difference you know there's going to be
everybody else and then there's going to
be like the stellar people sure and we
think that over the next six months we
have six new story games so every four
to six weeks we have new stories coming
out something from like a an indigenous
space adventure to a supernatural horror
to some comedic journey through
Dante's Inferno like just a wide variety
and as far as your audience goes what is
the age spectrum you know what's funny
because most people don't realize this
half the people who are buying games are
women and the largest chunk of that is
women over 30 really uh-huh so is that
and that's a that's there also readers a
lot of times not to stereotype but
that's true so are the games appropriate
for younger audiences so we have a
rating system on there so right now we
have some games that are for like 10 and
up great where there might be like a
suggestion of violence but it's just
mentioned once because maybe it's the
dead body sure but it's not like CSI
where it says you know this would be
inappropriate yeah yeah there is one
game on there that was written by a
berry police officer it's called a pot
get in the ring there is an explicit
torture scene of a suspect in there so
it's rated M for Mature right and yeah
that's great yeah but we try to put that
on there because we don't want while we
want to be able to say to the parents
you should be watching what your kids
are playing in the first place I'm sure
yeah and that's not always easy so
having the rating system in place is a
great idea Jeff any questions for us in
the chat room or do you have any of your
own actually there's one question that
chat room from revenue jank and he's
asking is there way to give suggestions
to a creator for ideas for future
versions of a game so existing writers
on your platform is there a way to to
give them feedback or provide them with
some kind of that it's suggestions that
is something that we're going to be
developing as we move forward so right
now there's no way for you to give a
rating on a game that you've played
right but that is a feature that's being
built in or building and you know how
twitch has the tip jar yep so there's
gonna be a tip jar in there so if you're
like you know what I paid money for this
game but this was fantastic right so
we're still support the author then yeah
absolutely I think one of the core
problems that's happening in the games
industry is we have created a freemium
model where everybody is like I'm gonna
give you your first hit for free ok we
know what model that works under
mmm anyways so that's not what we're
trying to do we're trying to say listen
people spent a lot of time to build
these stories they should be they should
be paid for their work and we should
start to appreciate artists and writers
more sure absolutely and and I think
that's and the rating system strikes me
something that would do very nicely as a
if I was a writer I'd like that feedback
I love my wife as an author and and we
watch we watch the Amazon ratings
because those are important to yes to us
as publishers and to her as the author
to get that father so it's important
when it says verified purchase sure you
know we really want to could you say
there would be a wage or suggestion made
it to the end of the book yes actually
so that's what i was thinking cuz it
wouldn't really be fair i was i saw on
Goodreads somebody had trashed a friends
yeah Oh read the back and she said she
read the first 15 pages of it Oh mom
didn't even get into an I thought this
is actually one of the best books I've
read a really long time and I read the
whole thing yeah so wouldn't it be cool
if you could say listen and maybe you
gave it two stars but you only played 15
minutes of it and other people are like
sugar to the end oh my god this is
amazing yeah that's important knowledge
for sure it'll be it'll be interesting
to see how we can track that over time
this is category 5 technology TV I'm
Robbie ferguson and i'm joined by jean
Leggett and she is from one more story
games.com the technology behind your
platform right now your website is
predominantly flash-based yes I
understand that there's some transition
happening there but what other
technologies are available or are in
line to be brought to your product right
so right now the authoring tool you know
thanks chrome chrome no longer supports
Silverlight so for people who want to do
the authoring component of it they
actually have to open up Firefox okay so
it's a Silverlight app it's a
Silverlight app that you download
and we pretty much updated maybe once a
week when we implementing new features
and stuff like that so it's like that's
the only reason I have firefox on my
computer sure that's fine so it will
work on Windows Mac or Linux that it
works on windows right now and we are
working on Mac development that's been
on the list for really long so it would
be something other than silverlight or
mono so we are looking to upgrade the
entire system so right now you have the
software and they don't have the game
portal and softwares in silverlight in
the game portal is in flash okay both of
which are not where we want to be short
year or two from now so they'll both be
integrated into an html5 great loud
based program so what happens for iOS
players on the phone where flashes oddly
they cannot play our games just yet ever
if you play the facebook app because we
are on facebook really well if you play
the facebook app on anything other than
safari so if you have mac chrome and you
play the facebook version do you know
what i mean like a little bit roundabout
sure yeah these are the things these are
the things that you know you encounter
as a tech company and you know as a
start-up and just getting the ball
really rolling and great you know
Firefox is blocked flash yeah you know
it's always like ah so the these are the
growing pains but we don't have you can
play our games were in the google play
store i always found success on android
yes i always tell people you should use
the quotation marks and look for story
world otherwise they'll be like
shuffling okay a lot of yes for sure
yeah and so that's they can download
every world it's really awesome on
tablet no it was like made for tablet
perfect you've got to check it out it's
one more story games.com story world in
the Google Play Store straight world's
worlds were held in quotes multiple
world what's next in line for one more
story games ah well we made a pretty
exciting announcement last month that we
are working with a number one
York Times bestseller did I tell you
that I've read about it oh oh yeah I
don't have the inside skinny but you can
give it to me now oh that's just between
you and I so nobody else here nobody
else here the lady that wrote the novels
the sookie stackhouse series yeah which
became HBO's True Blood you know the
vampires right yeah the adult romance
yep we'll call that that yeah I'm
totally into that so her knee but you're
30-something ladies maybe you know what
that is she has sold to date over 36
million novels and she's working with
and she's rich tourist early games a
tiny startup studio north of Toronto
because what we want to do is we're
taking a couple of her older mystery
novels and turning them into story games
so if you haven't arrested her novel you
will still supplemental new experience
of the world and if you've never
encountered her before you'll be like
wow I really loved I love the characters
love what's going on here when will read
a novel and see how it's different cool
tell me about your latest release
mandatory upgrade x marks the spot was
designed by a game designer in victoria
and we like to try to keep things as
canadian as possible but we do have some
really great people outside of canada
and the next one could be you it could
be you know and what's really cool is
you go in and you play Special Agent
Rachel barley it's your face first suite
I've always wanted to be Rachel Varley
it's your first day on the job you've
been going through training and there's
this hideous murder that's happened and
they're trying to figure out how this
happened because there's it's a
cyberpunk thing there's some cool
technology so we get to dress up like
that ah no there's no dress up I don't
know if that's your these are not these
are not text based entirely we've got a
lot of imagery that's got soundtracks
round and it's very immersive it I never
when we started playing because we've
been developing the engine and we've
been making the games as we've gone
along yeah so the more recent games
obviously have benefited from the more
recent features so when I go back and I
play some of the older games
that don't have the music right I'm like
these are okay yeah now that you play
the ones with the music and like hard
vacuum lullaby be released and I think
it was november and it's the space
adventure it's free it's half hour and
all of a sudden there's a moment where
you have to decide you're gonna use a
metal metal metal Locker door or your
arm to stop the machine oh my and the
sound effect will be very different no
mining on what you choose yeah okay so
you're gonna have to check that one out
as well as you know check out the
synopses that are on the website find
out which one is of interest to you and
then just click the play now button yeah
this as simple as that fun have fun we
leave if you get stuck there's little
help buttons there and we're very open
to feedback we're on facebook on twitter
youtube where everywhere very good well
thanks for being here gene and do check
out our platform it is one more story
gamescom and give us some feedback let
us know what you think about the
platform and what it is that gene and
her company are doing and make sure you
you do check that out today so thanks
for being here with us thanks for and
congratulations on launching this this
is I mean I know you're a few years in
and its really snowballing now but there
are some exciting things to come for you
and we're really excited too I think
this is actually a local yeah this is it
so all the best thank you thanks over to
you guys you can take it away all right
cool I've never sat in your seat before
so yeah this is weird for me it's like
the first time I like it add some hair
yeah okay well thanks so much that's our
show uh great times good times yeah it's
nice to have you back Sasha thank you
thank you i'll be for finally showing up
well you really handled the news quite
well as well you set the bar high and i
had to watch many episodes to learn just
how to do it quite right not quite there
sol of a few mess ups but i'll get there
i was a blast to watch i try to read the
news and she's having a go really ah
Sasha
I was working on it well almost had you
it's right working on it too with that
putting in those nice tongue twister
words and like you know syllables that
spin on each other huge japanese names
now you playing I never do something
after week yeah like it I don't know
like sick fantasy of his to make us
stumble or something I think we need to
write a story about it put it on the
website let's do it I'm I'm totally all
for it for a game thanks so much for
watching has this week we'll be back
next week for anybody who's just tuning
and now going what the show's over yes
time change in Canada you missed it it's
now like well it's it's after eight
o'clock here so now you know for next
week for the next six months change your
clock by an hour for when this starts
that's right I'll be I'll be back the
next time the time change that's right
thanks so much have a great night is it
ready good night good night oh hello
there's a button there this is extra
that's the one you want to put ya extra
extra yeah right there there there
you
