here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room
tesco bank halted online payments on
Monday after money was taken from 20,000
accounts Samsung has explosive deals on
washers I'll wait sorry I read that
wrong samsung washers are exploding
mythbuntu is dead as it turns out
nintendo nes classic is basically a mini
linux computer with 30 roms and KDE has
a nice looking mobile OS gearing up to
replace your replace android on your
smartphone these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere Jeff Weston
Yemen you're building a brand new
beautiful website what
are you all right you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website let's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the room so your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put peddle the papers on them
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost i'm sascha
through madison here at the top stories
for the week of november 9 2016 tesco
bank's chief executive Benny Higgins
said about 40,000 account saw suspicious
transactions over the weekend of which
half had money taken tesco customers
were still able to use their cards for
cash withdrawals Chip and PIN payments
and bill payments however the bank
blocked customers from making online
payments using their debit cards
although transfers between accounts and
two other people were still allowed on
Monday the bank confirmed some of the
accounts have been subject to online
criminal activity in some cases
resulting in money being withdrawn
fraudulently mr. Higgins also apologized
for the worry and an inconvenience that
the customers have faced the bank has
more than seven million customers
customer accounts and 4,000 staff based
in Edinburgh Glasgow and Newcastle
the one thing I have to say about this
is why would you stop certain things and
still allow transfers between accounts
and to other people's account do you
think they figured out what the
vulnerability was or at least where the
vulnerability late you know what that's
true they must have because I was
thinking oh while those criminals could
just transfer to their own accounts but
they must have been doing something a
good example would be if you encountered
a company whose things kept exploding
you would no longer deal with that
company right you would think that you
would think that the company responsible
for the infamous exploding galaxies 7
note is now recalling a whopping 2.8
million of its top loading washing
machines for well exploding the decision
to recall the products came after
reports that 730 washer units had
exploded leading to nine injuries Elliot
k chairman of the US Product Safety
Commission said on Friday we're talking
about a very serious hazard of the top
of the washing machines completely
blowing off the recall affects 34
different Samsung top-loading models
sold from March 2011 to 2016 Samsung is
offering consumers three options to help
remedy the situation the first free in
home repair of the machine which
includes reinforcement of the washers
faulty top along with a free one-year
extension of the manufacturer's warranty
the company is also providing consumers
with the option to receive rebate rebate
applied toward the purchase of a new
washing machine whether it's a samsung
unit or not this will include free
installation of the new washer and
removal of the old one finally consumers
can receive a full refund if they
purchased their washing machine within
the past 30 days of the recall
announcement 30 days that are you
kidding me oh well if you just bought
our exploding washer will replace it but
hey hey
they are giving you three options that's
I want to know where number four is the
bomb suit you just want a dress I like
do your line i wanna i want to get the
bomb suit with the full like face shield
thing and going with my laundry and be
like yo as much as I really want samsung
to get it together and get the best like
I don't want samsung to be really
affected by their exploding device that
devices because I like them as a company
because they come up with some really
cool things I don't think anybody should
go with option number one just getting
your exploding washing machine
temporarily fixed for an extra one what
is that a couple is who's here to hold
it in when it explodes and if it doesn't
yeah yeah if it explodes 366 days from
today I'm sorry about your luck buddy
I'm comparing it though but I've never
been so thankful to have a ten-year-old
kenmore as I am today it may not be
efficient but it has never exploded on
me sure do you remember that may take
commercials where the commish yeah i'm
just sitting there all bored i feel like
they should do a new major commercial
fruit but for samsung he's in a bomb
suit for one thing he's carrying a fire
extinguisher he's got an LG phone
definitely an LG phone or even wears a
blackberry you know what I kind of
chuckled when this came out about the
exploding washing machines because like
here I have now granted it's an s7 edge
but I've got my samsung phone I've got
to Samsung tablets at home i have a
samsung washer and do you have insurance
that's the question i have insurance or
samsung oh i hear that that's only good
for 30 days is this a case of just the
fact that they have so many things that
of course some of their things will
malfunction and you think that's what it
is or do you think that they're pushing
innovation really really fast they're
bringing out the best and coolest like
the the the exploding phone yeah really
wanted that phone I haven't really been
like lusting after a new washing machine
but I really wanted that phone I I think
it comes down to come
are driven to make a better product
cheaper oh you know if they're looking
for ways to cut costs they're going to
put an RFP out looking for somebody
who's going to provide the cheapest
possible parts so you get a contract
coming in that says we will supply your
batteries for your phones at fifty cents
on the dollar compared to everybody else
you're like oh this is perfect I'm going
to save money next thing you know you're
delivering hand grenades now you know
it's the same deal with the washing
machines are trying to save costs and
they're getting these parts that are
just infusing the technical term is
consumer whore ism yeah we are driving
this we are we're voting when we shop
yeah we are a consumer based society we
need that I feel like wasn't it after
911 they said just go out and go
shopping that's just stimulate stimulate
the economy so so that's what they need
they need to keep triggering you and
they want you to buy a new phone even
though your phone is only two years old
they want you to buy a new washing
machine because all of a sudden it will
update your phone when you need new
washer fluid I don't know what happens
but do you think of washing machine uses
of washer fluid oh yes your headlight
fluid up oh but you don't get your
headlight fluid top down there is it you
better you better do that you better you
better chance of your apples ramat I
haven't done that recalibrate it
everyone so on I'm not talking to Jeff
Weston any longer yeah that's we're
moving on mythbuntu linux OS that paired
the mythtv home theater pc software with
it in boonton linux-based is being
disbanded the remaining mythbuntu crew
announced tonight it's been a long and
fun ride from 7.1 oh but it's time to
turn in our badge mythbuntu as a
separate distribution will cease to
exist we will take the necessary steps
to pull miss boon to specific packages
from the repositories and less someone
steps up to take these packages over
mythtv packages in the official
repositories and the mythbuntu PPA will
continue to be available and updated at
their current rates
mythbuntu is ending since there are only
two developers left from 10 before and
the effort is too overwhelming for the
resources left those wanting mythtv on a
Bluetooth can at least continue
installing the mythtv ubuntu debian
packages a top of vanilla installation
sad news anytime anything that's linux
is yeah sure disbanded I mean it's when
you go from 10 people down to two people
I understand it's overwhelming and
people got to realize that a lot of
these groups are volunteers just like
category 5 TV our volunteers we're doing
really really well in season 10 we've
got a great crew we've got you to that
are here you know most yes you to bring
the two of you down yeah that was a pun
you just got us banned in mainland China
they've just blocked us in the firewall
Oh what the heck was my plan that we are
near volunteers yes Mandy's intends
awesome and we've had times where we've
gone through you know the the valleys
where there aren't a lot of volunteers
and I had to carry a lot of the show and
it got hard it got difficult and
thankfully I pressed on and here we are
in season 10 and and I can see that it
would be really really tough to keep
carrying these projects when people that
are helping have dropped off and are not
being replaced with new people let's be
clear though you still carry us yeah oh
yeah Robbie gentlemen Robert you guys
graziano be yes before the show I'm the
guy who was wiring the ethernet into
your netbook I'm like Jeff you could
have done this I could have you could
have done I wasn't thinking yeah well
yeah so I was running the cables and
setting up the cameras and everything
else but what you did so pro it's very
impressed it's a really good Ethernet
cabling job that's what my heart does
break for these two that are left
because I know how much like it's a
labor of love
this this show everybody who's here
loves being here yeah right and so you
don't want to give something like that
up we're not giving this up by the way
but you don't want to give something
like that up so those two people that
are that we're left that have to
obviously just stay goodbye due to the
fact that it's overwhelmingly difficult
to do something like that they're not
going away happy about this there's a
sad and so are we but here's one of the
things about the open source community
that I love if you're in a project that
comes to an end for whatever reason you
can pick up a new one mm-hmm you can
start sure I knew if you find that niche
like there has to be that niche
mythbuntu is a niche absolutely was but
things are in the tech world are
changing so fast I mean you look at our
show from a year ago and already you can
see an advancement in technology so I
mean imagine in it you know so they take
a break for a couple months whatever
regroup and go what's the latest and
greatest thing we can come up with now
it wouldn't surprise me if they're bad
right talented talented bunch of guys
exactly i or gals I mean who knows but
here's the thing that you know I I think
that you know that it was a great
project it's sad to see it cut off and
and the fact that there are only two
left that's that's kind of the the nail
in the coffin right there because other
people haven't stepped up and I guess
the call to action is maybe you could
step up maybe there are viewers out
there that can help out with these kinds
of you know look for projects that are
dwindling because they don't have enough
support from the community or from
people that are able to help develop
well next week we're going to be looking
at nems nat geo's enterprise management
server and you know that is for
raspberry pi because nagios pi fell off
because ryan was unable to really keep
up with the demand and and so nams was
developed and so you know maybe there
are projects that you can pick up maybe
somebody wants to pick up a myth but the
question that I have is how many people
are using it still are there people in
the community are there people who are
watching this show who use mythtv
extensively in that are actually
affected by this decision to shut it
down that's that's a curiosity that I
have I'm curious how you know how many
users are out there that are actually
being affected by the shutdown of myth
bhuntu mm-hmm good point Nintendo's NES
classic is at its core a Nintendo
approved nes emulator that comes with 30
roams it feels very similar to the sort
of thing people have been building for
ages by running Linux on a Raspberry Pi
with the main difference from a
conceptual standpoint being that the NES
classic is considerably less legally
questionable it turns out that the
difference is pretty much and there if
you take apart an NES classic like
gamespot's Peter Brown did you'll see
that NES builds its retro pot or its
retro emulators like you want to say
retro but you actually want to say retro
bomb it's over I'm Yours a whole lot
like the rest of us do inside the NES
classic is a quad-core Linux computer
with 256 megabytes of RAM and 512
megabytes of flash memory for storage in
other words it runs off a standard
off-the-shelf circuit board with some
custom software it seems that the best
way to build an emulator whether you're
messing around with a development board
or a multi-billion dollar console
producer is just drop a bunch of roms
into a custom version of Linux and while
the specs may seem low when compared to
today's modern consoles and computers it
still provides more than enough power
for emulating the finest 30 games that
1980s had to offer those hoping to crack
apart the NES classic and take advantage
of its open software to add more games
are out of luck as the flash memory is
soldered to the motherboard so you're
looking so if you're looking to play
more than Nintendo's 30 chosen games
retro pi might still be a better option
which you can get it our store which is
cat five dot TV / pi is that right
yeah but go for it folks yeah but while
the NES classic may be lacking customers
customers I customizability it does have
one major advantage over a raspberry pi
style oh yeah yeah it does yeah it is so
cute I would love to be able to do a
case mod that looks that good it's super
cute why I want to know is does that
little hatch at the front open up and
you have to go and blow on me do you
have to blow on the wrong chips retro
pie I have the retro pie and I honestly
say that we like Dave and I have so much
fun with it and we like it's like the
neighbors in to see it like we just like
we love it a lot and I can't imagine
being now constrained to just 30 games
right like now I'm like the 30 games I
don't know virtually I has like three
thousand game I don't know thirty
thousand Rome flowers oh I hate to get
another pie because what I was using my
retro pie for I now have my plex server
000 get another one buddy I cat5 TV /
pie best place to get them I don't I do
have to I should Jen the other day asked
me what I want for Christmas so I should
just tell her I want another pie but yes
I'm gonna wrap up an actual pie yeah
yeah well that's true I went in a box
with a raspberry pi they be like what i
plug in the controller don't correct her
now because the best thing to have
happen is that she actually gives you a
Raspberry Pi that you can eat but you
tell her in that moment I actually meant
a raspberry pi microcomputer so then
that way the guilt sets in and as you
are eating the Raspberry Pi she's on cat
five dot TV / pie ordering for you a
Raspberry Pi kit see this is a flood a
vesicle know what online online
petitions were fasting remember
everybody when I said like two years ago
Dave I
on laptop I do you remember I have a lot
of top it's on the set tonight yeah well
you just mentioned there about the pie
is a flashback to when Jen and I were
dating oh so this is this is the
manipulation that you used no gonna be
the one that this is gonna be one of
those facepalm would you be like really
so our relationship was getting serious
and she talked about getting a ring mmm
so I went out being the smart but that i
am and i purchased the horror movie the
ring but I all dear i removed the DVD in
place the ring inside the box oh nice so
I wrapped it up and so for Valentine's
Day I gave her the ring and she's like
that's how he proposed folks it wasn't
it was it was a promise ring but still
she's okay what is this it wasn't even
the real thing do you know that promise
Oh Jana I'm so sorry I made a few screws
loose but we in his oh my gosh he's like
he's like okay hon open it well and she
said oh he's like oh no did you do it's
not the real ring it's just it's not the
movie it's not a it's not a wedding ring
your proposal ring it's not an
engagement ring it's just it's just a
promise I promise that I would one day
by robin said at one point I'll get
smarter and I will actually oh yes we
talked about the promise ring we knew it
was all good so okay was this was worked
out in it was an she was expecting just
not the horror movie right so when she
opens it up and gets this horror movie
she's like what is this I'm like you
said you wanted the ring she's like a
ring oh oh shoot right so she puts it
down and hear the ring inside kind of
move around I'm like oh no I think the
DVD is broken and then she opens up a
saw the ring and the world was saved and
you know all the kind of good fun loving
stuff but yeah so there's my deck that's
a romantic so I ok how you talk
Raspberry Pi and I'm just pictured ya
doing this as revenge yeah and I was 12
e one hundred percent support you Jen
please just buy him up high and later on
not today I one here the actual
engagement story because of engaging
stories oh yeah I think it's important
that we also know before we move on
Sasha that category 5 does not
necessarily endorse any of the ideas
that have been expressing so let the
gentleman if you are thinking of ways to
you know advance that relationship oh
I'm thinking you know maybe we need to
hear from the wife yeah just maybe don't
say just because I am fairly recently
engaged in that actually it's been a
long time since I've got engaged but I'm
not yet married that's a whole other
story holy sorry but Dave bought the
ring three months before he proposed
yeah it was the worst three months of my
life because I thought it was breaking
up with me because he didn't want to
ruin the surprise so he couldn't get too
excited near me so usually like he's so
emotive usually but he was like all of a
sudden like the quietest like he was
this like a statue of a man every time I
thought it's just sitting there all the
time going see I was the opposite what I
bought her engagement ring I realized
we're completely off in left field feel
okay yeah what was the story about but
what I am the catering but I couldn't
carry yourself I contacted her dad that
day to say hey let's go up for breakfast
tomorrow whenever breakfast and that I
believe it was that night I proposed
because they're like I've got the ring I
gotta do it that's the way to do it or
all six bad energy okay okay but just so
you know we digress from Nintendo to
raspberry pi 2 horror movies two wedding
rings too long engagements and here we
are back at the news I am getting
married September's 9th 2017 so I will
be missing two shows okay okay thank you
yeah we appreciate the advanced
knowledge okay wallow boon to phone
continues to stew bereft of new devices
and with little develop a developer
interest
other efforts to create a fully fledged
Linux smartphone or phone are picking up
pace chief among them is KDE plasma
mobile KDE itself needs a little
introduction it's one of the most
popular Linux desktop environments
around and recently celebrated its 20th
birthday plasma is the name of its
graphical user interface GUI and you'll
probably know it best in its desktop
guys but KDE community has its sights
set beyond the desktop it has ambitions
to run a much broader set of devices
including tablets and more interestingly
smartphones the aim is to create a truly
customizable you I built with modularity
from the ground up plasma mobile also
touts a heavy emphasis on user privacy
plasma mobile aims to be a hackable
flashable ROM for existing popular
Android device or Android phones it can
also dual boot with android and is able
to run on both arm and intel based
devices plasma mobile currently supports
the Nexus 5 and the oneplus one as well
as intel based devices you'll need to be
prepared for many limitations as plasma
mobile is under development and not
aimed for end users but the device can
do the essentials of a dumb phone like
make calls and texts snap photos and a
small set of apps are available for more
information head over to the plasma
mobile website which is plasma / mobile
org I feel like that's plasma dash oh
sorry plasma dash mobiles darg I think
that I could actually use something like
that i need a dumbed-down phone so i do
simplify my life please thank you for
watching the category 5 TV news room
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news are the slight Linux
bias and for more free content content
be sure to check out our website from
the category 5 TV news room I'm
after their made us
