welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category five TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 232
of category 5 technology TV this is he
on Robbie Ferguson crystal wells no it
feels like it's been months months good
money is true of them I forgot what you
all look like what have you been up to
me oh you're not usually interested in
me so yeah that's computers oh well you
know school a lot of school yeah um and
I just recently got back from vacation
yeah uh Becky cool or you know Mexico
that's rough yeah it was tough there was
so much sunshine and unlimited drinks
and all you can eat waffle face oh it
was tough I was really tough but yeah
you got some Sun a little bit yeah
you're kind of offsetting my paleness
the fact that I match my my sleeves no
you plan out though I didn't you match
he used yes coordinating color Thank
coordination hmm you know what else is
exciting what is it hey news let's see
what's going on so coming up in the
newsroom reports the undermind
Einstein's theory of relativity may in
fact be mistaken hmm the next generation
of smart phone is going to cause trouble
for TV viewers an archive is now
available of tweets from the past two
years East Africa's high speed internet
is severely crippled after a ship
dropped anchor on the fiber optic cable
stick around these stores are coming up
later in the show Oh be terrible I can't
wait to hear what the two years worth in
a woman's or the anchor well what good
is two years worth of tweets if Alice oh
you know so I'd like to do on my
weekends yeah is it there looking we had
all the tweets in two years of tweets
tonight we've got a lot to cover we're
actually going to be talking a little
bit about plug-in for the GIMP GNU image
manipulation program kind of looking at
you know how the GIMP gives you an
alternative that's free to adobe
photoshop but then one-ups them it gives
you something a little better stick
around we'll be talking about that a
little later on this evening also Libre
Office we're going to be looking at free
office suite which is an alternative to
microsoft office product if you're new
to open source to to linux to just the
idea of free software whether you're on
Windows Mac or Linux we've got a free
suite that is an alternative for
microsoft office suite gonna say via a
boatload of money and is still
compatible with a lot of the same files
so stick around we're gonna be showing
you that as well good yeah so lots to
cover mmm yeah you know what I heard no
a little birdie told me that yesterday
not today was a drum sticks birthday hey
happy birthday birthday and we actually
have a new viewer alive viewer early
anyways maybe not a new live viewer but
they're in the chat room today I'm a bit
sprocket pit sprockets name yeah nice to
see ya bit sprocket set hello on Twitter
too we have a Twitter channel well there
it is it's it's over there oh we're
having five TV say hi to us mm-hmm
follow us we'll say hi didn't hi to you
too oh yeah happy birthday man cool lots
of people joining us in the chat room
lots of new people as well awesome
alright so get your questions in you can
email us live at category five dot TV or
in the chat room category five on
freenode and don't forget also we have
our mobile site it's cat 5 or mobile dot
cat five dot TV and we'd love to have
you bring that up on your tablet or your
your mobile smartphone whatever device
that you have that's a great way for you
to be able to do an end of the show I
feel like
thing is actually a my way yeah just hit
that thanks it's out of the way good no
thanks yeah just put the camera just to
see if she's paying attention oh we uh
really hopeful that you are gonna send
your postcards i was telling i'm just
becuz right just before the show I was
just talking about how the new website
we've been talking a little bit about it
over that the past couple weeks we're
launching a new website betta starts
this coming weekend one of the cool
features is as you send in your
postcards we're going to put those up on
a Google map you'll be able to tour the
world buy postcards from category 5
viewers so make sure you send yours in
and Krista how can they do that oh my
goodness well they can mail them and you
can mail them to category 5 technology
TV at p.o box 2900 nine sounds like the
lottery that's in Barrie Ontario Canada
and postal code l4 n7w 7
your last chance to relax is on the way
up the hill with liquid image Canada you
can capture all the action like never
before without a bulky sports cam that's
a high-definition video camera mask from
liquid image Canada calm as free HD
video recording even low-light you
capture the memories just how you
experience the Sunnat series since 720
or 1080 available now from liquid image
canada.com this is category 5 technology
TV there's our site category five dot TV
we'd love to have you there register on
our website cool nice to see you nice to
have you here well how would you like to
answer some very complex questions I
would love to anyway love to well let's
roll rate in our first question is from
Raven lords and it says hello Robbie and
the category 5 team I was just wondering
or just wanting to know what kind of
rotor would you recommend for my current
computer use for running servers and
home wireless use Thank You Robbie and
category 5 team hmm alright well there's
something that I really love about
Netgear routers and I think it's because
they actually support open source a
little more than than the rest I'm gonna
bring up their website
you better find a whole bunch of cool
devices on their site I've actually got
one which which we use here it's the wnr
3500 l WN are 3500 L bring up their site
there it is I'm going to tell you a
couple things that I really love about
this ok you can read through the specs
and stuff i'll put a link to this in the
show notes for episode number 232 first
of all my friend ok it's got your
internet port and for gigabit ethernet
ports ok plus it's got the Wi-Fi with
the n300 wireless gives you better speed
let's see check this out performance you
have a 480 megahertz mi PS processor all
right and here's the kicker you've got
128 megabytes of flash what that means
to me because okay and I'll just before
i get into that look at this it's
actually designed to support it's an
open source router for linux developers
and open source enthusiasts ok that
tells me something about the company
about what it is that they're developing
here with this router right so the first
thing that I did when I got this one
it's got 128 megabytes of flash your
typical router might have 48 even 16 if
you're lucky right so with 128 megabytes
you can get dd-wrt s mega build DD wrt
com and this is a firmware that you can
install into that device alright see if
i can find like a version comparison
just to give you an idea here we go okay
so here we are so I'm talking about the
mega build here or the big build and
this is the kind of stuff that this is
going to give your router access
restrictions anchorfree asked risk
that's a phone system in the mega build
asterisk phone system bandwidth
monitoring chill spot whole bunch of
stuff built in proftpd right in the big
and mega build so you can set it up as
an ftp server it's got tons and tons of
stuff even samba right what this does is
it gives you a router that you can go
with their stock firmware which is
fantastic too you'll be very very
impressed or you can install dd-wrt s
mega or big build and you'll be able to
Gary very cool features that are
typically only available in a very
expensive router right and you're
looking at this a it's a cheaper device
as far as the price let's see if i can
find the price I'm buying from the next
year on their site must be free I don't
see a price free here it is you won't
believe with all those features right
now i think i paid about a 120 hundred
and fifty maybe here in canada so price
may be different where you are but with
that device because it's got so much ran
so much flash memory you can install
that that dd-wrt mega or big build and
it gives you tons of very you know what
would normally be very expensive
features so check that out and it's a
good die hard router as well again links
will be in the show notes for episode
number 232 thanks for the question agha
motor actually has a comment here he
says that you might want to explore the
difference is between a rotor and a
gateway it's a good question i don't
know well a router typically would have
a gateway but a router this this
particular router has a dual-level
firewall system right so it's going to
protect you it's going to bring in your
in
and then it's going to connect to the
internet and then it's going to
distribute it to all of your other
computers right cool yeah that's what a
router does so that's that's what you'd
be looking for but the but wit with the
upgrade to dd-wrt you get all these
bonus features and then it becomes like
a little mini server brilliant I've
never seen Robbie so excited about
megabytes before well when you get a
hundred twenty eight of them in a router
it's fantastic it doesn't sound like a
lot like using 128 megabytes woohoo you
know I got gigs and gigs of ram but on a
router you usually don't get that much
that's why there's all these different
versions of dd-wrt right because a lot
of routers will only support the micro
because they've got four four megabytes
of memory right so when you got 128 it
opens you up to all kinds of
possibilities it's very cool stuff cool
so yeah I get excited obvious you can
hear this you can hear it in my voice
you can hear the excitement not right
now no it's gone it's gone sorry that's
gone hmm so next question oh let's see
we have a question from Ron Smith hey
Ron hi says thank you for taking the
time to answer my questions on episode 2
31 I'm ordering more memory torta
tortellini totally 16 gigabytes and
we'll install the 64 bit version of
debian and virtualbox if i get him oh
yes that's that's what I said mm-hmm I
was like what's a dban dban said debian
which is obviously still wrong it's
actually short for Deb like Deborah
uh-huh and Ian yeah was it actually they
were girl agent boyfriend no you're
making it up no ian is the guy who
developed it and his girlfriend at the
time was Deb and I don't know if you're
serious these serious yes I am serious
she doubts me google it like a lot to me
yeah but we're on the air I mean okay
not right here behind the scenes at say
hi to them that's the line okay so
anyways mm-hmm
he says if i get everything running i
would like to try to install the
headless virtual box set up you showed
us okay about my question yeah is there
other ways besides VNC to access Linux
guests or on VirtualBox from a Windows
workstation I apologize if I'm not
asking the question correctly maybe this
is better or there's other ways to
connect to linux remotely other than
using VNC i have only used VNC on
windows and it seems slow is VNC slow on
linux to your episodes on unraid server
was also very helpful to I've managed to
build a nun raid server and i'm not
using windows 2003 server anymore yay
okay and on raid server is much faster
awesome well thank you for the comment
it's kinda like a comment / question Sam
yeah it was kind of everything as a site
so by didn't know where to stop as like
I just gotta keep going or I'll never
find the line again so so uh answer it
there ya que bien SI is going to allow
you to remote into the visual session of
that running Linux box so you've got X
running you've got the desktop running
and it basically streams that desktop so
yeah it can be heavy but on your client
side so the computer that you are
connecting from you can set the settings
so that it optimizes that connection use
different protocols like x tight VNC is
a compressed protocol you can use like z
lib compression if your if your viewer
supports it like not on the windows
system get tight VNC from tight VNC org
you can get the client and you'll have
all different kinds of connection
options to accelerate that connection
because if you're just connecting with
just a straight connection you're
probably getting like a full
uncompressed VNC session so it's going
to be very very heavy it's going to bog
down your network and then it's going to
appear slow so first of all optimize
your VNC session your VNC connection
also though yes there are other ways you
can connect depending on what you want
to do if you want to bring up the
desktop you're going to want to look at
something called xdmcp we'll come back
to that if you just want to control the
system if you want to just get access to
it you
just use SSH install putty on your
windows box or something like that and
then you can ssh into the terminal you'd
have liked the black screen and you'll
be able to control that system but again
VNC is going to be pretty fast as long
as you optimize it from the client end
as far as xdmcp basically it allows
streaming of your ex session to another
computer so setup can be pardon me setup
can be complicated but it actually takes
the ex session and instead of presenting
it on the screen of the client and then
streaming it it gives you it streams the
data and then your client displays it so
it extends the ex session screen
complicated stuff the other option
you're using virtualbox enable V rdp in
VirtualBox because again that's going to
give you remote desktop protocol windows
already has the remote desktop client
and allows for some pretty hefty
optimizations there so with v part v rdp
you can use remote desktop to connect in
to the virtual box and then it will show
you the guest what would be on the
guests system works a little bit
different you would be connecting to the
IP address of the host computer not the
guest and then colon and then starts at
0 1 2 depending on which which which one
it is and also you can specify the port
as well so give it a go let us know how
it goes what you find what you decide on
and what performs best for you if it's
local though if you're not going out
through the internet you should be able
to work with any of those options xdmcp
being the most geek ified way to do it
the toughest way to do it but will work
very well well it's Brock you mentioning
that rdp will also let you use your
sound the NC won't so yeah that's true
very good thank you for the question
sorry for the cough
well I will read this question very slow
so you have a time to recuperate thank
you okay no problem oh this question is
from a meal sorry feisty female that
right sorry if I said your name wrong mu
mm-hmm that's hi Robbie with PHP you had
includes but with html5 this will not
work is there another option or must you
copy each page again that's actually a
good question i personally haven't done
html5 yet so I didn't know that includes
network so interesting here's the thing
Emil html5 is client-side okay I'm
hoping that that made a light go thing
PHP is server side so the trick is now
hTML is the rent is kind of the rendered
product the trick is to generate that
HTML from PHP files right because html5
it does not have to be static it can be
driven by a PHP back end right so for
example if this is the code that you
want to output in P in html5 okay you
put that into html5 dot PHP whatever and
then every file that you want that
included in you include it from that PHP
file is there's a difference its server
side versus client side is does that no
that makes sense does that make sense
honestly yeah because you're probably at
about that place as well we're so the
PHP end actually generates the html5 to
output on the client side so you can do
whatever you want on the server side
it's like a consider like a program
doesn't have to be flat and you can
include other bits of html5 through PHP
and then output it to the browser which
interprets the html5 yeah did little EDT
do I get a cookie I hope that makes
sense I hope that hope that helps
well I understood it so that must
excellent that you you know I explained
it half decent if I understood it hey I
would just give you a call in the chat
room if you've got a question for us pop
us a message in the chat room its
category 5 on freenode and of course you
can also get there through our website
category five dot TV and we also have
live dot cat five dot TV for those of
you who are watching live cool okay next
question yay chris ross says i'm about
to buy a laptop and i find it almost
impossible to choose one hmm most of the
laptops are optimist graphic card most
of the laptops are optimist graphic card
nvidia an nvidia does not support
drawers for linux ah i heard that there
are some open source drives for Optimus
that does not always work you say like
that every time you say Optimus the way
oh it's a shepherd I don't know I could
do this ugh I can't do that yes try come
on Optimus uh yeah that does not always
work um can you comment on that would
you buy a I lost it would you buy a
laptop with Optimus graphic cards
Optimus yeah its uses only option is to
buy an old laptop without off though um
talk to no spotted too much yeah you do
it no I can't that is very limited way
for the movement of Linux is an ati card
better choice to look for thanks for the
great show that you care to demo best
regards chris all right Chris yeah a TI
vs nvidia big discussion there here's
the problem nvidia has always been
better for linux and then along comes
optimus right I can't do cuz you do it
so well yeah sure it peels and cuz I was
the first to do it so now you're trying
to it now you're trying to mimic the way
that I do it and and you're gonna fail
everybody laughing
yeah I hope so i'll stop pointing when
you laugh if they do has nvidia been
better in quotes I don't know I mean
it's been kind of neck to neck for a
while but in the early days of Linux
back when Chris Reich was a wee lad when
I get in trouble Chris I Love You Man
have a drink and here's the thing nvidia
was always way more geared toward the
end of the opengl end of things ati they
stayed away from opengl for a while and
stuck with directx so they became kind
of the windows card in the early days
and nvidia was the excellent choice for
linux now with optimus nvidia has
brought out a very cool chip for laptops
that is it's a hybrid chip so it
actually has two graphics chips one of
them is the integrated video probably
like an intel chip and then the nvidia
high-end graphics card so if you bring
up a game it fires up the nvidia card
and its really awesome graphics but it
uses up more power right so for power
savings best interest it will
automatically switch back to the nvidia
aired to the intel cart the integrated
ship when it's not in when it's not
needed when it doesn't need all that 3d
acceleration and stuff so cool idea
where's nvidia wrong though is that
they're not going to support linux with
this i mean that's a big big issue so
there's a couple things first of all
there's you know but i'll mention
bumblebee and we'll talk about that in a
minute package for linux that allows you
to manually it's actually called
bumblebee I got you're making a
transformers joke with optimism hey I'll
bet you that's how they came up with the
name I didn't know you're being such it
made the connection I didn't make that
connection I was like what a dumb name
for a driver but what now we got it
we're kind of year walk go ahead alright
so with bumblebee you can switch between
the two chips in Linux but it's a manual
process instead of automated so you
would manually choose
to run on the Intel chip or the nvidia
chip okay not quite as ideal the fact
that Nvidia is not going to support
linux with their optimus line of cards
is disappointing i guess you would say
to the open source community to the
Linux community but they've developed
this chip specifically to be for windows
7 so that's what it is any optimist chip
running under linux or running linux on
that system you're going to be using
hacker rounds they're not official
support for that card so you're not
going to get nvidia drivers that support
it so that's the problem whether you
take that risk it's up to you personally
I would go to the store with the chipset
in mind and say it's going to be you
know like a geforce or something like
that something from Nvidia's line that
is absolutely supported by an nvidia
driver so that's i would rather than
buying the laptop with the optimist chip
and trying to get linux to work on it i
would probably go with the mindset that
it's gotta run linux so i'm going to
choose a laptop that will run it if the
store doesn't have it don't impulse shop
there will be deals out there there are
other computers out there that's good
advice yeah yeah bit sprocket says
they've got a gtx 480 running unity with
no problems GTX line of cards fantastic
so
very cool I think yeah just whenever i
buy stuff like that i'm i'm going to
take the different approach i'm going to
i'm going to buy a system that's
compatible with what i want to do
otherwise you're you're getting driven
by the wrong motivation i think to buy a
system that you have to try to work
around limitations in that system that's
just given yourself headaches that you
don't really need you don't want and
that system wasn't built to run linux
not that it can't be done as I say
bumblebee is out there look at the
Wikipedia article I'm sure makes mention
of it so and we welcome your comments in
the chat room as well that's category 5
on freenode and you can catch the IRC
logs if you're watching this on the
download or on YouTube run cable or
wherever you're watching this you can
check out the chat logs a category 5 TV
4 episode number 232 well great not a
whole lot of well I mean people are
chatting in the chat room I don't see
any college buddy if anyone has posted a
question please bring our attention to
it we're just about out of time for
viewer questions so we'll be jumping
into the news in just a few moments but
we'll give you a just a quick sec even
though we're live and we've got a ton of
people in the chat room there someone
must have a burning question mm-hmm
leica where does Robbie get all his
sweater-vests where does he hmm I don't
know wherever I find them when you're
walking through a store Oh luck a
sweater vests my of it must have it
that's a white great argyle blend i have
a white black but not the weight grade
mm-hmm-hmm mark m wants to know how
schools going and what you're learning
um you know it's good it's good this is
actually probably my favorite class yes
so far um mainly cuz i think i'm
learning the most out of it criminal
justice now what do you later yeah well
you know like like a stuff hmm no we're
doing a lot of CSS right now so no they
getting ss3 or this thing no no css3 i
think we're doing that next semester but
so CSS two more like advanced selectors
so instead of having to give IDs and
classes to everything and teach you how
you can like select
certain certain elements with that way
which I guess keeps your HTML a little
bit cleaner which is good um different
kinds of layouts and stuff like that so
you feel like you're going to become a
programmer um I think I'll always still
be a graphic designer that can maybe do
some of the smaller well have absolutely
have that to your arsenal yeah so as a
gifted graphic designer you can take
that and turn it into programs and
websites but just don't ever get to the
point where you don't need to call for
oh that's all she gonna call yeah Robbie
Robbie he'll just be sitting in there
and going yeah where's crystal local
look at these awesome site she's
building with selectors oh I'll be a sad
day I'm using a lot of jQuery and and
doing some really funky stuff on the new
site very excited about that I can't
wait to to show everybody that our betta
is starting this weekend you can email
me this is your last chance we're gonna
close it down this friday night email me
live at category 5 TV with v3 betta in
the subject line and we'll add you to
the list so you can check it out before
everyone else give it some testing cool
well time for the news folks thanks
everybody in the chat room everybody who
sent in your questions we appreciate it
it's live at category five dot TV if
you'd like to send yours in through the
week Chris Reich hey yeah alright take
it away alright well tonight there are
some amazing things on the news um
rocket potato sugarcoat it so i'm going
to type announcers incorrectly and here
we go so what might have been the
biggest physics story of the past
century may instead be down to a faulty
connection in September the Opera
experiment reported it had seen it noot
noot Oh neutrinos neutrinos yes that's
what I said particles evidently
traveling faster than the speed of light
the team has now found two problems that
may be affected there that may have
affected their test in opposing ways one
in its timing gear and one in the one in
an optical fiber connection more tests
from
a will determine just how they affect
measured speeds oh my that's Bruce I can
you imagine like announcing to the world
we were wrong no but we first we have
proven that Einstein's theory of
relativity is wrong that's what they
claimed that their findings prove
neutrinos traveling faster than the
speed of light and then to have to say
by the way there was a loose wire we're
wrong oh my goodness well at least it
wasn't you right yeah yeah almost a
million UK homes will need to have
filters installed to prevent TV
interference from 4g mobile signals at a
cost of 108 million pounds oh really
that's expensive not each what could you
imagine still expensive I don't know
what the exchange rate is all this crazy
radiation I'm gonna need to spend a
hundred and eight million pounds to fix
this I think that's for the country
thanks Robbie you all right just clarify
I don't come on often anymore Robbi
makes you know me when I make stupid
mistakes no I'm the one who writes it
yeah I say it a smaller number of homes
about 10,000 will need to switch to
satellite or cable TV services in order
to avoid d created picture quality homes
it cannot receive these alternative
platforms such as may be the cause in
some rural areas will receive up to
10,000 pounds each it to find a solution
to receive their television signal such
as having fiber cable installed
companies are now able to search and
analyze up to two years of Twitter
updates for market purposes market
research purposes so you can literally
see what Robbie had for dinner 19 months
ago oh really and it's probably pasta
same as tonight right really yeah I
should tweet about it so you can reduce
it to yes firms can search tweets back
to January 2010 in order to plan
marketing campaigns target influential
users are even try to predict certain
events until today only the previous 30
days of tweets were available for
companies
search regular users can access posts
from the past 7 News uk-based data sift
is the first company to offer the
archive Tim Barker data sips marketing
manager told the BBC no one's ever done
this before is a brand new service that
we're bringing online it's a massive
technology a challenge because of the
amount of data that is being pumped out
every single day he said the company
takes in roughly 200 million tweets
every day all of which are analyzed for
content such as whether they were said
in a positive or negative tone the
software will also log location awesome
have to say it you're ruining this I
didn't make any mistakes in the past 10
lines that was good the softer will also
log location data and social-media
influencer based in part on existing
influence modern service cloaked private
accounts and tweets that have been
deleted will not be indexed by the site
oh good sorry just back to the weather
they were set in a positive or negative
tone some that someone's the software
does that still yeah that's the silly
this past is awesome that's silly it's a
little too spicy for my taste so
negative negative brownies Freddy picks
up on that kind of stuff yeah good job
okay East Africa's high speed internet
access has been severely disrupted after
a ship dropped its anchor on to a fiber
optic cable off Kenya's coast the ship
was waiting to enter Mombasa one of
Africa's busiest ports when anchored in
a restricted area taking out I'll taking
out one of only three high-speed
connections which were installed since
2009 as a result internet connections
were expected to slow down by twenty
percent in Kenya Rwanda Burundi brendi
Tanzania Ethiopia and South Sudan's
capital Juba cool according to the east
african marine systems who owned the
cable it could take up to 14 days to
repair get the full stores at category 5
TV / newsroom at the category 5 TV news
room is researched by roy w national
contributions by our community of
viewers
if you have a question or sorry I new
story that you think is worthy of on-air
mentioned email newsroom at category 5
TV for the categories 5 TV news room I
am crystals thanks Krista tonight's news
is brought to you by quarter electric
the official Electric Company of
category 5 technology TV get their
contact details from quarter eee
electric com also garden gate farms com
for certified organic broccoli sprout
and wheatgrass juice visit garden gate
farms com this is category five
technology TV and our website is triple
w category 5 TV we'd love to have you
join us on our website become a part of
our wonderful community of viewers and
we appreciate each and every one of you
who Tunes them for the show and who
participates on our website as well cool
lots of features to cover tonight hope
everybody's having a nice time with us
and I'm gonna be talking about libre
office in a few minutes we're going to
try to get into some information about
some security scams that are going on so
stick around first of all tonight I'd
like to look at the GIMP you know when
you ask me early on in the week if
there's anything I've learned new that
could be a topic yeah um and I don't
email you back for three days I didn't
think that you would like you know well
fine we've been playing it with GIMP and
you know try to make fun of
photoshopping I'm not making fun it's
not free and you know stuff with that
like you do this you do this on purpose
because I don't email you back Friday
give my viewers free alternatives to
very expensive pieces of software which
is amazing the alternatives are but
hillary was on last week she was she
would have loved to do this absolutely
you rather me reversed I could you know
that'll be great okay I'm actually
pretty excited to see all right we had
this talk about that I can't reverse
time right now oh but if you wait till
just after the show you can we can
actually rewind it yeah but we're live
right now yeah and I am in all honesty
school conversation actually quite
excited to see what Kim can do so
regardless of whether i will use it but
it is yeah i'm excited to see how
awesome it
listen Krista likes to spend a lot of
money because she has a lot like
disposable income Oh tons of disposable
income so when it comes to a
one-thousand-dollar piece of software it
did off yeah you know surely disposable
income you mean you just move it away
paint instead of my mortgage right like
sure like like let's buy some ass
pensive software mmm in rupees it's like
10 Giga rupees I don't know you'll have
to give accurate yet Thanks agamotto
that's his curveball he makes fun of me
with my pounds what if there's no but
seriously there are alternatives just
like you know if you're running a
Windows computer you can download linux
it's free you can install it on your
computer it becomes your operating
system and you're no longer bound by
licensing costs virus protection costs
all this kind of stuff right similarly
if you use Photoshop or you're thinking
about getting Photoshop there are
alternatives one of the best being GNU
image manipulation program so when I say
the GIMP i'm referring to GNU image
manipulation program it's free works on
linux so hey if you run a linux awesome
but maybe you're not running linux you
might be on Windows or Mac it works on
those too it's free for you too you
don't have to run linux okay I'm not I'm
not argue well I am arguing but you're
always arguing I agree I just said it's
very um coincidental happens to be on my
week just have that song I thought you'd
be interested because you're all graphic
designer I'm always I'm sorry a graphic
designer it's more like that wasn't yeah
I was like yeah okay that damn excited
though yeah okay that was jazz hands you
talking about GL I was trying to make a
point that you're very jazzy anyway
there it is GIMP dot o RG get it for
free okay it's fantastic we're gonna
look at it in just a moment let's grab a
picture off of our website and shouts
out to bit sprocket tonight who said I'd
love to learn a little bit
more about some of the plugins that are
available for him so we're gonna look at
an alternative to photoshop's liquify
plugin which basically allows you to
stretch the image on weird kind of ways
we're going to go to our photo gallery
let's see if we can find a an
embarrassing picture of Christa mmm I'm
sure there's a few our photo gallery is
available on our website category 5 TV
let's see what we have okay what do you
think oh wow there's so many excellent
such ease Christmas Christmas Christmas
there we go there's a picture can I use
that it's up there it is yours to use
okay so a cool feature the GIMP to here
i am on our flickr gallery i'm going to
right click on the image and copy image
URL let's bring up the GIMP okay right
click file open location paste the URL
and it actually downloads it so we
didn't have to save it on our computer
so--but sprocket there are so many cool
filters that are available for the gimp
if you right click on your image go
filters and you'll see there are ton of
different things okay you can do all
different kinds of things real quick
like if I want to duplicate that layer
filter do a Gaussian blur add a bit of a
blur to that image right change it to an
overlay get some kind of you know a
little bit of yeah it just kind of
changes the way that the image looks
right give it that kind of surreal kind
of look add another layer select feather
I'm doing this real quick because we're
not actually learning this tonight I
just want to show you how quickly when
you know your way around you can do some
pretty neat stuff
right
you see how we just kind of liven up
that photo in like just a couple of
seconds flat tadam right okay save my
photo was dull no absolutely not sorry
Justin but there you go okay on your
toes excellent okay i'm going to copy
that to my clipboard and create a new
image there we go okay so we've got that
all right right click and go filters
distorts I warp okay so you've used the
liquify plugin for photoshop photoshop
be in the commercial alternative this
being a free program here GNU image
manipulation program so with this I work
plugin I can now you know totally just
isn't smiling enough well you know come
on girl put a smile on your face am I
allowed to do this am I gonna intro no
no thank its well now that's rude that
is kind of right but here's the kind of
stuff that you can do with I warp and it
is very very similar to liquefy and
Photoshop okay and basically all I'm
doing is just grabbing portions of the
image giving it a bit of a stretch and
there you have it okay so i can hit okay
and we're done and done here's how it
one-ups photoshop with photoshop if i
wanted to animate that i'd have to do a
little bit at a time duplicate the layer
a little bit more duplicate the layer
and then save it as an animated jeff
right with the gimp all i have to do is
click on animate up at the top here turn
it on and let's say we want to make it
25 frames ok will do ping pong and we'll
hit okay well that's going to do see
over on the right it's creating a whole
bunch of layers so now not only have we
created our warp but watch this filters
animation playback there's your picture
I'm going to hit play
so you see how easy it is to create a
really cool effect goofy effect on this
case it's Kennedy a girl like I have
your really bad allergic Ono she drank
the soap that tool I mean you can use it
for silly stuff like that and you've
seen images like that where you know you
stretch somebody's face out and it's
hilarious and you can do some pretty
funky stuff you can also use it to warp
background you can make swirls and cool
effects you can also use it to you know
the magazine covers they use it to slim
people and bring up the bust and do all
this kind of stuff all those kinds of
effects are created with the liquefier
in this case the iwork plugin so very
very cool stuff so that's one plug-in
for you for tonight I'll close that so
it never thanks never seen again except
that it's on the show forever now that's
the GIMP it's GNU image manipulation
program and you'll find that online at
gimp.org this is category 5 technology
TV and again we are online a category
five dot TV cool
questions comments in the chat room at
all Cheers King Arthur
people asking about the taught me the
cartoon that you saw a little bit
earlier in the show you can actually get
that off of our photo gallery as well if
you missed it check out our photo
gallery category 5 TV all right that is
I warp what do you think it's fantastic
that's pretty cool thanks yeah all right
so tonight the theme is free
alternatives to commercial software
another piece of commercial software
that you're going to need for your
computer if you're on Windows it's
microsoft office plain and simple right
did you know that there are alternatives
out there and we linux users we know
about this stuff we've got open office
and Libre Office has come out of that
and so we know about these things
because they come with our operating
system but did you know that you can
actually get these free office suites
for your Windows computer also your Mac
so what I'm going to do I'm going to
bring up a website gear Libre Office dot
org that's how it's spelled and this
suite of software gives you calc which
is the equivalent of excel if you will
it's a spreadsheet program impress is
the equivalent of PowerPoint
presentations draw lets you do your
diagramming and charting base is for
data basing kind of like access math is
for doing your formulas for your
documents and so on and so forth right
and the big one writer just like
Microsoft Word here's the thing about
libre office if you're concerned about
installing an alternative to microsoft
office the biggest concern is usually
well i need to be able to open files
that are sent to me and vice versa so
here's the thing i'm going to bring up
i'm just going to go to Google I'm going
to go to I'm going to do Excel
spreadsheet examples you go to the first
one that comes up X in FM com okay so
here's a bunch of xls files just click
on the first one okay so I've got it
there it is so you see that this was
actually created in Excel it's an XLS
file just like your Excel files I get
double click on that you'll notice that
I have LibreOffice installed and yet
it's going to open this Excel
spreadsheet and there we are so
incredibly we don't actually need excel
to open this excel file let's create a
new spreadsheet just so you can see how
similar this is right it's pretty much
if you're if you've ever used cell it's
pretty much exactly the same formulas
sums it's very very similar in its
functionality but watch this file save
as formats okay it has its default
format ODS but then it also has
microsoft excel format microsoft excel
templates all these different formats
you can save to CSV comma separated
values all these Microsoft formats see
so you can actually save again to an XLS
file and send it to your buddy who only
has microsoft excel and they'll be able
to open it on their system I do that all
the time at work transferring stuff back
and forth so then you get into
LibreOffice writer this is where things
get really exciting because it's it's
very much a clone of Microsoft Word it
gives you the ability to do word
processing and again watch this save as
and all formats we have microsoft word
document file do see right you can open
them you can open and save to doc X
fantastic I've open docx m-files no
problem so now you've got a free
alternative to microsoft suite that the
only thing that's missing is
look everything else is there so you've
got your spreadsheets your your word
processor you've even got a PowerPoint
alternative with impress and again if
you've ever used the Microsoft
equivalent you're going to find that
it's very very similar not hard to learn
at all there we go ready to start
creating my add a new slide there we go
even the hotkeys are the same it's
brilliant so that is a libra office and
it's available for a free download at
Libre Office dot org I'm going to take
you there and when we're on LibreOffice
org you can actually go download and
you'll see that for me it's defaulting
to the Linux version but you can go
change system version or language and
you'll see that this is available for
Windows Mac both Intel and Power PC and
of course linux as well Libre Office is
a free download they are supported by
donations if you care to donate if
you're going to save a whole lot of
money in your company to use this
there's a good opportunity for you to
get something that's going to save you
some money always give it a try before
you go with the commercial product see
if it works for you and then if it if
you have any trouble then you might
consider going with the commercial
alternative let's start with that
fantastic stuff Libre Office org this
category 5 technology TV and our website
is category five dot TV cool gamez
questions in the chat room at this point
no not a lot of questions
alright folks people compare an
OpenOffice to libre office open office
was the original project Sun
Microsystems based on their old office
suite that they had it was like the Sun
office or whatever it was called I can't
remember at this point but back when I
was a wee lad it became open office was
the free version and then when oracle
bought out son it was uncertain what was
going to happen to open office so the
community said okay let's create the
document foundation let's create Libre
Office and even the name Libre Office
means the free office suite so it's
going to always remain that way it's
supported it's under development and
it's going to continue to be under
development by the open source community
so you don't have to worry about a big
company like Oracle doing awful things
to the to the system so that's why we're
looking at libre office tonight cool
wanted to talk a little bit about
security tonight over the past few weeks
we've been talking in the studio about
phishing scams different scams that are
out there that get into your email and
trick you into clicking and trick you
into doing things that are dangerous to
you as your computer user or maybe to
data collection maybe to your identity
identity theft is a serious thing right
and lately over the past couple of years
and in fact it's really become a problem
on the telephone where telemarketers or
whoever these scammers are going to pick
up the phone they're going to call you
up like I say you know my name is i'm
calling from microsoft and we have been
notified by your computer which is
connected to the internet we've been
notified that there's an exploit in your
computer that has to be patched it has
to be fixed otherwise your data is at
risk you are you know there's scare
tactics your dad is at risk there are
data collectors that are going to be
able to pick up your credit card
information we would be you know we're
Microsoft we'd be willing to fix that
for you right now there's no charge
you've already purchased Microsoft
nose so we'll take him hurt me we'll
take care of that for you here's the
thing that's not Microsoft awful nice of
them so nice of them one microsoft
doesn't do nice things too they're not
going to do it for free where's the
money in that right here's the thing is
that these people and it's an
unfortunate but a lot of people are
falling for this and it's happening like
it's growing and this is why I wanted to
bring it up it's growing because people
are falling for don't fall for it if
anyone phones you and starts talking to
you about personal stuff your computer
is personal right if somebody says you
know anything it's interesting I got
that call I don't use windows what are
you talking about okay but and I had a
customer who actually threeway called me
because Microsoft was on the line oh man
and this customer said to me Robbie this
this gentleman from microsoft it has is
letting us know that we've got an
exploit and they need to fix it but I
don't know our password to get into the
system good thing it was disclose she
was this close I said hang up the phone
right now and call me back get this
person off the line do not give them any
information okay because what happens is
they say okay well we'll fix it for you
all you have to do is go to this one
website it looks very official it's all
Microsoft right download this one file
it's going to allow us to patch your
computer gives them remote access to
your computer so that they can exploit
codes so that they can send out mass
email but here's the real bad thing they
can monitor keystrokes they can get your
credit card information your personal
information your files remember you're
on high-speed internet so as soon as you
give access to that kind of thing there
you have it right and people are falling
for it so if anyone calls you like that
always just you know politely hang up on
them
lately mm-hmm you got to watch out for
this kind of stuff because they're very
convincing the emails that come in
they're very convincing these phone
calls that sound very official we're
calling from Microsoft we've got a
notification hear that your computer is
being exploited we need to get this
fixed for you it we're going to do it
for you and we'll take care of it all
you need to do is this they may even say
you know we need to install some
software they may say that we need your
credit card number we need this or that
not likely because they know that they
can get that if all you do is download
this file if all you do is allow them
access to your computer the dangerous
stuff so be wary and if you are ever
concerned I'll just say this email live
at category 5 TV and you know forward us
email ask us the question say look I got
this call is it real and we'll be happy
to look into it go be careful folks want
to see you safe on online and those kind
of things of course you know the windows
thing if you're a Windows user sure
they're going to make you download a
windows file phishing scams though they
can get anyone doesn't matter whether
you're on windows mac linux or a tablet
phishing scams can get your data right
because they trick you they trick you
into entering credit card information to
get a piece of software or whatever it
is so watch out thanks everybody cheers
maxwell
just watching the chat room here we
welcome you to to join us there did I
miss any questions if I did please email
us live at category five dot TV so where
does this leave you your back at school
yeah I leave you for another what is it
two months is it really I guess oh and
then have you done no I have nurse
semester for the summer so you go like
two months and then I'm not have like
hey it's a visit yeah then two more
months yeah and I'll come back again
yeah and you know make sure everyone
madness or ones all right and uh and my
next semester should be done August
August mmm wow that's a long time I know
and what's gonna be different here at
the studio Oh be smarter I will look
smarter I will say smart earnings I'll
read the news better if you received out
in my eyes a lot has changed around here
too and then viewers don't necessarily
see this backstage pass of course you do
but you notice it I came in here and I
was surrounded by monitors and you know
like the tablet is here now and right
yeah little she's not high breeding bugs
here not even using a mouse oh it's like
yeah she's she's like all graphic
designer I don't need a mouse I accept
the payment starts right in with her
sounds God put Robbie in his place I
tried writing with my pen but it just
doesn't work today market but the smiley
faces yeah it's nice not an apple tablet
Dave may do this is the walk on graph I
are for into our into us for part of me
for I i was around in the grand fire
days so that's right how's my first
tablet the graphic nice stuff thanks
everybody for joining us tonight it is
super good to see you nice to see you
yeah well when you only see me like once
every two months it can't be that bad
Krista in little bits is it once every
two months we can his okay yeah we can
handle that yeah yeah okay I hope you
had fun tonight as well we're just about
out of time so don't forget cartoon
everything else available in our photo
gallery at category 5 TV by our very
talented cartoonist Rachel shoot and
don't forget also the betta for the new
website in the chat room you'll see how
to do that Dave may do thanks mark M
Kiwi tux and everybody joining us in the
chat room if you say hi say hi back
Scorpio 55 nice to see you that's all
the time that we have you have fun
tonight yeah it's good that's a good
except for the points where you made fun
of me I never do that how they soon as
the camera zombie a lot as the cameras
on our folks have a great week and Eric
kid will be in next Tuesday night we're
gonna have a good time then as well so
okay take care we'll talk to you soon
Bobby
