welcome to category five technology TV
we've got a great show planned for you
we've got a guest joining us from new
data security Don Duncan is here joining
us via Skype video and we're gonna be
talking about this new thing called open
banking here in Canada you wants to go
out for that interview learn all about
how banking is changing and evolving to
accommodate those of us you need things
to be a little more technically inclined
also we've got we're gonna learn more
about how you can win debt effect to VR
we've got your viewer questions and
we're going to be talking about the
Raspberry Pi versus the X u4q I'm gonna
show you exactly how big they are stick
around
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recording is a trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improve performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku kodi
plex and other HLS video players for
local Toth show times visit category 5
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 dot TV slash ia IB
welcome back to category 5 technology TV
check us out online category 5 dot TV
and lots of good stuff there get
involved in the chat room if you have
not done that already
exciting exciting stuff coming up in the
show but right now Sasha I believe we
have a gear VR giveaway we did effect
yes we are amazing and we've had this
contest going we keep getting to give
these away and you can win one by
emailing us at contest at category 5 TV
let us know your viewing location how
your viewing and yeah just that you'd
like to win easy as that just as easy as
that
tonight we are joined by dawn Duncan he
is a security engineer with new data
security dawn it is such a pleasure to
have you here thanks for joining us
tonight Thank You Don you have a really
firm grasp on a new ish technology
something that we're really starting to
see here in Canada called
open banking can you explain a little
bit for us about what open banking is
open banking general sense and is being
driven actually out of the Europe in the
UK really allows banks to open up their
financial institutions so that those
services can be consumed and exposed to
consumers so that other banking services
can be provided by other parties so is
this like an API kind of idea are we
looking at an application programming
interface
exactly and that's that's what the
discussion is and banks are gonna be
publishing those api's for their
individual institutions and the exciting
thing about this is that there's lots of
opportunities because again having the
ability for those large banks to engage
with other parties means that it will be
interesting to see what service is kind
of that's cool
now you mentioned European banks how do
banks here in Canada you know how do we
fall behind how do we differ from banks
around the world as far as you know what
services are being offered and how does
open banking change things for us here
in Canada well in Canada I think we do a
pretty good job
and when I say say we the existing banks
are very responsive to their existing
consumers when you look at the mobile
and web applications ability the way you
have the needs to pay what's happening
in the UK and Europe is by making this a
regulation that is they're essentially
setting the standard and that standard
everybody's really looking to to say
okay how can we take that standard and
use it our own backyard okay so open
banking so understanding a little bit
about this is and I'm sorry this is like
an API that allows other software
developers to connect into banking
infrastructure how is that going to be
like I think about the word open and I
immediately start thinking about open
source Linux and the GNU image
manipulation program we talked a lot
about open source alternatives here on
the show
banking as as far as the infrastructure
goes has traditionally been a very
closed thing as far as us consumers are
concerned how does open banking relate
to that kind of model of openness if you
will sure I think not so much on the
technology level but again to your point
about the api's what we means accessible
so okay is where a bank was
really confined entity by having those
api's they have the ability to provide
services to those api's and they now
become more accessible and that leads to
exciting services that can be offered
it sounds cool so I know I do a lot of
online sales I do a lot of e-commerce I
have my online shops where I sell a lot
of product obviously this is going to
impact those who use like the bank's
terminals and things like that
but is this going to help someone like
myself with my payment processing with
being able to access or process data in
a different way action-wise I mean
exactly and that's really I think the
key advantage is really to the consumers
and how can you streamline that whole
customer experience to remove friction
and when I say friction maybe some of
those things that you've had to go
through just to do a simple task online
the nice thing about those api is that
you know instead of jumping around from
one interface to another interface you
can now look at it as maybe potential to
have a one UI where you know what you
can do all your banking and in the
backend it allows all those things to
transpire in the background seamless to
you without having to do maybe the
things that are possibly manual right
now okay and I think that's really the
key thing is that look at it's really
about the customer experience how you
streamline that customer experience but
at the same time to do it in such a way
that it's a secure experience so from a
banking perspective it's that experience
from the transaction from the store from
the online e-commerce and the consumer
how connected I mean open platforms can
be you know one bank can use the open
platform for their own purposes are
these interconnected like is this API
interconnected between different banks
the API is as far as I know are being
exposed by the individual banks in terms
of access to them where I think you're
gonna start seeing this concept as
aggregation is where you have those
third parties that are going to be able
to come in and create applications that
tie all this together
mmm that's the exciting part of this
better you can look at this is you know
how do I take those building blocks
those api's and how can I take something
that I can build so that that user
experience whether it's on the web or on
my mobile application allows me to do
all these things meanwhile in the
background I'm engaging with all these
financial institutions in the backend
are you guys getting getting this yeah I
think so yeah it's it's a whole new
concept on how to deal with the banks
and to wrap my head around and I'm going
but how is this gonna work here in
Canada yes the services that are offered
in open banking are they the same that
are offered in in regular I think that's
gonna be really the first step is how
can you take existing banking services
and expose those using the API and then
what you're you're probably gonna see is
over an evolution of time as those api's
are going to develop and what's
especially interesting especially being
in Canada and seeing some of the things
that are happening up here the exciting
thing is a lot of the concepts I think
you see in Silicon Valley in the u.s.
you're now seeing being used up in the
banking community in terms of innovation
and what you're gonna start seeing is a
groundswell of innovation once a lot of
the stuff is been finalized in terms of
legislation because I'll give everybody
the idea as to what can be done and how
to use that how to use that in the way
that it benefits consumers okay so sorry
so with with like private banking you
have like the the insurance on your
actual accounts right felicity
I just wanted yeah I just wanted to
touch on this because we've had the
discussion recently Don with a lot of
the the data theft that goes on and you
know we talked about just recently how
insurance covers some of that like if
someone got ahold of our credit card is
that right exactly so is it the same
sort of security that you have an open
banking as you would and and I think
that's that's what's gonna happen in
Canada is that when you look at things
such as the Deposit Insurance the CD
see which is the deposit insurance in
Canada where if you have a banking
account with X amount of dollars in it
how is that going to work in terms of
protecting those deposits and and I
think that's what you're gonna see is
you're gonna see existing insurance in
existing financial infrastructure or a
regulation of all to get to a point
where it's gonna take in those concepts
of open banking so then you don't have
the fear that if something does happen
that your deposit your deposits or
what's in your accounts can be at risk
okay one of the things that really
troubles me when I go to the bank I know
it's a silly thing and maybe this is
just me being picky but I have a lot of
bank cards I've got my visa I've got
like a portfolio of cards that I here's
my business banking card here's my debit
card kenan api so understand for those
viewers who aren't familiar with an api
this is an application programming
interface that securely allows multiple
interfaces to communicate and share
transaction information user information
those kind of things can this be used
for
say consolidation of cards and
consolidation of services and things
like that
exactly and i think that's to your point
when I look at my wallet I have a big
plastic still and though I have mobile
applications and that's where there are
market opportunities that leave and
that's where it's exciting to be in
banking world especially in Canada
exciting to see a lot of these smaller
companies in the startup mentality
happening up in the Toronto and Canadian
areas as the Fulton areas and seeing you
know how can we take those api's build
something with it and then present it in
the form of an application where I can
have this consolidated view and
essentially get rid of maybe that
plastic that I have in my wallet okay
would it matter
like internationally could you could you
have American I can sir can you load up
in Canada because we're kind of talking
specifically about Canada yeah but what
about international is that I think
that's I think that's the
what's gonna end up happening especially
over time is that as there are systems
developed in the respective countries
whether it's an EU or if there's
discussion about it in the US and
regards to their version of open banking
world can our open banking each is gonna
be doing its own thing for its
respective consumer area and then I I
wouldn't surprise me if at some point
they're all going to join together in
some form so that to your point okay
it's just gonna be a seamless
interaction as I if I happen to be in
Buffalo New York and then I top up there
and then I come across the border and I
go to Niger Falls Ontario then you know
what it's just a seamless process I
don't have to worry what side of the
border a month yeah and that raises an
interesting point or an interesting
concern in that what happens if somebody
gets a hold of the API and is able to
maybe man-in-the-middle attack and find
the keys and then be able to to generate
transactions that are false and then
this would happen on a grand scale in a
very very small amount of time so if
that happened across the border to
accounts that are up here in Canada you
mentioned the CD I see the insurance
that would protect us but what what
happens in a case like that and is that
a real concern well the technology
exists to address that we know for
instance new data with security one of
the key things that we do in our as an
organization is really understanding who
the users behind the device so to your
point we would be able identify is that
form of automation or is it a real human
user behind the device who's connecting
via the API right the other two is that
you're also gonna see tokenization so
even though those APRs are accessible or
called open they're not necessarily
visible to all parties and so there's
going to be a framework and from a
security perspective to address exactly
your concern or the topic you mentioned
about automation could somebody say for
instance impersonate myself and try to
connect using this API
there's the ability leverage other
technologies to secure that right and
Jeff is whispering in my ear here that
you know what if it's not a person
impersonating me right so I'm starting
to think okay if you have this open
accessibility what about the
implications of maybe AI I mean we're
seeing it now where you're there's an AI
all over the internet and sometimes you
can't tell them it's a computer you're
talking to it's you know because AI is
getting so sophisticated and how does
that play into it from a security
standpoint but on the flipside how like
I guess essentially the sky's the limit
on how a I could impact this kind of
open banking to say hey look here's all
of my bank accounts here's everything
about me financially I want to be
debt-free in five years go figure it out
and next thing you know the computer is
running all these transactions for you
to allow you to be debt-free in a
certain amount of time it almost takes
the the planning out of it
to give you the best leg up financially
well and to your point especially on the
security side and that's one of the
things we do new data is this concept of
passive biometric behavior so as an
example where you have physical
biometrics where you have fun print or
you have an IR scan or some type of
physical attribute that identifies you
as an individual one of the things that
we do new data security is we use this
concept of taking the way you interact
with the device very much like your
handwriting there are certain attributes
you have when you interact with the
device that can be attributed to you as
an individual that whether I'm going
from an iOS device to an Android device
to a desktop they're their attributes
that carry from you carry with you and
that concept is a concept that we can
take and can actually identify or
evaluate the risk of to your point could
it be automation maybe in the form of a
ai or something or is it an actual real
human being based on the way they've
engaged before in the past with that API
so there's a lot of things check
balances that from a technology
perspective that exist that can I think
address some of the concerns were out
there in the security zone we're
speaking with Don Duncan Don is a
security engineer with new data security
Don this is you know kind of often left
field but is there any kind this seems
like the technology technological
evolution of banking essentially and
we're becoming more progressively online
and you know everything is app driven
and and driven by our computer systems
and the internet is there any kind of
integration that is you know foreseeable
with regards to cryptocurrency which
we're hearing a lot about and that's at
a point I think a lot of things are
happening at the same time so when you
look at the open banking concept
cryptocurrency whether it's Bitcoin or
even right now decaying government the
bank canna has been looking at
cryptocurrency in it's really well
guards to the ability for payments I
think that it exactly will be involved
as part of that move towards open
banking okay reform I think what the
world is wondering right now is will it
support Whopper coin what it boils down
you know give me a free whopper here
come on guys
okay well that's that's really
interesting as far as you know that how
things are going to be evolving over the
next little while can you give us some
examples of how this is going to benefit
say myself as a consumer maybe a small
business owner how is this going to to
impact us in a positive way sure I think
it's really easy to use so looking at
how can I get a financial if I was one
or financial snapshot of taking all my
connection points with my banking
institutions bringing it in and
providing a view of that at one point in
time being we'll do an analysis and
being able to also use that to make
decisions in regards to from a financial
perspective instead of me having to go
out to one side at a time to do that I
can now get that in
nation and a consolidated view be able
to make decisions accordingly but then
on the other side of the two I have the
ability to act immediately versus before
just because I'm trying to make that
decision I don't have that information
that decision probably would've been
prolonged and your time okay
now I'm one question I have regarding
the data collection end of it if you
open up if you have open banking and
you've got somebody who say creates an
app is like hey this is the best open
banking app you're ever gonna have it
consolidates everything what's the
possibility or the protection airy piece
to ensure that your personal financial
information on a grand scale isn't being
used for mining your data for marketing
purposes I mean like I think of you know
everybody's pushing back against the you
know 53,000 categories that Facebook
tracks you could this open the door to
the same deal with banking to say hey
look here's what you've got for your
bank accounts this is all the data we've
got on you here's how you spend it so
we're gonna target you in this way is
there a way to protect against that in
this type of scenario there is and and
that I think is one of the things that's
happening especially in the EU and the
UK is identifying what is of that
information is something that can be
shared of what is private that can't be
shared and how can it be used in such a
way that it's not gonna come back to be
used against you in some shape or form
and that is the determination as to what
that would look like how that
information is exposed and how can it be
consumed and ultimately in the end is
ensuring that you are as a consumer
having what you need to make those
decisions but not exposing or
sacrificing anything as a result of
doing that right okay I have a question
from the chat room the FEU has asked if
if banking which it should supports the
the smaller guys the bigger guys like
the the banks they'll fight against
something like open banking will they
not because now all of a sudden the
powers in the open banking no I I think
the
the banking industry and especially with
what I've seen for instance there was a
financial conference that I attended a
Canadian financial conference at the end
of last year and I was actually quite
surprised about
there's representation from a large
number of banks but at the same time -
there's a lot of smaller financial
organizations I've never even heard of
before that were doing some exciting
things and I think there is that always
a concern is that is it is something new
like this when I rode something from a
business perspective I think with the
Canadian banks the Canadian banks
realize you know what there's
opportunities here with these smaller
forms who have the ability to pilot and
the can is a really unique country
because you can pilot something here use
it almost as a beta test case see how it
tests here and then use as a mechanism
to see how it translate their parts in
the world now I'm thinking of the
practicality of this you know it's great
to have all the information on a phone
with through you know or your computer
in one location but what about if you're
going out to say a restaurant a lot of
places how you know you could use your
phone for paying it's like you know
there's the Apple pay there's the Google
pay all that kind of stuff would there
be the possibility of having this type
of technology integrate with
point-of-sale systems so that you would
just simply wave your phone or even you
know open up your banking app and just
hit the supplier and boom your payment's
taken care of and there's no transaction
so to speak is that possible with this
kind of system I think there's
definitely the possibility to to your
point in regards to like in Canada we
already have that to an extent to
interact and other types of payment and
systems the I think the way other types
of payment methods are definitely
possible and definitely POS is really
something like for instance you
mentioned a restaurant even in a
situation of where maybe I've gone
online and I've ordered takeout and
somebody's liver in
something and they have the the an
terminal you know is there alternative
methods of payment that I can be using
as means to do that and I think that
definitely will factor into the whole
API open API conversation especially
currency and everything else I think
it's gonna boil down to as well the
developers of the particular
point-of-sale application they you know
how how are they going to interconnect
this with the new API so we're speaking
with Don Duncan from new data security
we're speaking about open banking here
in Canada now Don we have a lot of
viewers around the world in particular
in the United States is this something
that we're seeing kind of grow on a
global scale or is this specific to
Europe and Canada how how wide scale is
this it's it's it's wide scale I think
with what's happening in Europe and the
UK everybody's looking at that because
they know it's going to come and it's
just a question of how are they gonna go
about it in their own area or their own
regions or locales and looking at what
do they have in place right now what do
they need to bring it up to that level
and also looking at the lessons are
being learned from overseas in Europe in
the UK to understand okay what can we
learn from them and then take that and
start building not just the technology
but also the legislation all the
regulation so that that so it will form
really so much to think about and stuff
and I would never have even thought oh
yeah I write legislation that's
important as well so just kind of
wrapping up our discussion here Don and
I appreciate your time and coming on the
show where is this at here in Canada as
far as are we like a year away from this
and and if so where is the security
falling in line with that are we able to
keep up with with the evolution of open
banking from a security aspect we are
and I the technology exists right now
without even going into the open API
discussion just looking at automation
being able to
consumers as they're connecting and that
prospect of impersonation the technology
exists already to to address that to
protect consumers and catch the the
fraudsters who are connecting right so
that does exist already it's just the
impact app sorry we're just breaking up
there just a little bit Don I'll just
get you to repeat the last last thing
that you said there that's okay
so taking really that concerned effort
and really standardizing and I think
that's really what legislation and
regulation will do is standardize a lot
of these things that everybody's
thinking about but how does how do we
get everybody to there at the same point
it goes how far off are we here in
Canada from seeing this implemented I
understand it it's it's here it's ready
but when is my back going to start
offering this to the ecommerce provider
and the local the local pub I think it's
gonna be fairly soon legislation wise I
again it's it's hard for men yeah I'd be
guessing but I would say definitely
we're gonna see there's already
rumblings I would say something tangible
maybe a year two years definitely
awesome Don thank you so much for your
time please do check out new data
security comm find out more about what
it is that they're doing and Don I
appreciate your time thank you have a
great night okay this is category five
technology TV we've got to take a really
quick break when we come back we've got
your viewer questions and stick around
we'll be back right after this
you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Linda learned software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat5 dot TV slash
Linda you're watching category five
technology TV glad to have you here with
us lots of exciting things going on I
don't know about what the weather has
been like in your area but we are
getting me hammered right now welcome to
Canada it was what two weeks ago we had
grass I think and now it's I did not
want to come here to do the show the
bros getting city bad it was horrible
I've been here all afternoon so I beat
it but I'm down because the days are
getting longer now ah yes getting longer
so now each day I checked the time when
I see it starting to get dusky and I
guess key we're making upwards to
category five dictionary because I work
in a very busy clinic I just announce it
to everybody
Oh 5:46 realize makes it all the lights
in the building are on alright that's
that's true yeah and it works in a
tanning salon really no could you
imagine we've got we're surrounded in
sunlight and it's like pitch black
outside it's all good hey I want to just
say thank you very much to everyone who
supports category-five TV there are so
many different ways you can do that
through our partner links by shopping on
Amazon by going through our website to
do so eBay and all the different
partners with us Jones another great way
and now you can in fact contribute
through cryptocurrency so yeah so if you
go to donate category 5 TV you'll see
our BTC address our wallet address
you'll see litecoin as well as ëthere
IAM and using those you can contribute
cryptocurrency directly to the show or
if you'd like this is what's cool about
cryptocurrency you can actually set up a
mining application on your computer set
our wallet as the recipient away and
then that way if you're not on your
computer and you want to just let it
mine cryptocurrency it will
automatically be depositing that
cryptocurrency into our wallet I love
that it's a neat thing it sort of
reminds me the same thing as being a
cedar right now you can be it's like
you're contributing back to the
community so and what's neat about
cryptocurrency and I'm really I'm such a
novice and I'm way behind the times here
but we had a single donation now I've
had my Mike Bitcoin wallet for many
years but I've never used it right but
at one point we did have a single
donation for a dollar 20 worth of
Bitcoin okay it's worth fifty four
dollars today
oh so by contributing cryptocurrency the
idea is that this is like it's gonna
grow at least that's the hope I mean
like any stock or cryptocurrency or
investment it's meant to grow that's the
whole idea but cryptocurrency has been
going that way
yeah we're late to the game but here's
an opportunity to be able to support us
in a very unique and that's very cool
modern way I'd like to I'd like to know
how a computer mine's cryptocurrency but
that's another day and oh boy there's a
show phone absolutely we're gonna we're
in our 24 hour extravaganza about how
Bitcoin works now we're gonna talk about
yes so
many YouTube followers just subscribers
do we have right now
well category 5 technology TV is its own
separate channel and it's we're growing
with about seven thousand subscribers
and we say this because our YouTube
channel we've never really promoted the
need to subscribe because most of our
viewers watch on roku or Cody or Plex or
on our website and some of them use
YouTube right and so those some start to
subscribe now Linux tech show calm which
resolves to Linux tech show on YouTube
just surpassed 10,000 subscribers thank
you everyone for for subscribing if you
haven't already subscribed please
subscribe to those two channels at least
we also have mangofox 70 that's the
pixel shadow so if you just do a quick
search on Google for Mangal Fox 70 also
new every day is one of our channels and
that's a faith broadcast that happens
every week from category-five and all
you have to do is just subscribe to that
channel and then it brings up those
numbers now with 10,000 subscribers and
now 11,000 as a matter of fact because
it's been growing with that many we have
no fear of being impacted by Google
pulling out of monetization for the
channel right yes but for our smaller
channels we certainly do so
mega fox 70 and new every day are
susceptible to that and having their
monetization pulled so your
subscriptions to those are going to help
us to grow those channels and and also
it feeds money back into the show I
think to subscribe to tell you the truth
you can subscribe and then turn off your
alerts if you do not turn them on so you
can Lena shows right so you could really
like say you were interested primarily
and just new every day right mm-hmm you
could have all of your alerts for new
every day come up and this is exactly
why some would say well why didn't you
just put all the all the shows in one
channel so that you get all those
subscribers well a viewer of new every
day which is a faith broadcast may not
want to see category 5 technology TV
which is a tech broadcast right and the
same is vice versa if you're a tech
broadcast viewer you may not want to
watch a faith Brock
I hope that you know I hope that you
enjoy all the programming that we give
yet but but that's the truth so by
separating them out the idea is that you
can pick which ones you want to
subscribe to yes but then it has this
adverse effect of oh we don't have
enough subscribers on new every day
so we've lost our monetization right so
that's that's how that works I have been
displaced in India in this place Jake H
says my wife and I are vacationing in
India and when we searched google for
bald nerd oh you come up as the number
one website but only the number two
picture oh I wish Jake H showed us a
picture you did yeah there you go and
there it is a stock image a stock image
come on now so yeah I got some work to
do there in India I guess no you're the
number one real the number one real bald
nerd I'm not Assad Thanks I love that
this whole where does bald nerd rate has
kind of like taken over it's been the
last couple of weeks and people are like
hey who ever expected this I know it's
this is what I love about our viewers
and you and the show it's so interactive
even if you're not watching and you miss
a week you can always catch up and you
could watch the what's going on in the
chat room because you can read the chat
logs or see the comments on YouTube and
you can get involved in your own little
way I think it's absolutely awesome I
agree I've been friends from cardigans
to cakes with our co-hosts names on them
too too now bald nerd who and I feel
like we somehow need to like compete
with you and Sasha and I need to find
some way to start blogging you
I have a show yes okay so and a pilot
and a pilot I have a blog a show but I
blog like five things I think and I love
doing it but I know that doesn't get you
to the number one place they said I did
do a pilot for try it buy it which was
Oh somebody says to me well how can I
get on the first page of Google and well
you haven't changed your website in four
years so you know and it doesn't have
yeah well so it's not gonna happen if
that's the case now I'm an active
blogger and obviously I have my show
yeah I mean the more activity that
happens on your site from changing of
whatever is gonna cause those crawlers
to pick up that hate that's we regulate
lean activity oh yeah yeah so I mean if
you're sitting there static I mean it's
you know you renovate a bedroom in your
house and everybody's are go I want to
see this
five years later nobody wants to see it
if you haven't changed it yeah right
same concept think of it that way yeah
polka dot is out yeah what cuz he
renovated it five years ago it was in
then yeah ah come on now get on top of
my dry humor here Jeff okay so the
Odroid ex u4q video that we posted on
youtube as the pie killer has blown this
is blown up over 700 comments what and
here it is we're gonna talk about it in
just a minute because you may think that
it's a little bit too big to be a pie
killer stick around
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host welcome back to category five
technology TVs so glad you're here so
glad you're joining us okay we just
talked about it and we've been talking
about it for months
but it's telling incidentally
incidentally I built this this is called
a cloud shell - yes
it's a nass case for a particular type
of SBC single board computer called the
Odroid xu4 now folks have said then
that's so huge and you even said it
after the show it can't be a pike killer
because it's too big
yes but we've since explained yes so I
want to show you now okay okay I have
put I've taken the Odroid xu4 out of the
cloud shell - okay and I have placed it
in a standard SBC case so you can see at
home how magically it's shrunk okay
we're ready
okay we are ready that's a little box
you see this little box yes
this contains two supercomputers one is
a Raspberry Pi 3
the other is an Odroid xu4 queue now
this box in and of itself is about the
size of a paperback novel sure a little
bit smaller there are the two SBC's
side-by-side let's get in on on me here
so you can see okay so I'm gonna pull
these out this is a Raspberry Pi 3 okay
can you folks see that at home yeah this
is an odd roid xu4 queue side-by-side
are you ready for this
yep Raspberry Pi 3 Odroid xu 4 q the xu
4 q is smaller than a Raspberry Pi 3 and
yet it has 8 cores yep 2 gigahertz 2
gigs of ram and it's faster Ram it's got
USB 3 mm-hmm it's got a barrel connector
for the power instead of using a USB
it's got Gigabit Ethernet right lots
going on for it we're gonna be showing
this on the show next week we're gonna
actually fire it up because that's the
other thing people are asking for hey
you never fired enough well I was
showing you how to put it into the case
so now we're gonna actually fire it up
next week and we're gonna do a little
bit of a head-to-head comparison so you
can see the difference between them now
and I can't wait for next week when
we're gonna have somebody comment that
the Odroid is so huge we see it's
hilarious come on that's the case yeah
look it's like Groundhog Day just keeps
going keep repeating myself
so speaking of viewer comments questions
we've had a couple come in that we
wanted to address sandrine murky my
question on net neutrality is what will
happen if my internet service provider
wants to offer me a VoIP service with
QoS for a few bucks a month
in fact if you using QoS on a daily
basis on our corporate networks and
providers - all right so here's the
thing okay for those of you who don't
know QoS is quality of service so that
is where when I pick up my phone which
is using voice over IP or when I'm used
Skype for a videoconference it will slow
down the other things on my network such
as somebody BitTorrent downloading or
watching Netflix it will slow those
things down so that the phone call does
not get interrupted because I have used
quality of service to tell my network
that this phone call takes precedence
over something that's a little less high
priority so that's a great thing
now here's what I think Sandrine and
this is my opinion
my co-host can can reiterate or rebuttal
me here I think that that is something
that should be handled internally let's
put it that way so let me explain so a
firewall this is a device that I put on
my network that allows me to block
certain types of activity from taking
place through my network connection to
the Internet so if I want to allow
people including myself to remote into
my desktop and access my desktop
computer or if I want to allow them to
SSH into my computer I have my own
physical firewall that allows me to log
into that make those changes and set
that up that's my prerogative to do it
where it goes wrong is when an ISP puts
a firewall on their network that I do
not have control over where I cannot say
I will allow SSH connections and they're
saying no you won't
yeah I'm not I'm not going to allow you
to connect to remote desktop protocol
because we have a firewall in place you
can't change that setting that's where
people start using VPN tunnels and we
hear about governments that that block
access to certain types of content and
those kinds of things that's where net
neutrality says you know what the ISP
cannot do that that is not cool so
instead if I want to put a firewall in
house I can do that if you want to put
QoS in the house you can do that you can
control your own QoS but don't don't let
the ISP control the quality of service
themselves because I don't want an ISP
making the decision of what
services take priority I wholeheartedly
agree with you yes
Sandrine thank you very much for the
question Jeff you got one for me yes
so Sandy Lane says every distraught I
try to boot from a USB Drive has a grub
problem we're not talking about the bugs
by the way that stuff you sprinkle on
the grass like limestone or something
that kills no it's like some kind of
living organ the drive is a grub problem
it just goes to the grub prompt okay
what am I doing wrong hmm okay couple of
things could be going on there now your
drive itself could be faulty and so it's
failing when it's creating the the grub
bootloader when you put a distro on to a
USB flash drive to boot from you have to
you have to during that process you have
to image it and I've run into this where
folks have taken that image file
downloaded it and put it on the disk
right just as a file or like
decompressed it and dragged all the
files over and that may be what you're
encountering it could also be the tool
that you're using to image it I would
recommend that you check out at your ET
CH ER and that application will allow
you to first browse to the image file
you need to unzip that image file that's
important so if it comes as a zip file
decompress it so that it's just an IMG
then once you've browse to that IMG file
you need to specify the target device
easiest way to do that is to have all of
your USB devices unplugged so that
etcher sees that there are no USB
devices currently available right then
when it asks you when it's waiting for
you to select a device plug in your USB
flash drive and it will be the only one
that pops up that way you don't have to
risk overwriting the wrong device right
and also it will make sure because if
you've got two devices plugged in I
guess there's a possibility with some
applications that it might write to one
day
and then put the grub bootloader on
another it could happen not with that
your answer is pretty good but so make
sure that you do that and then go with
click on flash and it will go through
and it will even verify that everything
worked out and if it's still not working
then I would look at the file that you
downloaded the image itself they will
always have what's called an md5 or a
checksum or a sha file that you can
compare to the md5 sum of the file
itself that you've downloaded so if it
for some reason got corrupted during
transit it may you can flash it over and
over and over again and it's always
gonna fail right there's always gonna be
something wrong with it because the file
is corrupted right but your imaging
application won't know that it will just
say yeah it worked the image file is
exactly what was written to the disk but
it doesn't know that the image files
actually corrupt right so try redownload
the md5 hash and make sure that you've
got a good download before you burn it
again and on the off-chance we are
actually talking about the little white
larva it may be the USB drive is faulty
absolutely it can it can happen and they
they have a finite lifespan so that's
that's how it goes so good luck Sasha
are you ready to head on over to your
beautiful new newsroom with the brick
wall and everything I certainly am ah
way to go all right here's what's coming
up in the category 5 TV newsroom the
Samsung Group air arrested last year in
a corruption scandal in South Korea has
been set free that didn't take long
someone has hacked Amazon key and the
lock that allows delivery drivers to
open your front door and leave your
packages inside
Leiter has once again unveiled the lost
city this time with over 60,000 Mayan
houses in it Wow
UNICEF is turning to gamers in order to
raise money through cryptocurrency
mining stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show whether you
shop on ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo
video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bytes I'm Sacha Rickman in here
the top stories were following this week
a South Korean appeals court has freed
Samsung Group heir Lee jae-yong and has
reduced his five-year jail term
dismissing a number of charges against
him in the corruption scandal Lee the
vice-chairman of the Samsung Electronics
was handed a suspended sentence of 2.5
years by the Seoul High Court on Monday
after nearly a year in detention Seoul
Korea's Yonhap news agency reported the
billionaire was convicted in August last
year of bribing the country's then
president Park geun-hye with 8.2 million
dollars in return for government backing
of a business merger the 49 year old was
also found guilty of embezzlement hiding
assets overseas concealing profits from
criminal acts in perjury the case led to
months of mass protests and park's
eventual impeachment in December of 2016
a verdict in her case is expected in the
next couple of months liberal politician
moon jae-in was elected the new
president in May Wow
so how is the government and Samsung
in in cahoots like how well how does
that happen you have to imagine like
Samsung is this massive massive company
when it comes to South Korea yes I mean
one of the biggest electronics
manufacturers in the world and will do a
lot perhaps under the table to maintain
that I mean this goes it doesn't matter
what country you're in this kind of
stuff happens I mean you look at even
kids it's just grand scale so it stands
out because like we're talking lots of
money behind the scenes and being
embezzled through yes child yes so I
mean there was a lot of you know
improper stuff taking place but I mean
it happens in every kitchen I mean you
look like Canada you've got these big
major companies they carry a lot of
political weight with the politicians if
they go ahead look you don't do this
yeah sure we're gonna pull out of the
country I mean look at the way that with
Amazon's second building you know how
eased a lot of yes yeah there's like the
last 20 cities that have been like
shortlisted in Toronto is the only
Canadian city on the list and so I mean
Toronto's like hey well bend over
backwards any way we can to get you here
because that's huge I mean this kind of
political interference happens worldwide
but this was on a nasty scale this is
different though because this is a case
where Samsung if you will or through
through Lee was giving money
underhandedly
mm-hm and who knows where it was going I
don't know but like to to have a massive
amount of money going through the
president's friends daughters equestrian
career right yeah yeah I guess it it
happens everywhere like but every once
in a while you get caught and it's you
yeah so so if you're embezzling billions
of dollars stop yeah yeah good idea that
didn't take long
someone has hacked the Amazon key the
lock that allows delivery right drivers
to open your front door and leave your
packages inside the key is an
electrified lock designed to be this
labeled up disabled using a one-time
code facility that makes it possible for
delivery workers to drop stuff off at
the homes and businesses of Amazon Prime
members Prime members received the gear
they ordered from Amazon without having
to hang around all day Amazon gets sales
it might not otherwise have made and
delivery staff get recorded by Wi-Fi
connected video camera to make sure that
they don't steal the family silver the
devices have already been shown to have
one nasty flaw when Rhino security labs
found a way to flood the camera with
junk packets to stop it recording now a
hacker who calls himself mg has
demonstrated another attack on the key
which allows access to doors locked by
the key even after a delivery workers
one-time code has been used it's unclear
exactly how the exploit works but in a
video posted on M G's Twitter account we
can see it relied upon a Dropbox a
computer of some sort with Wi-Fi
connectivity that is able to control the
key the Dropbox can both unlock the key
or somehow leave amazon's device
incapable of recognizing that it's time
to lock itself again wow I that really
didn't take long yeah we're talking
about this like a conspiracy theory just
a couple of weeks ago like this could
happen right and it already has so this
was an ethical hacker yeah I believe so
I mean I would make that judgment call
because of the way he presented it so on
Twitter he showed this can be done but
then he showed how it can be done to
Amazon right right okay so yeah I can be
done and incidentally it turned out it
was a Raspberry Pi microcomputer that he
used - no way so you've seen the
Raspberry Pi it's just a little
microcomputer so but I think because of
the way he presented it to Amazon here's
how and they're already working on a fix
and you know they're they're downplaying
it a little bit but at the same time
it's scary that it already has happened
have there been critic M be happy that's
true has there been criminal incidences
not yet with the key because this is a
brand new thing yeah but I do remember a
couple of years ago what was it it was
at Def Con in 2015 that one of the
hackers there showed a device that could
open pretty much any garage door oh yeah
yeah yeah and then two weeks no to two
months later or something like that
somebody who was at Def Con took that
information built their own and stole a
bunch of cars from locked garages 60
seconds does happen
quickly just give my idea once again to
Amazon on how to fix this a good secure
like metal box it gets I drill to the
outside of a house same idea with a key
culture right but you don't enter a
house the only thing that they could get
away with if they hacked it is the thing
that was delivered exactly not access to
an entire house and we got talking about
that previously and how we used to have
the milk doors in houses and stuff open
the milk door and the milkman would put
in the milk bottles sir we have one on
the back of our house it's very clear
you go so if there was something like
that for Amazon if you were a frequent
shopper maybe it's worth your while to
install something like that in your hat
right yeah and you want to make sure
it's big enough I mean the amount of
packages I've heard from Amazon oh
you're not all just little boxes giant
boxes like this National Geographic has
reported that laser touting
archeologists have discovered an entire
Mayan city in the Central American
jungle that has been lost for hundreds
of years
from the report in what's being hailed
as a major breakthrough in Maya
archaeology researchers have identified
the ruins of more than 60 thousand
houses palaces elevated highways and
other human-made features that have been
hidden for centuries under the jungles
of northern Guatemala Wow amazing using
a revolutionary technology known as
lidar short for a light detection and
ranging scholars and digitally removed
canapé from aerial images of the now
unpopulated landscape revealing the
ruins of a sprawling pre-columbian
civilization that was far more complex
and interconnected than most maya
specialists had supposed here's a New
York Times bestselling who here's New
York Times best-selling our author
Douglas Preston in an interview last
year in category 5 technology TV to
explain how lidar works well the radar
technology was they were using radar and
as a way to try to penetrate and see
through the jungle foliage but lidar
doesn't do that via lidar plane which
was used was brought down from the
University of Houston the National
Center for airborne laser mapping and it
has a $1,000,000 lidar machine which by
the way was built in in Toronto
thanks I mean this machine when flown
over the jungle a canopy fires 125,000
laser pulses a second down into the
canopy and then it measures the
reflections and the laser doesn't
penetrate anything it just bounces off
of leaf or a twig or whatever but even
in the thickest jungle there are holes
in the canopy you know yeah I mean if
you go into the thickest jungle and lie
down on your back and look up at the sky
you will see bits and pieces of blue sky
okay
the billions and billions of laser beams
being fired into the jungle canopy um
find those holes and some of them reach
the ground bounce off the ground and
come back up and so what you get is a
what the scientists call a point cloud
which is an incredible three-dimensional
image of the rainforest with every
little reflection every pixel is a
reflection off of leaf or twig okay and
then using software you can remove all
those reflections from the trees leaving
just the ground reflections and voila
there you have a map of the ground in
quite high resolution the resolution is
about one meter with this more recent
expedition Thomas garrison and Ithaca
College archaeologist and National
Geographic Explorer who specializes in
using digital technology for
archaeological research says the lidar
images make it clear that this
entire region was a settlement system
with whose scale and population density
had been grossly underestimated garrison
is part of a consortium of researchers
who are participating in the project
which was spearheaded by the Pakenham
Foundation a Guatemalan nonprofit that
fosters scientific research sustainable
development and cultural heritage
preservation the project mapped more
than eight hundred square miles of the
Mayan biosphere reserve in Guatemala
producing the largest lidar data set set
ever obtained for archaeological
research ok I love this story for two
reasons one I spent an entire summer in
Guatemala oh yeah so Guatemala is very
near and dear to my heart I did visit a
lot of the ruins I did a lot of
humanitarian work there between grade 9
and grade 10 so we're talking about many
years ago but to this day I still think
about Guatemala anytime there's a story
about Guatemala it it's like it's it's
like I said it's near and dear to my
heart but also because it's lidar that
was the interview we did but the lost
city of the monkey god yeah where lidar
technology was used at another situation
that is by far the best interview I
think we've ever done I think about it
all the time I love the book I love the
concept of it I see lidar in the news
and I'm like so this story just I mean
gets my juices flowing it's so cool I
love in that interview so you go to our
website category 5tb
search for lidar li dar and in that
interview he talked about some of the
other uses for lidar mhm and it's
interesting to know how this works and
and so realizing it's being used for
autonomous vehicles so that they can
detect where cars are and things like
that so there are other uses for it as
well but being able to see from an
airplane down into the Guatemalan jungle
and find something like that like that
is HUGE oh it's it's amazing and I mean
I can't wait to see over the next 10 15
20 years how many other lost
civilizations or series of new
information we get about various
civilizations that have been lost to us
where we going this has rewritten the
book like I think it's so cool I
I know I get excited about technology
but for some reason this one is just
like oh absolutely I love it one
questions coming is that wondering if
lidar can be used to see through the
ruins into like things like buried
treasure and I believe that the that
it's only possible to see the topography
and those kinds of things like it Maps
the topography but not it doesn't go
through things now leave however is a
different thing altogether yes
it's it's you know it's well your when
you're in the trees and you look up you
can see some sky so it's kind of maybe
that's it it's like triangulating
through the leaves well yeah because I
mean like the whole lidar it's sending
like millions of laser signals at
different angles as the plane flies over
helicopter whatever they they're using
but it is a good question about like
underneath the ground because I'm
thinking what's buried in like the
Sahara Desert that we don't know about
and could we find something there so
it'd be interested to see if lidar
technology or some version thereof can
advance to the point where you are able
to see through it well if if lidar was
to be combined with other technologies
great technologies and so that when
something is found now all of a sudden
it can go boom right down into the
ground and take a take a image of inside
the ground I have no idea if that's
possible in my mind it's possible
because I've seen a lot of sci-fi what
if that here we are in the world and
there's still so many undiscovered
places yeah absolutely to think that
it's been undiscovered but yet is so
obviously built up it's huge huge that
very cool it was just October when the
co-founder of UNICEF ventures Chris
Fabian said the company would not shy
away from experimenting with
cryptocurrency and the surrounding Tech
and now UNICEF is asking gamers to
install mining software to raise money
to help Syrian children UNICEF has
launched game changers in an effort to
bring together gamers from across the
globe and to have them unite their
computing power for a good cause the
promo says to participate in this
operation all you need to do is install
claim or a mining software the
game-changers website reads you'll be
able to start or stop mining when you
want and generate a theory I'm right in
UNICEF's electronic wallet game-changers
mining efforts will continue until March
31st and you can find out more by
visiting changers dot IO that's changers
spelled CH a ing er s that's cool and it
reminds me of what we are currently yes
as well here at category-five TV because
we have that capability as well now
where you can put our wallet in with
claim or or another mining software and
be contributing to us so for now do
unicef and then when they're done on
march 31st and come back and change the
the wallet ID to ours mm-hmm i think
it's a great cause and at first when I
heard this I'm going why would you put
an end to it why wouldn't you just keep
going but by having an end date it kind
of to certain degree creates a bit of a
psychological agency it's like well I
got to do this now because I want to
have it in by March 31st so there's more
likely to be a greater uptake on gamers
putting that processing power into it
but knowing how difficult it is to mine
a single coin yep a single aetherium
coin for example even the blocks thereof
wouldn't it make sense to just say you
know for the next year because then we
might end up with something I I don't I
don't know yet I'm very curious as
things grow with our cryptocurrency
accounts how how long does it take to
actually I can't imagine that in one
month they're gonna see a lot of
currency if generate a video game if
it's a video game that makes this happen
no it's like it's claimed or okay but a
video gaming computer like which is view
much more powerful yeah that's why
and the question comes in and I I saw
this question I'm sorry I didn't catch
the name it just flashed by just before
the show but well could you use older
hardware do this so that we could
support category 5 and the fact is is
it's very GPU intensive yeah so not CPU
but GPU so that graphics processor the
1070 that you put in your gaming
computer that's what you need if you
have a Raspberry Pi I'm sorry it's not
gonna work even if you stack 200 of them
together
there's no GPU power there so you're
just not gonna be able to mine anything
it's just gonna sit there running all
the time and never get any currency so
if you have a gaming computer that's
we're now installing claymoore or
another mining application putting in
the wallet ID and then generating
currency through the GPU while it's
otherwise doing nothing mm-hmm that's
what's cool about it and that's what
they mean by hey you can turn it off
when you're when I want to use the
computer I don't want it doing stuff
with my GPU because like that's gonna
slow things down so I'll turn that off
and then do my thing and then turn it
back on again yep and that's gonna
generate revenue for UNICEF category 5
or however you're gonna do it so cool
stuff
you got a gaming computer get out there
how about UNICEF all right
big thanks this week - Roy W Nash in the
Albuquerque turkey in our community of
yours for submitting stories to us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Jeff Weston and I'm Robbie
Ferguson I am Sasha Eichmann
thank you so much for joining us this
week everybody I hope that you've
enjoyed yourself and I look forward to
seeing you next week next week again
we're going to be comparing and
competing the Raspberry Pi 3 to the O
Droid X u4q because you want that and so
we're gonna show you whether or not it
is actually
a pie killer doll see you next week bye
