welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 521 or Wednesday
the 13th of September 2017 nice to see
you and as you see I am all alone
tonight my name is Robby Ferguson I'm
looking forward to spending this time
together with you and I've got a lot
planned for you so we're gonna get into
a super fast storage medium I'm talking
a terabyte m2 from Kingston it's called
the KC 1000 we're gonna open this box
it's a PCI Express card we're gonna
install in our server and it's gonna
make things significantly faster what
are the benchmarks gonna say we're gonna
find out in just a couple minutes time
now I'm also covering the news desk
tonight so here are the stories that
we're covering from the category-five
dot TV newsroom more excitement in
technological advancement in the fight
against cancer as scientists in Texas
reveal a penlight device that can find
cancerous cells in only 10 seconds a
potentially dangerous overlay exploit
has been found in all versions of
Android before oreo time to upgrade a
massive data breach has happened at
credit card were a credit reporting
agency Equifax raising serious concern
over massive massive identity theft
scary stuff okay if you have been
looking for a reason to replace windows
with linux well I've got another one for
you
a design flaw discovered in the Windows
kernel allows malicious programs to mask
themselves from antivirus programs the
very thing we don't want on Windows
Microsoft representative has said they
don't plan to fix it
Facebook claims that its ads have the
potential of reaching more people than
recent US census data shows exist that's
troublesome for one analyst who thinks
that third-party measurement services
stand to benefit and a wordpress plug-in
installed on about 200,000 websites has
an intentional backdoor that lets the
code authors do pretty much anything
that they want with your content stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category-five dot
TV category 5 dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here cat 5 dot TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 dot TV slash iai be
welcome to the show my name's Robby
Ferguson it's so nice to have you here
on episode 521 it's just you and me
tonight we are doing this old-school
style Sascha Rickman is married ladies
and gentlemen Saturday was the day
and she is off tonight so I'm going to
be covering her in the newsroom and Jeff
Weston is off as well and we are gonna
have just a nice time together it's just
gonna be you and me gonna have fun this
is like old school I'm thinking about
the way the show used to be and it was
just me in front of a webcam now things
are a little more sophisticated I can do
fancier things but really when it comes
down to it this this is just what you
know the heart of the show is you me
talking about tech learning about tech
checking out some cool things tonight
I've got a great show planned for you
and I want to welcome you to the show
category five technology TV thinking of
all of our viewers who are in Florida
Texas everywhere the Caribbean
everywhere that's been affected by the
storms as of late and you know we not
just not to make lightly of the
situation but it's funny how such a
silly little thing we're fighting for
organic search results right now thanks
to Irma
because category five technology TV
guess what is showing up when you do a
search for category five again not to
make lightly of the situation I do hope
that our viewers are well I hope that
your families are well and I just want
you to know that that we're thinking of
you and you know we're so it's times
like these in the world where I feel so
spoiled I don't know if that's the word
undeserving just happened to be born
here in Canada things are really quite
good climate wise and we don't really
get storms like you do but I think if
anything you know we've had a lot of
rain this summer we've had a lot of you
know it hasn't been the nicest summer we
haven't got to the beach with the kids
as much as we want and if anything
seeing storms like this hidden makes me
as a person think you know what what
right do I have to complain about what I
deal with
like like it's nothing why I don't think
I'm ever going to complain about the
rain again folks so
so that's just you know I think we
should all learn from from our own kind
of you know the thoughts that cross our
mind when the rain comes and things like
that but I do hope that you're well
please let us know I want to know that
that everybody's doing okay tonight I'm
sitting on course tools as you know you
can go to camp five dot TV slash tools
to find out more they are very
comfortable and here's talking about
them but they are basically a stool that
is designed with a rocking motion in
mind so you're sitting here but you're
you're able to work your core at the
same time even unknowingly sitting is
very unhealthy we're seeing a lot of
reports and I just saw one recently it's
scary for a guy like me that is that
works in tech all the time like I'm a
coder I sit at my desk all the time when
I'm not doing coding I'm doing sales
when I'm not doing sales I'm doing
support I've always got a phone on my
ear it looks something like this and you
see reports to say when you're sitting
all day long it's really really bad for
your health and lucky for me I drink a
lot of coffee and that just happens to
be two flights of stairs above me so
that's my workout for the day but the
core stool is something that takes
sitting to the next level by making it
something that is a little more healthy
for ya it's it's better for you to sit
on one of these stools so check them out
count 5 dot TV / stools want to say hi
to the chatroom it's nice to see you
folks
Dennis Kelly's they're sparkly balls I
see been robbed Oh 329 it's so nice to
see you the foo al Peck nice to see you
again and just a reminder and thinking
about Al pack who has been here at
studio D made the the drive did the
traveling to get here and it's really
really cool for us when we have viewers
come to the studio but I want to remind
you that our 10th anniversary for
category 5 technology TV is coming up in
just a couple of minutes a couple of
minutes a couple of weeks time September
27th is the day so you can actually join
us right here in studio so start working
out how you want to get here figure it
out and get your tickets you've got
have a ticket you got to go to category
five dot TV click on tickets it's
absolutely free to attend we'll have
goodies we'll have a meet and greet
you'll get to be on the show that's
quite possible and get to get to hang
out with all of us here for our 10th
anniversary and it's gonna be a lot of
fun we've got some fun things planned
for you and if you can't be here in
person I hope that you will attend by
simply watching live or on-demand after
the fact so don't miss out our tenth
anniversary of category 5 technology TV
is on September 27th let us know if
you're coming oh and a reminder - this
is interesting she's who was speaking
with me and we were trying to figure out
because Peter was trying to see if he
could make the trip Peter and Mary and
you know we're thinking of you and
thinking you know how can you do it and
you've got hotel stays and you've got
all this kind of expense she's who
mentioned that it might be a good idea
for you to go the route of air B&amp;B I've
never done it myself I'm not a traveler
but apparently Airbnb will get you in
nice and cheap so you've got a cheap
place to stay technology has really kind
of changed things isn't it that so you
can actually get a place in Barry just a
bedroom or something like that
and stay for the night stay for you know
it's it's on a Wednesday so you can stay
for the week if you wanted to get to
know our beautiful city here in Barrie
Ontario and it would be nice to see you
okay I'm rambling on about our 10th
anniversary because I'm excited it's
gonna be great it's gonna be fun Kerry
Webb's gonna be here we've got other
folks that are gonna be here Geoff
Weston's confirmed Sacha Rickman is
gonna be here I'm gonna be here and I
hope that you're gonna be here okay
we're gonna get right into it tonight I
am taking the KC 1000 for a spin this
comes to us from Kingston and what
they've done is brilliant now you know
about SSD drives they're fast right we
used to use these spinning hard drives
in our computers they would basically be
the bottleneck of our computers we got
to the point where technology grew in
such a way that central processing units
were no longer the bottleneck Ram
was no longer the bottleneck we've got
32 gigs in our system and we've got four
gigahertz and we've got all this power
but we still had spinning hard drives at
7,200 rotations per minute so it was
slowing down our system so then along
comes a SSD on an SAT a bus that's what
you plug it into they look a little
something like this and they plug into
your computer like that and they are
fast super fast like ten times faster
than your average hard drive so you pop
one of those in and instantly you've got
better performance you've got a much
much faster computer it's a great
upgrade to go with SSD now here we are
it's 2017 we've got a technology that
has been available for a while called M
2 and M 2 is a new take on storage
because chips have evolved to the point
where those chips are super fast and
what was the problem with them before
they were small they didn't have a lot
of capacity well nowadays chips have
gotten to the point where on a single m2
which is a replacement for your hard
drive it's a little it looks like a RAM
module it's about that size a little bit
smaller you can have a terabyte of data
easily you want a 240 260 gig MDOT -
it's no problem at all now Kingston of
course has the KC 1000 which is a one
terabyte solid-state drive it's an m2 on
a controller card now I'm going to show
you that so why have they brought this
out what what is so exciting about this
for for us in a technology you know
great it's a new new type of storage and
m2 is faster but here's the thing your
motherboard may not have an MDOT to
controller which what it does is it
bypasses the SATA controller so we think
about that so the hard drive is no
longer the bottleneck the memory is no
longer the bottleneck the CPU is no
longer the bottleneck the hard drive
itself the storage is very very fast but
the cable that connects that hard drive
to your computer that solid-state drive
to your computer's motherboard
is called SATA serial ata and it is fast
but it's not as fast as the chips can
handle so along comes m2 and says okay
we're gonna take this we're gonna make
it so that it no longer needs your
storage to be on the SATA controller
we're doing away with that need
altogether and we're saying okay we're
gonna put it on a new controller for EM
dot - it's so much faster we're talking
four times faster than a standard SATA
hard drive that you would consider to be
fast so if you've got a computer that
doesn't have MDOT to capability it
doesn't have that port for that new chip
along comes kingston and says here you
go we've got an answer now i've got an
overhead camera i'm just gonna fire up
here we're gonna see if i can get you a
shot i want to show you what this is
going to look like let's see if i can
pull this up okay so with my trusty
mouse and touchscreen display there we
go bring this up and there okay you guys
can still hear me you can see me
fantastic okay so here we go with a live
unboxing of this card and what makes
this so special
so get her in the focus here there we go
so the kingston casey 1000 is a an x4
card on the PCIe bus so we're doing away
with the need for SATA but we're setting
it up as a card in your computer that
has an m2 on it MDOT - so what this card
does and we'll see okay if you've got a
low profile server it'll work on that as
well what this card does is it gives
your computer m2 capability but it does
so at extreme speeds this thing is super
fast and it's it's incredible I'm really
excited to put this in into our
broadcast system which I'm going to try
to do tonight so we're gonna see how
that how that works so that's all it is
I mean it looks pretty simple right but
it is a PCIe x4 so if you've got an
extra 4x2
eight X dot 6 X 16 why am I saying now
I'm saying dot to everything if it's if
you've got an X 4 or higher you can plug
this card in now I happen to have an X
16 in my computer that is not being used
fantastic so we're gonna we're gonna see
about putting that in there so let's get
let's get under the computer here and
I'm gonna see about plugging this bad
boy in all right it's got a camera under
the desk all right so you can see my X
dot 16 there we go with the dot my X 16
there the blue port so with the KC 1009
now X the the PCI Express slots if
they're bigger so this is an X 16 you
see that it's a big slot it can take
anything up to x16 so you could have an
X 1 in there with the X 4 I can just pop
it right in there we go okay so just put
a thumb little thumb screw in there to
hold it in now do note I've got the
computer powered off I've got the
computer the power supply switched off
and I've waited for the power to come
out of the power supply and I have
grounded myself as well so do keep those
things in mind as you're working with
internal components like this all right
now let's get back up here and so that's
all done so that's installed I'm going
to boot up my computer and let's get a
look at what this is going to do for us
so first thing I need to do now on this
particular computer I am sitting on
Windows 10 that's because we use this
for Telestream Wirecast broadcasting so
on Windows 10 what I need to do is I now
you know it's it's not telling me
anything but it is ready to go I all I
need to do is actually partition this
hard drive I've got to set it up with a
partition table so I'm gonna go with GPT
and once that's initialized I can just
scroll down
that hard drive and we're gonna format
that NTFS the NT filesystem so that's
not gonna take long I'm going to do a
quick format and we're just going to
call that the KC 1000 so that we know
which drive we're looking at when I look
at my computer okay so now I've got a
couple of screenshots here I want to
show you first of all let's do a quick
comparison of my standard hard drive of
my solid state hard drive versus the one
that that we're installing right now so
I'm gonna just jump onto drive here now
keep in mind why is this important to us
here at category five technology TV so
Telestream Wirecast has this incredible
feature called
iso recording have you ever heard of
that what iso recording does is it
allows us to record from every single
camera simultaneously think about that
for a second
so from a broadcasters perspective
Telestream Wirecast is able to take not
only the mix so I can take this I can do
this and I can go like this and I can go
like that and I can switch cameras but
what it can do is record to disk all of
the cameras simultaneously so I get a
feed that is mixed like this and I get a
feed that is individual recordings one
for each camera why does that matter now
from a broadcasters perspective that
matters because now I can take those
full HD or even 4k recordings from my
recorder the ISO recorder and Wirecast
and put them into my editor and I can
start putting them together and do
better production values than I can live
so that's incredible but it takes a
boatload of resources so you think about
now we broadcast at 1080p you think
about the fact that we also have a mage
well 4k capture card in there we could
be capturing at 4k from a 4k camera as
well so we've got that capability but we
don't have the power to save it to disk
simultaneously all at once because our
hard drive can only write at a little
more than 500 megabyte
a second so we need to have something a
lot faster so we're gonna benchmark
these these kind of in a head-to-head
comparison you're gonna see my SSD which
is a good one and you're also going to
see the KC 1000 as well so that we can
get an idea you know is it really as
significant of a boost as we're hoping
for as we're expecting and will it work
really really well for Telestream
Wirecast iso recordings so if you're a
broadcaster check out Wirecast it is
cat5 dot TV slash Wirecast and this as I
said can record all cameras to disk
simultaneously so you have to have very
very fast storage in order to do that
we're gonna learn a little bit about the
difference of you know how data is
written to our hard drives tonight but
essentially when I think about
Telestream Wirecast it's a very good
example broadcasting in general a very
good example of sequential writing so
even if my hard drive my SSD my m2 was
not super fast to read as long as I've
got super extremely fast writing speed
and it can handle very very fast
sequential writes it should do pretty
well now that's because when I hit
record on Telestream Wirecast
I'm recording to disk baby I don't care
about what size of the blocks are I just
want it to record straight to the disk
like my old analog recorder press record
let her go so my original hard drive the
one that I normally use and the one that
I'm using tonight to record too is is
also a kingston hard drive now i've
brought it up on new egg dock CA just to
give me a look at what it is what it
looks like and that is the HyperX see if
i can bring up my oh i can't bring up my
laptop i haven't plugged in the HDMI so
give me one second I'm just gonna fade
to black I'm gonna come back I'm gonna
plug in my laptop so that you can see
what I see and you won't even know I've
been gone and we're back and there you
have it HDMI is plugged into my laptop
so now I can show you okay so this is
the hard drive that I normally record -
it's a small one it's 120 gig sh
103 s3 from Kingston it's the HyperX and
it's super fast so how
is it if I get in here let's get a look
so max sequential read is up to five
hundred and fifty five megabytes per
second do you see that there and max
sequential write is up to five hundred
and ten megabytes per second so of
course this is an SATA hard drive SSD
and so the speeds for what it is are
extremely good really really nice and
fast let's get a look at what Newegg
says about the one that we're putting in
today
the KC 1000 from Kingston so just gonna
pop over there according to the
specifications now this is the 240 gig
model Kingston Kingston has up to the I
believe it's the one terabyte the one
that I have but Newegg does not they
have up to the 240 right now that will
change so max sequential read you ready
for it
2700 megabytes per second
max sequential right on the 240 gig
model is up to 900 megabytes per second
so that's almost twice that as far as
writing goes as my SSD even though my
SSD is a very very good one now if I
actually check the one terabyte model
it's faster so if we go to Kingston
dot-com and this card in the one
terabyte model is actually faster than
what we're seeing there on Newegg with
the 240 gig so I don't know if it says
it on the box for us that would be handy
our internet seems to be going a little
bit wonky there that's okay it does okay
my apologies so as soon as you hit the
480 gigabyte model it it jumps 1600
megabytes per second and it's the same
for the 960 the one terabyte model as
well the one that we're using here
tonight okay so with that in mind we now
have storage that reads and writes like
exponentially faster than what we're
used to even with a good SSD so I've run
some benchmarks here I've got crystal
disk mark which I'm going to kind of
explain to you how this works but
crystal disk mark
allows me on Microsoft Windows to do a
really easy test of the speed of the
hard drive so what I've done is I've got
it up and going for the my F Drive which
is the solid-state drive that we're
normally recording to and you see that
my sequential reads the the fourth green
icon down here sequential is 269
megabytes per second read and a hundred
and eighty 9.6 write and that's in in
these tests so what I've done now
crystal disk mark what I've done here is
I've set the repeat of the test to be
five so typically with anywhere from
three and up you're gonna have a pretty
accurate result so it retests up to five
times and I'm using a two gigabyte file
because I'm usually working with a
fairly large file anyways and I've run
that on that hard drive the the SSD so
those are the speeds that I'm getting so
280 1.6 sequential when I've got a queue
depth of 32 and the four case of the
block size being 4k which your operating
system may do tia is when it breaks it
up into smaller files if you will so
that it can burst them to the drive and
it you know on the old hard drive that
makes sure that you don't have a well I
guess I guess what it does is it makes
it faster in in some use cases but here
I really am interested in the sequential
read and write especially the right so
and I don't pretend to be a brilliant
genius when it comes to this kind of
stuff but I do want to share you with
you the results so I've got the 280 1.6
read and 191 write and it's pretty close
to the same without the queue depth so
to explain the difference there so I'm
looking at mainly the sequential is what
I care about sequential queue depth of
32 so basically what that means is that
it's doing 32 operations at a time your
computer will try to do multiple things
at a time as its reading and writing to
a disk so that it doesn't bottleneck it
doesn't hold things up otherwise if you
were writing a 10 gig file to your hard
drive everything else would freeze
if all of the the queues were dedicated
specifically to that operation so your
computer breaks it up into in this case
the test is a queue depth of 32 threads
so you've got 32 things happening at
once and the speed is pretty similar to
that of just a straight sequential
single stream to the hard drive 270
megabytes read and 190 right now let's
look at the KC 1,000 huge difference on
sequential so my sequential read speed
with a queue depth of 32 is 1373 1373
megabytes per second now my write speed
I've told you that's what really matters
to me as a broadcaster my write speed on
that card is thirty one thousand three
hundred and eighty megabytes per second
so you think about that now so we've got
almost well what was it
we had 191 sequential on the SSD and we
do pretty well with that so five times
no more than that like so much faster
we're talking in an exponential jump
like ten times the speed for writes and
it's even though they don't match up
quite as closely you can see that the
the sequential speed on just a single
thread is very very impressive as well
1023 megabytes read and 1086 write very
very impressed with this card oh boy you
imagine this in your gaming rig Wow okay
folks chat room what do you think do you
have any benchmarks of your system and
have you ever taken a look at this the
actual speed of your drive I'd love to
kind of have a little bit of a
comparison as to you know how fast is
your SSD compared to the KC 1000 so from
our perspective now we're able to turn
on that ISO recording feed
which I hope to do over the next little
while we're able to introduce more
cameras and be able to record them to
disk simultaneously thanks to the speed
and the incredible throughput of this
card and thinking of throughput the one
kind of final thing that I want to just
mention is the fact that hey we also
have to look at consistency that's
pretty important right so I actually
threw it on flash bench as well and now
this is the my SSD my SSD you can see
look at the left hand side there 265
megabytes per second so that's the
starting point and it kind of drops and
it has some peaks and dives and and then
it has a pretty consistent tapering off
near the 16 K block size so nice and
fast up here at 265 megabytes per second
but then it drops off but these valleys
are what kind of concern me that means
that we're we're not having a very
stable speed it's dropping off and then
coming back and then dropping off and
then coming back that would concern me
when it comes to recording video so
looking at the KC 1000 now on the left
hand side you see that a starting point
is 1.2 gigabytes per second so much much
higher starting point and we've got a
better consistency here so our reads and
writes are both really consistent the
tapering off is very smooth very
consistent and tapers off at about the
same point but actually tapers off
around the same speed that the SSD
starts at 258 megabytes per second so
we're seeing a really good throughput
they're really nice consistent result
and a really nice clean tapering off of
the speed of that Drive depending on the
block size again I'm mostly interested
in sequential writes that's my thing but
I think we've proven that the KC 1000 is
screaming fast it's it's consistent I'm
gonna really you know I'm gonna let you
know a year from now how things have
gone in the server feel free to ask
because we're gonna be able to improve
things with that improved performance so
now that somebody says to me where's the
bottleneck now so if storage if SATA is
no longer our bottom
what have we to bottleneck our system
and I think it is gonna have to go back
to the CPU what do you think so is the
central processing unit now going to
become our next bottleneck again so
we're going through the cycle of you
know everything has gotten fast now I
can't think of another component in
there that you know we haven't seen the
same gains but CPUs are making
improvements as well and we're really
starting to see some pretty cool stuff
coming out so let us know let me know
what do you think what do you predict is
going to be the next bottleneck now that
kingston with the kc 1000 has done away
with the bottleneck of the SATA bus so
that is the kc 1000 from kingston you
can get them at kingston calm or go
through our shop it would be a great way
to support the show go to category 5 dot
TV and click on support us and you'll
see shop with us or shop in our online
store and you'll be able to find that
product or look at the links below and
those are our partner links which just
simply help us out by giving us a small
Commission on the sale soul boo predicts
that the bottleneck is now the human
operator have to agree that might be the
case alright folks well it is time to
jump over to the newsroom how am I going
to do this this is going to be
interesting our newsroom is over here so
if I just kind of our newsroom our
physical news area is right here so
let's just step over here here are the
stories that were covering in the
category five dot TV newsroom more
excitement and the technological
advancement in the fight against cancer
as scientists and Texas reveal a pen
like device that can find cancerous
cells in just 10 seconds a potentially
dangerous overlay exploit has been found
in all versions of Android before Oreo a
credit reporting giant Equifax raising
serious concern over mass identity theft
if you've been trying to find a reason
to replace Microsoft Windows with Linux
I've got one for you a design flaw
discovered in the Windows kernel
malicious programs to mask themselves
from antivirus programs and microsoft
says they are not going to fix it
facebook claims that its ads have the
potential to reach more people than
recent US census data shows exist and
that's troublesome for one analyst who
thinks third-party measurement services
stand to benefit in a WordPress plug-in
installed on around 200,000 websites has
a backdoor that lets the code authors do
pretty much anything that they want with
your content these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Java you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name so your own com dice to put
that amazing website that you've been
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a WordPress site fine sign
up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't put that on the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost
I'm Robbie Ferguson filling in for Sasha
Rickman tonight and here are the top
stories that were covering for the week
Timber 13th of 2017 a handheld device
can identify cancerous tissue in just 10
seconds according to scientists at the
University of Texas they say that it
could make surgery to remove a tumor
quicker safer and more precise they hope
to avoid the heartbreak of that leaving
some of the cancer behind can cause
tests published in Science Translational
Medicine suggests that the technology is
accurate up to 96% of the time the mass
spec pen takes advantage of the unique
metabolism of cancer cells they're
furious drive to grow and spread means
that their internal chemistry is very
different to that of healthy tissue so
the pen is touched on a suspected cancer
and releases a tiny droplet of water
chemicals then inside of the living
cells move into the droplet which is
then SEC sucked back into the pen for
analysis the pen then is plugged into a
mass spectrometer that's a piece of kit
that can measure the mass of thousands
of chemicals every second and from there
it produces a chemical fingerprint that
tells doctors whether they are looking
at healthy tissue or cancer any
unpatched Android device running a
version older than Oreo is going to need
to be patched fairly soon with
researchers turning up a class of
vulnerability that lets malware draw
fake dialogues so that users okay their
own ownage the risk according to Palo
Alto Networks researchers come from what
is known as an overlay attack it's a
straightforward way to trick users draw
a bogus screen for users to click for
example to install an app or accept a
set of permissions but they're hiding
what's actually happening in the backend
the vulnerability turned up by palo
Altos unit 42 threat research team and
it bypasses these requirements by
exploiting a notification type called
toast and Android documentation
describes that as a view containing a
quick little message for the user use of
the exploit the paper explains allows an
attacker to both modify what the user
sees and inject fake input all while
maintaining the expected
user experience and remaining stealthy
such an attack could occur by simply
installing an affected app after 143
million US customers of credit report
giant Equifax have had their information
compromised in the cyber security breach
the company says that cyber criminals
accessed data such as social security
numbers birth dates and addresses during
the incident
now some UK and Canadian customers are
apparently also affected the firm's core
consumer and commercial credit databases
were not accessed Equifax said that
hackers access the information between
mid May and the end of July when the
company discovered the breach hackers
won access to its systems by exploiting
a website application vulnerability it
said but provided no further details now
we've since learned that an Apache
struts - app was used in the attack with
a newfound code execution vulnerability
that allows hackers to push malicious
code into servers and run them within
corporate networks now Apache was quick
to patch the software but too little too
late following the Equifax attack the
hackers accessed credit card numbers for
about two hundred and nine thousand
consumers among other information
Equifax holds data on more than 820
million consumers as well as information
on 91 million businesses Equifax has set
up a website at Equifax security 2017
dot-com and that allows consumers to
determine if their information was
potentially compromised click on the tab
labeled potential impact in the center
of the webpage and then you'll need to
enter your name and the last six digits
of your social security number in order
to find out if you are at risk now the
dangers here with a compromising of this
scale and of course this is data that
probably none of us have opted into
Equifax storing on our behalf this is
like if you apply for a mortgage and
your bank needs to find out your credit
score they reach out to a company like
Equifax and find out whether you've been
paying your bills on time things like
that so there's a lot of data there a
lot of potential for identity theft and
we're going to see over the next little
what what comes of it now a design flaw
within the Windows kernel that could
stop antivirus programs from recognizing
malware isn't going to be fixed now the
issue spotted this week by NC low
security researchers Omri Misgav it lies
within the system call and it's this big
long thing PS set load image notify
routine which has been part of
Microsoft's operating system since way
back in the days of Windows 2000 and
it's still active in the latest built
now antivirus tools use this routine to
check if malicious code has been loaded
into memory but Misgav found that a
cunning attacker could use poor coding
behind the API to smuggle malware past
scanners mister Mozgov said in a blog
post during research into the Windows
kernel we came across an interesting
issue with this routine which as its
name implies notifies of module loading
now the thing is after registering a
notification routine for loading PE
images within the kernel the callback
may receive invalid image names
essentially malware can use the above a
API to trick the OS into giving malware
scanners other files such as benign
executives to inspect rather than their
own malicious code this would allow
software nasties to evade antivirus
packages we're just not safe anymore
Microsoft's response well they say and I
quote our engineers reviewed the
information and determined that this
does not pose a security threat and we
do not plan to address it with a
security update I've got a security
update for you boon to comm recently
pivotal research group analyst Brian
Weiser was intrigued by a trade
publication study in Australia that said
Facebook was claiming to reach 1.7
million users more sixteen to thirty
nine year olds than actually exist
that's according to Australians
Australian census data now in
reproducing the study for the United
States Weezer said Facebook's ads
manager claimed that it can potentially
41 million 18 to 24 year-olds 60 million
25 to 34 year-olds and 61 million 35 to
49 year olds now the problem arises when
Weezer pulls up the US Census census
data from a year ago that shows that
there are thirty 1 million 18 to 24-year
olds 45 million 25 to 34 year-olds and
61 million 35 to 49 year olds so the
question is brought about where is
Facebook getting the extra 25 million
people in just the 18 to 34 year old
demographic the US census data says they
don't exist Weezer said conversations
with agency executives on this topic
indicate to us that the gap between
Facebook and census figures is not
widely known while Facebook's
measurement issues won't necessarily
deter advertisers from spending money
with Facebook they will help traditional
TV sellers justify existing budget
shares and could restrain Facebook's
growth in video ad sales on the margins
now if you've got a plug-in called
display widgets on your wordplay
WordPress website remove it immediately
the last three releases of the plug-in
have contained code that allows the
author to publish any content to your
website it actually contains a backdoor
the authors of this plug-in have been
using the backdoor to publish spam
content to sites running their plug-in
during the past three months the plug-in
has been removed and remit readmitted to
the wordpress.org plug-in repository a
total of four times the plug-in is used
by approximately 200,000 WordPress
websites
according to WordPress repository now
here's how it happened on June 21st the
plug-in called display widgets was sold
by its original owner to a user known as
display widget on the they sold it
through the WordPress forums and now the
new owner released version 2.6 point O
of the plug-in then the very next day
David law a uk-based SEO consultant sent
an email to the wordpress.org plug-in
team letting them know that he found
display widgets plug-in was including
additional code from an external server
now the plug-in was downloading a large
max mind IP geolocation database of
around thirty eight megabytes from the
author's own server now max mind itself
is benign its IP geolocation information
however this is not allowed by WordPress
plugins in the repository so the next
day the plug-in team removed display
widgets from the repository there was
some discussion about this on the
wordpress.org forums now then a week
later on June 30th the developer
released version two point six point one
of the plug-in and this release
contained a file called geolocation dot
PHP which no one realized at the time
contained malicious code a back and
forth then took place of removal and
then rien of the the plug-in into the
repository leaving a huge number of
users vulnerable to attack and nobody
really knowing what version they should
run now the code authors have responded
by saying it was a vulnerability however
it's important to realize that this was
in fact an intentional backdoor not a
bug the code in geolocation dot PHP
allowed the plug-in author to post new
content to any website running the
plug-in and they can put it on any URL
within that website that they choose
they could also update content and even
remove existing content furthermore the
malicious code prevented any logged in
user from seeing the content now get
this in other words site owners who are
usually logged into their own website
are not going to see the malicious
content considering the time span of two
and a half months between the releases
it's estimated that these coders have
access to publish anything they like on
almost 200,000 sites that have the
plug-in installed now an update on the
story from this afternoon as research
continues cyber security experts at
wordfence
are warning that the individual
responsible for this attack has in fact
been buying multiple WordPress plugins
and using them to promote various shady
businesses they report that he is also
being living a lavish lifestyle thanks
to the profits of his activities
big thanks this week to Roy Roy W Nash
sparkly balls and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux' bias and for more content
be sure to check out our web site from
the category-five dot TV newsroom I'm
Robbie Ferguson in force Asha Rickman
this is category 5 technology TV and
it's episode number 521 it's so great to
have you here thanks for joining me hey
before we wrap up the show for tonight
now of course
Jeff's off tonight Henry's off tonight
Sascha Rickman is off tonight and we'll
be back next week but I just want to say
hey thanks for joining me and thank you
for supporting category 5 technology TV
now as this is just you and me tonight I
kind of feel like this is you know this
the way it used to be this is how we
started things out here at category 5
technology TV and it started out as a
means for me as a technologist as I was
called back in those days to share tech
knowledge and I don't pretend to be
brilliant at any particular thing but
what I know I try to impart to you and I
welcome constructive criticism and I and
I actually thrive off of it because then
I get better and that's kind of the plan
but you've been here with me and you
know you as a viewer have been
supporting this this programming and you
know it started as just me in my
basement and here we are at studio D and
very about to celebrate our 10th
anniversary but it's really thanks to
the contributions of our community
viewers like you who have decided to
throw something in the tip jar maybe you
saw something tonight that you liked and
you want to do that you can do that off
of our website but it's also people who
don't even necessarily have to throw
anything in the tip jar but go to our
website category 5 TV and click on
support' us and use the partner links
it's such a cool way to do it because
you can purchase things from Amazon or
Ebay or Newegg or wherever you want to
shop and a portion of the sale actually
goes to supporting category 5
technology TV which is super super cool
that helps us pay the bills it was cool
today I well yesterday pardon me as if
it matters literally okay so yesterday I
got the internet bill here and we've got
LTE internet because I'm gonna get into
it but up until today there has been no
other high-speed option here at our
physical location so our studio is
located in kind of an old industrial
area we're actually in a renovated
kitchen of a huge manufacturing
warehouse I'm talking if I stand out the
front door it's far like the end of the
building is way down there I can fly my
drone and it takes five minutes to get
there kind of thing but so here we are
in this studio I got the Internet bill I
have to pay for LTE because we don't
have any hard wired internet options no
fiber no cable the only option was DSL
and as you know you know upstream on
that is maybe 600 kilobits per second if
you're lucky so no good for broadcast
our LTE bill came in and it was 233
dollars this month and I'm a volunteer
we're all volunteers we don't take a
paycheck so just so you know I received
a check from Amazon CA and I received a
check from amazon.com now you've been
using our partner links you've been
going through those links to purchase
whatever it is I mean some of you have
been buying your dog food and your
treats and things like that there some
of you are buying your computer
components or cameras or books of course
on Amazon movies even one of you had a
genius idea
to buy this week a an Amazon gift card
so you bought an Amazon gift card for
somebody and 4% of the sale went to
category 5 so needless to say I got
those two checks the same day that I got
the cable bill or another cable bill the
LTE bill and it was the same amount
so the two checks combined and the the
$233 internet bill canceled out if just
I went into the bank I deposited those
checks I paid the the bill and we were
done so I just want to say thanks you
know you all you had to do is click on
the links and then there are our patrons
so patreon is a really cool way to
support the show you can say you know
what I want to give a dollar a month I
want to give five dollars a month or ten
dollars a month if you can and that goes
directly into supporting the show but
it's a really cool way to do it for two
reasons one you can really budget and
say I think the show's worth X amount
and I want to support it for this amount
and two because then I know how much is
going to come each month Amazon I have
no idea no clue
you could buy thousands of dollars where
the stuff and we all of a sudden have a
really good month you could buy just you
know a little trinket and it's a very
small amount so it's it's very
up-and-down but with patreon we know
we're getting X number of dollars each
month it really really helps us with
things like rent and right now we've got
some other expenses so and and little
things our patrons know about these
things little things like I had to get
two drapes for the studio this week you
don't see these things but little silly
things like that so that brings me to my
next point and patronage is a great way
to support it because then we know how
much is is coming in each month so I
said LTE internet was all that was
available to us up until today that is
because as of today so September 13 2017
the fiber optic line goes by our
building just turned on so there is a
you you can get it installed in your
building it's five thousand dollars to
do that the installation to get it a
direct fiber connection it's a hundred
megabit megabits per second up and down
and it's dedicated so that's that is
that would be wonderful
could you imagine so what would that
mean for category five technology TV and
the
so first of all we could put our own
servers on location here no longer with
an LTE connection we could also
broadcast in HD so when I when I say
that I mean we could broadcast live in
HD we could also and I would plan to see
me alone Lea to Roku Cote and all the
other places that we broadcast live but
also to YouTube and why would I do that
well there's a couple of reasons first
of all YouTube is a great place for you
to watch but it automatically scales to
the correct version based on your
bitrate so if I send an HD feed to
YouTube and you're sitting on a slower
connection it might give you a 480p feed
and it does that all automatically so
it's a really cool way to do it but I
have to be able to send an HD feed I can
do that with a 100 megabyte megabit
fibre link we can do all kinds of
amazing things and it would just make
the show better and we could do those
things with that fiber connection so the
cost of that $5,000 to install it if we
if we want to avoid a contract I would
say you know we're volunteers here this
is a-you know a network thing and it's a
community thing we should probably do it
without a contract if we can on a
three-year contract they can waive that
but that's that's very very risky and
that would be a risk on my part the cost
per month in addition to the
installation would be only three hundred
and fifty dollars a month and it sounds
like a lot but we're currently paying
about well I just told you
233 dollars I believe this month so so
just kind of keep that in the back of
your mind for $350 a month if we knew it
was going to be there through patronage
then we could go with a 100 megabit per
second fiber line right here to the
studio and what a world of difference
that would make not only for us but for
you as the viewer what an astronomical
astronomical difference that would make
for for you
I can I can make the show better I can
send you more data all at the same time
we can host more things right here in
the studio and the other thing is - no
more dropouts during all
show like losing internet connection
losing access to the chatroom that kind
of sucks but it's how things are on LTE
like it it's a cloud goes by and we lose
connection so fiber would do away with
that altogether so five thousand dollars
to install it this Canadian and three
hundred and fifty dollars a month plus
our 13 percent tax on both of those so
keep it in the back of your mind as
you're considering supporting category
five technology TV maybe you've got the
means to just say you know what I can
cover the installation or maybe I can
get my Linux users group to come in
together we can all donate you know so
much and and we take a real dent out of
that installation so that Robbie doesn't
have to do a three year contract and
that could actually happen but then
we've got to know that we've got $350
consistently coming in every single
month it has to be there because fiber
is not lenient like LTE LTE I can turn
down the quality and you may not know
this or not if the bills getting too
high I can turn down the quality one
week and it'll knock 30 40 dollars off
of my bill and then we bring it back up
the next week and and we're back on
track with fiber it's it's gonna cost
the same it doesn't matter what we put
through it it's unlimited bandwidth so
it doesn't matter whether we're pumping
HD or pumpin 240p so all right so if
you've got the means if you want to
support us on patreon that's a great
reason to do it
we're making some big changes to our
patronage to our page and the way that
you can support us through patreon
please find out all the ways that you
can support us a category-5 dot TV and I
appreciate you being here folks I hope
you've had fun it's it's a lot different
for me being here alone I've tried to
keep up with the chatroom and and see
all those kinds of things I've tried to
op everything and give you a good
demonstration of the KC 1000 but it's
weird not having my friends here but
you're here and I appreciate you being
here hey comment below give us a thumbs
up on YouTube and I will see you again
next week Sascha Rickman is gonna be on
the news desk and I believe Jeff is here
I'm not not to a hundred percent sure
but
we'll definitely be back in business
next week all right we'll see you see
you then next Wednesday have a great
night bye for now
[Music]
