hello welcome back to another episode of
new everyday my name is Carrie and my
name is Jen and on today's show we're
going to learn how to catch more than
just the Justice sunfish that's good
news and that's good news because you're
not going to get not going to eat very
much with just a sunfish it's true it's
true
you
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
welcome back if you have not been tuning
in we have been talking about Matthew
chapter 4 verse 19 where Jesus says come
follow me and I will make you fishers of
men so we talked about a number of
different aspects of that first first
when Jesus has come he's including
everyone he is cluding Muslims he's
including atheists whoever friends
family everyone is welcome to the
kingdom of God right um and then what
are some of the other things that we
talked about to Jen so so the fact that
he invites everyone to come and have a
relationship no matter what the
background and then the fact then he
says he equips you right he's the one
that if he calls you he equips you he
believes that you really can follow him
and that whole idea of following means
giving up and for some of our Christian
brothers and sisters who have grown up
in the Muslim faith they've had to give
up family everything and some have given
up their lives yeah yes we talked about
the cost as following him and then we
talked about just methods of using bait
so the bait of a transformed life when
Christ comes into our lives he not only
are our sins forgiven but we have the
Holy Spirit than living in us the end he
amazingly teaches us how to be more
loving how to respond to your spouse
when they are upset with you how to deal
with your friends at work how he
transforms us and so that transform life
is a means of drawing people in right to
a new life with Christ if you're looking
for just examples of how people have
engaged in conversation with people who
don't believe I really recommend the
book unexpected adventure by lee strobel
and he writes it with a friend of his
but if you go to amazon go to our
website new everyday TV click on our
partners paging go to amazon you can
find the book unexpected adventures
there it's excellent they talk about
just random things because they
I didn't say God please help me to share
the love of Christ with someone today
and it's totally unexpected so he talks
about chatting with a waitress at a
restaurant and how he's able to use his
past and experiences that have already
happened him to engage in conversation
so just different aspects of their life
that God has already used he's able to
share so it's really good very funny if
you want to check it out i highly
recommend it right and we had talked
about that whole idea of pools knowing
we said if you want to catch a certain
type of fish you need to go to wherever
those fish are I'm only going to catch
sunfish from standing on the dock but
like you said if you want to catch a
bigger fish or if you want to catch my
background be I guess Pike then you get
the boat out into the middle of the lake
you put you know and you put the waiters
on it so it goes down deep so it can
catch the big pike but you have to
actually go out like I'm not going to
catch a pike standing on the shore I
actually have to get in the boat and go
out so knowing who are the what pools do
you have access to so that whole idea
that your family is a pool if they don't
know Jesus then they are a pool those
those are our people than your sphere in
your sphere of influence so your family
your work your neighbors also is another
like if your home isn't in a subdivision
that has people around it that don't
know Jesus then they're also part of
your sphere of influence so these are
all people that Christ has called us to
to share the good news with and you
mentioned last week that you might just
be a seed planter or a waterer or you
might actually be a harvester and lead
someone lead someone to Christ and I
remember my Sundays uh well she was a
Sunday school teacher but she taught
Vacation Bible School in her backyard
and she would put a backyard backyard he
would put a blanket out on her backyard
and she would get flannelgraph and she
would invite all the community kids to
come and she would tell the story
um with this flannelgraph buddy and you
know ask kids that they wanted to give
to their heart to Christ afterwards and
she'd have cookies and Ray and juice um
a friend of mine who is you know what
I'm not sure if they are still living in
Hamilton or not but anyways their
mindset is to have an open home so you
know the basketball hoops outside the
games are downstairs there's always food
available and the kids are told no you
play with the kids in the community you
bring them in we will feed them right
and they have basically started almost
like a sports program in their own
community other friends of ours their
kids go to their local school they walk
to it and every you know they started
saying oh well we're going to church
tonight for kids club do you want to
come and they're like okay and so now
this family walks 17 kids from their
community 17 of the kids neighbors you
know friends to church like twice a week
they walk them and you're just like it's
great it's like that is so cool because
that is their sphere of influence they
simply said okay god you have called us
to be fishers of men now how do how do
we do it because we can get so caught up
in the fear of will house how am I going
to do this right package the gospel how
do I package the gospel when really it
is and we've said this so many times it
really comes out of are you spending
time with the Lord are you praying are
you reading your Bible and are you
loving well because that will eventually
if you are genuinely asking the Lord to
provide opportunities he will and then
you're like where the words going to
come from well the words are going to
come from your relation his word yes and
through the spirit who takes them
because it says you know be ready at any
point to give testimony to the work
that's going on inside of you and not to
be afraid because the Spirit is going to
be with you and give you the words that
you need which I
just I love I love I love I love so he
plants us in places he puts people
around us who we are supposed to be
building relationships with anyways even
the most introverted of people need to
build relationships and then Jesus is
like and I'm going to help you I'm gonna
help you share my love with people which
is just like yay God let me tell you
about an amazing friend that I have he's
a Christian from India and he is
actually living with Hindu friends and
so so he's an Indian Christian came to
Canada but he's with the thing to Hindu
friends yeah because they have the same
shared language and background from
India so even though he's in Canada he's
witnessing to Hindu India's it's just
awesome because they're within his
sphere of influence and God is using him
in amazing ways yes and part of that
witness is his transformed life in
Christ so it's awesome one thing I just
really been thinking about this week is
how it's hard to really it's hard to
love someone without fully seeing them
as God sees them for one that their
value is not in how they look or who
they hang out with but it's in the fact
that God made them and love them and
died for them but it's also helpful to
try and understand them in their world
and that's why I I really enjoyed
reading this book that I mentioned
before seeking up seeking a la finding
Jesus by Nabeel Qureshi he was a Muslim
who converted to Christianity and just
he in the in the beginning of the book
he talks about his life growing up as a
Muslim boy and it gave me such insight
into Islam but also like the beauty of
family that they have and that there's a
lot of close relationships there and I
didn't understand sometimes why they
would fast and pray because I don't
share the same faith but it really gave
me good insight into those things
and I I went and I had some supper with
a friend of mine who lives with some
Muslim family members and it was great
like I was able to talk to her about
some of the things that I learned in the
book and it was just a really good
opportunity to use what God had taught
me about a different culture so it would
help when I love better you know yeah
and one of the things about fishing is
it takes patience and as I I talked to
my one of my fisherman friends last
night I said loop tell me about fishing
and he said well you need need to know
who you're catching you need to know
what you're catching you need bait and
he's like need to go to place where they
are but then he say and then you have to
have patience right it takes a while
like you don't just like drop it in and
then now sometimes that does happen
which is so cool and often you know with
new believers who are starting to share
their faith sometimes I want to say they
get those those quick bites or you know
they're because they're so excited about
what price is doing and there's been a
vow a life change then people just
immediately start i want to say biting
coming to know Christ and their lives
are changed yeah that doesn't always
happen and sometimes it can feel like
you have been waiting a long time like
ice fishing like ice fishing you're
bundled okay for those of you from
warmer parts of the world in the winter
Canada for about five months is covered
in snow nice a lot of most of Canada
southern Ontario Vancouver not so much
but everywhere else lots of ice so we go
ice fishing we don't we don't but you
get bundled up in big parkas you thurs
for some there's a hut but for many
there isn't and they just drill a hole
and you put the thing down and you sit
and you wait there's no casting you
might you know dig it up and down but
you you are waiting to see if they go
bite yeah and yeah
to be patient you have to end you can't
you can't move it up and down all the
time like there's just there's a certain
rhythm to it yeah and I'm just like well
we're both why would anyone do that and
got impatient I'm moving moving movement
and i lost my bait interesting but yeah
it's it's a process right and and Jesus
talks about the parable of the sower so
this is in mark chapter 4 okay so he
says he's teaching about the kingdom of
God first three listen behold a sower
went out to sow and it happened as he
sold that some seed fell by the wayside
and the birds of the air came and
devoured it some fell on stony ground
where it did not have much earth and
immediately it sprang up because it had
no depth of earth but when the Sun was
up and it was scorched but when the Sun
was up it was scorched and because it
had no root it withered away and some
seed fell among thorns and the thorns
grew up and choked it and it yielded no
crop but other seed fell on good ground
and yielded a crop that sprang up
increased and produced some thirtyfold
some sixty and some 100 hmmm so he goes
on to explain this parable to his
disciples and he said the sower shows
the word the word of God and these are
the ones by the wayside where the word
is sown when they hear saying comes
immediately and takes away the word that
was sown in their hearts these likewise
are the ones on stony ground who when
they heard the word immediately received
with gladness and went and they have no
root in themselves and so endure only
for a short time afterward when
tribulation or persecution arises for
the words sake immediately they stumble
now these are the ones sown among thorns
they are the ones who hear the word and
the cares of the world the deceitfulness
of riches and the desires for other
things entering in choke the word and it
becomes unfruitful but these are the
ones sown on good ground those who hear
the word accept it and bear fruit some
thirtyfold some sixty and some 100
mm-hmm and yeah so the Word of God is
plated in people's hearts and sometimes
it takes time and sometimes we don't
always see the result right and that's
the whole like we have to learn to be
patient if we are doing what God has
called us to do in you know walking with
Him sharing about him then we actually
let half we have to let him bring forth
the harvest and we're basically supposed
to wait we cannot make people believe as
much as we might want to but don't you
understand right we can get very like
come on come on and that actually can be
quite offensive to some people going to
hell I know it's like ah like and so
that concept of being patient and
waiting it is so important like we sow
the seeds with love and care yet we live
a life of faith faithfully and then
you're just like okay Lord in these
circles of influence we have helped me
to show your love to them and you bring
forth ah you bring it forth you bring
forth the harvest and so I know for some
of you out there today you're really
struggling because you've been praying
for your family members you've been
praying for friends you've been praying
for people at work you've been doing I
want to say the work hmm and I want to
encourage you just to hold on to keep
moving forward and to trust that in time
God will bring the harvest and they'll
open the door and sometimes that door is
open as you get to know other people
yeah so I encourage you to read acts
chapter 17 where Paul actually goes he's
in Athens and he addresses the areopagus
so it encourage you to read it from
chapter 22 on and it's very interesting
he eat takes in the surroundings and
understands the culture and then uses
that as a starting point to share the
gospel yes and he even uses some of
their own poets so he's familiar with
their their culture what they believed
in used some of that information share
and what's interesting is and when they
heard of the resurrection of the dead so
he's sharing the gospel the good news
that Jesus rose from the dead some
mocked while others said we will hear
you again on this subject but other
people took off right right so not
everybody's gonna buy on but some will
say you know what I might hear you again
on this yeah and so it's like just just
keep at it like keep at it and who knows
i often pray for families who are
struggling with with kids or other
siblings that don't know the Lord yet
well let's pray for a Christian friend
to come into their life mm-hmm right
because sometimes they heard it from you
for so long that it's like wow wow and
it's like okay they need a fresh
perspective yeah someone someone new
who's living in love and God live in
life and love and God and all of a
sudden go oh maybe there's some truth to
that yeah and so we're gonna we're going
to pray and we're going to say we're
just going to ask the Lord to help us to
be fishers of men all right Jenna thanks
Laur God thank you so much that you call
us you equip us you believe in us and
Lord you want us to tell people about
you you want us to be fishers of men and
and that can just be so daunting and
also very frustrating for those who have
been praying for family members and
friends and co-workers to come to know
you and so father I ask that you would
encourage our viewers today who are
struggling with fear first of all for
sharing their faith are just afraid of
sharing and Lord would you give them
boldness and Lord for those who are
patiently waiting Laura god I ask that
you would encourage them today I asked
for godly friends to come into their
loved ones lives that will tell your
loved ones about you and Lord for those
who are listening today that do not know
you I ask that you administer to their
hearts today if you're listening today
and you don't know jesus jesus knows you
and so we invite you to spend some time
with the Lord today just simply saying
Lord I've been hearing a lot about you
and I
want to learn more would you help me
learn more about you I'm ready to have a
relationship with you and so if that's
you today and you don't know where to
turn or what to do maybe you don't have
a clue about church or being a Christian
if you know a Christian just go to them
today and say um I prayed a prayer about
wines know Jesus more would you help me
learn about Jesus more and if you're not
in a place if you're in somewhere in the
world right now where church is just a
big no-no and for some way you we got
sucked in under the wire yay God and
you're like that is the life that I want
then um I pray that you would grow in
your faith and if somehow that you can
get you know a message out to us than we
would love to to talk with you but God
does love you and God does have a plan
for your life and he wants to be in
relationship with you so we encourage
you to take that step of faith today and
so so send us a message on facebook join
our facebook page and send us a message
there we'd be really happy to hear from
you so thanks for tuning in and we hope
that you will tune in again next week
for another episode of new everyday
we're just so happy to be able to share
with you and Chad and learn and we just
look forward to another week so have an
awesome week have a great week
