this week on category five technology TV
we're going to be looking at the poco
phone f1 from Xiaomi it is an economical
yet slightly high-end for the price
smartphone we're gonna check that out in
just a couple of moments time
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drive by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
flex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech is here cat
5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
which is cat 5 TV slash ia IB welcome
back again this week everybody it's so
great to have you here what's new with
you oh yeah I'm Robby I'm Sasha Sasha
how you been I've been great it's been a
crazy week around here we've got massive
snowstorms incredibly massive like not
yeah I don't know if all of the viewers
have had it but I feel like North
America for sure just been like
inundated sure and so so if you see me
kind of going like this tonight
oh that's the shovel shoulder that's
what that is
Marsh man agrees with me yet for sure
but no bananas because the potassium
hosts eat bananas how do we get on
bananas you shovel and you're sore yeah
Sana's because the potassium helps
remove the lactic acid build up and
relieves muscle muscle pain and aches so
see we learned something here tonight
right so the weather's bad eat bananas
we're not even ten seconds into the show
and we already learned a health tip so
you know let's just you never know what
to expect around here so before the show
I asked like what's new in tech and you
were like well I tried something and it
didn't work and I was like okay well
let's not talk about it and then I
realized that's not it that wasn't it at
all do you want to tell me about what
what you tried and what what happened oh
alright the thing that you told me not
to talk about I can talk about
well it didn't work and as I go okay so
move on no last week we talked about how
office has the cloud thing like the
Google on Microsoft
yes yes yes right so I I was wondering
whether or not I could on my work
computer because some of my computers at
the office have Windows and some don't
and mine doesn't so I work on Libre
Office so I wanted to know if I could
open a file that was saved on a word
computer using the online office okay
see what I'm saying yes the answer is no
because why well okay so here's what I
did well I don't know if the answer is
completely no we already knew the answer
was going to be no did we yeah I kind of
spoiled it at the beginning oh okay so
the reason the reason why it didn't work
for me is because I couldn't figure out
if I could search my computer from that
thing I can create a document but I
can't open a document on the computer so
yeah so then I try just opening it and
you know selecting everything and
copying and pasting it in which the text
pulled up but it was all the wrong
format because I picked pulled it up in
LibreOffice yeah and then I pasted it
into so you copied and pasted into word
online right cat five dot TV slash
ms-office so you couldn't actually open
a local file I couldn't but maybe I had
done something wrong now here are a
couple of things that I perhaps did
wrong I signed in with the I used my
school did you use your Microsoft
account yeah I used my Microsoft account
through school okay cuz that's the only
one I have mm-hmm but it wouldn't let me
open a local file so when I say
Microsoft account for me it's my skype
account mhm that's that's what I want to
use so I'm just gonna try it can I just
try it absolutely you can try it okay so
let's see I'm going to
grab my skype credentials here and login
I would like to just shout out to marsh
man who is always looking out for me I
said last week remind me somebody on
Monday when I get into the office that I
want to try to do this and like
clockwork I got a ping in my inbox my
email that said check your discord check
my discord it was Marsh man saying don't
forget to do that thing oh yeah thank
you
so I want to bring up word online here
mm-hmm
which I'm just just gonna try okay so if
I let's say I create a document in
LibreOffice writer which I have so I
just want to try this yeah I can't
imagine that you wouldn't be able to
open didn't work for me but I want but I
am not super savvy so if you figure out
how to do it I'm just curious
I'm just so I'm just gonna I'm gonna
save this as a docx because it's got to
be word format we'll call this test
local file okay so now I have one on my
desktop so is there no way to just open
a file I did from onedrive I did not see
it I saw create a new document so if I
go into onedrive which I've never used
wow I would imagine that it's like like
Google Drive like have you tried
uploading it to your onedrive no I have
not okay so curiosity hmm see I would
like to do this because we we know that
there's a little bit of communication or
problems as far as the computer's
internal sure so if I could print a
format my computer that was created on
somebody else's computer yeah that's
easy this is like a user experience
nightmare it keeps looping into hey
would you like to add an email I don't
want to add an email I just want to go
into onedrive maybe it's because I've
never used it and I've never set up
accounts and things like that because
I've never used one drive right go to my
onedrive
we're saying click add a place oh maybe
they were trying to do what yeah it
doesn't it doesn't let me so I I would
encourage you to try and and I think
that the connection is going to be and
and folks if you know the answer then
then share it with the community comment
below I think the answer is going to be
uploading the file the docx file to your
onedrive right and then opening it from
onedrive because remember it's a cloud
like on your Chromebook it's right it's
not saved on the Chromebook it's saved
on Google Drive exactly then when you
open it from any computer its opening it
from Drive not from your computer I
think that's gonna be the missing piece
right yeah on Monday morning while I was
just trying it really fast
I just couldn't quite figure it out and
then I I knew that copying everything
and selecting it and pasting it wasn't
going to be perfect but it was super far
from perfect
so it wasn't telling people you got that
far yes as you say Marsh man is saying
click Add to are at a place so what does
that do at a place 1 Drive Dropbox so
those are the only options 1 Drive or
Dropbox so I don't use either of those
personally but I guess if you wanted to
use this service you'd have to use one
of those one of those right yeah there
you go
in other news I am about 15 percent
through changing my passwords on
everything fantastic yeah and are you
did you pick a provider for a password
management system LastPass
ok so I had opened a LastPass account
before I could not remember my master
password so I had to I had to do all of
the recovery in that sort of situation
so now can I just remind you the whole
point of having last passes you only
have to remember one password right but
you forgot the one password I forgot the
one password and my clue was really not
helpful
like that's possibly good past Sasha
past Sasha
that was a bad clue
I just make up clues I know I will never
forget the time when a staff member at
your office called me up and he's there
alone on the weekend and I can't get
into the computer oh yeah oh yeah I
don't understand what color are monkeys
I tried brown boy okay
well there you go so now I have a new
very strong very memorable one password
I need to remember and I have I have a
sub question to this so I've moved over
some of my passwords if it's an account
where I've clicked you know when it's
just like log in or log in with Gmail
you know and you can just click that a
lot yeah right so I never created a
username and password for that I just
click Google do I have to go into each
of those websites Mayberry indicated
with Google so now if you log into your
Google account look for their authorized
sites and apps you didn't remove those
from your authorized apps if you okay
perfect so I don't have access to your
password they just know who you are
your email address and so they're safe
under my safe Gmail password if someone
compromised your Gmail right then you'd
be in trouble because all these sites
allow you to log in using your Gmail
account so I should then change all of
those passwords just change your gmail
password to some okay problem solved
because Olaf doesn't give them your
password they don't know you're not
logging in with your username and
password from Gmail right you are signed
in to Gmail and then Gmail is saying you
are who you say you are and it's
allowing you to log in right I just want
to be as safe as I possibly can starting
from practically nothing so the key
thing is to have a really good strong
master password that nobody could ever
guess that's not in the English
dictionary or any dictionary for that
matter right and and then use crazy
passwords
in all your sites mm-hmm so they like I
don't know any of my passwords other
than my master password right why would
I
I want them to be so complex that even I
can't guess them right like they're
ridiculous like 32 characters random and
uppercase lowercase crazy characters
whatever like even your Gmail is
something like that okay yeah my gmail
is not like that yet so I was speaking
with Tony an scum a few weeks ago and he
had mentioned that one of the one of the
interesting ways to create a password
recipe for yourself is just to take like
acronyms from things that matter to you
so I Drive a white Dodge Grand Caravan
so wdg see right could now be part of my
password wdg see and then you
incorporate something else into that and
I've said before like think of things
that you can write down that nobody
would ever understand like I would say
you know what's something that I do on
Thursdays I have a Starbucks date with
my daughter oh okay so that's like a
Thursday tradition so so I could write
down Thursday so I could put van
Thursday and whatever else but van
Thursday to me will say white Dodge
Grand Caravan right that's van and then
Thursday to me means Starbucks so so I
can have wdg see Starbucks and then a
number and okay you know so you you
create a recipe that's really easy for
you to understand and you to remember
and then I can write that down and
nobody yet van Thursday and whatever
else I want to incorporate into that
password and it can be set and so the
password ends up being this ridiculous
password but I'm really it's really easy
for me to remember because I remember
the recipe and I can even go so far as
just writing down my recipe and it can
be a sticky note on my monitor nobody
would ever guess that what color are
monkeys not brown if it was though
right right you know what I'm saying yes
I totally get it all right we need to
stop talking about me we need to start
talking like you don't talk about me
talk about now I'm so excited about like
this week has been nuts and in a really
really good way MEMS Linux is a
distribution that I maintain that I
created and maintained and you can find
out more at NEMS Linux comm or right
here on category-five TV if you go to
our website category-five TV go to the
search and just type in nimes and the
EMS I won't get into it right now but
1.5 just came out yeah and it's amazing
I mean I'm biased so I have to say that
tongue-in-cheek but the community has
been responding and loving it and good
it's just miles above anything that's
ever been done for an enterprise
monitoring system right so this so names
just for somebody who wants to
understand it basically just monitors
how your system is doing and and lets
you know yes the the the slogan the
byline of names is monitor everything
right my kids say like what can you
monitor I say well you can for three
dollars on Amazon you can buy a moisture
sensor you can put it in the plants of
your house and connect it to a Raspberry
Pi and your nem server will now email
you if the plants need water you can now
find out if your hard drive has crashed
you can find out if your server is
failing but in the enterprise
environment it's commonly used to keep
track of assets make sure that things
are working if a servers gone offline
it'll warn you or if a servers flapping
which means it's kind of up and down or
it's losing packets or something like
that you'll get notifications and and
you can get emails you can get SMS you
can get
a telegram like all kinds of
notifications including webhooks if you
want to connect it to your discord
server or something like that so it
speaks my language one you need it at
the office because it would warn you if
things like your virtualization
hypervisor was running low on disk space
mm-hmm which happened once and then it
took down your business bad yeah so so
knowing that these kinds of things are
potentially going to be a problem right
you can reduce downtime in your business
because you know six weeks before that
drive ever has an issue oh it's going to
have an issue so maybe we need to remove
a couple things or maybe we need to
upgrade or put in a larger hardware
right you because you know preemptively
you can do it on the weekend you can do
it after hours yeah you're not
scrambling after a crash trying to
figure out the save so if you know for
folks who do IT management or monitoring
for taking care of IT for other
businesses mm-hmm it's a wonderful tool
absolutely wonderful but because it's
free you can also install it you know it
monitor your plants yeah whatever just
play with it it's a unlimited what you
can monitor I would love that my scale
at home it is a smart scale and it
emailed me the other day I know I just
thought about a smart scale connected by
bluetooth to an M server and if I eat
too much and stand on that scale I'll
get a notification that I've gained too
much away weight is flapping Robbie yeah
so oh yeah I was gonna go with this my
smart scale yes was low on batteries and
it emailed me and then two days I
ignored that email but two days later
emailed me again to find out why I had
ignored the first oh yeah like I told
you I'm gonna feature though yeah it's
really like it's great for somebody like
me who needs reminders again thanks
marsh man for Monday
so this is just a centralized system
yeah that does it all
so you don't have to have individual
devices doing and it's just one system
but it runs on like a raspberry pi and
Odroid xu4 it's probably the you know
you want to put it on a platform that's
quite reliable so I go with an Xu for
pine 64 board a single board computer
that's it yeah although I say that
Raspberry Pi being like you know the the
slowest of the bunch and it runs on SD
cards instead of emmc or m2 so the
storage is not as reliable on on those
devices just by their nature but I have
got a new device called a PI watcher
that we're adding compatibility this is
cool just came out right in the nick of
time for nems 1.5 so two of them are on
their way to me right now from Greece
and you plug it into your Raspberry Pi
GPIO you plug your power cord into that
instead of to the Raspberry Pi and if
the Raspberry Pi freezes up or goes
unresponsive for any reason it will
power cycle the device oh that's good so
it's in effect like you know have you
tried turning it off and on again when
when it crashes right because a
Raspberry Pi it's so low powered that it
could crash theoretically and I know
that some people with like hundreds of
servers that they're monitoring maybe
they're their PI would go unresponsive
sometimes right so you have to pull the
power and plug it back in again to
reboot this will kind of do that for you
using a safe method to do it so that's
really cool so that's coming to names as
well so there's all kinds of stuff but
all that to say NEMS linux comm check it
out I'm really excited about it like
big-time this combination this is a
year's worth of work we have to release
1.5 so how are you gonna do with all
your time with all my time you're going
to support it
yes that's it we got more SBC's to port
to and everything else just a reminder
for you those of you at home and
wherever you are we've got data traveler
to thousands these are the encrypted
drives that we showed on the show last
week we're given some of these away so
make sure you check the description
below on youtube or on
website category 5 TV this is episode
number 5 95 how you can qualify for that
and cast your ballot to be able to to
win one of those hopefully that's right
like me and have one they're really cool
yeah can you tell me about the server
situation I was just thinking that like
I so here's something folks if you can
just hear me out for just a moment I try
every every week or every other week to
just say thank you to our patrons for
supporting category 5 thank you to those
who are supporting us in any way whether
you're shopping on Amazon through our
links on our website that kind of stuff
makes a huge difference in paying our
month monthly expenses we pay rent we
pay our internet we pay for like you
know general insurance and you know the
stuff that we need even supplies like
we're drinking coffee tonight you know
all this kind of stuff is paid for but
then sometimes something happens where
we need an infusion of funds to be able
to move forward at the strength that
we're used to right so over the past two
weeks and especially last week last week
was very very bad after the show I take
the video from the recorder in front of
me and it goes into the what we call our
broadcast server it's what we're able to
broadcast from so it's still online
we're broadcasting from it tonight it's
doing everything that it should but in
post process trying to get the video
into the editor has been very
problematic because the USB 3 on the
motherboard has gone out right it's no
longer functional and we've got a PCI
Express lane that is burnt out which
means that one of the sockets that
you're able to plug cards into which
used to hold our hard drive because it's
an nvme special kind of hard drive it's
also gone which killed the riser card
for the nvme and damaged the hard drive
itself so we're at us at a state right
now here at category 5 TV where our main
server the main computer
makes everything possible is on its way
out it's been it's been threatening this
over the past couple months there have
been some odd issues but it's been
getting very very bad so I am concerned
of that to the point where I was afraid
today at one point that maybe we weren't
gonna be able to go on the air and that
you know that's that could happen so and
hopefully it won't but so I say all this
that's something that we need to replace
effective immediately
right and they're not an inexpensive
piece of hardware you you can think
about our broadcast system is basically
like a high-end gaming computer we don't
use it for gaming but it has the same
kind of specifications it's got to have
a really good video card for for the 4k
live real-time visuals we do things like
chroma key that's the green screen and
stuff like that we've had - we haven't
been able to do that lately because of
some of those issues as well as you know
I won't get into technical details but
but so there that needs to be replaced
it's a it's gonna be an expensive
replacement yeah the whole thing needs
to be replaced not that well I thought
we could reuse the case Oh like I'm
gonna pull everything out of it the dead
motherboard and everything else and you
know the the CPU and everything it's not
what can you do with it without a
motherboard and and so I'm just gonna
gut it and reuse the case because we do
have what's called a thermal take it was
the level 10 snow Edition so it's a good
big case it'll take an i9 it'll-it'll
bit of current hardware even though
we've had it for you know this thing
doesn't owe us anything folks I I
mention it like we've had this since
season four so I built this server at
the end of season four and we try to
build high so we try to build something
that's you know really fairly good
specifications for the time because then
you get that kind of longevity like we
in using this we're now in season 12 and
about halfway through the season so it's
done a great job it has done
fantastic job so do you know what
components you would like to add to the
new server already we just need to we
need to replace the server so can you
add that somehow so that people can
maybe even add into like the tip jar or
it really just boils down to you that's
the need we know that like a new system
is gonna be at least like we're looking
2500 to 3500 dollars for something
reasonable but then you say okay well
we're gonna reuse the case so that bumps
$200 off we're gonna use whatever parts
we have that we can but we're probably
gonna have to replace everything but the
case the case yeah I think the power
supply is probably going on it as well
because you know why do you have power
issues right could be the power supply
causing it who knows so I didn't want to
dwell on that too long but I just want
to put out that that's a need that we
have and yes your support is very very
appreciated if you have the means
because I don't like to ask for it so
it's just like if you're able if you're
one of those folks who are able to pitch
in a little extra just head on over to
our tip jar would be a great place to go
and or pop me an email ask me questions
I'm perfectly happy to answer and and
hopefully we'll be able to replace that
very very quickly yes and then we won't
have to worry about it
and we can move forward and and of
course it'll be a newer server too so
it'll be an upgrade at the same time
exact so it has that effect of hey the
show is gonna look better than ever
that's not our intention but that's
going to be a side effect exactly it's
kind of the byproduct of kinda sorta so
you can go to donate category five dot
TV to pitch in in any way and of course
if you're not already a patron becoming
a patron is a great way to do it and
that's something that yeah but it's like
a gradual like monthly payment kind of
thing we really kind of do need that
infusion of funds in order to make this
happen as quickly as possible so that's
the need and I thank you for hearing me
out folks we've got a really great show
tonight
we're gonna be looking at
how we can save money on what we would
perceive to be a high-end smartphone but
it's not at a high-end price we're gonna
be looking at something from show me in
just a couple of moments time stick
around for a limited time get your hands
on limited-edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high-quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV now Sasha do
you know that I've been having trouble
with my smartphone I did you were having
problems with the audio when you were
doing video right okay so I had a lg g3
this is going back a ways and the Wi-Fi
chip on it stopped working and getting
into Google found out that hey this is a
fairly common issue with these I had
used it for a few years so and it served
me really really well it was good phone
and so I thought okay well I tried
fixing it I took it apart and I tried
doing all kinds of things and following
all the steps that they said to try and
piece of no soldering involved no
soldering involved thankfully but it
didn't work yeah so I had to go out and
get a new phone and I wanted to save
money and these are personal you know a
personal expense I have to have a phone
I guess these days you just have to and
you rely on them quite a bit and I
especially need it because you know I
have to be on call and stuff like that
for work and for the studio but all that
said so I to save some money I didn't
have a lot of disposable income when my
phone just stopped working so so I went
to the stores and Wow phones are
expansive yeah you can get them cheap
but you got to be on like a three-year
contract or a one-year contract and the
specifications aren't very good on the
phones that are in those contracts a lot
of the time and just so you know what
I'm used to as far as my contract goes
yes I use pay-as-you-go because even
though I need to be available so that if
an emergency happens someone can call me
I don't take a lot of calls right on my
smartphone I use a magic jack at home
and that's great it saves me a lot of
money but I don't take or make calls I
just have to have the ability to if I
need it right so that said I pay only
$25 every four months for my service
oh you get very little with it you get a
very little amount of data you get very
little amount of phone usage right but
enough that I usually last the entire
four months before I use it up so it's
like six six dollars and twenty five
cents per month and uncovered so I'm
happy so I'm not gonna go onto a
contract because the cheapest contract
is gonna be yeah yeah I'm like
ridiculously more expensive so so with
that in mind I started looking and I got
onto our classified system on Kijiji
they started looking for phones I've you
know they're okay well I didn't know if
I could trust that so I found a kiosk in
the mall that sold refurbished phones
okay okay I can actually save a few
hundred bucks here and ended up getting
an LG g5 which I thought was going to be
an upgrade so I went from the g3 to the
g5 thinking okay this is gonna be great
and it was refurbished and so you know I
but I figure I'm buying it from a kiosk
it's gonna be good and no so I I had law
I've lost a lot of faith in refurbished
over the past couple of weeks as the
phone itself the screen went and a
really weird way for it to go if you had
an app open and then closed it it would
still be on the screen but it's not an
interactive and you bring up another app
on top of it you can still see that
other app underneath it it was really
odd and gross and the camera would not
focus at all look as if the focus
capability of the camera just didn't
work at all so all these things were
fished from what
Frankenstein certified yeah so but I try
I tried to save money I tried to be a
good you know alright I was proud of the
fact that I you know I only spent $200
on this phone I threw $200 in the
garbage that day folks not to say
refurbished is not fantastic but
unfortunately I got a lemon and it
didn't work out and so I I did lose a
lot of faith in
I wasn't gonna go back and ask for
another one because now it's charging me
another 200 but there's no return pop
that you can't return them ya can't
exchange them it's just it's like it's
like buying a phone at a garage sale
you're you're you're taking a risk buyer
beware
yeah so I say okay well what am I gonna
do and you know thinking back to the
kiosks and and the phone companies and
the cost and the contracts I don't want
to get into that and I thought you know
what I'm just gonna look around and
Xiaomi is always up there they're very
very popular in South Asia China India
and and that brand of phone they make
really good high-end phones but it's a
lot cheaper okay right and and I I'm not
I'm not getting into an argument you
know like China made and all this kind
of stuff and I I hope that you know like
the best of us I hope that you know
people are well treated in their employ
and everything else that's not my intent
tonight but I really needed a good phone
for a very good price and I do suspect
this has a happy ending it does yeah and
that's what I want to show you today
show me
so yeah exactly so this show me or
Xiaomi poka phone f1 was 300 us okay so
more than I paid for the refurbished
device but wow the specifications on
this are crazy for $300 right so you
know my history of dropping things so I
can't even touch it right so I've
actually I've put a case on this I'm
gonna show you in just a couple of
moments but I'm gonna head over to the
unboxing table and we'll actually get a
look at this when I unboxed it it's kind
of like we're gonna step through time
here as I step over here alright so
let's get into the box of the Polka form
by show me I'm just gonna show you what
the specifications show here so we've
got Qualcomm 8:45
Snapdragon processor that's an
eight-core processor the phone boasts
that it has liquid cooling there's kind
of an odd thing but I suppose that
sounds really good right it's gonna keep
it cooler I know that my LG g5 got
pretty warm the GPU is in a Drano 630
GPU the phone has six gigabytes of RAM
it's got well let's get into the the
packaging here and see what we what's
included it comes with this gel case I'm
not going to use that I'm gonna put it
to put a proper case on it that I'm
gonna order but that's nice that it's
included anyways it gets you up and
going out of the box without having to
worry about scratching the finish and
everything else basic instructions cool
and there it is the polka phone f1 so it
does have a much larger screen than I'm
used to and full disclosure here I am
NOT a phone guru folks so I want to be
clear about that this is not a technical
demonstration but I wanted to show you
the specs here it's got a snapdragon 845
liquid cooling like I mentioned an AI
dual camera with dual pixel autofocus
that's right there and that is 12
megapixel and five megapixel and then
we've got a 20 megapixel camera on the
front here the battery is quite high
capacity four thousand milliamp hours
and it supports quick charge 3.0 as well
and that battery is able to give a lot
of life let's just kind of peel off
these stickers this just shows me how to
install the SIM card and everything else
which we already pretty much know how to
do alright here's the charger here even
though the box shows that this is the
global version so it did arrive in
English out of the box but it came with
this power adapter which is from the
planet of Vaal
and it looks like it no it's like
European but it is a quick charge this
is not a 3.0 as you can see there but it
does have up to 12 volt quick charge and
and there you have it so but this with
the interesting power connector this is
not going to plug into our Canadian
power outlets but they did include this
little guy who's gonna stick out from my
wall like crazy right but that should at
least get me up and going I can until I
can again buy something off Amazon that
will that'll replace that but it'll at
least let me charge it with quick quick
charge I think this is quick charge 2.0
and it's taking me way too long to get
into this we should just look at the
phone right
alright how exciting and the USB cable
there we go with quick charge capable
cable so not just 5 volts and then we've
got a SIM card tool as well so let's
let's see now I imagine that the phone
should come with at least a partial
charge anyways so I should be able to
boot it up there's no button on the now
the LG phones I can press the
fingerprint reader and it will turn on
but it looks like the power buttons
actually on the side here there we go I
like the look of that screen it's so
dark
it's you know what I mean like black is
black not like slightly illuminated gray
it's got a really good look to it it's a
big screen yeah it is it's more than 16
over 9 that's for sure but it doesn't
feel huge in my hand I got to admit that
it's a I thought that it was going to
feel bigger because it is a big screen
but it it doesn't it actually I don't
know that maybe because it's so close to
the edge
I see that it did come with almost a
full charge they are up at the top right
you can see that it's got the kind of
the iPhone ask look with the with the
tab at the top there as well now I want
a new phone I have zero need for a new
phone however you'll drop yours
eventually yeah you know it so as I
mentioned I did purchase a case off of
Amazon just something that was more
suitable for me and really really you
know I I'm really liking this phone and
I must reiterate that one of the reasons
that I went with the xiaomi poco phone
f1 was the price and I'm not a phone guy
right hey like I don't know phones I'm
not this is not a technical
specifications demonstration this is
just you know hey this is my impression
as a phone user so if you're looking
maybe you're thinking about upgrading
your phone maybe it's time to look
around like we don't necessarily have to
just go with what is presented to us by
the phone companies I mentioned that it
has an eight-core processor six gigs of
ram it will take like a kingston 256 gig
micro SD card so that gives you tons and
tons of storage the phone itself my
version only has 64 gigs of internal
storage but again putting in that 256
gig card which i would rather use
anyways because i can unplug it and do
data recovery if i had to a phone is
much harder and much more expensive to
do data recovery on i did find one thing
odd and kind of interesting but even
though the the selfie camera is 20
megapixels right very high res it only
records video in 1080p which I found
kind of odd and yet the 12 megapixel
camera on the front will record in 4k ah
maybe they're thinking like okay well I
want really nice 4k video something like
that
the cameras do support HDR all the
cameras do
the front-facing also has really good
photo stitching for panoramas and
panoramic view as well that's good let's
look at the specs really quick because I
know some people are gonna be wondering
about it it has stereo speakers it's got
the 3.5 millimeter jack for headphones
or a microphone or any other compatible
device I found when I put a case on it
my headphone wouldn't plug in so I
bought a little extension cord too to
fit in there because it's so so narrow
but that's my cases fault not the phone
has bluetooth 5 so like specifications
are really up there with like current
modern and yet really affordable it's
got a built-in FM radio which I've never
seen in a smartphone but I guess that's
very cool yeah if you don't have nearby
internet connection you can't listen to
your radio station you can listen to the
old-style radio that's well it has USB
type-c for charging and OTG it has
infrared fascia facial recognition
fingerprint scanner on the back it has
an accelerometer gyroscope proximity
detector and a compass very cool mm-hmm
that's really you know that's the some
of that so the fingerprint scanner does
that work for unlocking your phone now
that you've oh yeah like if I just yeah
okay it just unlocks it right yeah yeah
so that's that's handy yeah we're gonna
actually get a look at the phone itself
we're gonna take a really quick break
but when we come back I'm gonna bring it
up on the screen and just gonna show you
first impressions about how snappy it is
how how well it works and and tell you a
little bit about my experience so far
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this week we are looking at the polka
phone f1 from xiaomi and these are
available through our link cap v dot TV
slash f1 so if you're looking for a
budget phone that doesn't have such
budget features like we're talking like
this is a pretty high-end spec phone
again not a phone guy but I know what
works really well what's super zippy and
what feels like a good phone and has
some pretty good specifications right an
eight eight core processor six gigs of
RAM everything else this cup dual SIM
capability if you don't want to use the
SD card because it is either an SD card
or a sim in the second slot so what I
have is SD card and SIM but if you need
dual SIM you can do that as well shall I
bring it up on the screen yes okay
so here we go so it obviously has
miracast capability it's got Android 8.1
Oreo out of the box it is upgradable to
9.0 Pi and let's just kind of get a feel
for it so you can see right on the
screen that's in real time it's a little
delay to me so as I move things it's a
little bit a little bit delayed but you
can see the snappiness of it what what
do you do with a phone right out of the
box I mean here you go
so this is kind of what it what it looks
like what it comes with other than I
installed an app called asphalt because
I thought hey you'll probably want to
see if a game performs well on here
let's bring up YouTube and let's do a
quick search for Linux tech show nice
Linux tech show and we'll click on us
yeah there we go
this is reliant on our our Wi-Fi as well
plus we're streaming live video from the
phone to the Wi-Fi there we go let's see
do we have anything that's kind of like
a really good adventure yeah but I mean
come on now so we wanted to know if you
could put a custom OS on the phone I've
read that these come routed I'm again
not a I'm not a power user when it comes
to phones right so so I imagine so but I
that's not something I would ever do you
can do a lot of searching about these
and find out more but from my user
perspective all I see is hey how does it
handle how does it feel as I'm kind of
navigating and how does it perform when
I'm actually using it so it came with
YouTube out of the box they're the only
app that I've installed is that game
which I'm eager to kind of try just to
see and if there's anything that you
want to see I mean there there's things
like allow compass to access the devices
location sure allow compass to take
pictures and record video why why oh I
know because it's augmented oh you know
whatever it's got compass capabilities
so let's just bring up this asphalt 9
and I'm gonna switch to full full-screen
mode so that you can see kind of the
performance and this is this is in fact
real-time so what you're seeing
on the screen is what's on my phone
right now so let's let's see I've never
I've never run this I don't know
hopefully the volume isn't too loud not
finished okay do you need the tutorial
No thank you got that let's just do this
how hard you can you can even tell in
these animated menus that it's super
zippy how do I just play go games these
days are so crazy city - all right
okay oh this is nice yeah and remember
that's got a really big screen on it -
yeah like so Sasha's seeing this in real
time how do i okay oh okay oh it's like
that the that calls accelerometer
drifting oh okay hold to drift yeah all
right let me play okay yeah okay it does
not feel janky at all folks and that's
some pretty good good graphics for sure
this seat playing a game like this is
how I would drop my phone this is how
you do it you have to finish in third or
better press the nitro yeah pushing the
nitro I'm not good at it but here I am
right so I'm just kind of there it is so
I mean performance is exceptional and
it's doing all this plus I'm streaming
live plus everything else what first you
know it congratulations on your win well
thanks but yeah that's pretty sweet so
you would use two SIM cards
I should ask if you wanted to take your
phone say to Jamaica yeah you could do
that just by case for example I have a
cell plan that is it doesn't include a
lot of data right so I can also get
pay-as-you-go data from a provider who
provides cheap data right and then
anytime I turn on my data it will use
the data from that
provider and not use up my minutes
that's smart yeah so I can do that kind
of thing as well but yet for traveling
it's perfect for that if you need
dual-sim capabilities but there you have
it folks I mean it's zippy it's snappy
and it's affordable it feels really good
it has a glass screen and it does have a
plastic body but as I say you know just
grab yourself a nice little case for
it's something that works well for you
there you go that's a great phone you
like that I'll let you touch it thank
there you go do you like it yeah Garvey
said that the second SIM card could be
used for work as well that's interesting
too like a work contract or something
like that well there you go folks so
that's the Xiaomi poca phone f1 just a
quick review from somebody who doesn't
really know about phones but that one's
great I know when it works really well
and so my out-of-the-box experience so
far has been excellent I felt really
good about it I haven't had any buyer's
remorse from this particular phone the
last one on the other hand yeah really
bad taste in my mouth
but this one so far so good feels great
it doesn't feel cheap the battery is not
removable keep that in mind but it is
4000 milliamp hours that's the other
thing that I have to mention the battery
life on this is nuts right I know I have
never I'm not used to that at all and
does it get warm to the touch when it's
running well I just played the game and
we had it open for oh yeah no it's good
doesn't feel warm at all that's the
liquid cooling system right you see what
I'm saying but when I say it's not the
battery life remember Jeff and I were
talking about my smartphone and he was
talking about how he has a charger on
all the time and plugs in his phone in
the car and everything else because my
phone is dead by the time I get home
right that was the LG g5 this one when I
get home at night so I start work like I
might start at about 6:00 a.m. I unplug
the phone and it's in my pocket I'm
using it throughout the day
and and then when I get home and I'm
using it throughout the night this one
is still at like 86 percent charged
that's insane yeah very I am not used to
that and I love it
no man five wants to know if it has
wireless charging capability you know
how I have that japaese that's a really
amp excellent question and you know why
that's an excellent question because
when you look at something like this so
when you get online and you start
looking at the specifications and saying
does it have wireless charging and this
and that you're gonna have you're gonna
see things like that where you say oh it
doesn't have because the answer is no it
doesn't okay and the reason and this is
really really key to remember this keep
in mind all of the amazing features that
they fit in this yes for $300 and then
think okay they had to they had to cut
corners somewhere yeah where did they
cut corners on the processor no it is an
eight core snapdragon 845 right did they
cut corners on the ram no it's six gigs
of ram is it the screen NoHo the screen
is amazing so where did they cut corners
things like the wireless charging I love
it but also my phone is warm by the time
I take it off the charger so oh yeah
right
where as that one will always be cool
okay it has liquid cooling and no
wireless charging it's super cool yeah
so do keep that in mind when you're
looking at the specs for something like
the poco phone f1 that there are some
things that have been left off of the
spec list because indeed they they had
to cut corners somewhere but I think
what they've done is they found a really
good spot for where to cut those corners
so they can keep the price low while
keeping the specifications that I really
care about really really high but it
does have the quick charge USB C so I
can plug it in and it will charge it up
very very quickly I had about 80 percent
charge I plugged it in and 20 minutes
later it was at a hundred percent yeah
like it didn't take long at all and I
just didn't want to risk it right I'm
not used to a phone that was worried
when you were like I need to plug it in
for the show
because you said just remind me to take
it off the charger and I thought oh this
is one of those phones but no it's not
let me because it's gonna you know I
don't want to neglect the camera so what
do we have here we've got video short
video photo portrait square panorama is
so cool in manual mode so you know look
at all that I don't know my way around
just yet what we got change your your
focal your white balance shutter speed
and ISO that's great
hi there you go I'll snap it don't you
notice look at the blur behind me that
is stunning
Oh smile I just said to myself to smile
here get in here look at the background
I love it oh that's good so we wanna
look right there yeah
there we go that looks absolutely
stunning so that's the 20 megapixel
front face camera I don't know if that's
because I'm in portrait mode square mode
so you didn't blur the background there
something we didn't think of during the
live show so this is recorded after is a
video test so this is what the video
looks like on the the selfie camera and
here's what the video looks like from
the front camera I'm not sure which one
because there's two of them and the
audio that you're hearing you notice I
don't have my head's headset on at this
point so the audio you're hearing is in
fact from the microphone built into the
poco phone F 1 that is the poco phone F
1 from Xiaomi you can get one at cap 5
dot TV / F 1 super cool ready to head
over to the newsroom I sure AM alright
ready when you are
all right here are the stories were
covering this week in a category 5 TV
newsroom a security vulnerability has
been disclosed for a flaw and run C
docker and Q Burnett Q Burnett ease
kubernetes container fronting from makes
up these names which can be used to
attack any host system of running
containers canonical has released a new
kernel update for a boon to systems to
address a regression introduced by the
last kernel security patch spacex is
seeking u.s. approval to deploy up to 1
million earth stations to receive
transmissions from its planned satellite
broadband constellation raspberry pi has
opened its first bricks and mortar
stores in cambridge these toys are
coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top textiles with a
slight linux bias Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
aren't you right you're terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman and here the top stories
recovering this week a security
vulnerability has been disclosed for a
flaw in run seed docker and kubernetes
container runtime which can be used to
attack any host system running
containers one of the great security
fears about containers is that an
attacker could infect a container with a
malicious program which could escape and
attack the host system well now we now
have a security hole that could be used
by such an attack run see is the
underlying container runtime for docker
kubernetes and other container dependent
programs it's an open source command
line tool for spawning and running
containers docker originally created it
and today it's an open container
initiative or OCI specification it's
widely used chances are if you're using
containers you're running them on run
see security researchers discovered the
vulnerability which allows a malicious
container with minimal user interaction
to overwrite the hosts run see binary
and thus gain root level code execution
on the host the level of user
interaction is being able to run any
command it doesn't matter if the command
is not attacker controlled as root to do
this an attacker has to place a
malicious container within your system
but this is not that difficult
lazy cysts admins often use the first
container that comes to hand without
checking to see if
the software within that container is
what it purports to be besides run see
the problem can also attack container
systems using LXE and Apache may sews
container code so yes if you're running
any kind of containers
you need to patch ASAP Amazon Web
Services has already made a patch
available for Amazon Linux and patches
are being rolled out for Amazon's ECS
eks and AWS Fargate services hmm hmm
it's happening in the story we say that
a lazy sysadmin
could be susceptible and I you know I
think that we need to recognize how this
could potentially happen you think that
you're not susceptible because how would
a hacker install a compromised docker
container on your system mm-hmm but then
back up and say what about if I went on
the internet and downloaded a pre-built
container because or an OS that was
already compromised that could
compromise my containers because am i
lazy system in no I don't know if that's
really the term it's there's a lot of
pre-built stacks that are available for
you so you think you're you're just
you're not being lazy or just kind of
taken the path of least resistance
because you think it's already available
right to you yeah why reinvent the wheel
if you know if something like something
simple like a lamp stack you know why
why do you really need to have a turnkey
solution for that you can just deploy it
yourself and it's not that hard to
deploy but something more complex you
know something that or something that's
custom mmm-hmm
that could be a real issue and so you're
putting a lot of trust in the developers
too and I think about how you know I
develop NEMS Linux and
you know how terrible would it be if
somebody were to do something similar to
what I do and make it malicious and yeah
I mean perfectly doable mm-hmm
so you know they my users are putting
trust in me and I would never violate
that but but others may others may right
and so how would how would somebody know
right like for example like you're like
NEMS is is amazing and it's good and
it's Thanks yeah and but you're a
trustworthy source but how would you be
able to prove that you were right yeah
somebody else managed because of the
credibility that I have just as you know
being exactly cornered but but like
anybody off the you know any developer
yeah I like developers spread up all the
time and bring out stuff we see it on
WordPress how you know a new plug-in is
available I pulled a plug-in this week
because the developer injected gdpr
popups on my website that led out they
had exit links to another website and I
said I gave them a one out of five star
review and I said this is not acceptable
you don't ever post exit links on my
website without my permission
and and sir and it wasn't even related
to what their plug-in was meant to be
doing so so to me it's like they
violated my trust they violated my users
trust as well it's hard because I mean
even even the case like if it's free
then you think to yourself okay maybe
there's something about this right but
then there's like you never know
sometimes sometimes it is I download
like free watch faces to my Fitbit well
really in truth this Fitbit is connected
to a lot of things right so that could
there could be something it's even worse
when a developer could inject malicious
Ness and charge you money for it right
which is also a case so yeah we do hear
about those things happening - yeah so I
think it boils down to be careful who
you're downloading stuff from mm-hmm and
not just like sources because my
wordpress plug-in is the example
came from the official wordpress plugins
repository like it came directly from
WordPress com
so but it wasn't developed by them and
we've heard of WordPress having injected
code sometimes and so people who have
those those plugins get that injection
so similarly if you're using docker and
you're getting containers from
third-party sources and you're not
building them yourself then you really
really have to be wary and careful this
is just a perfect example of you know
why why you have to be so careful
exactly
canonical has released a new kernel
update for a boon to systems to address
a regression introduced by the last
kernel security patch after patching and
nasty Linux kernel regression in the
aboon to eighteen point four LTS odd
operating system series canonical now
address another regression affecting the
Linux 418 kernel packages of a boon to
eighteen ten and a boon to eighteen for
one LTS systems which was introduced by
an important kernel security update
released last week the kernel security
update that canonical published on
February 4th was available for a boon to
1810 abouttwo 1604 LTS and a boon to
1404 LTS systems but only a boon to 1810
machines were affected by a regression
that could prevent them from booting
when certain graphics chipsets are used
the regression effects not only of them
to 18:10 systems but also a boon to 1804
LTS machines running the Linux 418
Hardware enablement kernel from a boo to
1810 which is included in the new a boon
to 1804 - LTS point release if you're
running Ubuntu 1810 or a boon to 1804
LTS with a Linux kernel 4:18 you are
urged to update your kernel packages
immediately if you like I just throw a
bunch of numbers at you
well I don't like you know if this is
you boon to 18 10 18 point oh four oh
four point to that it's Colonel four
point one eight right just make sure you
up-to-date folks exactly because this
problem if it affects you could stop
your system from being able to boot and
yeah and we hate when that kind of thing
happens and that can happen for any
developer canonical is a good example of
a company that we do trust to develop
good software and and not just good like
good but good like we're not we're not
worried about them doing crazy stuff no
I like that they have released this
patch yes I feel kind of like a pro star
with all of those numbers I feel like
that all right it started to get a
little jumbled unconvincing yeah but
essentially if you're running ubuntu
eighteen point oh four or eighteen point
ten yeah make sure you update to the
latest kernel because four point one
eight is impossibly afflicted with that
issue yeah stopped you from being able
to boot your computer right that would
be the most heartbreaking thing yeah you
just type sudo reboot so easy to run an
update right like as far as updating and
applying packages it's so easy so just
do it
apt update yeah upgrade and apt dist -
upgrade will do it for you so easy peasy
your system
Ubuntu is primarily a GUI based system
sort of like a desktop environment so
you probably get a notification that
there's an update ready for you and then
easy peasy just do it just do it folks
SpaceX is seeking us approval to deploy
up to 1 million earth stations to
receive transmissions from its planned
satellite broadband constellation the
Federal Communications Commission last
year gave SpaceX permission to deploy
nearly 12,000 low-earth orbit satellites
for the planned StarLink system an
application submitted February 1st from
SpaceX services a sister company asks
FCC for a blanket license authorization
operation of up to 1 million earth
stations that end-users end-user
customers will utilize to communicate
with space axes non geostationary orbit
constellation SpaceX job listings
describe the user terminal as a
high-volume manufactured product
customers will have in their homes
SpaceX services seeks authority to
deploy and operate these earth stations
throughout the United States Alaska
Hawaii Puerto Rico and the US Virgin
Islands each user terminal will
communicate only with those spacex
satellites that are visible on the
horizon above a minimum elevation angle
the application says SpaceX asked the
FCC for quick approval to support the
company's ambitious timetable for
launching satellites and deploying
broadband services SpaceX routes
granting this application would serve
the public interest by helping to speed
broadband deployments throughout the
United States by authorizing the
ground-based components of space X's
satellite system SpaceX hasn't provided
a specific availability date but a
Reuters report in October 2018 said
SpaceX is goal of having Internet
service available in 2020 is pretty much
on target with an initial satellite
launch by mid 2019 FCC rules require the
launch of 50% of satellites within six
years of authorization and all of them
within nine years unless a waiver is
granted SpaceX has said it's broadband
broadband satellites will provide
gigabit speeds and Layton sees as low as
25 milliseconds similar to cable or
fiber systems holy cow this is the
future this is weird
as you're as you're telling the story
sash I'm thinking about how this is also
the same company that is apparently
going to take us to Mars right so you
know is this like a pre-emptive like
let's get this thing going so that we
can open up communications with another
planet that is cool a moon base
example that kind of stuff mm-hmm
obviously that's more in line but with
those kinds of Layton's he's like really
really fast and really really low delay
for Internet connectivity
telecommunications radio broadcasts
video broadcasts all those things can be
done through this kind of interface I'm
excited about finding out how this
actually pans out like mid-20 90
thoughts soon right there it's gonna
happen and we'll have reports quick Here
I am excited about Mars
I know but realistically this is better
internet than I have right at home or
here like that's like gigabit speed I
get about on a good day like my cable
provider it's boasts that it's gigabit
ethernet now I might get 50 mega and 200
down on a good day right well last
season here we had such internet
problems we were on LTE which is the
kind of the current standard for for
mobile mmm-hmm we were getting about
2020 which was good but LTE in and of
itself is what it is it's a wireless
cellular technology that it doesn't do
very well with large packets and things
like that so this would be awesome I
would like it I will like it let's see
what happens is it we don't have as you
say we don't have long to wait so let's
see if they get the approval that is
they have to have they only have six
years to get 500,000 base stations
installed I can't imagine that that
would be difficult you're installing a
base station that's it on earth home
demise right so it's kind of the
impression I'm getting but is it like a
wireless modem or is it like a tower
just like a wireless modem or something
and I feel like you drive down the
street and you see those old disks
satellites and they're still up on
people's houses there's definitely like
50,000 of those out about you know like
I feel like you you sell it to somebody
they'll install it right it's not gonna
be that difficult I have faith in you I
can hold that we're gonna so in about
six months time we're going
to a video of Sacha installing SpaceX
Internet and then a clip it's not that
difficult confidence raspberry pie has
opened its first bricks and mortar store
in Cambridge the foundation behind the
credit card-sized raspberry pie
single-board computer said it hopes the
store would help people get hands-on
with technology try their hand at
programming and see some of the projects
being powered by pi the shop located in
Cambridge is grand arcade shopping
centre is in the city where raspberry
pie was founded and is still based as we
asked raspberry pie kit it as for
raspberry pie kit as well as pie kit and
peripherals the shop will also sell pie
merchandise and magazines to coincide
with the stores opening the foundation
is also releasing a new Raspberry Pi
starter kit which includes the latest
pi3 model b+ as well as a keyboard mouse
SD card power supply unit HDMI cable
case and a book explaining as the basics
of Pi the kit will only be sold in the
physical store for the time being but
will be rolled out online in the coming
weeks founder and CEO even Upton says
the shut the shop was the next big step
to persuading more people to catch the
Raspberry Pi bug
he says the shop provides potential
customers with a chance to learn about
Raspberry Pi while at the same time
giving us a chance to learn more about
their needs previously the majority of
Raspberry Pi units and accessories were
sold online as well as attracting new
customers Upton said the shop could also
become a way of better interacting with
and developing the online PI community
founded six years ago the Raspberry Pi
foundation has gone on to sell 19
million of its low-cost single board
computers raspberry pi isn't the only
online only brand that's moved offline
Amazon has been experimenting with
bricks and mortar stores since 2015 and
in January 28th
it opened its first cashier las' grocery
stores to the public this kind of
happened out of the blue like did anyone
see this coming maybe if you're if
you're local to them
I feel like raspberry pie we happened
out of the blue it's only six years old
that blows my mind in itself and now to
have a bricks-and-mortar I like it what
I love about what they're doing is like
you think about the whole stem and steam
movements as far as like educating kids
and and not just kids but adults too
because a lot of adults didn't grow up
with hands-on tinkering with computers
and and technology but the store is set
up in such a way that you can you can
work on your devices right there you can
learn and and potentially I would
imagine I mean they're across the pond
from us so I haven't been able to visit
but I would imagine that they have staff
there that are knowledgeable about the
product as well and and how to use it
how to code it how to use the GPIO and
can and can kind of teach a little bit
as well yeah and I get that impression
from from the the statements of their
founder where he's kind of talking about
we can gauge we can learn from the
people who come into the store right how
we can do better how we can evolve the
product and and so I think there's gonna
be more interaction than just walk in
buy a Raspberry Pi and walk out exactly
here's your kit here's how you set it up
here's what you can do and here's a book
to get you started I love it I mean
that'll be online as well but I love
that first it's gonna be just in-store
yes I do have a huge favor to ask
I feel like I'm talking to just a cup
like just a few of you because I know we
have viewers everywhere but if you're
close by please this weekend go to the
store and just take a couple of drinks
and shots let us know either your
category-five shirt at the raspberry pi
store that would be cool yeah let's take
a quick look at the state of
cryptocurrency according to coin gecko
this week as of 1800 hours Eastern Time
on Wednesday February 13th
is the big gainer up two hundred and two
dollars and seventy seven cents per coin
and is sitting at three thousand six
hundred and five twenty-six litecoin
gained also eight dollars and eighty six
cents which doesn't sound like much but
being the last week it was only thirty
two dollars and seventy two cents that
brings it up to forty one fifty eight
aetherium is at one twenty one fifty
seven us Manero at forty eight dollars
and eighty cents so everything's on the
rise stellite the little guy is gained
point one ten thousandth of a cent at
gains again yep 1.80 turtle coin is the
only one that went down this week that
we are monitoring anyways there are
thousands of coins at this point it went
down to point nine to ten thousandth of
a cent per turtle coin but they're so
easy to mine they're still so easy to
get and so economical so I mean who
knows where it'll be ten years from now
yeah nobody really knows and do keep
that in mind if you are looking at
cryptocurrency the market never closes
and it's always volatile big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson thank you so much for being
here with us again this week looking
forward to seeing you next week take
care
[Applause]
