welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 495 for Wednesday
the 15th of March 2017 it's great to
have you here great to have our
in-studio audience as we have our March
break family special tonight I hope
you've got your family gathered around
and make sure you comment below and join
us in the chatroom category-five on
freenode as well lots to cover tonight
we've got a lot of friends here in the
studio and we're gonna be talking about
our trip to Legoland yes what else have
we got we're gonna be talking about
stop-motion video more timer is here and
he's like yes there is wave to the
camera more timer what so he's going to
be sharing with us some of the
stop-motion tricks that he's been doing
in order to make videos on YouTube also
we're gonna be looking at speaking of
YouTube we've got mangofox 70 is here
from the pixel shadow we've also got
Noah joining us tonight who is also a
youtuber who is broadcasting some great
tutorials and some video game footage as
well we're gonna be speaking with him
also we've got an incredible cute little
game machine I can't wait to see this
thing and he's nodding over there we've
got blackout here as well in blackout we
can't see you on the set you want to run
out here and just give a quick wave he's
gonna be sure he's gonna be showing us
that and unboxing that retro gaming that
looks like a little arcade game so
that's a lot of fun for the kids as well
what else we speeding up oh sure people
have to speed up all right we're doing
this time-lapse hyperlapse we've got a
lot to cover folks okay but we've got
the sjcam SJ 5000 decks you've seen it
on the show it's a 4k camera that's
available on the cheap it's like a GoPro
knockoff if you will it's it's really
really cheap and it takes good video but
it has time lapse and hyper
video recording modes so tonight we're
gonna be looking at that as well so you
want to stick around we've got a great
show planned for you and make sure you
give us a thumbs up there if you're
watching on YouTube all right
this is category five technology TV well
we had a great trip
just a couple of weeks ago so much fun
we got to go to Legoland how many kids
here have been to Legoland anybody
anybody of course I've been to Legoland
he says it was a lot of fun I didn't
know what to quite expect so either
walking in the first thing that we saw
was how they make Lego and it was kind
of taking us through that then he
getting out an actual Lego factories no
it was it was fun for the kids right now
but then what was next
the very first thing was a ride do you
guys remember that ride with the trolls
that was a lot of fun and then from
there once we got off of that ride we're
going in and it just opened up when we
first got there my son Zach said it
looks so small I know because it was
basically the Lego store it was
something along those lines that you
said and and then when we got in do you
remember how big it was do you want to
come up here you've got you've got a lot
to say oh yes I want to get you a
microphone now interestingly no one it
was a go this week
Owen was first on cat5 category 5
anniversary on so so we got off the ride
yes first thing we spotted of course
Lego Batman full-size it was all about
Batman that yeah it was good then they
had a 4d movie theater do you remember
talking about this in the news yes the
four-dimensional movie so we said well
what is that and I remember the news
story when this was first coming out
yeah so you're in the movie and you know
something gets splashed in the water on
the on the 3d screen and there are fans
above us there are snow making machines
there
stirs and Fushigi missed it in the face
it was it was awesome this snow really
impressed me it was pretty neat all
perfectly times before yeah I mean we
were sitting near the front so we didn't
get the initial effect of it but you
know the movies going on then you hear
everybody turn around right it was
awesome I put my camera away it was snow
so we're sitting there watching a movie
it was pretty cool why so we got to see
a couple of movies there in the 4-d
theater and then outside of the theater
there were just workstations for the
kids to build real Lego like you've
never seen so much Lego the ramps were
impressive because it was car yeah so I
mean you walk in there the first thing
you see is it was probably what a
seven-foot ramp yeah and the kids I'm up
yeah yeah and so you go I mean so Luke
made this car it's been like an hour
working on oh yeah look car and I'm like
okay let me get set up to film this car
go down nope too excited and that sucker
fired like got some serious air and then
just smash despair on his face yeah
great hang time lots of fun lots of fun
Liam built a car that came in first
place nice way to go you've got your
hand up did you want to say something we
can't see you on the set because you're
way off to the side you can come over
here you want to come around this way
and then you can and then you can be
heard in my microphone what what is it
that you would like to say Stefan oh
sure I got more cush he gave me a second
one oh yeah because you came in first
place on the race that's right so you
got a prize and then they came around
and gave a second prize that was cool I
didn't you had fun at Legoland yeah it
was a lot of fun thanks man uh my dream
as a kid growing up yeah the world of
Lego and that's what that room was I
didn't know what to expect from it as I
mentioned but walking in it felt a
little bit like a like a cross between a
play area like with with like
what do you call it like slides that you
climb up and everything that was like
jungle gym yeah big jungle gym but the
fact that yeah there was that the ride
like something you'd see it like an
amusement park
yeah in the inside inside awesome
everybody had fun at Legoland like the
whole entire store was Legoland in lake
world
very cool most felt like Emmet I have a
very important question from the chat
room yeah 4d does that include smell it
did not and I was thankful because there
was a lot of burping yeah in the movies
it's true though right there was a
burping there was a fans yeah you felt
it and then they were flying by so if
they're flying by you felt the wind in
your face sound touch or the fourth one
up in dimension like 3d oh yeah 3d
visual effects coming out of the screen
yeah and that was pretty real to Ives I
saw savanah actually reaching out to try
to grab the sword as it was going
through the air do you remember that
yeah so that was a lot of fun you were
putting your hand in the dragon's mouth
in the 4d movie theater right you were -
did he bite no did he spray you oh yeah
Liam was touching the beak of the bird
and then felt the water come on him so
that was pretty neat I love to watch my
kids with reading experience I'm so much
fun so totally worth the trip make sure
you check out Lego Legoland and it was
an absolute blast for the whole family
we'll have links below for you if you
want to check it out and we've got one
at Vaughan Mills Mall which is this the
closest one to us but they are all
around so make sure you get onto their
website and find out where there's one
near you note something I noticed or I
thought I'd experiment with is when
you're watching the 3d movie obviously
you have to have the glasses on to see
in 3d otherwise it's alright yeah walkie
but I wondered how would it be with
recording yeah
and so I
the 3d glasses over the lens of my
cellphone for recording and it cleaned
up the hid actually where it wasn't 3d
because yeah you didn't have two sets of
eyes but it did actually clean it up
with the glasses and I wasn't that so
for all those bootleggers that are
watching realize technology would be
able to pick up a 3d movie like that
through the glasses yeah and for the
record we had permission to revise
correct yeah we were there on behalf of
category 5 so they scored something we
did get some clips yeah as you saw there
so this is category 5 technology TV this
is our March break family special we've
got lots of family members here and
friends and it's nice to have everybody
here so first up we're gonna look at
stop-motion video more timer aka Zek my
oldest son he's here do you wanna do you
want to wake up and come and see us
[Laughter]
so Zack has been doing some some
stop-motion video let's see if we can
get you in here and we're gonna share a
microphone here we're looking over this
way here so you've been doing some
stop-motion video and how have you been
finding that yeah and so great one of
the cool things that your brother and
yourself and I set up as we came in here
and we decided to look at the SJ 5000 X
and it has what's called hyper lapse or
time-lapse video right so do you know
the difference between time-lapse and
hyper lapse no okay what do you think of
when you think of time-lapse it's a
video that takes a picture every 20
seconds or something and then puts it
together in a video but you remember
from seeing time-lapse videos it's
usually pretty choppy yes so you get the
again yeah as it's very low frame rate
so well I'm explaining it so you know
about frames per second
what what means yeah
oh yeah alright alright yeah okay let's
break it down so you understand frame
rate and of course you shoot some stick
pot videos and things like that so you
know about you know 11 frames a second
is going to look choppy and 30 frames a
second it's gonna look pretty good so
with this what we did is we set it up to
film over the course of two weeks while
we tested with growing some crystals so
a little bit of vinegar in a bowl with
some rocks and we wanted to see how this
would look so we didn't just do 30
frames a second we decided hey let's
push it let's try for 12,000 frames a
second well 12,000 frames a second and
then I thought oh you know what this
video is a little bit long so we bumped
it up just a little bit and using the
sjk msj 5000 X so we recorded at 30
frames a second then but by condensing
the video we were able to get 28,000
frames a second so let's take a quick
look are you ready for this sec because
you've been waiting to see your
hyperlapse a so the difference between
time-lapse and hyper lapse time lapse is
generally low frame rate choppy hyper
lapse is very smooth video so when you
see a flower grow in a fast motion
that's hyper lapse when you see people
walking and you know they disappear as
they move
that's time lapse so that's essentially
the difference so let's take a look at
how this looks so there we are at 28,000
511 frames a second
now watch up there can you see you see
the crystal starting to grow so this is
over the course of many days look at
that 57 days grow and it fell off into
the end of the vinegar it's like it's
alive hey at that kind of frames per
second it's crazy and so this is over
what a couple of weeks this is yeah Wow
now I added some food coloring so I
throw that in and I dropped it down to
12,000 frames a second so you can see
now all I did was just stick a little
bit of food coloring in there for a sec
and you can see that it's it's like it
looks like it look at the green one it's
like it's alive you like the red one the
most okay so the liquids evaporate the
videos evaporating at this point and I
never put the color on the rocks I only
put three drops of each color in the
vinegar and that's what happened it kind
of climbed up and you see it moving
around there on the red one because I
think there's a little bit more vinegar
still left there you go so this is
12,000 frames a second that's cool and
you see how smooth that looks Savannah
thinks that looks pretty that's pretty
cool and we have those here tonight so
where anyone who's in the studio
audience if you'd like to actually see
these crystals we're gonna we're gonna
look at those after the show what do you
think Zack isn't that cool yeah so
that's your hyperlapse video so are you
ready to show us how you create stick
bought time lapse videos all right so
that's your shadow there you go so we're
gonna jump over to our green screen set
over here Zack and you're gonna be able
to do that presentation okay I don't
think he's gonna say much we're gonna
all right let's go any of you kids in
the audience have you ever worked with
stick BOTS or stop-motion video at all
anybody here oh that would be great yes
thank you thanks a lot so nobody here
has ever done a stick pot video Oh
tally says yeah I've done stick my
videos for sure you have as well jarred
him with Lego figures we've got also
Liam over there yeah cool all right so
let's let's get a look at how you do
this so can you just quickly show us
your set now this is a homemade green
screen well let's open it up and show
the folks at home how it works and
so what program do you use in order to
do this it's stop-motion studio so why
don't you use the one that came with the
stick BOTS well what's what's different
about them that's it yeah this this
stop-motion studio it lets you do green
screen and stuff like that okay so
that's pretty necessary so what does the
green screen let you do do we have a
phone with stop-motion stop-motion
studio do you happen to have a phone
with you or if you could just pass me my
phone there they the orange one yeah
thanks Jeff Jeff's just kind of grabbing
that for us
so with stop-motion studio do you want
to fire this up and give it a go and
what we're gonna do is we're gonna get
you two to just kind of show the folks
at home how this works
I'm just really briefly and then while
we're while we're continuing on with the
show you can continue working on your
video okay and then at the end of the
show we're gonna actually we're gonna
show that video so that you can show
everyone at home how you're able to do
this so stop-motion is a little
different as we said it's gonna take it
no we don't need to make it a mega movie
motion picture right so so stick pots
are articulating and you can actually
move them around in order to yeah so do
you want to do like a five-second just
kind of quick video
all right well here okay well that's
that can't happen because the people at
home don't have 15 hours so what I'm
gonna do I'm gonna give you my phone
Zach but if you could set this up show
us how you set this up so this is a
tripod for the phone and this is
something that you can pick up at
various locations but it's actually a
stick pot tripod
good input thanks man okay so what else
have you got let's see you've got some
cotton balls that you use for beards and
things like that
okay I'm gonna look for stop-motion
studio there it is
alright so in stop-motion studio it's
just basically it's an application that
lets you take picture after picture as
you move your stop-motion and it all it
takes is a phone so if it's got a good
half decent camera you can actually do
really good up to 4k stop-motion video
so this is this stop-motion studio costs
about $5 at its base and and that's
going to give you everything that you
need to get started so do you want to
borrow my phone Zach and if you could
set up down here now these plastic guys
what's this for the green screen so the
green screen is just like a bristol
board in a stand that you can get at the
dollar store or something like that so
it's a nice cheap way to be able to
build a really good good sized green
screen so here you are do you want to
set that out and take a couple of frames
any questions from the audience you
folks kids have you ever seen this
before
no you never seen it do you want to come
and take a look this is pretty neat just
watch your step there that's all for
those who are getting this out for the
first time does it come up like a good
tutorial to show you
one thing sect is the app come with any
kind of tutorials yeah it doesn't this
is all you get
this is this is it this is your tutorial
so make it look at the camera you can
press what oh there's a hint button
okay well that's pretty cool it's pretty
straightforward the way it tells you
every single thing that's pretty cool
alright so you're gonna you're gonna do
a little video where you can move things
around so the stick bots or just see
these they're just little dolls that you
can actually move and you just move it
just a little tiny bit yeah
and are you gonna use chroma key the
green screen okay so you can change the
background and things like that so you
can move him just a little bit savanna
so when you move his arm just a little
tiny bit then you take a picture and
then you move it just a little bit more
and you take another picture and a
little bit more and so then when you
play back the video it actually looks
like as my arm is moving and you can
make them walk and because you just move
them just a little bit at a time it
actually will look like it's walking so
Zek is gonna put together a quick little
demonstration video for us that we're
gonna look at after the show so we're
gonna play that for you in just a couple
of minutes time
alright thanks that you get right to
work and we're gonna come back to you in
a little while okay good
thanks man so while Zek works away on
his stop-motion video we've got more for
you our next feature is this really cool
retro gaming machine and you can
actually get one of these a cat5 dot TV
slash arcade this is fun Liam are you
ready to show this thing off
alright I'm gonna head over to you hey
big guy
now you've been pretty excited about
this guy what is this it has 200 games
what what is okay tell me this what is
retro gaming I'm putting them on the
spot retro gaming is like old-style
video games like when mommy and daddy
were kids
how cool is that so let's look at you
want to just rip into the box alright so
this is a retro gaming system that's
available at camp five dot TV slash
arcade is it's all stuck together this
has never been open before folks let's
see we're gonna get right in like that
there does that help ok tell us all
about it what do you think you like the
Sega Genesis in other retro gaming
consoles and systems holy cow
dads moms get get a pair of scissors or
something there you go
ok can you get it in get it oh oh yeah
alright oh look at that it looks just
like a miniature arcade game cool what
do you think first impressions Liam
oh and he's pulling a little sticker off
here what are your first impressions
does it look pretty cool yeah speak to
me speak to me it does that's pretty
cool so you know it's fun this is one of
those things that just you know I have
the nerd I think has to have you know
their retro game fix Dave do you agree
let's do it cool and there's a there's a
itty-bitty screw that is holding the
battery door compartment closed which is
probably a good thing when you've got
when you've got kids that are gonna be
getting into this so I've got a
screwdriver right here then I'll grab
I've got what we need buddy
little Phillips screwdriver okay so how
much do we know about this thing it's
just a retro gaming system that looks
like an actual arcade game that's pretty
neat we excited ok I'm gonna take this
off so we can put the batteries in fire
oh you found the power switch on the
back so you know we all love our retro
pie and our Raspberry Pi gaming system
and our Sega Genesis device like Sasha
reviewed and this is just something that
out of the box
just the form-factor makes it so much
fun you ready buddy put that back on
we've got three equal alkaline batteries
in there and now the fun begins
what like Vanna it's doing the Vanna
White thing it makes sound cool
so you've got like a little menu system
that lets you choose a game you want to
fire one up and see what it looks like
how much fun is that eh
Oh neat cool what do you think it's good
I head on over the cat oh that's the
turn on switch what else do you want to
tell us about it has for 200 fun games
okay so he's occupied for the rest of
the show so that's you know that's good
we're gonna head back over to the studio
as you play that I guess I cool it's a
dream gear and you can get one a cat5 TV
slash arcade so if I had one of those I
would get nothing done at work it's true
it's true all right you're watching
category five technology TV our website
is category five TV welcome to the show
the kids are having a great time is
everybody here having a nice time you
having fun yeah and thank you for
joining us at home hey don't forget to
give us a thumbs up if you're enjoying
the video and comment below to encourage
the kids with regards to the features
that they're presenting tonight and let
us know what you think about about the
features as well so let's move right
along we've got lots to cover
we've got mangofox 70 Talley is here
tonight we've got Noah here as well are
you are you interested in
down and having a little chat about mind
test and minecraft and a couple of other
little tech gadgets that you're thinking
about all right so we're gonna head over
to the studio set over here we're gonna
have to sorry Liam we're gonna have to
move your side buddy all that perfect
okay brother
there we go all right so I'm with our
next feature we've got a couple of
friends here you guys can see me yeah
awesome it works
we've got tally aka mangle fox 70
joining us from the pixel shadow at mine
test TV and can you introduce yourself
as new one yeah and yeah I'm Noah and
I'm a youtuber my channel is gaming with
no Edison I only have 26 subscribers but
I do use this capra card right here the
elgato 60 so it's you know this is
pretty neat can I get a look at this
yeah sure so you've started recording to
to this guy yeah I can't really record
on because of my laptop is too slow to
handle it mm-hmm
but it's aged so do you plug it like a
Wii into it or something like that no
you see the HDMI in this goes from this
to the console this is a USB sheath at
least two USB 82 plug in your computer
you of course have to install the
software and then the HDMI code goes
into the TV so this works as so this is
not a hard drive this is an actual
capture device that lets you record yes
on your computer from your console is
basically the best one it supports 1080p
HD 60 frames a second
and that yeah and this little board over
here is like a headphone jack so you can
hear from the HDMI converts it to analog
that's cool because HDMI is a digital
signal so this is this is like a in
inline capture device so rather than
having to get a big computer that's
super powerful that you can record to
that has a bunch of HDMI input
at least five gigabytes of RAM test 500
no five five gigs yeah wow you got one
up me five so if you have a four gig
computer which is pretty typical then
you don't have enough RAM you usually a
lot we do things a little differently on
the pixel shadow which is kind of neat
because we have the computer here right
that Dell and we have HDMI output that
goes directly into our broadcast server
so it's a little bit different
and maybe you want to bring up one of
the games what when do you want to show
us first mind test okay so yeah
everybody knows what minecraft is but
people say and you have this question
like what's mine test yeah I played it I
played it yeah so what what's the
difference
tally between minecraft and mine tests
they're relatively similar games neither
one of them is a copy of each other when
most people think that line test is a
ripoff of minecraft you're actually both
inspired by a game I forget the name but
it was a voxel sandbox yeah cool but
they're both based off with that how are
they different like why why would you
want to buy minecraft when you can get
mind test for free it's basically a an
open source alternative to minecraft has
this thing called redstone which most of
you probably know where people can
create mini games where there's like
timers and ways to make you follow the
rules with in mind test there's no such
thing as redstone and people can't make
video mini games like so does that mean
that on minecraft there's a lot of
minigames but online tests maybe not so
much is that the idea you play a lot of
mini games minecraft II I do that yeah I
mostly play my servers on there's a
server called hypixel D and the IP is
mc.hypixel.net and and my rank you can
get ranks on it I got the best Frank MVP
+
no way - MVP + players here folks very
cool stuff
what does that mean yeah it's a ranking
and like it's like the best rank you can
get 6 week so you're like right up there
with the N TDM no yes you - yeah than
MVP + yeah yeah he has he has a few
followers I think yeah no there's not a
few on YouTube he has almost 50 million
subscribers yeah Wow
ok well let's get a look here I'm gonna
just get you online
see what's going on so can you show us a
little bit of game footage what do you
think maybe a local game or are you
gonna actually go online okay make sure
you select a server
make sure you select a server because
you're connecting to an internal IP
address IP or address oh okay
server is not mine test TV yeah it looks
right so basically in my test there's
some really great creator than survival
service because there's this mod called
the Arias mod which minecraft doesn't
have minecraft there's a lot of great
room because it doesn't have what how do
you protect your builds well in
minecraft in vanilla you just have to
like protect it no but my minecraft
protecting there is protecting mods but
it's not as good as much as protection
really okay so mine tests has got a
one-up on areas that's cool that means
that if you build something so if you
build a really cool structure and you've
taken a lot of time to do it what
happens if somebody then destroys it on
you also you're connected here
you are posting
on minecraft you can isn't that called
trust players trust play okay it's a
little bit different so this is mine
test we're looking at so this is what
some of the world trade looks like with
mods usually my minecraft is a game
where it's got lots of blocks and many
biomes and mine does in the vanilla
version of the game it doesn't really
have too many blocks just the basic
blocks you okay in the vanilla game and
it's meant so that you can add mods to
customize it to your liking like in
Minecraft it's already got all these
biomes and stuff but in mind test you
can choose what biomes and mod okay and
of course here connecting to our server
which you can find out more at mine test
TV but having connected to the server
these are mods that have been
pre-configured by category 5 in order to
make it playable for you so there you go
so should we take a quick boo at
minecraft just having seen mine test now
sure because they'll be interesting to
see you know how do the the two voxel
games differ no what does that look
pretty similar to Minecraft to you yeah
yeah but there are some differences yeah
like the graphics and I think texture
packs have a big part to do with that -
eh yeah texture packs like I like
sometimes they can only change some
blocks but a lot of the time texture
packs it's change like every single -
like like change like all the blocks
with yeah these packs are like mini
texture packs resource packs
I'm only changed some things okay I'm
thinking of the Lego server you can
actually connect a mind test on TPS Lego
and it looks like everything is built
out of Lego so if you're a lego fan it's
a lot of fun as well so this is this is
spawn very cool
but I'm on the air so basically this is
the weird spawn I mean what oh you can
tell that textures are pretty similar to
Minecraft but there's some big
differences in my intestine you can
enable connected glass because in
Minecraft glass looks kind of weird well
it's always framed yes is that the case
really yeah if you put two blocks right
next to each other you'll still see the
frame like in the connecting it's like
one big window mmm okay so that's kind
of a bonus looks nice anyways yeah it
doesn't matter what's extra practice you
can make it happen let's be texture
packs resource packs there are both
other players have made because wow the
area it make huge houses like this and
they've made roads connecting from this
road basically this is the creative
server there's also a survival one right
it's about right now this is neat too
because it's very collaborative so
you're connected to a server where you
can play with other players and and you
can you can build things together you
can play together that's pretty neat
okay could we take a quick boo at
minecraft and see what that looks and
how it differs so if we just exit out of
that game and see this one so what do
you focus on on your channel so we
pretty much focus on mine mind test I
know that you've done some minecraft
video i I do like the most different
gaming videos like what most of it is
minecraft but but there is some other
stuff on there and you've been teaching
other people how to get started with
their own channels I see yeah like how
to start had it started gaming channel
how to change your channel name how how
to used to capture card mmm so where do
you get your tech tech knowledge where
do you get your inspiration from for
learning about tech and gadgets and
gizmos and you obviously have a really
firm grasp of the technologies that
you're dealing with
I mean well like talking about this like
you understand HDMI inputs and outputs a
lot of kids your age won't won't know
what that means it's it's just because
like I used consoles and a lot of them
have hdmi ports so and you folks let you
do all the wiring yourself and yeah yeah
that's remember when I first moved into
my new house
I look like I I used to have like an
Xbox 360 Wii U Wii oh wow
I still have my Wii U and my week and my
Gamecube gaming has has inspired you to
learn about the technology and how to
make it work yeah pretty much
very cool and I noticed things like you
you started by holding a camera in front
of your screen and then you got video
capture software on the iPhone and then
you just step things up to this capture
device and everything like that you say
you have to and also yeah you have to
install a software yeah yeah make sense
absolutely your computer mm-hmm
are you set and ready to go show us a
little bit about how minecraft differs
here so you're actually are you
connecting to a server alright we'll
jump in and let's let's get a quick boot
that's hype excellent yes 36,000 players
what so that definitely is a little
different from mine test because mine
test doesn't have anywhere near that
many people connected all once yeah yeah
my crowd was more popular mm-hmm a
Minecraft came out before my test pretty
sure yeah I think I think you're right I
think you're right thank you he came out
2010 okay all right
minecraft came out 2010 okay I'm not
sure when mine test first came out but
it's constantly been improving so all
right looks pretty thick so pretty much
the same stuff cookie Tech joined so
looks gotta be someone on your friend
list any anything else that we'd like to
share about Minecraft versus mind test
so this is a mini game as you have
minimes
where you basically have your own plot
and you can build your own houses people
can come and vote for your house you'll
unlock blocks okay you'll unlock blocks
to use in your house is like like after
you play for a while it'll give me
something called mystery boxes in the
server and then like you open it and you
get random stuff neat
alright well thank you and if you have a
four or five star one you don't have a
rank you can't open it for a four star
you need uh you mean yet your MVP plus
right yeah but for like the before I had
an MVP plus I had a VIP plus but yeah
and the mystery Falls way up the four
star ones can only have VIP and up and
and the five star one can only have MVP
and up cool well since I'm a VP plus
site I can use I just go for it yeah
that's very cool a servant's alright
well thanks you too for for being on the
show and for showing us a little bit
more about Minecraft and mind test
thanks for sharing about your Auto
gaming capture card very cool and it
works really well yeah great well good
luck with your channel and mangofox 70
aka tally things are going well with
your channel you've been doing a lot of
stop-motion as well and as we look at
stop-motion tonight what have you been
doing a little differently from your
brother you've been doing hyperlapse
with your drawings yeah and you can
check those out as well on her youtube
channel which is a lot of fun and
there's a clip for you just to show you
what it looks like that's pretty neat to
be able to use hyperlapse to actually
draw a picture as well alright you too
thank you so much we're gonna head back
over to the show and this is category 5
technology TV thank you everybody for
tuning in we're thinning out the kids
are starting to to disappear so we're
gonna take a really quick break and when
we come back we've got your news and a
couple more features for y we're gonna
check in with echo over there I see he's
progressing very well with his
stop-motion so stick around
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name so your own com dice to put
that amazing website that you've been
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a wordpress site fine sign
up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost
just don't prepare the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash dream host this is
category five technology TV welcome to
the show if this is your first time here
well this is our March Break family
special thank you so much for joining us
and if you're a longtime viewer hey it's
nice to have you back you can find our
website category five dot TV tonight
we're kind of changing up the format of
the news a little bit because we do have
a lot of kids here in the studio and
they're you know they're occupied so
let's get right into it and make sure
you post your comments in the chat room
as well if you have any for us so what
stories have you got for us tonight well
the first story which is awesome
PlayStation PlayStation now which is
it's like a Sony's Netflix like game
streaming service right yes I've heard
of that okay so it'll let subscribers
play ps4 games on with their Windows PC
really yeah so you can actually play
your ps4 games on the team on the
computer yes right that's cool now I
thought this was interesting considering
I mean unless there was some sort of
amalgamation that I'm not aware of the
fact that it's PlayStation games on a
Windows machine I fully expected it for
Xbox sure and I do believe in facts box
that do have something that you can but
I was very interested to hear there was
PlayStation mhm so I'm wondering as far
as the backend programming to make this
happen does this now open up the door
for being able to mod these games into
Linux based systems
Oh wouldn't that be nice that would be
really good so this is exciting
especially because I have a ps4 and love
nice so do you use the PlayStation now I
do not I do not do this thingy that's
just a person more like jump you know
not that that ever happened is gay
there's a story we're talking about a
smart jacket when I think about a smart
jacket I think about the British phrase
for something that is smart but an
actual smart denim jacket it looks just
like a jean jacket but they've
incorporated some smart technology into
it so it actually communicates with your
phone yes and you can use that to
control it now what I thought was
interesting is why denim but no cyclists
I think was one of the things right this
is yeah why would you hold me I'm jacket
is probably an odd choice but it is cool
that you you can just swipe on the
sleeve and get yeah well you know what
I've seen people on their bikes holding
their phone texting doing not that
anyone ever drives intact okay but but
how is it gonna make it dangerous
instead of just looking at their sleeve
here's the no it's not a screen
your bike right your sleeve is right
there and it's not a screen it's right
so we're talking what I mean okay phone
rings yep okay and typically you're
biking along you pull the phone out of
your pocket and hold it to your ear and
you're like this and you know when
you're having to answer it like this or
you're having to make a call by dialing
and for some reason you don't stop right
all you need is your swipe denim jacket
and your communicator there you go now
we're talking that's good
styling that's good till you get a
little bit of mud on your sleeve you
know and then you're like calling mom
no kiddos everybody who's in the studio
can you guys that keen guys hear me has
anyone here ever heard of boaty
mcboatface
boaty mcboatface you never heard of that
really I don't have you remember this
but there was a failed social experiment
yeah didn't they look people got to vote
the name of a new submarine yeah like a
wig it was initially a boat it wasn't a
boat like she liked it was like a
quarter I'm looking for the yeah quarter
of a billion dollars this boat that's
more than my house right I do you think
so that's hard math for you ring so a
quarter of a billion dollar boat and
they put up on social media help us name
this boat whoever gets the most votes is
gonna get to name the boat what got what
got the most votes
boaty mcboatface boaty mcboatface so
anyways tell us the story what's going
on okay so oh thanks savanah
she'll be back don't worry stepped
outside okay boaty mcboatface
boaty mcboatface there's actually more
than one Bodi there's I guess if there's
there's a Bodi family a Bodi family no
matter one of the boats one of the bodis
is a submarine okay it's going to I
guess head out on the
ventures of Bodhi in for Punta Aires and
oh I'm so for Chile in Chile okay here's
what I want to know are they gonna have
David Bowie on Bodie Oh that'd be
amazing
like we've got to introduce Bodie that
behave so there you have it boaty
mcboatface is about to take its maiden
voyage this is really happening
this is real life it sort of reminds me
of the bell in our technology to be
honest with you because boaty mcboatface
the submarine yeah is going to be
mapping like the deep waters and trying
to hear it some clothes like climate
change
cool imma change within the water
hmm that's cool Halloween has come early
kids oh this is a creepy story do you
guys know this is a very do you guys
know what Amazon echo is or Alexa has
anyone heard of that they are right into
the video games now so Amazon Alexa is
an artificial intelligence that you can
talk to the story is somebody made their
Billy bass you know the little yeah they
turned got into Alexa okay so the mouth
would move at the timing of Alexis
speaking that's the creepy part it's
ready for Jared it's a skull the skull
an articulating skull on a stand that
talks the voice of Alexa heisman it's
really creepy yeah so this is a this is
an artificial intelligence that you talk
to and you say what's the weather and
all of a sudden the skull starts telling
you the weather let's just agree that is
kind of cool kind of creepy and you the
worst part would be you have like a bad
dream you get up to go grab the clock
Alexa what time is it what time is it
all yeah it's nice to have you here
thanks for joining us tonight is
category 5 on freenode Zek over there
working away I can see ya now are you
done you're done nice so let's let's get
a look at this video that that you've
put together for us
[Music]
that was a good dream
a really good one okay so in the
audience we've got a couple of folks who
have brought some technology with them
so we've got it looks like a teenager
own do you want to come and tell us all
about that maybe we could come and see
your dad and and he can interview you
and talk a little bit about this device
all right so this is Owen and he's got
his teeny drone and now what can you
tell me about the teenager that well
it's a drone yeah that's good start it's
got a really awesome controller charger
and some extra little wings and little
lights and stuff and the one thing that
you like about this teenager Owen is
that you can actually use it inside the
house yeah yep because it's not usually
breakable yeah yeah so that way he
doesn't get lost in a tree as he's
learning to fly his teeny drone and you
know the kids get a kick out of the fact
that you know it's just floating around
the house we had fun we kind of fluid up
the stairs a couple days and so you
think use him during his TV drone can I
tell you too funny stories about my
teeny drone not mine thieves well one he
got tangled in my hair oh and one he
lost in a tree so he's better now he's
better now but there you go
so maybe make sure everybody's hair is
tied up yeah yeah when I first got a
teeny drone Talley do you remember that
where I got a tangled in your hair and
that's exactly what happened to us eh oh
and Jarrod it's a teeny drone flyer as
well and you got it tangled up in the
sisters house so it had its common
that's cool how how are you at flying
are you learning to
I'm still trying to learn but I'm
getting a bit better at it awesome good
yeah yeah he's doing all right he's
having fun with it
it looks awesome thanks man all right
thanks for bringing it in now do we have
anyone else in the audience who has any
technology that they would like to show
anyone anyone at all anybody anyone in
the audience anyway oh oh is that
Savannah Savannah would you like to come
up and show us your piece of technology
now
Savannah's super excited because she
keeps asking to come onto the show oh
yeah oh we are Luke's been here I wanted
it so she's finally here no you know
what maybe pick her up yeah oh this is
amazing so what is this pink thing we
got going on here it's a it's a timer
it's a clock so you got this clock for
what yours are your birthday yeah it was
her birthday
and what do you like about this clock so
Savannah is a big fan of the movie
trolls yeah and aren't we all Savannah I
mean how do you not love this trolls are
amazing so they're bringing it back
they've brought it back
do you remember trolls when we were kids
yeah so yes Savannah likes it because of
the music the flashing lights and as
soon as I hear the song it gets stuck in
my head for about three days straight
antastic so do you want to get the song
stuck in my head my pushing the button
okay
yeah she'll play this and just walk
around the house with Atmos honors on
her shoulder yeah exactly fresh like
she's all street fresh out of the gate
yeah that's block this is that your
favorite piece of technology nice well
done thanks for bringing it in Savannah
and thanks for being here tonight on our
March break family special you want to
show oK we've got one more piece of
technology he's excited about this this
is pretty exciting oh and Jared you did
you bring something as well oh nice okay
we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna take
a look at that in just a second okay
Liam this is pretty special because this
is from Ripley's Aquarium our little
trip hey what do you got a watch nice
and it's pretty cool because it looks
like what character Oh
a penguin what's the Penguins name yes
Bob super tux nice nicely done
okay show us how it works how do you put
it on nice very cool well thanks for
bringing it on man
great job sweet you like it are you
learning to tell time good I like that
it's analog yeah it's a it's like a dial
old-style one great very cool kids need
to work with those hands thanks man
all right no adults don't we've got one
more that looks like is this is this a
watch as well our final feature of the
night hey come on up
here comes Jared Jared is one of our
videographers on the drone zone so you
may have seen him before
hey buddy hey you're gonna have to speak
up cuz I've just got a microphone on me
okay sounds good what do you got so I
actually have a Garmin vivofit 2 and I
got this last year actually at a source
and it's just typical like it's like a
Fitbit or whatever it tracks my um the
date how many steps you've walked how
many steps how many steps we got today
I've got 4206
I do not have that hold on let me check
I did go to the gym today though I don't
know where my phone is
see I'm walking back and forth in the
studio I'm not counting my steps 2815
let me see here okay wait 4,000 is lazy
like 10 to 15
what are you healthy do you really like
outside around every day side on the
tractor
7050 a yes okay sorry nice so do you
find that the this the fitness tracker
encourages you to yeah like try harder
and yes so you can attach it to your
like you can sync it up with your iOS or
Android device or your computer and you
can actually enter like competitions
with other people so that is a bit of a
friendly motivation to and it's cheaper
than the Fitbit hmm and because the
Fitbit alone like just a band to get a
new stylish band it's like 70 bucks for
a new band and this you can buy
replacement for like 15 bucks or
whatever Wow
and so it this was $80 on sale
makes 120 dollars but I was in price
comparison doing a price comparison it
wasn't good so how often you have to
charge that does it hold a charge
Purdue it has a battery and you just
replace it once a year
oh nice and then it tracks your sleeping
patterns too so how deep your sleep was
how long it was oh yeah that you run
every day that's good that's good keep
it up man just so you guys know I just
logged a hundred steps oh come on
behind my back here all right thanks man
yeah all right well thank you everybody
for joining us tonight on our March
break family special thanks for being
here thank you everybody
everybody's shouting out you're welcome
and I hope everybody had fun hope you
had fun at home please visit our website
category 5 TV give a thumbs up on this
video for all the hard work of these
kids tonight
and what's that Noah oh yeah subscribe
to gaming with noah Edison and we posted
the link earlier in the show so don't
you worry make sure you subscribe and
yeah happy st. Patrick's Day all that
fun stuff and we'll see you again next
Wednesday night when we can just kind of
let go ha we're gonna do a show where
it's just like ah all right folks have a
great week we'll see ya
what's your question
shadow
