here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Boeing wants to make your passenger
airplanes entirely autonomous Amazon
Amazon Kindles book charts are being
badly skewed by BOTS and it's hurting
authors bottom lines a battery powered
by trash is now a proven reality and the
new Mars rover looks like something
Batman might drive these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what aren't you but you're
terrible actor what does where acting
comes into play oh I don't know where
are they you're supposed to act okay
fair enough
I know I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website it's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
account how many domains can point to it
well we've got an amazing deal for you
for a very limited time cap 5 dot TV
slash dream host for just $5 and a bit
of change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name through your own calm
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost
don't put it on a paper something just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
I'm fascism ATIS and here are the top
stories for the week of June 14 2007
seen the days of listening to the
captain speaking on a flight might be
numbered according to Boeing the
aerospace aerospace giant has been
actively working on the pilot list
technology and has already built an
automatic takeoff and landing system
into its newest model the 787 dreamliner
the industry is also facing a severe
shortage of pilots so Boeing is looking
for a high-tech solution Mike Senate VP
of Boeing's responsible for future
technology says the basic building
blocks of the technology are clearly
available there's going to be a
transition from the requirement to have
a skilled and skilled aviator operate
the airplane to having a system that
operates the vehicle autonomously if we
can do that at the same level of safety
he goes on to say that's a really big if
the gold standard he explained is to
build an AI flight system that can
replicate captain Chelsea Sully
Sullenberger z-- 2009 landing of a
crippled jet on the Hudson River in New
York losing no passengers in the process
the captain was praised for choosing his
unusual landing spot rather than trying
to make it to an airport which as was
later realized was highly unlikely to
have worked however getting a computer
to make the same decision is a challenge
Sinnott said we are not smart enough to
pre program all those things the machine
has to be capable of making the same set
of decisions if it can't we can't go
there I will take a moment to say that
that captain Sully I'm like amazing
decision he made I don't everybody
remembers this I'm certain but to have
the the level of requirement like the
computers must be at least as smart as
you buddy
it released be able to make decisions
yeah well here's the thing like being
somebody in aviation like aviation
management that's my program in college
and I'm a pilot
I actually don't see this technology
taking over the commercial space for a
least another three or four decades
believe it or not because right now in
aviation we're still using radio
navigation which sounds what's that
we've been using that since like World
War two
right so like radio beacons and things
like that we're still getting used to
GPS in aviation right so if you think
about that imagine the ability to have
no no one in the cockpit like in
aviation that's the weird thing is that
these technologies take a longer time to
get and like used to because the amount
of safety involved especially like if
you're talking about the FAA so America
Transport Canada you have to get it all
certified everything else right sure and
what if there's a power outage what if
there's something else right so me
personally I'm not sure if I can see
this being implemented for like another
few decades but if there's like a heart
attack or like if there's something else
right it's sort of like the autopilot
sort of situation if you have that as a
backup yeah like a learning autopilot or
it happened though where instead of just
jumping right to hey this plane flies
itself so it already lands and takes off
by itself it already has autopilot so
could it not become more well I guess
left less of a skilled position to be a
pilot because being a pilot yeah you
have to be really focused and in tune
with what's going on around you well not
even dot because nowadays has really
come down to pushing a button right
because as soon as the airplane takes
off yeah they're on autopilot that's
saying at what point is the pilot needed
it's when the decision-making comes back
exactly it's the human element right so
God being said can you fly it like it's
your own somewhere else right or yeah
that's interesting sorry too could the
pilot if we so would say it continues to
be pilot but could they be less skilled
and just be a decision-maker and the
autonomous nature of the plane is able
to take the decisions made by this
person and implement them so as I say
you know we're not going to make it the
computer may not be able to realize
we're not going to make it to the
airport mm-hmm we need to land on the
Hudson River yeah could I not say to the
computer that's what we're going to do
and the computer just obliges and
doesn't think well that's the thing
right I think it's going to be a slow
movement into this right so like if we
are going this direction we might see oh
maybe we'll let the systems do their
thing but we might have somebody there
like a pilot that happen
that there Ferguson right that's why I
see a nightie right like just I wonder
if there's a shortage of pilots maybe
having something like this fly the plane
will increase the pilot hours because I
know that's a thing you can you can be a
pilot and you're only allowed to fly a
certain number of hours because how taxi
is intentionally if you're right but if
you have a program that's flying the
plane for you maybe you can fly double
the hours
sorry pilot momoney momoney must be
smart I want a career come on man I want
to keep my hours up so do you want 10
hours a day or 20 exactly alright so
same story fake books powered by clicks
arms are gate-crashing Amazon's charts
and despite being aware of the issue for
well over a year Amazon and thus far
failed to resolve it first of all it's
important to understand that the
author's share a lump sum pot in the
money of in Kindle unlimited program the
progressively big issue with this is
that scammers have been raiding the
Kindle unlimited pot using a simple but
effective trick they usually pull for
the contents first of all pilfer the
content first of all by stealing
legitimate authors work and running it
through a Sonata miser and then
uploading it to Amazon thus avoiding the
automatic plagiarism detectors they make
sure the book is as long as possible but
as they're enrolling the title and
Kindle unlimited they keep it under the
programs limit of 3,000 pages these
thieves make the books free for a few
days and then use a variety of banned
methods to generate a huge and immediate
surge in downloads generally suspected
to be BOTS or clique farms or W accounts
or some combination thereof these fake
books then suddenly jump into the top 20
of the free charts displacing authors
who have gone to a considerable effort
to put together an advertising campaign
for their work when authors and readers
report these fake books to Amazon no
action usually gets taken until the
following Monday by then it's often too
late and these titles have returned to
the paid listings and the subsequent
boost in page reads which normally
follows a free run enables them to grab
a
chunk of the Kindles unlimited the
Kindle unlimited pot which is the same
shared pot that all authors get paid
from man I know this firsthand because
that guy's an author and she's on Amazon
she's on Kindle she oh yeah
so we run these promos Wow for you know
we want to give away the book for free
for seven days right right so if someone
does something like this and it takes
away from like revenue from that and the
amount of countless hours that a true
author puts into it's heartbreaking you
know it really is not only that I didn't
even realize anonymizer is a thing but
could you imagine somebody taking her
book running it through this anonymizer
which I guess is just replacing every
word with another synonymous worth yeah
and then reaping the benefit of the work
that she's done with no effort at all I
bought Becca book Chesterton book while
ago I think it was for Christmas or
something and it was off of Amazon but
it was a it was a paperback so it
probably came from Kindle direct or
something like that yeah and when she
read it she commented about there's a
lot of weird like the terminology is
weird
and then it hit us as we were as we
learned about this story could that book
have been synonym eyes synonyms in the
Maya and then a miser you know what cuz
then people are able to sell this book
and make revenue from it and this was a
physical book the Kindle Direct press
allows also a printed book well that's
the thing right is that I think that
this is going to be a huge field
especially when we're talking about like
AI and machine learning because there's
so much potential for business there
especially because like you know YouTube
has the auto flagging feature for
copyright yeah so wonder if somehow
these companies are going to integrate
like AI machine learning into when it
scans a book like you know how it has to
that's why they have to change all like
the nouns and verbs and everything yeah
yeah but yeah I wonder if that's an
application for some kind of artificial
intelligence Wow
coming bookworms just heartbreaking is
crazy
pursuing more efficient sources of
renewable energy has led many to many
iterations of the battery but
researchers had just brought a really
interesting new version to the table one
made from potassium ions and trash the
scientists started with a rusty recycled
stainless steel mesh and used a
potassium ferrocyanide solution which is
also used in red wine production and
fertilizers to dissolve ions out of the
meshes layer of rust so I am totally
just like sick why one for you one for
me one for you battery me that's why
okay
those ions including iron and nickel
then combined with other ions in the
solution together they form the salts
that clung to the massive scaffolded
nano cubes that could store and release
potassium ions the movement I know the
movement of potassium ions allows for
conductivity which was boosted with an
added coating of oxidized graphite
lithium body batteries have been the
go-to version for renewable energy
storage but lithium is expensive and
exists in limited amounts plus
Philippian batteries have had a
troublesome history of exploding sodium
ion batteries have been suggested as an
alternative because sodium is plentiful
and cheap too qualities that also apply
to the potassium ion views in this study
so this battery was just a
proof-of-concept study for the
researchers it has an impressive result
the battery has high-capacity discharge
voltage and cycle stability its use of
recycled materials makes it an
especially appealing possibility he said
good news the good news always makes me
so happy to make you think of Back to
the Future doc Oh garbage into the Yaqui
yes sure Martin I did Marty doing this
record it so cool so every Morty
reference to by Parker Brothers concepts
the same florida-based custom vehicle
shop that built a tron inspired electric
water cycle has now designed and built a
new NASA rover for humans to drive
around on
the result looks like something Adam
West would be proud to drive around the
surface of the Red Planet at two to
three times the size of the Mars
Curiosity rover and weighing in at over
three times heavier it would not be easy
getting this new concept vehicle to Mars
or landing it all in one piece it would
be well worth the attempt the
scientifically themed Mars rover concept
vehicle operates on an electric motor
powered by solar panels and a seven
hundred volt battery the rover separates
in the middle with the front area
designed for scouting and equipped with
a radio and navigation provided by the
Global Positioning System the back
section serves as a full laboratory
which can disconnect for autonomous
research it's doubtful that this vehicle
will ever leave Earth however some of
the ideas are presented in it might be
incorporated into future Rover designs
including the upcoming large 2020
mission that is awesome hey your face
Panthers eye I'm like oh yeah
I was just thinking about Adam West yeah
I tried that on the Google silence for
sure yeah I would totally Drive that to
school I'm thinking hey if they can't
get it to Mars
I'll take it drive it around you have
available W the category 5 movie
knocking about getting you a rock
awesome if I'm driving a nut I also want
self-lacing shoes perfect awesome thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
faster made
[Music]
[Applause]
