it's a very Merry Christmas with
category 5 technology TV tonight we
forego the tech and bring you our
christmas special starring Abigail Smith
Rachel jus Krista wells Eric Kidd
Hillary Rumble Erica lalonde Robbie
Ferguson and Sasha derm atis also
featuring special guest performances by
Kristina Scala and Karrie Webb and now
here's your host Ravi Ferguson welcome
to our very special very Merry Christmas
here category 5 technology TV episode
number 275 here we are Wow lots of
exciting stuff planned for tonight yeah
it's great merry christmas merry
christmas everybody yeah it's Tuesday
the 25th of december 2012 and here we
are we've never missed a show here at
category 5 TV 275 weeks in and it fell
on a Christmas yes what luck yeah Sasha
dear mattes is joining us tonight how
you been great doesn't have a good
Christmas so far super great Christmas
yeah yeah looking forward to this yeah
this has been like the exciting part of
my weekend this is big anxiously
awaiting all the stuff that we have
planned for dinner i'll just mention
we've got some amazing spectacular
prizes to give away we're gonna be
filling you in on all the details so
make sure you stick around for the whole
show we've got music for you we've got
entertainment dancing are we dancing are
you dancing with dancing for christmas
who knows dance party yeah you know all
right I think people are just gonna all
of a sudden start showing up so nobody's
here just yes you and I it's kind of one
kind of quiet not a creature was
stirring not even a mouse that was last
night hey Ravi hey Sasha Abigail yeah
yeah good good let me get over here
Merry Christmas yeah makers you good to
see you yes to know what what are you up
to now just keeping busy working I don't
think yeah good yeah gonna school and
yes yes dance
good five years later yeah I actually
came here cuz I was wondering if maybe I
could sing a Christmas song for your
great we'd love that do you mind if I
pick up my guitar now sure I company you
may be great cool all right
my child is this
boo lay to rest on there
wrist love is sleeping angels Creed with
I'm sweet while Shepherds watch are
keeping
the King whom Shepherds guard and angels
sing hey to bring him on the babe the
son
love man
so bringing him
since gold and myrrh
comparison key to all
the King of Kings salvation brings let
loving the hearts and throw
ray
is a song on high the Virgin sings her
love
for christ is born love it
the son of man
re me
this is christ the king who shed
efforts guard and angels sing hey stay
still
I'm on the babe the son of man
re the big
for the song
of men
hey I was beautiful thank you happy else
well sorry too i got a cig and dash but
i just wanted to come and sing a song
for your special but thank you so much
to everyone so exciting my Christmas no
no Christmas yes thanks for being here
alright have a good night yeah you too
all right wow that was awesome that was
amazing Wow done now let me tell you
category five TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the international association of
internet broadcasters thanks action
you're welcome hi here's somebody else
coming in hey Robbie hey Sasha how's it
going yeah what a surprise oh don't even
say hi I made it back Christmas users I
guess well I've been doing great
actually that a back man long time oh
yeah three months I've been stuck in my
books and now i'm back and i can
actually play halo 4 i've been looking
forward to it what is that Oh halo 4
halo fool like Xbox or something Xbox
it's all for the lenox off of the
computer all right sorry we have a wii
upstairs and that's that's fun but i
don't really get into the games cuz our
kids are so young oh I understand I
don't know I'm still stuck with the
consoles like I i don't know i love them
i haven't really been able to enjoy them
i've just been stuck in my lap top
studying listen teddy repower points
like now now in university I can pretty
much go online it's all there like all
my content is there but just dream well
hey you know what you're here now it's
our Christmas special and I just
relaxing and have a nice time and you're
here hey what do you say you do a song
song for you guys awesome okay well I've
got my guitar right here Oh so let's
let's see if I can play a little
something for you
haha addy with a capo on G and joy to
the world the Lord has come
receive her King
every heart prepare
heaven and nature sing and heaven and
nature sing
heaven and nature sing
joy to the world the Savior
let man the songs and go
in the hills and Plains repeat the
sounding joy repeat the sounding joy
repeat repeat the sounding joy very nice
he rules the world with truth and grace
and makes a nation screw
of his love his love and wonders wonders
of his love
well merry Christmas to you guys and
you've surely be missed but I will be
back January first brand new year and a
brand new semester awesome well hey
thank you so much for stopping in Merry
Christmas Tia only Christmas to you
stick around for a little bit and we'll
see in a couple minutes of course all
right well done Erica you know what this
has been a huge year for category 5
technology TV we celebrated our fifth
year anniversary five years on the air I
mentioned 275 episodes we've never
missed a Tuesday night here it has
fallen on it on a Christmas a day and
and here we are presenting our very
special Christmas special for you that's
right I was lucky because the 5th
anniversary party i think was my second
episode in yeah it was a big blast how
was that for you because like that being
you were kind of the newest kid on the
block kind of thing that's right it was
nerve-racking Stefan in donating Oh what
have I gotten into here that's right
live studio audience and no nothing will
faze me yeah that's right way to
initiator that's right I might actually
even sing a song eventually I'll see if
we can talk me into it mystica it's been
an incredible five years though I mean
it's it's just been so awesome to have
people like Sasha and Eric and Hilary
and Erica and Krista and everybody
that's involved in the show just to name
a few I mean Abigail also has been on
the show a couple times we've got Rachel
shoe who is away right now but hopefully
we'll see her tonight and you know just
everybody who's involved and even
Heather behind the scenes helping out
with the show five years of doing
category 5 and here we are and
especially I mean you at home as well
who are watching the show we appreciate
you and your what has kept this going
for 275 episodes or support your
feedback your support and we just thank
you so much for being here tonight for
our very crisp very Merry Christmas here
at category 5 technology TV a little bit
different tonight mm-hmm who knows oh
gee that's right just relaxing chilling
on christmas i hope you
having a fun Christmas with with your
loved ones and and all of those who are
close to you and we're wishing you a
very Merry Christmas hear from category
5 technology TV tonight look who it is
this rachel shoe hey ray yeah how you
been I've been good yeah but we haven't
seen you forever yep yeah so what do you
mean Merry Christmas you to feel like
doing a little song not really thanks
Rachel but she will because we love you
cuz I want a Christmas gift is that is
that her motivation my reason I got her
an ubuntu CD fantastic I don't even know
it
Rachel's going to do a little song for
us now
ah
Oh
I
is right
shy
and slow today
ease see
thanks ray yeah so what's new I mean you
pop by for our christmas special nice to
see you not what's new no yeah well yeah
viewers will be happy and excited to
know that you're coming back to us
during season six it's been add away on
a sabbatical for a little while and
gonna be joining us again looking
forward to that where to find myself on
the moon oh so you're that Rover thing
gotcha well hey good to see you Merry
Christmas and you too and expect the big
gift okay big pay raise in the new year
well thanks for coming it's great to see
a cheers everyone it's not filming
anymore right right oh thanks Rachel you
know what along the lines of the whole
pay raise Jonn okay everybody here is a
volunteer category five technology TV
but I did get you all 1 billion dollars
wait russell stover oh you lost your mic
look at this hello hello can you hear me
now can you again oh hello okay Barry so
excited to put in dollars I don't need
any more it's just chocolate oh sorry
about that i also like chocolate
chocolate 3d printed chocolate yeah hey
we've got some amazing prizes i
mentioned at the top of the special
tonight we've got some fantastic prizes
to give away tonight first of all okay
what you need to do is head on over to
cat five dot TV / christmas and at that
website you're going to see that we have
lots of different prizes to give away
just to mention a couple I've got ESET
nod32 antivirus one year subscriptions
as well as protection from malware from
by malwarebytes we've got a lifetime
license for that to give to you so
hopefully you know head on over to our
website enter your name as a bow
it and hopefully old your guys's awesome
Christmas swag tonight that stuff is
meant to you don't keep your computer
safe so we've got that nod32 antivirus
one year subscription and a lifetime
license for malwarebytes so cat five dot
TV / Christmas incidentally you can
download a free copy of all of the music
that you're hearing here tonight which
is afraid free but donations are also
appreciated certainly absolutely so I
want some mp3's of of the show tonight
help yourself cat five dot TV /
Christmas all right sound good sounds
great hey Robbie Eric man merry
christmas merry Chris great to see you
what do you do man all right Jane what a
great day are you having fun I just
dropped in I thought maybe I'd talk you
out of an eggnog or something oh I can
help you there okay yeah you want me go
get you one yeah all right ya hear this
sit here and take a look at your guitars
and stuff sure all right hello anybody
home where are you Christmas party at
Hillary Merry Christmas yeah Robbie just
ran upstairs it total money enigma ok
wow I still get you one too this sounds
like the perfect time for a little
singsong Florida for Bobby comes back oh
that was innocent ok all right
dashing through the snow in a one-horse
open sleigh o'er the fields we go
laughing all the way bells on bobtail
ring making spirits bright what fun it
is to laugh and sing a sleighing song
tonight jingle bells jingle bells jingle
all the way oh
hey Gino bells jingle bells jingle OH to
ride in a one-horse open sleigh I don't
want other purse tickle a Quaker to go I
thought I'd take a rubber and soon miss
Fanny bright was seated by my style in
horse was long in lank misfortune seemed
his lot we rode into a drifted bank and
then we were off saw boy jingle bells
jingle bells jingle all the way oh what
fun it is to ride in a one-horse open
sleigh hey jingle bells jingle bells
jingle
so fiercely
you keep going you're beautiful so
talented that was a fun little number
should we do another oh I think robe is
cool I'm get out of here yeah like he
doesn't like it when I just do same
songs oh wats okay well merry Christmas
everyone wishing you and your families
the best holiday and I hope you have a
fabulous day get outside if you have
some snow make a snowman and have fun
and I'll see you in the new year that
we're friends all over the real baby
wish had snow I know you do by air thank
you thanks for singing little fun my mom
was my room where's my nog hey bud I got
that eggnog that ya how are ya I I was
just upstairs I heard we're using in
falsetto or what it sounded beautiful
down here yeah yeah yeah that's it ok
we'll say falsetto that's what I was
doing okay well I'm gonna go sit down
with sashes enjoy your eggnog yeah I
actually sorry it took so long i had to
grind the nutmeg well that's really nice
I'm just gonna have a seat here thanks
that eggnog looks delicious oh yeah a
little bit of whipped cream and fresh
ground nutmeg on top of that beautiful
there's this stuff this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson I am Sasha dramatis your
co-host we are stepping right outside a
format tonight for a very merry
christmas special here category 5
technology TV check out our website
triple w category five dot TV and for
tonight's very special broadcast we also
have a page set up for you to be able to
participate in contests download the
music that you're hearing here tonight
and that is cat five dot TV / christmas
that's right lots of great prizes that
we're giving away as well and you'll see
all the details right on that website
cat5 TV / Christmas one more product
that we're giving away we love eco
alkalines there eco responsible
batteries the first and as I understand
that the only carbon neutral
battery battery that is available and
they're fantastic so you know do
something for the earth and they're
excellent quality batteries as well
we've got a couple of sordid packs of
these to send out to you so all you have
to do is enter your information on that
website to cast your ballot and that is
another one of the prizes the fantastic
prizes from our sponsors that we're
going to be giving away this week so
these are the great answer and solution
to all of those presents you bought and
forgot to buy batteries yeah see there
you got it because they eat up batteries
and so you want them to be landfill safe
that's right so get online all right
we've also got let's see a level 10 m
mouse now you saw this on the show here
category 5 TV there it is delectable
fantastics we've got one of these to
give away from thermaltake TT esports as
well so make sure that you cast your
ballot a cat five dot TV / christmas
mm-hmm actually we don't have one of
those to give away any longer sorry
about that game what I think someone
else is here Hey look who it is hey guys
merry christmas Oh Eric hi Merry
Christmas hey Krista hi nice to see you
to see you well we're gonna liven up
this joint let's liven it up let's sing
a song Oh what do you think we should
sing let's uh wish them a Merry
Christmas let's do that all right
we wish you a Merry Christmas we wish
you a Merry Christmas we wish you a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year the
tidings we bring to you and your kin
good tidings for Christmas and a Happy
New Year what are we missing figgy
pudding we all want to figure pudding we
all want to fit pudding we all want some
figgy pudding so bring it right here
good tidings we bring to you and your
kin good tidings for Christmas and a
Happy New Year who's coming Oh Santa we
all know that synth is coming we all
know that Santa's coming we all know
Santa's coming here good tidings we
bring to you and your kin good tidings
for
Christmas and a Happy New Year we wish
Merry Christmas we wish you a Merry
Christmas nicely done cute haha
excellent no I don't know what we're
gonna do now maybe I should get back to
the show perhaps all right well great I
was great thanks that's right well thank
ya thanks guys we've got another great
prize for you as sin free talk buds
we've got a couple of an assortment of
different colors of these these are
fantastic they are earbuds with
excellent sound quality but also they've
got a built-in microphone so if you're
using this with your iphone or your
let's say your blackberry or anything
like that it will actually pick up your
voice as well so as you take a phone
call you don't have to unplug your
headphones plug in the error just top
pick up the phone and start talking
about this will actually work just as it
is so this would be good if you were
driving as well then yeah I guess that
would work his hands-free wouldn't it
yeah fantastic so those are talk about
century another great product from Le I
products com and we've got a bunch of
those to give away all different colors
so make sure you go over to cat five dot
TV / Christmas and we are going to put
your ballot in for that product as well
so thank ya you having fun tonight
having a blast yeah lots of excitement
coming as well I heard the Kerry web
co-host from seasons one and two that
she's going to be here tonight really
excited to see her because it's just
been so long I mean here we are season
six right she was here season one and
two very first co-host on the show here
at category five and so I'm pleased to
hear that she's going to be here tonight
as well and nice to have Eric and the
rest of the gang at joining us Erica if
you can stick around because you your
guitar playing is sure you know I'm I
strum but he's pretty awesome so you're
both better than I
nice to nice to have everybody involved
and thank you for singing too is that
inside of your comfort zone at all way
outside yeah my like to the moon on my
comfort zone see how much these people
love you guys because you know that's
that's probably you know that's
something you don't do every day is it
well get no car maybe a shower up in
front of this many people and oh did you
realize people are actually watching
them there's about 60,000 70,000 them
really yeah i forgot to mention that it
you saw the cameras though hmm so all
right and uh yeah I I do hear footsteps
not sure who's coming in Eric are you
down here hello Oh Christina how are ya
Merry Christmas Christmas good good to
see you I'm into the eggnog already here
except but we've been playing some music
did you bring a jello yeah I did you did
awesome I don't see it it's in the car
okay well when are you gonna get your
cello I'm gonna get Robbie to help me
move the coach and stuff cuz you take a
bit of space with that big fiddle don't
ya yeah okay and we'll play some more
tunes that'll be great alright well
we're going to take a short little break
move some furniture have some more egg
nogs stick around at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference Eco alkalines calm
well what do you think Chris should we
play some tunes for them sure we can try
see what I ever avi no you don't have to
respond to that I found a fiddle I'm
Vicki called the violin I'm calling to
the fiddle it's got four strings and
I've had two lessons I won't say who my
teacher is and unless we get through
this
or not but fishing lessons I I was kind
of arrogance that I can learn how to
play that thing and I not anticipated
this there's no frets and what's this
thing gotta stick with horse hair on it
no let's play a little Christmas tune
just because I told Ravi I'd be a good
sport and do a Christmas to him okay
let's just do it Oh 1456
well we got it to the yeah I don't think
I can take out the fiddling I'll play
this every week on cat5 TV from now on
you're gonna come and show up and help
out no you sure got that on tape all
right that was great that was amazing
I've always wanted to learn how to play
the violin or the fiddle eric said he's
had a couple of lessons with Christina
only a couple is Matt good that's really
good I'm every time I hear somebody
playing violin I was looking at the the
best of youtube this week because it's
been released for you know the best of
2012 and there's this violinist on there
and I'm not sure of her name but i'm
sure a lot of you know who I'm talking
about she's just exceptional and she's
got dubstep beats going on underneath of
her violin plank every time I see that
and it's like you I'm like that I want
to be able to do that I just don't want
to torture anybody through the learning
process like a definite killing cats
that's the sound hey dear but how much
fun that's that's cool but speaking of
stepping outside of your comfort zone to
that's that's a lot of fun the things
that we do for you folks here category 5
technology TV love having you here
tonight merry Christmas to you from all
of us here at category 5 and we've got
more music for you coming up just a
reminder that if you go over to cat five
dot TV / christmas we have not only do
we have your ability to cast ballots for
the drawers that are going to be taking
place we've mentioned a couple of the
prizes and the list is there on our
website cat5 TV / christmas but also you
can download the the music from tonights
show as well if you like to add
that to your christmas collection as
well they are available for you in mp3
team fabulous then you can play them and
listen to them on your new earbuds
fantastic yeah fantastic idea we had a
printer on the show last week you and I
were looking at the new business smart
series from brother right and I
mentioned that yeah maybe we got one to
give you so I do and it's a bigger there
we go big box this big box I'll be yours
you see me I feel like Wilson there you
go hey neighbor yeah this is the brother
business Mart mfc j 4 5 10 DW is it did
I get right yes DW yes that's a new
business mark printer we've got one of
those giveaway so all you got to do is
head on over to camp five dot TV /
Christmas cast your ballot that of
course comes to us from the wonderful
brother canada more information about
that at cat five TV / brother excellent
stuff big thanks tonight to our sponsors
I just want to give shouts out to our
wonderful list of sponsors tonight who
are helping us to to be able to provide
you with this very special very Merry
Christmas special here at category 5
technology TV first of all TT esports
from thermaltake thank you very much you
can catch them at thermaltake USA com
brother canada i just mentioned and the
brother business smart series printers
from cat5 TV / brother eco alkalines
that environmentally friendly batteries
which are available at eco alkalines com
we appreciate their support throughout
the entire year and right through our
christmas special as well tonight
malwarebytes we've mentioned
malwarebytes.org be y te gasps as well
as nod32 antivirus from smart antivirus
CA and of course the the heads
headphones as well from le I products
com so thank you to all of our wonderful
sponsors tonight and as ever you know we
are brought to you in part by netflix
and you can get your free netflix a
trial account you'll get a full month of
netflix at cat five dot TV / netflix so
we'd encourage you to check that out
great time of the year to sign up for
something like that
and try it out on the new you know if
you got a new console or something you
can install it and try it out on the new
TV or whatever yeah whatever but cat5 TV
/ netflix to get it for free for an
entire month with no strings attached so
cool stuff so again sounds good yeah
yeah man but no to be honest I'm think
I'm gonna watch some Netflix sounds like
a good idea I see Eric actually has his
guitar on now so this might go well so
Eric man we'd love to hear you play
thanks Ravi all right what do you think
Christina should we play another little
bit of christmas music I've got the
guitar the violin was fun but the fiddle
was fun whatever that thing was no frets
on it have a little I not okay
you
that was nice Robbie gave me the words I
gotta take a stab at you okay if I sing
one sir well you just play that one more
time and I'll just sing right over top
it's coming around on the guitar right
now have your cell phone merry little
Christmas let your heart be light
from our troubles will be out of sight
have yourself a merry little Christmas
make the Yuletide gay from now on
troubles will be miles away here we are
as you know
these happy golden days of yore faithful
Friends who are dear to us gather needy
was once more
through the years we all will be
together if the fates allow a shiny star
on the highest
oh and have yourself a merry little
Christmas now
all those leaves all right well let's
see what happens next I think I wonder
if anybody else is gonna show up no
we're almost oh hey come all right Eric
such a pleasure to have a professional
musician joining us as part of the show
I mean II co-host the show but also you
know being a musician that is fantastic
so thank you so much here so you know
merry Christmas to everybody from all of
us here at category 5 technology TV
we've just had such a fantastic year and
with the team that we have here it's
just it's so much fun for myself and I
think you guys have a great time it's an
amazing fun time here Eric you having
fun I'm having fun excellent and we hope
that you're having fun at home as well
and tonight is just a fun time for us to
change format you know being the
businessman stay so this is our very
Merry Christmas special first time we've
ever had a chance to do this so we thank
you for joining us tonight and I hope
that you're enjoying the music if you'd
like to download the music that you've
heard here tonight you can get it on mp3
as an mp3 release all mp3 files at cat
five dot TV / Christmas and that's also
where you can sign up cast your ballots
for all of the wonderful sponsored
prizes that we're giving away two
through tonight's show and into our New
Year's Day show coming up one week from
today as well so make sure you get on
their cat five dot TV / Christmas and I
yeah it's keri web so good to see her
coming down the stairs hello Merry
Christmas Merry Christmas how are you
been good how are you work my way around
the bed yes wonderful to see you so
great to see you yeah congratulations
the show's come really far yeah thanks
it's game I'm since that since
you were here season one and two I know
that's it has come a long way hasn't it
has yeah we're actually we're just it's
funny that you're here because we're
just in the middle of shooting our
Christmas special perfect wood well I
Eric and Christina were just performing
for us it was a beautiful I wonderfully
be willing to accompany us on a song
sure you up for that I would love that
okay let's why you
have you finished yours already
oh holy night brightly shining it is the
night of our dear saviors birth
long lay the world
never till he appeared and the soul felt
it's worth
Hunter is
oh the weary world rejoices for yonder
breaks a new and glorious
on your knees oh he
angel vs. Oh
aight team are
o night when Christ was small
right diva
all night all night
he taught us to love one another
his law is love and his gospel this
piece jeans shall I break for the slave
is up
and in his name although pression shall
cease sweet hymns of joy in grateful
chorus raised we let all within us
praise His Holy Name
i steers the law
is his name for it
yes
oh and in love
me
the more proclaim yes
always
Wow guys ah thank you thank you thanks
Christina that was lovely it's so great
to see you again great to see you thank
you for having fun tonight merry Chris
merry Christmas to you guys thank you
and Merry Christmas to you this is
category 5 technology TV and a very
merry Christmas to you from all of us
here at category 5 technology TV merry
christmas hope you have a wonderful 2013
happy new year and i hope that you have
just a wonderful christmas thank you for
being here with us tonight as well thank
you guys for you know everybody pitching
in and everybody else who who isn't
musician he wasn't able to fit back here
yeah look at us we're like a band me me
me me thanks everybody and thanks for
being a part of this real special time
for the show as well and thanks for
being a part of the show thank you
everybody we're really looking forward
to all that we have in store for you for
2013 until that until that I mean cuz
next week you're gonna be on the show
with me Erica and we're gonna be ringing
in the New Year and doing that right on
the first of January so we'll see you
that take care of money Oh Merry
Christmas
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out and you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
