welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 603 and this week
we are going to be looking at a couple
of different things first of all we're
gonna be taking our BitTorrent seed
server that we made back on episode
number 597 to the next level and
creating a network attached storage out
of it so that we can actually access
those BitTorrent downloads through our
samba in you know if we want access from
our Windows Explorer if we want to
access it from our Linux computer or our
Mac we can actually load those files
directly without having to figure out
some fandangled way to transfer them
also I'm going to be cracking into an
old d-link switch to see what's gonna be
needed in order to fix it because
apparently it doesn't even turn on and
we have a little bit of kit for your
Star Trek fandom so you definitely want
to stick around we've got a lot of great
stuff coming up for you tonight
[Music]
our live recording is a trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
everybody nice to have you here again
with us this week we've got a fantastic
show plan first of all been quite a week
here at our studio that's an
understatement
oh well first of all going back about a
week or so the water main just up the
road
busted oh I didn't know that I've never
had this happen I've heard it on the
news people you know you hear about it
quite frequently yeah we never think
about how it affects you and there's no
water right and there's and we're kind
of downhill so if it floods this way
yeah I don't think that was an issue
they turn off the mains right right so
there's just no water right but then
when it comes back on it's like brown
can't drink it so we're under a boil
water advisory but here at the studio we
you know we don't have a kitchen so it's
not like we not very appealing you know
so so you know here in Barrie that's
affected a lot of folks we're in Barrie
Ontario and then so they've got a whole
section of road and and main
intersections blocked off and somebody
drove right through it and people have
been driving through it
oh I saw that yeah people have been
driving through it because there's and I
don't know if that's the case in this
particular case that I'm thinking of but
I actually was I was pulling out of the
grocery store cuz the water main break
was in front of the grocery store right
at a main intersection and so I was
turning away from the barricades two
cars in front of me pulled through the
pylons so that they didn't have to
because you have to kind of weave around
so I just kind of
my goodness so needless to say somebody
did drive through and I didn't see it
happen this was another day but and
actually put their car into the hole she
ended up passed away yeah yeah yeah cool
so it's just slightly and forward we got
to be patient folks like these kinds of
things yeah kind of made me think I I
I've got such a technical minded mindset
and it immediately I started thinking
about backups I start thinking about how
impatient people can become mm-hmm and
okay I don't have time to run my backups
this week or and then it turns into a
month in two months and because it's
time-consuming and there's no time
crunches and so you know the IT
department doesn't have time to run the
backup so you know we've got to go
through the the shortcuts yes only to
find that we are the ones that land in a
hole and you know don't survive it it's
true the parallels are true yeah yeah
but I don't know how I made that
connection it just to me in my mind
that's like so like so that started off
the week here in Bari Mikey so then from
there you decided to just oh just you go
about my day just go about my day as I
normally would so I come into the studio
and I do our post process editing and I
send those files to various servers
around the world we have RSS feeds we
have our YouTube channel of course we're
also on cable TV kpv be television for
the high desert nice to have you here so
I send these files once a week and so I
came in on Monday to do my editing yep
and as I approached the studio the front
door of the studio was propped open now
not our studio door building the
building so we we actually rent a space
in a large building and the for a was
open yes
and so no big deal somebody working in
the in one of the other units is is
bringing something in there whatever so
I came into the studio and sat down to
do my Monday morning edits
and about 10 minutes in so this is my
excuse for why last week's newsroom is
still not up on the website ten minutes
into my editing a bird started flying
around studio D not a like a little baby
bird that is like fumbling around no
this is a full-size Daddy bird and so
needless to say I spent my Monday
morning no my Monday doing my level best
to humanely capture this bird yeah so
that was my day and and so I'm well
behind schedule with a lot of things and
then today even I said to Jeff I said
okay well before you get in I've got a I
have to scrub the bird poop from various
surfaces and everything else so I said I
jokingly said you know although the
studio needed a deep cleaning so yeah
yeah you know and even after the clean
we're still finding more spots are we
well we got the curtain it was a
nightmare have you ever had to go
through that and not with a bird in the
house I've had bats in the house but
thankfully they're pretty clean yeah a
bat can you just capture it with a like
a net or something I just threw like a
blow like a small towel over it then you
take the towel outside and let it go
okay let's see that sounds easy yeah
comparatively not so much with a burden
oh did I mention we're in an industrial
complex and in an industrial complex the
air duct work is kind of wide open ah
yes yeah so the bird kind of got up into
the duct work and so that compounded the
problem but remember I'm looking for a
humane solution I didn't immediately
crank the heat yep so needless to say I
saved the bird that summer I came up
with a solution I used a wise cam pan in
order to save how did you come up with
this idea how did I come up with this
idea you'd have to watch the vlog in
order to find out I recorded as much as
I could once it was once it was okay to
do so so if you want to check that out
hey you can find out how I was able to
save the bird with a wise cam
and a little ingenuity that's funny and
maybe you'll get some ideas on how you
can capture a bird if it ever came down
to it actually came up with something
pretty cool I think and it worked out
really well
I just loved how you ended up trapping
it in the washroom that was my that was
my Monday so here we are it's Wednesday
time to do a great show before we jump
right into it make sure that you
subscribe to us on YouTube and click
that Bell to receive notifications
whenever we're live or when we post new
exciting content today we are going to
be checking out our BitTorrent server
yes I built this back on episode number
597 with Sascha so you haven't seen it
yet that's right yeah
so this Jeff is awesome I'm just gonna
reach forward here because I've actually
got it running on an Ethernet cable with
the power going to it so this is an ode
roid hc1 okay and the H C one has
something really great in that it has an
SATA back plane so I in fact have a full
one terabyte kingston SSD running inside
this single board computer chassis
you'll notice I also have added the
battery so I added a real-time clock
battery there like a couple bucks so I
thought hey I better add that because
when the power is lost to the device I
don't want to have to figure out why
it's not getting its updates or why
stuff isn't working because if the clock
reverts to 2016 then you have all kinds
of weird anomalies so but needless to
say I set that up as a seed server and
in fact Oh droid magazine has published
in the April issue my write-up about how
to set that out so if you look at all
dried magazine April 2019 you can follow
along the steps that are there they're
very detailed and it's very copy and
paste and explains how you can in fact
set this up it's not just for Oh droid
HC ones this particular type of single
board computer right but this I think is
the perfect solution it uses an SD card
to boot from and where the software
resides but then all the storage for the
BitTorrent files the downloads
go on to the SSD right so you're not
saving those two like an SD card or an
emmc card and running out of space right
away as I mentioned this is a one
terabyte well nine 968 so it's 960 gigs
for a solid-state drive and it's like a
consumer at consumer Kingston Drive so I
gotta hop on to our server so I've
actually got this connected to my
network right now at 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot
1 4 5 and if I go : 90 91 and then the
default username and password is
transmission transmission and this is
going to show us what my BitTorrent
server looks like right now so Jeff you
can see we've got a couple of things
still downloading because I'm also I'm
seeding and pardon me I'm seeding NEMS
Linux you can see there near the bottom
and up near the top I'm seating category
5 complete seasons so seasons 1 through
11 are all gonna be seeded by this
little box so if people want another tot
of content right it's pretty much you
know it's practically filling a 1
terabyte drive but that makes sure so if
you download category 5 technology TV
from torrent dot category 5 TV it's a
free way to get our content and it's
absolutely legal because us the content
creators have released it to free of
charge so it's free for you to download
so there are numerous seeds so people
who are sharing those files with the
public as a way of supporting what we do
by sharing it with others and if all
else fails if there were no other seeds
say or maybe if there are 10 seeds and
ours just happens to be closer to you
you may in fact be downloading it from
our little HC 1 server look at that
that's how BitTorrent works and you may
download half of it from our server and
half of it from another person's server
and it's it could be anything but that's
kind of how how that works so it ensures
that there's always a copy of category 5
TV on our seed servers so that if
someone tries to download it is there
it's available no matter what I love it
I love it - Jeff so these are the
torrents that I have on there right now
so it's all our own content it's NEMS
Linux as well that's a distro that I
create and you can see okay so I've got
all of season one so hey I'm really into
those old webcam videos that Robbie used
to make out of his basement pretty 4k
this was before 16 K was a thing
actually this was like a 320 P for over
3 we're not even gonna get into it but
it goes right up to season 11 and you
see that it's still queuing for
verification because I actually did some
work on the server today so it's just
kind of reloading a few things but you
can get like season 5 season 6 but now
that I've downloaded these Jeff what
options do I have I can pause it because
you know remember all that I'm looking
at here is my torrent bit torrent system
so I can add new torrents and download
them and it will download to the SSD but
and then I can share it with other
systems but I have no access to them in
order to unless you actually log into
that and run it but you can't because
there's no there's no monitor on an hc1
there's no HDMI output or anything like
that it is literally just a server right
there's no there's no plex server built
into it there's it's just a basic Debbie
and install with transmission daemon
running ok that's it and we've mounted
an SSD as as a mount point in slash home
slash Robbie slash SSD slash torrents so
then how do you get in how do we get in
that's the question and that's what
we're here to learn today
as we take this tutorial to the next
step which is to gain access to those
files so now that I've got these
downloads created like these downloads
have happened they're there now
let's actually make it so that we can
access those cool I can actually SSH
into that server my login is Robbie my
password is 1 2 3 4 as you know so it's
very secure absolutely alright let's get
a nice little close-up shot here for you
yeah alright
okay so first of all so now I'm just
logged into my SSH terminal session so
there's really not a lot to do on this
box because all I have is so let's go
into home slash Robbie and you see Jeff
there's a folder called SSD and in that
is torrents and if I go into torrents
whoa so it's pretty yeah it is very
vanilla so there's those are my
downloads okay okay so now what I want
to do is I want to actually be able to
access it from my Windows computer my
Mac my Linux machine on my machine here
of course I'm on Microsoft Windows you
could be on anything the commands are a
little bit different but on Linux are on
Windows pardon me we know that the
command to access a Samba share a
network share and Nass is slash slash
and then the IP address 10.0.0.0 there's
nothing there right because we've never
said anything up for that so what we
want to do is we want to now take this
to the next level so our BitTorrent
server is not only going to be a
BitTorrent seed server it's now going to
also become an ass network attached
storage and a network attached storage
device allows us to access it through
our Samba shares so Windows cannot
access it check the spelling blah blah
blah that's because it doesn't exist yet
so let's jump back over to here and
let's go sudo su that's going to help us
to become root and I'm going to type my
password and I'm gonna type apt update
if my clock is set correctly this should
go through pretty well if you get an
error about the certificate being in the
future something like that then you know
that it's because your clock is set
incorrectly it actually looks like one
of our hosts there is in fact down
because it looks like it's timing out
yeah
and that can happen because you know if
a particular host that's in the
sources.list is not available there you
go could not connect to that particular
one that's okay that's different from a
that's a timeout because of theirs oh
but now look at what I'm seeing release
file updates for this repository will
not be replied invalid for another 55
days oh come on it happened to me so I
plugged in the battery Jeff but I didn't
reset my date look at this
February 14th Oh what's today as we
record this it's the 10th so I do this a
kind of on purpose sometimes because I
want you to see how to resolve these
issues you're making problems no but
when a problem happens I want you to see
why and how to fix it I'm not gonna fix
it before I do the show and we could be
that show there are a lot of shows out
there on YouTube that it's perfection
but then as soon as you hit a snag like
this you're like well I did apt update
and it won't do it right now what do I
do and then you've got it again I'm
going to show you what the problem is
so I mentioned it what we want to do is
head on over to my blog which is balled
nerd calm slash nerdgasm z-- and in my
nerdgasm list you will see a tool called
set Linux time and date pretty simple
right highlight the first line copy it
to your clipboard and this is actually
running a this is the command to set the
time and date accurately to the current
time and date so I just pasted that into
my terminal and now April 10th
7:18 p.m. as we broadcast this Eastern
Time so now let's do apt update and
let's see if anything is different we're
still timing out at MDR JR net looks
like that server is just it just happens
to be offline while we're broadcasting
live and there's nothing I can do about
that
I could comment it out if we felt we
didn't need it permanently sometimes
that can happen but they may be down for
maintenance or something like that and
when I say commented out you could
comment it out of your / etc' slash apt
/ sources lis T file or there's a
sources dot Li STD folder where there
could be some files residing as well
that error is different than the one
that we received afterwards
so that's seem to work that worked
except failed to fetch MDR jr. net
that's Mavericks repository could not
connect so their server just happens to
be down right now you may not encounter
that one it's not related to the time
funk problem but you notice that the
time if you've being 55 days in the
future is not an issue any longer so now
I can type apt install Samba
a.m. ba get a little closer in there for
you apt install Samba reason that I want
to do apt update first is because it's
going to now make sure that I'm getting
the most current version from the
repository make sense it gets the new
repository list it's telling me it's got
all this junk to install the main thing
that I want to check here of course
these are called dependencies on Linux
these are things that are required in
order to have samba just double check
where it says to remove zero to remove
if that said one to remove or five to
remove then I need to look a lot closer
and make sure that the things that are
being removed are not going to break
something else that I use on my system
sometimes that can happen in this case
it's not going to remove anything it's
only going to install 34 newly installed
applications or tools and I'm gonna say
yes and it's also gonna upgrade
incidentally 14 of those for me so here
it goes it's installing this tool called
Samba Samba is an implementation of the
SMB protocol so SMB is what allows
Windows networks to share files so
they'll a term that you might be
familiar with would be Windows File
Sharing right when you right click on a
folder and you type and you press share
and then you give it a name torrents now
you can access that from any computer on
the network that's through the Samba
protocol SMB so Saba is the Linux
implementation of that protocol this is
asking if we want to use win asks for
DHCP we don't need that I can just say
no whatever
and carry on here we go it's installing
its thing so this again is a very
vanilla install I've got a couple of
little issues here and there but it
doesn't it's nothing to write home about
it's a very basic Debian Buster install
as a matter of fact because this is the
new bald nerd base image that you can
get at bald nerd calm while we're
waiting to that for that to install I
can in fact show you that new page
please do if you go to bald nerd comm
and you click on single board computers
and then you'll see SBC build base and
there are builds so these are Debian
Buster right now because here's the
thing I found that everything that's
available is Debian stretch Debian 9 I
want Debian 10 it's under feature lock
it is gonna go stable very very soon I
don't want to wait for for it to be
released six months from now it's there
now so so I've actually compiled and
released my own distros powered by NEMS
Linux and the tools that I've built
there so we've got Debian 10 for a 64
plus from Pine 64 rock 60 for a 64 LTS
so pine Odroid n2 that board is not even
available yet but it's got an OS X u 3x
u 4 HC 1 HC 2 that is what this one is
running right now the HC 1 bill nano PI
M 4 and the asou spill base has the
tinker board and the tinker bill board s
as well so those are built base images
of Debian 10 completely unrelated to
this demonstration but I want you to
know that those are there if you ever
want to build a server or if you need a
base image for a Linux distribution that
you're creating that's a good way to do
it it's our a lot of the work is already
done for you that is done installing so
samba now exists so presumably does that
mean Jeff that I can now just simply go
over there 10.0.0.0 what I didn't get
the error this time but what do I see
nothing absolutely nothing now is that a
permissions thing no it's that I haven't
created any shares yet right zombies
yeah okay but there's no shares right
well this is a little server with no
monitor it has no GUI there's no mouse
or keyboard connected to it how the heck
do I now right-click on the folder and
tell it to share
can you SSH you're used to right well
I'm already SSH den so good good guess
that's definitely how we're gonna do it
but it's not gonna be done through a UI
whatsoever I'm gonna go nano okay first
of all look at the folder that I'm
currently in I want you to observe that
that's important slash home slash Robi /
SSD slash torrents because that's where
all my torrents reside remember so
that's the folder that I actually want
to gain access to right so yours may be
different
your name's probably not Robbie so it
might be slash home slash Jeff slash SSD
if that's what you called your mount
point slash torrents so keeping that in
mind let's go Nano
slash etc' slash Samba slash SMB kant's
and that file now exists it wouldn't
have before we installed Samba but I
want to actually get to the bottom of
the file so I can sit here click click
click click click or in nano I can hit
alt / and that will take me right to the
very bottom of the file and I want to
create my first share so we're gonna do
that long hand I'm going to call this
torrent so I'm going to put a hard brace
torrents and then a closing hard brace
next line I'm gonna go read-only equals
yes and the reason I'm doing that is I
don't want anyone to be able to make
changes to my torn download folder why
because those are seeds exactly if
somebody renamed a file or changed any
little bit of the structure of anything
or entered a folder and their Windows
machine dropped like thumbnails cache
now all of a sudden that seed is corrupt
because the checksum no longer matches
so in this case I want this to be
read-only because we're doing torrents
locking equals no probably not necessary
so we're not going to get into it path
equals well because it's not necessary
let's just delete it
path
this is what I mentioned before this is
where the files are located where the
folder is that I want to share this is
what I'm right-clicking on right now put
it in quotes that's gonna save you a lot
of grief if you have any odd characters
like spaces home slash Robbie / SSD
slash torrents next line are we have to
make a decision do we want guest access
to do we want them to have to log in and
my network I want them to have to log in
so I'm gonna say guest ok equals no no
valid users equals and do you remember
my user name Jeff Robbie yeah that's
right enter it just like it is on your
Linux system user name is Robbie that's
it I think I'm done so now if I close
this the next step is that I need to
restart Samba in order for it to for the
change to take effect because I just
changed the entire what's shared so
system CTL restart smbd and now it's
done if you didn't have any errors you
won't see any errors if you type system
CTL status smbd it should say active
running so now let's jump back to my
Windows Explorer here and type slash
slash 10.0.0.0 I see torrents
and I click on it and and and yes I do
things incorrectly so that the viewers
at home can do it too and then you're
gonna learn why this is not going to
work ok so keep that in mind I'm going
to use my username Robbie which is what
I told it is allowed and enter my
password enter what surprise it's not
working is that because you didn't put
your password in no I entered my
password I just put it in my Linux user
right and I told the Linux is my Linux
user password is what I use to SSH in
and everything else oh but wait Jeff I
forgot horrible acting it's an amazing
amazing moment right there
Jeff I forgot samba uses a different
user database than Linux so I need to
create a Samba user right so let's do
okay back at SSH so here we go
I'm not going to touch anything on my
Windows System there I want to leave
that password prompt up let's type you
ready for this SMB pass would because
for some reason password is wood and
Linux
so SMB pas swd - a we're adding who are
we adding Jeff a user a user oh you want
me to come up with a name for them well
what's my name
Oh your name's Robbie I want it to match
my Linux user so yes I am Robbie now
okay we're setting up an SMB password
for the user Robbie what's my password
I'm gonna make it match my user same
password I don't have to make it the
same password but now added user Robbie
to Samba back here on Windows I haven't
changed a thing I'm gonna hit OK now I'm
in now I have read-only access to my
Samba share which is the SSDs torrents
folder right that my BitTorrent client
is able to save to okay so now if
somebody's BitTorrent client gonna have
to have permissions to access we covered
that on episode number 597 the
permission no but I mean by making this
change now it's not gonna change
anything with that set up it's read-only
okay so my settings that I've created
I'm not able to write anything to that
folder so permissions are not going to
be an issue if I was doing a read/write
operation that I would need to specify
which user are gonna is going to be
creating those files it's not a it's not
the case here because it's only
read-only so let's actually I mean the
the final test really Jeff is to see
does it work so let's go into something
reasonably current Season eleven and
just double-click on any file and there
you go here we go there we are on the
green screen oh my goodness I forgot
about the green screen yeah Wow and I
have no beard no beard at all
so babyface yeah
was that seriously only season 11 look
at that
so so you outfit it runs super well so
now ladies and gentlemen taking it to
the next step
our BitTorrent server is now also a
network attached storage so you could
could you link these files now to
something like Plex
if you wanted to watch these Oh Jeff
you're gonna have to watch episode 3 yes
you can you could point Plex to the
samba share that we just created and add
that as part of your media library
beautiful done that's if you already
have a plex media server right if you
don't already have a plex media server
we are going to be covering how to
install that on our droid hc1 making it
a 3-fold system oh my goodness but Jeff
we've got to take a quick break do you
want to send us off sure yeah we're
gonna take a quick break
great day Jack of a dead networks which
is worth fixing or should we just
replace it speaking of bad acting stick
around there was bad reading ah battery
as long as wasn't that writing that's
true that's fair yeah
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back everybody now Jeff I use a
lot of single board computers of course
I showed you earlier in the show that I
have now single board computer bases for
Debian Buster for all kinds of singer
budgeteers
nems Linux now supports 14 different
platforms awesome so I am constantly you
remember the old patch panels of the
days gone by in the studio we'd be
pulling cables and moving things around
I remember connecting callers yeah so
that's kind of what my switch room looks
like right now my server room if you
will it's a rough in bathroom but hey it
does the job
but I am completely out of network ports
I have so many single board computers
that I'm always connecting and working
on and building for and and then sharing
those images that I create so I want to
get a new network switch I want to get
one that is going to have 16 ports
that'll cover me yeah I've got 14 M's
Linux servers online right now that I'm
having to you know patch in and then
unplug when they're not in use so 16 16
then because you're gonna be adding well
remember I'm adding I want to add salt
yes so I'm gonna supplement what I
already have right with another 16 so 16
ports which would do that'll keep it
real by the end of the year yeah at
least they're 50 bucks anyways for like
a 10 over 100 cheap good switch alright
you can get gigabit switches that's fine
but for what I'm doing 10 over 100 is
gonna be fine fast ethernet is great um
so I have one Jeff alright that was
given to me a long time ago because I
say that looks old hey no this is a DSS
16 plus from d-link it's no it's just a
rack mount switch it's nothing current
like this you know we didn't like unbox
it yes yeah I see but it was given to me
because it doesn't work doesn't do a
thing you plug it in and it just doesn't
even power on really yeah
so let's throw it out right let's put
that in the landfill and see if it
decomposes most people do yeah but do we
need to do that well should I just go to
Amazon and spend 50 bucks plus tax plus
shipping whatever else or should we see
if it's worth tinkering I feel like I
should blow it up right now and say yeah
throw it out I'm gonna skip over here
really yeah and Here I am tada
okay so this is just a 16 port dead
switch that doesn't work whatsoever
doesn't even fire up but the question
that we want to answer is hey am i and
I'm using me as the example but are we
are U&amp;I capable of just making it go is
there something we could do to make this
work let's jump in here and there you
have it that is the internal look of
d-link DSS dash 16 plus see Jeff that
was an unboxing of sorts so we're gonna
get a quick look at the circuitry here
so the switch itself everything looks
Preem and proper Oh Robbie's been in
there before you can tell so looking at
the caps
these are capacitors everything looks
great yeah everything looks perfect that
it looks brand-new inside doesn't it it
does not a speck of dust let's get over
to this unit over here and this ladies
and gentlemen is obviously what do you
what do you suspect it is yeah it's the
power this is the power supply so the
first thing that I noticed when I check
this out Jeff capacitor here is good
yeah these two capacitors have ruptured
oh yeah I don't see that why would that
happen power overload maybe they didn't
happen yeah precisely I mean if there's
too much power going through a capacitor
the electrons are going to shoot across
from plate to plate instead of holding
on on the plate they're not it's not
going to take a charge instead it's
going to the the electricity is going to
flow
through it and burst the capacitor so
these two capacitors are dead they
aren't gonna operate and it's not going
to work so let's see what we need to do
here let's pull this apart
and I'm just gonna this is the ground
screw here you want to be careful when
you're doing this because remember
capacitors do hold a charge so I have
not had this plugged in in a long time
but I'm still going to be very careful
with those capacitors because they could
hold a pretty good voltage in there that
could give you a pretty good shock I
mean a bigger one than this could be
deadly so please be very very careful
keep yourself grounded and know kind of
what you're doing kinda yeah just know
kind of what you're doing is a good
start you can tell them you heard that
here get all the screws out so I can
basically I'm just removing the power
supply so the temptation tends to be and
an option is in fact that we could
replace the power supply because that
easiest row that would fix it Jeff and
if you send it away to a repair shop
that's gonna charge you probably as much
as I could buy it for 50 bucks then
that's probably you know that could be
what they're going to do but this is
literally everything else looks perfect
so I've inspected the capacitors and
resistors and everything else everything
looks fine except for those two ruptured
capacitors right so I have discharged
these but you would never touch the
contacts here because as I said they
could have electricity still within the
capacitor we're gonna be looking in that
next week
don't you worry I'm going to show you
how to discharge those safely in the
meantime these capacitors being burnt
out what I need to do is I need to look
at the capacitor itself get really
really tight in here and you're gonna
see a couple of things first of all the
voltage is 10 volts okay that's
important we don't want a 48 volt
capacitor and it's 1000 UF
so those are the capacitors that I need
in order to replace this so $50 to
replace the switch on Amazon five of
these particular capacitors 10 volt 1000
UF are going to be eight dollars Wow
eight dollars so tune in next week we're
gonna see if my mad soldering skills is
gonna be enough to save this switch okay
like we need to have maybe we will well
it's exciting me well I'm looking
forward to that sort of soldering job
yeah so that I've placed the order and
those capacitors are on their way and
I'm going to see if we can fix that it
very very simple fix in in contrast you
know when you look at the electrical
components and what actually has to be
repaired but as I say the the temptation
and sometimes even you get in the forums
on how do you fix and the instruction is
buy a new power unit right the whole
circuitry looked good yeah the rest is
fine so presumably it's fine so by
removing those capacitors it had a surge
go through it or something like that by
removing those capacitors which in
essence protected the rest of the
circuit and replacing them with the
exact same capacitors we should be able
to boot it we'll find out next week I
tell Jess it was really excited about
soldering so I I think there's like a
collective yeah let's they just want to
see Robby fail exact no I got the major
jolt amazing this is gonna be good
there's gonna be awesome stand back
everybody ready for it right
high voltage stay away that's gonna be a
lot of fun we've got a head over to the
news room Jeff is on the news desk today
hi Jeff how are you today good fantastic
take her away
all right here the story is recovering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
a piece of malware has been found on
both iOS and Android that's been
stealing contacts audio location data
and more for several years Sony has
created a colossal 16k screen which will
soon be on display in Japan a newly
discovered privilege escalation fly and
the Apache web server allows malicious
users to gain root access to the
underlying OS and astronomers have
revealed the first-ever image of a black
hole that exists in a galaxy called m87
and it's 500 million trillion kilometres
away these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories the
slave Linux bias Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
are you alright you're a terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Jeff lesson and here the top stories
were following this week a piece of
malware has been found on both iOS and
Android that's been stealing contacts
audio location data and more for several
years researchers recently discovered a
well-funded mobile phone surveillance
operation that was capable of sir epital
e stealing a variety of data from phones
running both the iOS and Android
operating systems researchers believe
the malware is so-called lawful
intercept and it's sold to law
enforcement and governments Exodus as
the malware for Android phones has been
dubbed was under development for at
least five years it was spread in apps
disguised to service applications for my
Italian mobile operators Exodus was
hidden inside apps available on phishing
websites and nearly 25 apps available in
Google Play and a report published two
weeks ago researchers at Security
Without Borders said exodus infected
phones estimated to be in the several
hundreds if not thousands or more Exodus
consisted of three distinct stages the
first was a small dropper that can
collected basic information information
about the device such as the IMEI and
the phone number and sent it to the
command and control server a second
stage was installed almost immediately
after the researchers test phone was
infected with the first stage and also
reported to the control server that led
researchers to believe that all phones
infected with stage 1 are
indiscriminately infected with later
stages stage 2 consisted of multiple
binary packages that implemented the
bulk of the advanced surveillance
capabilities
some of the variants encrypted
communication was with self-signed
certificates that were pinned to the
apps the binaries could also take
advantage of capabilities available on
specific devices for one instance one
binary made use of protected apps a
feature in the highway phones to keep
Exodus running even when the screen went
dark rather than to be suspended to
reduce battery consumption a third stage
would attempt to let Exodus again to
gain route control over infected phones
typically though through the use of an
exploit dubbed dirty cow once fully
installed Exodus was able to carry out
in an extensive amount of surveillance
including recording phone conversations
extracting calendar events record audio
or video or take photos at will view the
address book or call log read SMS
messages and more that's a big list the
researchers say that their analysis of
Exodus led to this discovery of servers
that in addition to exodus hosted on an
iOS version of the malware the iPhone
surveillance malware was distributed on
phishing sites that masqueraded is
mobile carriers the iOS version was
installed using the Apple developer
Enterprise program which allows
organizations to distribute in-house
apps to employees or members using the
iOS App Store the apps masqueraded as
mobile carrier assistance apps that
instructed users to keep the app
installed on their device and stay under
Wi-Fi coverage to be contacted by one of
our operators it's not clear how many
phones were infected by the iOS apps the
iOS various variant isn't as
sophisticated as Exodus unlike Exodus
the iOS version wasn't observed to used
exploits instead it relied on documented
programming interfaces it was
nonetheless able to exfiltrate a variety
of sensitive data the researchers
reported their findings to Apple who
swiftly revoked the enterprise
certificate the revulsion revocation was
in what has an effect of preventing the
apps from being installed on the new
iPhones and stopping them from running
on infected devices similarly when they
reported their findings to Google the
infected apps were removed
from google play this is scary stuff
yeah that's it lasted for so long before
being caught one where is it from
I mean the bottom line is like what is
this surveillance app is it right you
mentioned that this is a product that
can be sold to governments for example
or you know who knows what what this use
case is now at least they said it was
only found on hundreds possibly couple
thousand phones so it wasn't like it was
a mass spread but that's where they even
still that it exists I think it just
points out the fact that okay these
types of exploits can exist so if and I
use the government example if a
government was to want to surveil a
certain group mm-hmm then could they not
use this technology in order to do it
really goes to show the difference
between iOS and Android as well as far
as the sophistication in their
capabilities as a company to lock down
their devices whether you like that or
not I don't particularly like the
Apple's abilities right but at the same
time in a case like this the fact that a
lot of people may have this exploit and
not hear the news story yes those people
if they're on iOS are safe because it
will not load on their phone anymore
right those people on Android all they
did was delete it from the store it
can't install it now but if it's already
installed it's still running it's still
listening to their conversations so
really shows that the you know a huge
distinction between the two companies as
far as their how their their control can
be used for good I would hope though
that both Apple and Android would
contact whoever they think has accessed
this app to say you might want to get
rid of this or other people like users
yeah because I mean if I did yeah who
knows though like that this could be
used an app through say the Google Play
Store on my phone yeah then there's a
record of that so then I should be able
to be contacted through my Google
to say you've downloaded this app you
need to uninstall it because there's a
vulnerability to it so I would think
there should be some sort of check and
balance communication system but yeah
maybe not I don't know yeah
and it brings to question though because
I mean this is the gute it was pulled
from the Google Play Store but there's
other Android stores where you can get
apps and so it makes me wonder was it
pulled from that as well or is it just
the Google Play so yeah and I I just
can't help but think of as you're as
you're speaking about this the case
where the FBI was trying to get Apple to
unlock an iPhone right like and so I
just think about that and I think okay
so they're a legitimate entity trying to
get access to
well what if legitimate government
entities are using this type of like
think of the NSA and the exploits an
eternal blue on Microsoft Windows 10
right this is something that came with
if you upgraded to Windows 10 when it
was first released you had an NSA
exploit in your computer nothing's free
so you know so you know so of course
when that was when eternal blue was
discovered it was patched against and
blocked but right up until then
everybody was susceptible so could it
you know if governments are using this
as ways and I only use that example
because it just strikes me as this seems
bigger than just some malware company
not and not in size but in capability
yeah like something that is funded by
something larger than just a hacker
group right yeah especially because it
was funded for the last five years yeah
so and it would have taken a massive
amount of funding to do yeah very
interesting story nonetheless all right
Sony has created a colossal 16k screen
which will soon be on display in Japan
Sony's display contains 16 times as many
pixels as 4k television and 64 times as
many as a regular 1080p high-definition
TV meaning it can show images in far
more detail than normal this will let
viewers stand close to the unit which
is larger than a bus without its image
looking blurred one one expert said it
would take likely decades for 16k tech
to filter down to consumer products the
63 foot long by 17 foot high screen is
currently being installed at a new
research center that is built for a
Japanese cosmetics group shishito in the
city of Yokohama south of Tokyo it's so
large that it's going to stretch between
the first and second floors now Sony had
previously designed a separate 16 K
display that went on show at Tokyo's
Haneda Airport in 2014 but that looked
like it was made up by of dozens of
smaller screens rather than presenting a
single seamless picture now the new
supersize installation has in fact been
created over several modular panels but
because they don't have bezels they can
fit together without any visible gaps to
create the impression of being a single
screen the Sony calls the technology
crystal LED which is its brand name for
micro LED display tech Samsung is also
experiencing with the four experimenting
with the format for now Sony is pitching
a range of smaller low resolution
crystal LED displays for use in office
lobbies car showrooms cinemas and theme
parks theme parks since little 16k
footage exists elsewhere the firm has
produced its own film for Shishido
showing life-size animal wildlife the
development was announced by Sony at the
National Association of Broadcasters
trade show which is being held in Las
Vegas this week this is pretty cool but
category 5 TV now in 16k right like I
mean we're used to 4k so to think 16 I'm
used to 1080p welfare and it looks great
but like 16 that's mind-blowing I think
that the technology jeff has such a
potential for ok first of all yes it's
panels ok so they're they're bezel this
panels no I who cares I mean they've
made it so that it is absolutely
seamless so yeah you can take two panels
and put them up against each other and
it's seamless as long as they're flush
right they're gonna be mounted that way
so now these are portable mm-hmm
presumably so you know you've got panels
that can now be shipped in a spaceship
just saying so okay so you're talking
like space advertising no I'm talking
well that's cool the billboard in space
on the moon our first ever billboard on
the moon I wonder what it would cost to
get how long you staying two weeks
okay so take these panels yep to Mars
okay build them into your home so you've
got a panel that is 17 feet high yeah
okay like a normal ceiling here our
ceilings are quite high at 10 feet 17
feet high now make that so that it is a
natural landscape of Earth and now all
of a sudden we're doing away and and
it's 16k so I can walk up to it and it's
like looking out a window I would rather
just stay on earth but for those who
don't for those who go to my fair enough
like to have that capability to be able
to basically be looking outside from
their from their living room if you will
I mean eventually we're gonna get there
and when we do want to be amazing to see
more than just the dust clouds that's
sure ah but they're portable panels but
you know what is going to hit
advertising first off guaranteed yes for
sure but I'm thinking like I mean in the
news story talked about theaters like
imagine we in a way with projection at
theaters and having this massive panel
whoo that's 16 K I mean like it would
change the theater experience everything
is digital now so right yeah it'll be
neat to hear about the specifications as
far as like ghosting for example is that
still a thing with this is is refresh
rates you know what kind of refresh
rates are we looking at how many Hertz
is it is it flowing out
how those how many frames per second
yeah well yeah but it's gonna be low
comparatively to to a TV and well I mean
things are is it we're progressively
getting that way yeah I don't know you
know I what I love about tech is that
some things just get bigger and bigger
other things get smaller and isn't that
weird but it's just it's interesting
it's like well this is the thing we're
gonna go bigger with yeah you know it's
an app in flow I think it really got
like really big killer gaming rigs and
now we're into raspberry pies well it's
just the way it's going I think of you
know some of those movies you know where
like they've got an entire wall that's a
TV yeah change what it looks like and
you know I'm thinking this could become
like a standard feature in your 10
million dollar home so it's like oh it's
got a picture wall sure and like quite
cool but they can make it I mean through
really well done cinematography adding
depth of field and and capabilities like
that so think about places like they
could build a museum where you can go
back in past in the past where you can
go back in time or to the future and and
see like and feel like you're in that
time because though oh this do you see
what I'm saying I totally see what
you're saying see what I feel like just
say man with TECA anything's possible I
know it's just a it's just a really big
TV yeah my dad would be excited about
that yeah he's like all bigger sounds
good need a bigger living room sorry
yeah a newly-discovered privilege
escalation fly-in the Apache web server
allows malicious users to gain root
access to the underlying OS Apache is
the Internet's most widely used web
server and the vulnerability they just
fixed makes it possible for untrusted
users or software to gain unfettered
control of the machine soft that
unfettered control of the software that
the machine runs on with the exploit the
attacker could do just about anything
the vulnerability makes it possible for
unproven privileged scripts to overwrite
sensitive parts of the users memory
and therefore a malicious script could
exploit this to gain root privileges the
vulnerability poses the most risk inside
web hosting facilities that offer shared
instances in which a single physical
machine serves content for more than one
website typically such servers prevent
an administrator from once on one site
from accessing other sites or or the
sensitive information settings of the
machine itself if one of the users
successfully exploits the vulnerability
they gain full access to the server just
like the administrator at the web host
another risk is that this vulnerability
allows other vulnerabilities to also
gain root an issue that previously had
limited permissions would be able to be
executed as root allowing it to do
absolutely anything with the server the
vulnerability affects only Apache
version 2 point 4 point 17 to two point
four point three eight when running on
unix-like systems and it's estimated
that around two million servers are
affected people who rely on Apache
particularly customers of hosts that
provide shared instances should ensure
that they're running version two point
four point three point nine two point
four point three nine and I think this
affects people who use shared hosting
greatly yeah so if you are on Linode or
Amazon AWS who are susceptible to this
you need to make sure that you're
running two point four point three nine
yeah I think of how many people have
transitioned like their businesses and
everything to the cloud yeah and how
many how do you know who else is on that
server right yeah so how many other
server
Erlik companies could be on that one
particular server and if they haven't
fixed this vulnerability like your cloud
is now raining on everybody's parade
bottom bah you only get that kind of
comedy here folks a good time
astronomers have revealed the first-ever
image of a black hole that exists in
galaxy called m87 which is 500 million
trillion kilometres away
it measures 40 billion kilometres across
which is three million times the size of
the earth and has been described by
scientists as a monster the black hole
was photographer graphed by a network of
eight telescopes across the world
details have been published today in
Astrophysical Journal Letters professor
Hainault
fell key of ray bond University and the
Netherlands said what we see is larger
than the size of our entire solar system
it has a mass 6.5 billion times that of
the Sun and it's one of the heaviest
black holes we think exists it's an
absolute monster the heavyweight
champion of black holes in the universe
there's a Tata for ya he says although
they're relatively simple objects black
holes raise some of the most complex
questions about the nature of space and
time and ultimately of our existence he
goes on to say it's remarkable that the
image we observe is so similar to that
which we obtain from our theoretical
calculations so far it looks like
Einstein is correct once again having
the first image will enable researchers
to learn more about these mysterious
objects they will be keen to look for
ways in which the black hole departs
from what's expected in physics though
no one really knows how the bright ring
around the hole is created even more
intriguing is the question of what
happens when an object falls into a
black hole professor fell key had the
idea from a project when he was a PhD
student in 1993 at one time no one
thought it was possible but he was the
first to realize that a certain type of
radio emission would be generated close
to and around the black hole which would
be powerful enough to be detected by
telescopes on earth he also recalled
reading a scientific paper from 1973
that suggested that because of their
enormous gravity black holes appear 2.5
times larger than they actually are
these two previously unknown factors
suddenly made the seemingly impossible
possible after arguing this case for 20
years
professor felt he persuaded the European
Research Council to fund the project the
National Science Foundation and agencies
in East Asia then joined in the bankroll
to of the project to the tune of more
than 40 million pounds
no single telescope is powerful enough
to image the black hole so in the
biggest experiment of its kind
professor Shepard do Elmen of the
harvard-smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics led a project to set up a
network of eight linked telescopes
together they formed the event horizon
telescope and can be thought of as a
planet-sized array of dishes a team of
200 scientists pointed the networked
telescopes towards m87 and scanned its
heart over a period of 10 days the
information they gathered was too much
to be sent across the internet so
instead the data was stored on hundreds
of hard drives that were flown to a
central processing center in Boston US
and Bonn Germany to assemble the
information this is a wild story I love
it because it's tech it's space it's
it's collaborative approaches like it's
everything that just makes technology
fun that they pulled it off to and
proved the theory that we've all you
know just imagined is true right now we
know it is what I what I just can't wrap
my head around though is the size of
this thing
like it's bigger than our solar system
that is a massive massive black hole oh
yeah okay and I thought that you know
sinkholes that we find around here
pretty big yeah ii think that it's
bigger than our solar system yeah the
single black hole is bigger than our
solar system it's just mind-bending I'm
not I'm not in physics whatsoever nor I
let alone like theoretical physics and
Wow like it just blows my mind I can't
get my head around it
but being a fan of sci-fi and being into
technology and seeing how they're using
technology to discover these kinds of
things and capture them and be able to
process I mean they're talking about the
capabilities that they have to create
algorithms that will now take this
imaging data and make it clearer so that
it's not quite as fuzzy as the image
that we saw today which is wild yeah and
it's all from radio transmissions that's
nuts
it's crazy it's incredible I what it is
it's so much fun I want to take a quick
look at our cryptocurrency market how
things look this week so according to
coin gecko this is what the crypto
market looked like as of 1800 hours
Eastern Time on Wednesday April 10th
2019 Bitcoin gained thirty-seven point
five nine US dollars it's at five
thousand two hundred and seventy point
sixty one US dollars aka 61 cents I can
say it however I like light coin is at
eighty three point three five US dollars
etherium is at 175 o eight losing just a
dollar 46 Manero is at 69 ninety-seven
staying pretty static this week and
looking at the little guys stellite is
at one point six to ten thousandths of a
cent and our guys turtle coin are down
zero point zero seven ten thousandths of
a cent hovering at one point six four
ten thousandths of a cent this week
remember the crypto currency market
never closes and is always volatile big
thanks to Roy W Nash in our community
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Jeff Weston and I'm Robbie
Ferguson get your Starfleet uniform out
of the closet and get ready because
we're gonna be taking a look at a piece
of kit that you may just want to add to
your collection stick around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching if you are a
Trekkie we have got the thing for you
let's head over to the unboxing station
Robbie what can you beam up for us so
whether you are a Trekkie or a trekker I
have the Star Trek The Next Generation
tricorder replica this comes to us from
running press and you've probably seen
these in book stores but the ones that
I've been seeing are little itty bitty
replicas and this one apparently is
something that I actually want we're
gonna find out as I get into the box
today and we're gonna see if this is
something that you want to add to your
collection as well I'll pull out the
knife so this is like fresh unboxing you
this is it we've got okay Deluxe mega
kit so this is not just any mega kit
this is a deluxe mega kit what else have
we got in the box Star Trek The Next
Generation interesting that the text is
the original Star Trek followed by the
next generation that's kind of just a an
observation there's the Box there ages 7
and up yeah I pass all right debatable
yeah let's get into it so is it actually
now Jeff I really wanted this because I
had a tricorder replica as a child as
someone 7 and up okay we've got stickers
so it looks like some assembly required
so you're going to need an adult kids
I had a tricorder but as the little
tinkerer maker that I was I wanted to
add more LEDs to it and so I punctured
holes in it and I damaged it up and
everything else oh and it has oh it came
with batteries I wasn't sure if it was
going to come with batteries okay I've
removed the tab this does not appear to
be a replica sized tricorder but
certainly bigger than the ones that is
some of the ones that I've seen right
let's open it up oh okay that kind of
looks nice
yeah there's no signs of life over there
oh listen that's an actual tactile
clicking there you go
okay so stickers on whoa it's
self-closing satay and half bad spring
activated yeah okay so so how do you put
the stickers on how the heck do you put
the stickers on if you were doing it
like that and get a sticker and oh okay
let's look at the the instructions here
Jeff because I know you want to yes okay
they're numbered okay that helps so
we've got a diagram that shows us where
each sticker goes so one is going to go
where's that Oh up here okay one is
gonna go up here there yeah there okay
shall we try Jeff I think so one don't
put it on the wrong way okay if I got it
the right way according to the diagram
it appears yeah I seem to okay this
one's easy enough
I love that it's texture and we're
putting on stickers yeah it's a sticker
so you know the replica nature of it
that it's stickers but these are nice
stickers I mean this is like shiny
metallic glossy kind of decals it's not
it's not too bad
let's see how it looks okay - where's -
- is there so where does that go I don't
know Jeff I feel like you need to take
it home for assembly purposes figure it
out and then play with it we've got a
little booklet here that has some I kind
of laugh at this folks I mean we've got
a picture of MCC 1701 then we've got a
quote by Jadzia Dax oh my gosh
Ivy buddy yeah so oh there's NCC 1701 D
what does it say okay at least we're
right era pictures from TOS there's TNG
TNG's bridge a tricorder from TOS
another tricorder from TOS some
information that will Riker what else we
got here NCC 1701 D is that D yes it's
only got tuna cells
yeah what else we got I'll definitely
crusher some text text a real tricorder
there you go from the show put the open
that up and stick it to your wall
remember if it's back in the day it's
not that big just a yeah I know that
looks like a medical tricorder and what
else Oh Wesley Crusher right at the end
oh it's the yes Larry is the young
Wesley holding a tricorder well there
you have it okay so let's let's fade to
black and come back there you are Jeff
and Jeff figured out that you can
actually pull it a little bit harder and
it won't close all by itself though you
can
it clips there you go so I've got all
the stickers on I notice it like this
one doesn't want to stay Jeff right okay
you may have to press it down at the
corners just to yeah there you have it
it's available cap five dot TV slash
tricorder it does look pretty good for
like a prop if you want to go to Comic
Con or whatever else or just add it to
your to your kit for your costume and
that's definitely a good addition
anyways sweet yeah bring it with me Jeff
yeah cuz you never know when I'm gonna
need this well I could think of very
future I'm detecting no signs of
intelligent life I know it's all bad
story it still works it is fun though
yeah I mean I love though that the whole
like even though that shows been off the
air for so long that it's it's like hey
we're gonna come up with something that
everybody still wants because everybody
still does Jeff everybody does indeed
indeed that's all the time that we have
for this week though again get that a
cat5 TV slash tricorder if you want to
add it to your your kit I still have
another Kingston dad a traveller 2002
giveaway so if you want to pick up one
of these all you have to do is send an
email to contest at category-five TV
tell us your name where you're watching
from and we would love to cast your
ballot for that a great question came in
asking hey if I cast a ballot one week
do I have to recast the following week
and the answer's no once you unless
you've won you still remain in the
contest until we are out of data
traveler mm and we've got one left thank
you to those who have been supporting
category 5 TV we do need to replace our
broadcast server and it does cost a lot
of money and I appreciate everyone who
has been pitching in for that you can do
the same at donate category 5 TV if
you've got a little extra that you can
throw in the tip jar we greatly
appreciate that and just mark it for
wherever it's needed or for upgrades in
the studio and we'll make sure that
that's allocated toward that new
broadcast server which is just going to
make things a lot better around
here behind the scenes and it's going to
improve the quality of the show as well
I think 16k not quite maybe two point
four though well just it might be a
possibility thank you also to our
patrons who give as little as $1 per
month just to support category 5 TV on a
recurring basis and it makes a huge
difference and we appreciate you as well
and don't forget that we are on twitter
at category 5 TV I am personally on
twitter at robbie ferguson and i follow
back if you want to follow me you can
catch us on roku kodi plex any other
media player we've got RSS feeds through
our website category 5 dot TV is where
it all comes together we're obviously on
YouTube on Facebook and anywhere else
just do a search for category 5 TV and
you shall find us our bit torrents are
available at torrent category 5 TV if we
want to download entire seasons of
category 5 technology TV that's
available to you as well but that's it
for this week
good times next week we're gonna be
seeing if those capacitors have come in
from Amazon and it's seeing if we can
fix through some soldering fix that neck
here there are d-link it's a d-link
network switch and hopefully Sasha will
be back as well indeed we good have a
wonderful week everybody and we'll see
you next week
[Applause]
