hello and welcome back to another
episode of new every day my name is
Carrie and my name is Jen and on today's
show we're going to talk about yeah
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda okay
welcome back so we are talking about
camp today because Jen where were you
often I was at camp now that we're not
talking about camping with tents and
barbecues we're talking about like kids
camp where kids sign up to go away for a
week and but specifically I'm involved
in Christian camping so we teach them
about Jesus every day and so I was
involved in doing that for about eight
weeks this past summer and it's just a
great opportunity for kids to come enjoy
being outside a lot of what the kids
that I minister to are living in a huge
city of 6th out six hundred
thousand-plus people so many of them
have never been have never seen the
stars or have never gone swimming in a
lake or have never gone tubing or been
on a boat or kayaking so it's a great
opportunity for children to experience
nature in a safe environment and also to
learn about Jesus and one of the cool
things that I love about that is many of
the kids that come I would say well
fifty percent roughly have grown up in
the church and about fifty percent have
not so it's a great opportunity 50 yeah
a great opportunity to learn about Jesus
but also to see that there's other
people that believe the same things that
their parents believe so that isn't this
weird thing well this is my
thing so it's a great opportunity for
kids to look at well a lot of our staff
are teenagers between the ages of 15 and
20 so they see these really cool young
people who have an act of faith in Jesus
Christ yeah so yeah that is there's
something we said about seeing other
people especially cool young people yes
who share the same fate and it's it's a
part of their everyday lives and it's
it's not your parents yes yeah it's like
oh they believe the same thing they
believe in Jesus and and so we often
train our young people that you are an
example like you are setting an example
to these young kids so the way you treat
staff has a like other other people on
staff has a huge impact on on whether or
not these young people say yeah
Christianity is right and is real and so
we talk a lot about preferring one
another how do you build up other staff
how do you talk to other staff this is
training that you do with the leaders
yes grange is so important because they
are setting the example for these kids
of what it means to love Jesus with all
of your heart and it's just really cool
some of the conversations that our staff
have with campers because it doesn't
just happen in Chappell Chappell happens
twice a day but some of these
conversations take place in the kayak or
on the aquaglide which is a huge slide
in the water and a trampoline and some
of them happen around crafts where
they're making something and it's just a
good time to have conversation and so
talking about Jesus doesn't just happen
in Chapel it happens throughout the day
and it's cool but that Jen is that the
kids are there for one or two weeks
right and that's that's a lot of
concentrated time
with you know good teaching fun being
with other people who love God two weeks
straight yeah so what would a day in
your life I can't look like okay for me
for the kids like maybe for those who
haven't been to camp right a day camp
for a kid looks like this they wake up
around seven-thirty which seems early
but if you and so many you know we get
this camper surveys back and they're
like oh would have been great to sleep
in but then there's still hope you miss
out there's so much that we want to pack
it in a day yeah so it's like no they're
up at seven-thirty they're getting ready
for the day we have breakfast slot like
line up for breakfast about 8 15 and
then we have breakfast and then they
have cab and clean up and there's always
lots of points for cab and clean up we
do use competition just to help motivate
them to do something and when you have
eight kids and two cabin leaders in a
small space if they aren't cleaning up
every day it is a disaster like an event
and then all of a sudden you have kids
going home with stuff that does not
belong to them and their mom opens up
their suitcase and goes what whose stuff
like where is that $90 not that any
mother she send any child with a $90
anything to camp or school yes so we do
cab and clean up and there's always lots
of points and there's always like
bribery that goes on to the person who
marks and and I got a text from of the
staff this past summer say what does
what does the cabin marker like to eat
because we want to put that out for her
and I'm like oh my goodness that's funny
so they try to buy her off or ham
depending on who's marking and then they
go right into the morning activity so it
could be swimming and boating and tubing
down at the waterfront or it could be
crafts and sports and so they do that in
the morning and then we have lunch and
food camp food is is so amazing rich in
carbon oh yes good card a wise woman
said to me once regarding camp ministry
that if a child is not fed well
they are not going to enjoy their time
that's true and we feed them well ah
like dessert after dessert after every
meal but actually is gonna say breakfast
but they had hot chocolate for brush we
had I think my camp is in Manitoba which
is a province in canada and i was
wondering if it's like a Manitoba thing
like that's just a cultural thing
because I've never had that before
anyone else think it was weird or just
that I think the Ontario people think
it's weird so Ontario is the province
beside manto but for those of you who
are not Canadian then that's just an FYI
so then we have chapel in the afternoon
afternoon chapel which usually
introduces the topic for the day just
get some thinking has some small groups
try to keep Chapel moving along very
interactive asks questions does lots
review we have memory verse songs to
help the kids learn the memory verses so
very often they'll come up to me because
I we do a chapel contest and they'll
come up to me and they'll sing the song
and they'll say is that okay if I sing
the song I like oh yes I think so you
have sometimes you know 11 12 year old
boys that are coming up and doing these
memory verse with the act with the
actions which is really cool and then
they go right into afternoon activities
again which will they go to the
waterfront twice a day so they have two
opportunities to go tubing which is
really cool like I learned how to water
ski camp did you yeah so did you grow up
going to camp or like yeah so I grew up
going to camp from the age of seven I
went to camp every summer my parents
made it a priority for me to go like
that was part of what our family did was
send send their kids to camp so yeah so
I know grew up loving camp and being a
part can't be coming to camp counselor
and then being on staff at a couple
different camps and then as I moved into
ministry well then I got asked to speak
at
and so I value camp and I just see when
we worked at a camp called circle square
ranch which had a horse component to it
so there was the barn with the horses
live at the kids love but some kids are
so afraid and they come up they're like
oh I can't I can't I can't go near the
horse because the horses are all right
they're big and they'd be so afraid and
oh the cabin leaders would be so good in
the horse staff would be so good because
I'd be like okay well let's let's just
hit the brush out let's just brush the
horse for for today and they would you
know so okay and they put the brush on
and they you know brush and curry the
horse and just get and overcome their
fears yes and then you know the next day
it's like well why don't we just sit on
the horse or why we actually put the
saddle in the bridle on the horse so
we'll just get used to what these things
feel like we'll get used to touching and
being around the horse right and then ok
well let's next day let's let's sit on
the horse and sometimes they would just
sit there and be like and then ok the
next day they would the the cabin leader
would lead them around the ring on the
horse and then by the end of the week
they will have they will be just walking
around the ring and you can see this
huge smile on their face because it's
like it yes I've accomplished I can ride
a horse which so camp for me gives kids
an opportunity to do things that they
would never have done before and to
enter overcome fears to overcome fears
of well I can't do this so it presents
many of them with these oh I've never
done that before I can't possibly do it
like we have mountain biking as one of
our options at the camp that I work at
and some of these kids have just never
ridden a bike like they've just never
been on a bike and so going over a trail
it's like ha but you know they get they
get on the bike and away they go and
they're having a great time and some of
them have never tube before and they get
on the tube which is basically an
inflatable raft behind the boat and the
boat pulls them around in circles and
they love it it's just such a wonderful
time and I did it yes it's so cool so so
we have chapel in the afternoon
activities and we have tuk-tuk is
basically candy time so it's like snack
time in the afternoon and what I love
about my camp is that every kid gets one
piece of food and so that's chips
chocolate bar skittles cuz skittles is
neither here or and then a drink and but
every kid gets the exact same to pay so
they don't have to pay so there's none
of this well my parents could afford
forty dollars yeah and then this other
kid you know they get five and they have
to can't really get anything everybody
gets that every day I know it just
totally levels the playing field which
is yeah so they feel a little bit more
equal with one another there's none of
this Oh like doing I can't have that
kids are allowed to eat as much as they
want there's no like they can eat the
thirds yeah as long as there's
food they can eat it so they go home and
they're full and so in the evening we
have wonderful evening camp evening
games all camp games which lots of
competition and wonderful lots of
running and hiding and just wonderful
one of the activities is called capture
the staff oh the staff goes and hides
and then the campers go and they have to
find the staff and if they find the
staff then they get to dump them with
water or pie them in the face but it's
just such a wonderful end to the week
where you know oh I got so and so and so
it's really cool then we have evening
chapel and then they have campfire where
they stand like every night I can't fire
some of these kids have never been to a
camp fire and a singsong Oh silly songs
and actions and dancing and and then
it's bedtime and we wake up the next go
to bed and wake up the next morning and
started all over again and it's just you
have these kids that love being there
and they're having so much fun and
and we do get the kids that get homesick
and you know not every kid that comes to
camp wants to be at Camp some kids are
sent to camp because they have nowhere
else to go many of them come from foster
homes and so some of them its transition
and they have no idea that they are
coming to camp and when they go home
that they're going to be in a totally
different home yeah yes there has been
times where there have been issues at
camp and there is no one to call oh my
god there's just no one to call and our
director has such a wonderful heart he's
like we are here to show them the love
of Christ if we send them home what are
they going home to they're not going to
hear it about Jesus at home so we go to
great awed like great lengths to make
sure that kids stay at Camp because they
hear about Jesus they see the love of
Jesus it is so easy just to send a kid
home because you're like well for the
greater good it's better if they go home
and it slices does not follow
utilitarian ethics thank God yes he's
like he does and he cares about the one
the International ya heard about me and
I was at camp yeah and that's how i came
to Christ was I heard about Jesus at VBS
Vacation Bible School yeah so I'm in it
it's out I want to go back yes now
talking to you that's so great and I
know we sure missed you on this end but
wow what an impact
what an impact camp can have not a kid
so what kind of ways our children
developed or how do they grow one of the
things that we teach at camp and there's
a whole variety of different ways of
packaging this I package it with the
acronym of spear like we're trying to
hit the target right so so spear so
asses security they need to feel safe so
they need to know where the cabin
leaders are they need they need to know
what the rules are what the boundaries
are and we go to great lengths that they
know what they can and cannot do so they
have a great time because the more I
learn about people so many of them want
that security they want to feel safe
they want to know what they can and
cannot do so they can actually have the
freedom to have fun within those
boundaries yes so often we we don't know
how much how much fun we can have our
what kind of fun we can have because we
actually don't know what the parameters
are right so one of the key things we do
is make sure that they feel secure they
feel safe that the cabin leaders have
all been trained so that they help to
provide that safe atmosphere for the
kids so the child can actually have a
good time then there's pee pee reaches
power they have to have a sense that
they can accomplish something so the
idea of the power like riding a horse
like getting on the tube like swimming
out to the to the dock so many kids come
and they'd never swam before and so
they're like I can't swim out to the
raft which has the slide and everything
I'm like sure you can you have a life
jacket on and they're like oh no no no I
can't and then we swim out with them and
they're like I did I did it so the sense
of power that they yes I can do it and
then II is Oh golly experience I think
no I can't remember what he is an hour
maybe a is a faction ale affection I
have to feel like they're loved okay and
that is so important that kids feel
loved and so we have campers that come
or like
haven't had enough lovin they haven't
had enough lovin ah which is tough
because the head in there tough yeah so
we practice loving well and then ours
recognition do they know me so like
right at the very beginning we often
tell our cabin leaders you got to know
your kids names by the eight by
suppertime like that gives them an hour
and a half you need to know your kids
names experience is experience ease
experience so they have to have
opportunities to at least try things
yeah which we you know we try very hard
that all of the programs are up and
running all the time so that the kids
can experience as much as possible camp
is is designed to give them
opportunities to grow and to learn about
Jesus well if you provide all of these
things if you meet all of these needs
the security the power the experience
the affection and the recognition that
they are more open to hearing about
Jesus which basically is when you think
of it if we meet all of these needs then
they'll actually listen to the one who
can meet all of them so we are a very
clear Gospel message to let them know
who Jesus is and how much he loves them
yeah and what was your theme for this
year I know ever hear you have a theme
this year was made new therefore if
anyone is in Christ the new creation has
come the old has gone and the new is
here oops second Corinthians 5 17 yo
yeah that's awesome so gangsta ah yeah
and every night we talked about being
made new in Christ he has given you new
life he has given you a new way to see
he's given you a new way to think he's
given you a new heart he's given you a
new way to talk he's given you a new
family I guess just wonderful to see
these kids get it right that they can be
made
new in Christ and the thing is it's not
just for kids write that story is the
Gospel story that everybody can be made
new in Christ if you desire to know
Jesus when he comes in it says therefore
if anyone is in Christ that means you've
asked Jesus come into your heart he can
get rid of the old and bring the new
that whole idea you'll see things
differently and talk about things
differently you'll interact with people
differently because Christ makes us new
and so it's just so exciting to watch
some of these kids like just getting a
hold of this and saying yes I want to be
made new in Christ and that's for me yes
that's for me yeah Gospels for me yeah
so so yeah camp is an excellent
opportunity to grow and like I grow in
my faith even though I'm teaching kids
about Jesus I grow in my faith as I
watch God move in amazing ways and then
I just see them dancing and singing for
the Lord I'm like yay God you know I
think about what you what you've just
said about camp about creating that
secure place giving affording them the
power and the experience affection and
recognition recognition and how do we
translate that back to hear you know me
if we're involved in children's ministry
or maybe you're a teacher or maybe
you're yes teaching Sunday School you're
teaching within a classroom maybe eight
kids of your own or even just other
people in your life mm-hmm like how
wonderful if in our work environment we
did that for our colleagues yes I was
just thinking that would be
transformative because that's how those
are practical examples of how you can
live out the love of Christ yes so make
people feel secure yes through
encouragement mm-hmm you know you do
that really well or asking them for
their and put giving them power and
mmhmm yeah that's definitely something
to think about Jen well because then you
create this idea that you're safe that
you see them you know them you trust
them and then they're more apt to listen
to what you have to say right because
you actually pour it into them
you are meeting their needs yeah I never
really thought about applying it to the
other areas of our life but it's so true
so true if we can help people feel
secure and give them a sense of power
and experience an affection and
recognition I know you write and know
you as valuable yeah you bring something
valuable to our relationship whatever
that might be yeah yeah very cool how
awesome would that be see now we're
thinking about something else I don't
have I know probably this is done and
speaking of being done are we done I
think son we're done oh and fast I know
cuz I great stuff to say you gonna pray
I'm going to pray to it lord thank you
that we can be made new thank you that
when we are in you the old is gone and
the new has come Oh father we ask in
your name that you would reveal the
depth of that truth in each one of our
hearts that we would be drawn closer to
you by the power of your Holy Spirit and
we would believe in our innermost being
that you truly can make us new giving us
a new way to see think talk you can give
us a new heart and you give us a new
family because you've placed us in
community in the church you are awesome
God thank you so much in your name we
pray amen amen thank you so much for
tuning in again and we hope that you'll
join us next week new everyday TV if you
want to head over to our website you can
click on our partners page we've got so
many amazing partners with us now so
check it out there are a couple if you
are interested in purchasing a book or
any other resources there's family
christian bookstore that you can access
through our partners page and you can
also access amazon so if you go to
amazon and you make a purchase after
clicking on that link through our
website then we actually get some
money in return and that helps us to
keep this show going so um please check
it out and we'll see you next week see
you next week bye bye
you
