Kameron Crandall is a senior technology
manager at Kingston and he helps to lead
the engineering efforts and the new and
current products and he also serves as
the technical advisor for Kingston sales
marketing and public relations lately
he's been instrumental in overseeing the
launch of Kingston's new lineup of
enterprise-grade solid-state drives
Cameron thank you so much for being here
with us this week Thank You Cameron I've
got some great questions for you we want
to go right into it
first of all businesses demand fast
performance from their storage whether
it's an in-house server hosting network
shares or perhaps it's an Internet
facing web server IT admins like myself
we've got a need for speed my man
probably because realistically when
things get slow it's us who have to hear
the complaints so being a technology
leader yourself kingston must receive a
lot of requests for more speed or higher
capacity from you from your customers so
my question is from your perspective
what our customers looking for and I
guess how is that influencing Kingston's
innovation as well so yeah great
questions so yeah both capacity and
performance are our drivers in the
industry today specifically in the data
center what we're being asked for is
definitely higher capacities but also
performance consistency from the SSD in
the data center there's very much now a
distinction in performance between what
a client SSD delivers and an enterprise
SSD delivers and over the last I'd say
three to four years this concept of
performance consistency and what they
call QoS or quality of service has
really become key to the buying
decisions by IT administrators and
storage architects so they're not
necessarily looking for peak levels of
performance they might find on a
datasheet but give
that performance consistently right
workload yeah now when I hear QoS
quality of service I think about my
internet connectivity you know we're
doing this interview over Skype so we're
using QoS technology in order to
delegate packets so that our feed is
really good during the interview so how
does QoS play in to solid state storage
so it's funny you mentioned that the
term QoS actually came from the ethernet
and networking bandwidth it was the the
the guarantee quality of service or
performance you would get from your
internet provider so it's been that term
has been adopted by the SSD industry but
it relates to the consistent delivery of
i/o performance from the SSD and latency
performance so what a datacenter
customer wants in their storage device
today for server workloads is consistent
levels of i/o delivery from the SSD as
well as consistent latency we can't have
big latency spikes in our application
and we can't have I Oh cliffs occur that
show up in the end applications
somewhere because that's a you know a
poor experience on a website that is a
ecommerce site that is slow where you
potentially have a buyer that moves away
from the site and goes and purchases
somewhere else so sure datacenters today
are really looking at and designing
their own test to test SSDs for this
performance consistency we cannot
deliver a client SSD to a data center
customer like we could you know five six
years ago today they're demanding and
this level of performance consistency in
the storage devices that they're buying
yeah and I think that that's probably
being pushed by like we're using
virtualization more than ever we're
using network-attached storage and I
scuzzy devices more than ever so this is
shared resources against many different
servers many different web services
databases and things like that so that
consistent speed is is really important
to us
in the data center and in business
Cameron can you tell us what's got you
personally really excited about the new
Kingston data center DC 500 SSDs and
also kind of how they differ from
previous generations of the drives sure
so we've we're probably best known for
client and consumer SSDs in the
marketplace um if you if you were you
know in an industry event and you asked
somebody what they thought of Kingston
SSDs they'd probably say hey they're a
great you know client or consumer brand
and I might find in a retail out gaming
my friend me I'm gaming it yeah but we
have been selling enterprise-class SSDs
for the last probably five or six years
but our product portfolio has been quite
small we've had kind of one or two
drives in that segment and we've got you
know great a great customer base from
our DRAM relationships and we've been
able to sell our SS our enterprise SSDs
into those into those customer bases now
moving forward with this new DC 500 line
that we've just launched we've added two
drives to the line and we have three
more drives coming out before q3 so
we're really exciting the line yeah and
really going after different tiers of
enterprise business we're heavily
focused still on SATA today even though
nvme is kind of the big buzzword we're
finding that in in the in that in the
typical channel that we sell to there's
still a lot of serial ata being used in
data center servers a lot of the tier 2
and tier 3 cloud companies are still
heavily based on on SATA yeah so so the
DC 500 is is a SATA SSD offered in two
different endurance levels and then
we're gonna be coming out with another
product SATA product in that lineup and
then we'll move to two nvme products to
help those same customer you know
heavily on SATA today transition to NV
Wow ok I want to circle back to that but
first of all you mentioned that you've
got two different models that are gonna
be coming out so we've got the
and the EM so we're gonna see DC 500 R
we're gonna see DC 500 M so for me as a
c-suite executives looking to purchase
well if one is less money than the other
like where what what's the difference
like why am I looking at an adverse as
an R for example so the R stands for
Reed centric workloads and M stands for
mixed use and those are closely tied to
the endurance level of an SSD so
typically a data center customer that's
looking to source SSDs for their servers
and storage arrays they're looking at
performance and they're looking at
endurance and most data center customers
that are making that purchase probably
already have an idea of the endurance
level that they're looking for in their
SSD so they're looking at either like a
sub one drive right per day SSD or
they're looking for more endurance at
either a drive right or maybe a little
bit over one drive right per day so we
offer two different categories and just
like you said there is a price
difference between those the V R and the
M are being more read centric so if you
had an application that you know was
more you know 90 to 95 percent
read/write from a cost standpoint you
you know you would be better off buying
a DC 500 R if you had more of a workload
I had a balance of mixed reads and
writes you're gonna be writing to that
drive more so you'd want it you'd want
to outfit the server with the DC 500
okay so it's really workload specific
and that we know from industry analysts
that the the majority about 80 81 82
percent of the SSDs that are deployed
into servers today require one or less
than one drive rate per day of endurance
so we're going out of that bigger kind
of bucket of business and opportunity
we're not going to be producing you know
5 and 10 drive write per day SSDs that's
a very competitive segment in a much
smaller segment of the market okay so
with one drive right a day immediately
the thought that comes to mind is what
kind of capacity are we looking at with
the DC 500s
so both models the R and the M they're
offered in for 8960 1.9 2 terabytes and
3.8 4 terabytes Wow so those are those
are quite large capacity am I right in
thinking based on your description here
what's coming to mind with the with the
2 different models the R and the M is
that the R is going to be more for like
say it would be perfect solution for say
a a web host who's exactly we're
uploading files to it once in a while
but realistically it's all read data
it's people visiting the website versus
the is the M would be more for say an
internal storage for my business Network
where we're opening a lot of files and
saving those files back to the network
drive is that accurate that that's very
accurate ok our main customer base that
we're going after with these drives is
the tier 2 and tier 3 cloud companies
the hosting co-pays yeah
they you know they are they're still
heavily SATA today they're you know
they're looking for the kind of sweet
spot in capacity is 960 and 1.9 to
terabyte mm-hmm
we've got some some demand for 4 4
terabyte but most of the volume that
we're seeing is in that 1 in 2 terabyte
capacity range sure and we needed you've
got lots of drives in an array it's
going to give you a much higher capacity
once you've got 8 or 12 drives in there
right which really makes me think now
I'm sure like in an our standard PC
we're used to having maybe one or two
SSDs in there and and so the difference
in power consumption is going to be
negligible between say an SSD and an
old-style spinning drive but in a data
center as I say we've got each server in
the rack is going to have eight or more
SSDs in it or spinning hard drives just
switching those servers so our existing
infrastructure so taking those servers
that have eight 12:24 drives in them if
we switch those two SSDs are we going to
reduce our electrical you
by any notable amount yeah absolutely so
we we we were doing these tests several
years ago and when SSDs first came out
and we started putting SSDs into into
servers and it was kind of a two-fold
effect you were getting the benefit of
lower power consumption but your the the
performance you were getting out of the
SSD array was was you know many many
times over almost 200% Wow what you're
getting from from the from the hard
drive arrays you know a typical you know
10 or 15 K rpm hard drive
you know consumes quite a bit of power
right sure so and like you said scaled
up in in arrays of 8 16 and 24 you know
you can you know reduce your your power
footprint by quite a bit by just going
to SSDs and in fact you might even be
able to reduce the number of physical
devices even with an SSD and get more
performance than you are getting with
hard drives right storage arrays and
servers that are built with hard drives
today are scaled out with hard drives to
get performance that capacity may not be
being used but that they're they're
scaling hard drives to get the
performance out of them so if you don't
have to scale that if you don't have a
scale hard drives you're getting the
benefit of reduced power consumption and
greater performance with fewer drives so
it's the concept of doing more with less
yeah I expect that with spinning drives
we have to have them spinning 24/7
because you can't wait for the drive to
spin up it's gonna take between 4 and
maybe 10 seconds to spin up and nobody's
going to wait for a website for that
amount of time so SSDs like Zippity zap
right they're always on now we've got to
take a really quick break we're speaking
with Cameron Crandall from Kingston
Technology about their new data center
drives and the state of solid-state
drives in enterprise servers when we get
back we're gonna be learning about how
Kingston is addressing the shortcomings
of the aging SATA interface and how
their new drives deal with latency as
well as garbage collection stick around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
this week we're speaking with Cameron
Crandall he's a senior technology
manager with Kingston technologies SSD
product engineering department and not
only does he help to lead the
engineering efforts for new and current
product offerings but he also serves as
a technical adviser lately he's also
been working on bringing you their brand
new enterprise SSDs before the break we
learned about the new data center DC 500
drives but if I'm going to invest in new
storage drives for my company I need to
know how future ready my investment is
and how the upgrade will impact
performance for my business in the years
to come we need to have fault tolerance
that goes without saying so if a drive
fails we can seamlessly replace it and
then have the array rebuild the data but
I've heard Cameron that in the past trim
has been a problem for SSDs so we'll
call it garbage collection it doesn't
necessarily work well when you put
solid-state drives into a raid array
this of course leads to high latency
over time which is not going to be good
for the data center or the in-house or
server performance but yet the
advancement of technology is still
driving us to replace the old spinning
drives in our server with solid-state
drives so my question for you Cameron is
how is Kingston addressing the issue of
garbage collection and is it something
that we still need to be concerned with
in 2019 yeah absolutely so so garbage
collection is a necessity on any SSD so
you have you you have your two processes
you've got garbage collection which is
initiated by the on-board SSD controller
on the SSD itself and then trim is
actually initiated by the file system
because the file system knows where the
invalid data blocks are so it can send a
command to the SSD to do that
housecleaning so the to work kind of
side by side just know that trim is file
system initiated which has to be passed
through a driver and on to the SSD and
that garbage collection is an internal
routine that
done on the SSD to keep the drive clean
and the blocks clean ready for new
rights to come in but both processes are
trying to come to accomplish the same
thing which is basically keep the drive
in a clean state so that when new rights
come into the drive it can process those
rights quickly and you don't have
latency and i/o cliffs and a lot of that
firmware tuning that I talked about
earlier on with the CUNY tuning for QoS
goes into how we handle a trim command
that comes in from the host and how we
initiate garbage collection to maintain
steady state performance over the drive
so there's firmware techniques that are
used there are over provisioning
techniques that are that are done on the
SSD where we set larger portions of the
flash aside to do these background
operations efficiently so there again I
can't stress enough today in today's SSD
world how different a client SSD is from
a server SSD and tuning for QoS as being
really the key priority at Kingston for
datacenter SSDs we put a lot of time
into making sure that we're delivering
performance consistently going to your
question about you know trim and being
able to pass a trim command through a
RAID controller right a lot of that has
been solved a lot of the ring
controllers and the file systems now are
compatible and that trim command can
come through to the SSD that sits behind
a RAID controller in the early days that
was not possible but a lot of that has
been solved today fantastic now is attic
is that like a Linux kernel thing is
that something that we have to like is
this hardware related as far as the
backplane goes or is this where does
that come from it's it is in the kernel
okay so software up update software
perfect yeah that's perfect
and I want to circle back now before the
break we were talking a little bit about
SATA and how serial ata
is
is still being used in the data center
and in business and as I think about
aisle performance and the overall speed
of our servers where we're kind of
approaching this point or maybe we're
already there Cameron where Storage
Technology is actually finding a
bottleneck introduced by the controller
itself now your new drives the DC 500s
they're extremely fast but they're still
limited to the SATA speeds
since the typical server backplane is
still using that bus interface so for
those of us whose need for speed is
borderline an on obsession what is on
the horizon as far as something faster
goes you talked about nvme and I think
nvme and the server what could be on the
horizon for us here Cameron yeah so a
great question so yeah we've been
building SSDs with hard drive interfaces
for the last 12 years and there are many
many debates in our industry about this
subject and obviously nvme was developed
to address this problem the issue is
that the the the number of SATA and SAS
sockets that exist in the world today
are literally in the billions so it
makes sense for SSD companies like
Kingston to develop SSDs with interfaces
that have you know literally billions of
opportunities for for socket placement
but definitely so nvme was developed as
a better interface for flash-based SSDs
the the Tier one data centers that are
out there and these are all the
household names that we all know of here
they move to nvme you know pretty quick
actually a couple years ago okay so
their head their heavy nvme today you
know in the channel though they're still
we're still seeing SATA used heavily
primarily because SATA even though the
the SATA interface is a performance
bottleneck
it still delivers very very good
performance and I would say what we've
done was Satta over the last several
years is we keep improving the SSD
technology and really our little like I
was talking about around QoS and even
peak levels of bandwidth performance
we've been able to really refine the the
performance capability of of SATA SSDs
so they've been able to go out on this
long runway and still be very viable
solutions at a lower price point than
nvme today nvme still carries a price
premium over SATA it is they are coming
together but until until we're until
nvme and SATA at price parity I think
you're still gonna see customers that
you know don't have that that that huge
performance requirement they're gonna
stick to serial ata
until they're at price parity or you
know that the system manufacture forces
them to go to nvme sure yeah that's
awesome I mean I can't wait to see
what's next so just as kind of a final
thought here Cameron so let's let's just
put a scenario out there I'm a business
exec minister I've already got storage
servers in my rack and I just want to
increase the performance increase the
throughput by changing the drives is it
advantageous for me to pull those old
spinning drives and and switch over to
DC 500s oh absolutely I mean there's an
immediate mean just just like we saw on
the client side I mean it is you know we
all saw kind of a night and day
difference on our persecutors like our
desktop computers laptops switching to
SSDs it's like night and day
absolute it is it is so if you were to
you know you know you know put you know
four eight sixteen twenty-four dc5
hunters behind your existing rate
controller that you're using for with
spinning discs you're gonna see giant
giant benefits in got everything io
performance you know I ops Go Go
shooting way up bandwidth performance is
going to shoot way up your latencies are
gonna go way down so
there there that that upgrade model
still very much is a is a is a benefit
today very good Cameron Crandall is
joining us from Kingston Technology
Cameron thank you so much for joining us
today and congratulations on the release
of the DC 500 as well we're very very
excited about this this new drive you're
welcome thank you very much all the best
[Applause]
you
