[Music]
you see the both systems are very
responsive the Odroid xu4 q to me has
more of the at least out of the box has
more of a desktop computer feel to it
the responsiveness is is like a desktop
computer as well but the operating
system feels very desktop computer ish
Raspberry Pi raspbian has done a
fantastic job of making it feel that way
as well but it has a bit of a a bit of
us I don't know not quite a desktop feel
to it it's not quite as powerful and it
has a little bit of latency to it so
over on the Raspberry Pi 3 first thing I
want to test is we're gonna we're going
to run a probably a 30 second test using
stress ng so stress - ng and we're gonna
tell it to use all CPU cores and we're
gonna test to iOS we're gonna do virtual
memory with 1 gig blocks and we're gonna
go for 30 seconds and then we get the
metrics brief at the end I'm gonna run
that and we're gonna jump over to the
Odroid xu4 queue and we're gonna run
exactly the same command so stress ng -
- cpu 0 io 2
okay we're gonna let that run on the
Odroid xu4 queue jumping back to the
raspberry pi how are things looking
hasn't been 30 seconds yet there we go
okay so first of all we're looking at
BOGO ops
how many Bogle ops is it
what's a BOGO op again we're not getting
scientific here BOGO op is a bogus
operation okay okay
so how many bogus operations can these
boards process on their CPUs on their
iOS and the virtual memory that's what
we're looking at so it's not a
scientific number it's simply a
comparative that we can take two boards
side by side and say you know they
operate with this many bogus operations
per second so looking at the Raspberry
Pi 3 how many BOGO ops do we get per
second so looks like CPU is about 20
3.04 and the i/o is 23700 jumping back
over to the Odroid xu4 let's see if we
can bring that up a little bigger oh and
it figures it wrapped it to the next
line okay so looking at the same thing
29 point oh seven for the CPU and 53 47
for the that is IO sink let's jump back
to Raspberry Pi I got to run that again
because it's not I can't I can't do the
side-by-side comparison let's run it
again same thing now because we've
specified CPUs zero this is going to use
eight cores on this particular device
and simply give us some numbers to
compare oh that is the time that's the
time BOGO ops I'm looking at the
completely wrong column look at the
left-hand side 1906 for the CPU and 906
thousand for the i/o all right what do
we got here five thousand two hundred
and thirty-four for CPU versus the 1906
on the Raspberry Pi so we're about five
times Wow four times faster CPU and i/o
sink is 129,000 on the Odroid and again
how did how does it think it's nine
hundred and six thousand although this
is a different eye of sync versus i/o
they're not the same test and we want
everything to be exactly side-by-side
comparable but we can't compare that
value because they're not a comparable
value that could be a version of stress
energy that's giving us a little bit of
an off-putting value so we're gonna look
at just the CPU where CPU on the
Raspberry Pi is comparable at one 906 to
the value of five two three four on the
Odroid X u4q so again not scientific but
it gives us an idea that it's about four
times faster just in this bogus
operations the i/o stuff they're not a
compare comparative side-by-side so we
can't use that number but CPU is about
four times faster ok jumping back to the
Raspberry Pi let's test the network
interface now I've got a CL 100 from
logic supply connected to the same
Gigabit Ethernet switch as both of these
devices it's running iperf as a server
that means I can basically send packets
to it and receive them back and it will
give me a benchmark of my the network
speed okay so you have to have a
receiving server on the other end and it
has to be connected to a gigabit switch
so on the Raspberry Pi 3 let's type
iperf
- see and the IP address of that iperf
server which is 192.168.0.1 o1 we're
gonna run ten simultaneous connections
and we're gonna run it for 30 seconds
there we go now over here on the other
devices the Odroid xu4 queue let's run
that exact same command i perf - see
192.168.0.1 o 1 - p 10 - t 30 and notice
i'm not going to hit enter until the
raspberry pi is finished because that
would be an unfair benchmark because of
course this one is already using the
bandwidth so we got to do this one at a
time
raspberry pi should be wrapping up there
we go I'm gonna hit enter on the other
device here and let that run while we
look at these specifications so at so
basically what we're seeing there is the
bandwidth megabits per second on all 10
connections and then the summary at the
end which is an average over 30 seconds
so we're getting ninety four point two
megabits per second now with the 100
megabit Ethernet adapter in a Raspberry
Pi 3 that's pretty significant that's 92
percent of its overall promised speed is
being achieved so that's pretty good
jumping over to the old Droid X u4q the
average is 926 megabits per second so
again we're getting about 92% of the
promised speed but in this case we have
Gigabit Ethernet so the speed of the
Ethernet connection is about 10 times
faster on the Odroid X u4q then on the
Raspberry Pi 3 so if you're using this
for a server if you're using this to
like run an ass box or something like
that this is definitely gonna be the the
PI killer for sure as far as that goes
another reason you would want that
faster network connection Plex servers
mm-hmm if you want to do multimedia
streaming that kind of thing that's much
much faster the final test that we're
gonna do here Becca because I know this
is running into the the geekery beyond
measure
but we are measuring it don't worry the
geekery is high with this one okay so on
each of these systems I've installed
cat5 TV miners you can find that on our
github cap cap 5 TV on github there's an
application called cap 5 TV - miners and
we're gonna mine monaro with each of
these boards so let's see how many
hashes per second each of these can do
so on each system I've got it already
installed this is the Raspberry Pi 3 I'm
gonna let that connect and get a couple
of jobs from the pool and over here on
the Odroid xu4 we're gonna do the same
thing
mineiro and we're gonna let that connect
and grab from the pool now it looks like
they're both connecting to hash vault
yeah so we've got the same pool we've
got the same application the same
version everything is exactly the same
between them just different hardware so
this is the raspberry pi 3 we've got two
jobs looks like I'm just waiting for any
hashes per second to be reported same
with the Odroid xu4 queue just waiting
for any kind of report as far as how
many hashes per second we're getting
this could take a couple of moments
we'll take this opportunity just to
mention a little bit about cap 5 TV -
miners that's a cool way that you can
support category 5 TV network because
you can install this on your computer
your SBC on whatever and when you're not
using those devices it will mine monaro
and deposit it to category 5 TV so it's
a really interesting way for you to be
able to support the shows here at
category 5 while not actually spending
anything other than just using your
hardware and and possibly electricity
you know might bump up the electricity
bill a little bit if you're if you've
got a supercomputer and it would take a
really powerful with the SBC it's not
gonna be an issue you're not gonna be
running up a lot so that's the Raspberry
Pi we're getting 8.2 hashes per second
8.2 hashes per second it's not high but
it's something over on the Odroid x u4q
we're getting 20
five point seven hashes per second again
a significant jump in performance when
it comes to the overwrite Xu for Q so if
you were looking at using an SPC for
mining
this is CPU mining granted so we're not
using GPU mining here because the
Raspberry Pi 3 just wouldn't be able to
handle that so with CPU mining we're
getting about 8 on the Raspberry Pi 3
and about 23 did I say on the Xu for 25
almost 26 and there's the Raspberry Pi 3
it's gone down to 77.7 the Odroid is
holding its ownit 24.7 so definitely
getting better hash rates on that
you
[Applause]
