welcome to category five technology TV
this week we're gonna be learning how to
take better photos and how to fix the
ones that maybe didn't quite have the
right lighting you want stick around
because we're gonna be showing you how
to do that using free software and we're
gonna tell you where to get it also you
remember the data traveler 2000 from
Kingston this is the encrypted USB flash
drive this thing is incredible I carry
it with me everywhere and we've been
collecting your ballots over the past
few weeks we're gonna be giving one of
these away this week so you definitely
want to stick around till the end of the
show and if you have cast a ballot it
could be yours so here you go our live
recordings are trusted only two
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology who revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit our website
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat 5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everybody nice to
have you back episode number 598 is here
so close to 600 two weeks away yeah yeah
I did the math real quick you see how
I'm like boom boom boom yes five hundred
ninety-eight plus two 600 600 weeks of
category-five technology TV thank you
for putting up with me for so long
yeah alright a quick check in on our
BitTorrent seed server from last week
yes it looks like well it's going really
well yeah that was gonna be your
question right yes you're like ha ha ha
ha reads my mind
mm-hmm we are seeding several seasons of
category 5 TV plus we've got a couple of
versions of nebula MEMS Linux that we're
seeding as well and more still to come
if you're curious about it if you want
to learn how to set up your very own
BitTorrent server on a node
hc1 I've got this it's episode 597 do it
category five technology TV on our
website category five dot TV and we'll
walk you through that Before we jump
into it this week make sure you
subscribe to our YouTube channel and
also click on the bell and then you'll
receive notifications whenever we post
new and exciting content or as Garbi
mentioned in the chatroom I only knew
you were live because I got the
notification on YouTube right so click
that bell so that when we are live
because we broadcast live also through
YouTube you'll be able to get that
notification it would be good would to
know should we get right into it should
all right so this week we are looking at
lighting correction in the GNU image
manipulation program right sometimes you
take photos and things don't quite look
the way that you had seen them in person
and then you're like oh if only if only
I could fix that shot
well the GNU image manipulation program
or aka GIMP is absolutely free it's kind
of like a Photoshop alternative we'll
call it it's a free image manipulation
program or that's a fancy way to say
it's a photo editor and I've been
learning some things like we get little
lessons and by we get I mean I get from
Robbie ways where eventually I'm gonna
be like a GIMP pro and pro today
I will learn lighting fantastic in grade
3 I was a GIMP pro I was making
friendship bracelets for all my face and
how terms have changed how terms have
changed but when you take a photo and
you realize oh no the curtains were open
and I've got some blinding light coming
in from the window okay and so the room
is absolutely dark in the photo we need
to be able to fix those so tonight we're
gonna learn a little bit about color not
color correction but lighting correction
in the GNU image manipulation program
and then we're gonna talk about how we
can improve our photography as well so
that we don't have to go through the
onerous process of modifying our photos
but we're gonna use one tool okay one
tool in the GNU image manipulation
program in order to do this so if you
follow along with us this week you're
gonna be able to do this as well and
prove your photos so that they look
better when you put them up on your
website you're using them on your blog
particularly of interest if you're
taking pictures for a customer right I
know I did web design as as like a home
business before you know years ago and I
would often go in and take pictures of
rental units and and I was doing some
photography for for real estate then
it's particularly problematic when you
take a bunch of pictures of the suite
that they're trying to sell and the
lighting is way off and you know you'd
never would admit it to the customer but
oh I kind of messed up and the lighting
wasn't right so we need to go back and
take it again No
we'll use free software get it at GIMP
or gets available for Windows Mac and
Linux so regardless of what platform
you're on you'll be able to use this
I've got a handful of select pictures
from my own repository to use for this
demonstration and what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna open the first one which has
extreme backlighting I'm gonna open this
version 2.0 on my Windows 10 system now
remember this will operate on Windows
Mac and Linux but today we're using it
on Windows 10 just to show you how this
how does look so here's a case where
this beautiful photo of a bedroom is
[Music]
slightly destroyed by the fact that
there's a lot of sunlight coming in from
that there window yes there is and
because of that my camera has set the
the exposure level based on the amount
of light coming in from that window so
now the room itself which is actually
the focal point of my photograph is
really really dark the colors are off
and it's very very dark so I'm gonna use
I mentioned I'm going to use one tool
this week on a future episode we're also
going to be looking at color correction
but this week we are strictly looking at
levels okay so basically lighting
adjustments so with our levels tool
we're going to be able to correct this
so I'm gonna right click and
colors levels we've seen this tool on
category five technology TV before on
the left-hand side these are your
shadows so if I grab this little
triangle and bring it in it's gonna get
more shadowing aka darker if I grab the
right triangle this is our highlights so
that is going to bring it in it's going
to make it the opposite of shadows any
guesses Ashley come on I'm lighter that
was that was your cue yeah yeah more
highlighting so you see what's happening
there
it's brightening up brightening up
brightening up but the colors are still
off yes so what I need in order to
correct colors is what's called white
balance have you ever heard that term
yes not that I would understand exactly
what it means well it when you think
about a photograph or visual imagery
like convert it to digital white balance
is basically telling the computer yeah
what of this photo is meant to be white
and if that's supposed to be white then
that thing that looks yellow right now
should probably be a little bit more
toward the blue spectrum then so right
right because lighting and and exposure
can really mess with the colorization of
a photo so do you then have to pick in
the picture what the real proper color
is like you find the real white in there
and just click and tell it that's a very
good way to do it Sasha got very quick
way to do I should say because otherwise
we can yeah we can tweak the colors and
as I said we're going to be looking at
colorization and and correcting colors
in a future episode but by finding
something in the photo that should be
white we're able to tell our computer
that should be white so everything else
can be adjusted based on the fact that
that should be white that's called white
balance okay so it's a really great way
to be able to correct the colorization
and the brightness of your photo so you
can tell that my camera has basically
said the outside so
the sunlight that's coming in which we
know is not actually white it that looks
very very white to me mm-hmm so my
camera has probably determined that the
light that's coming in from the window
is white and that's why the colorization
of the scene looks a little bit off it's
very brown on the spectrum so I'm gonna
bring back up my levels colors levels
and there are three mysterious buttons
here that I want you to get familiar
with this Doppler is for shadows okay
this Doppler is for gray and this
Doppler is for white we're not looking
at photography just yet but you can
actually purchase off of Amazon or any
you can walk into a photo Photography
store and you can get swatches basically
like a template that it has white grey
and black on it so that as you're taking
photos you can hold it up take a photo
and then that becomes your base image so
that you have something to Doppel that
is specifically white I find it's
helpful like if I'm taking a Fatah photo
of a nature scene sometimes I'll
actually kind of oft the corner off to
the side I'll put a piece of white paper
or something that I know should be white
especially in a scene where the eye I
can tell so if they think of this as
you're taking your photo is there
anything white in the scene because if
there isn't your camera is probably
going to go off on the color because
it's gonna try to detect the white
balance it's not going to find anything
that's white so it's not gonna be able
to do it like pick the closest way yeah
so it's so to put that into perspective
if somebody's wearing an off-white blue
shirt so like a really really
light-colored blue shirt mm-hmm the
camera will interpret that as white and
so then the entire room will be white
balanced to that as white and that's a
blue technically yes everything else so
all the blue will come out of the image
right so now everything is very much
toward the kind of orange yellow red
kind of end of the spectrum right that's
what messes up the photograph right so
we're gonna we're gonna correct that now
so in this photo I mentioned these three
tools here and the only one that I'm
going to use right now is to pick my
white point so I'm gonna select this top
right here and within the photo I just
want to find somewhere that I feel
should be white and in looking at this
photo I see a baseboard that is painted
white so that's a good spot feeling but
it has yeah the ceiling is good the
baseboard has a little bit too much
shadowing so I think it's going to
brighten up my image too much the area
around like the actual window valance
here is painted white but you set the
ceiling so you can see how over here
it's quite quite bright but then it
falls into shadows over here so this is
gonna be turning out a little bit darker
so let's try it let's select somewhere
in the kind of intermediary brightness
area so right about here I'm gonna
select that as my white point and you
see what happens because there are
shadows up here yes the colorization has
improved right however it's very really
really bright yeah because of that
shadow they live on the Sun yeah so
let's bring that in a little bit tighter
into the white area of the ceiling up
here now this is probably like a stucco
ceiling and I'm clicking all over the
place so there are parts of this ceiling
that are not going to be pure white
there's gonna be some gray specks and
some shadows so let's try in around the
frame of the window here okay I'm
starting to see some good color ization
but I again have some kind of wicked
looking brightness right so but the
colors are looking natural though the
wall doesn't seem unnatural now so if I
turn back off my preview that's what it
looked like that's what it looks like
now so I start to feel like wow the the
white of the window frame here the
window sill is turning into a pretty
nice white balance for my photo right so
I've been able to select that but it's
way too bright okay so now you can play
with the shadow slider right yeah I
could but the shadows are natural I
don't want to pull those in too tight
because then I'm gonna get too much
shadow instead there's this nice happy
medium gray area and with this gray one
in the middle I'm going to take that and
drag it a little bit toward the light
which means I'm actually
moving some of the light and pulling it
toward I'm actually adding more shadows
but in a much more subtle sense okay so
you see what I'm able to do yes so I'm
getting a much more natural color
ization on those walls the bedspread
looks a lot more natural things look a
lot cleaner I'm gonna I'm gonna leave it
about there I'll turn off the preview so
that's my original very dark very under
saturated and then brightened way up
there we have Wow
much more improved now this is not a
perfect photograph because now the the
window is super super bright the window
looks like you live on the Sun but the
colorization is correct and everything
else about the photo looks a lot better
I really love this hmm
so let's jump back to my photos I'm
gonna I'm gonna use another example okay
we've got another window here see if it
loads up here we go okay so this window
is interesting because this window has
some things outside it's a little hard
for you to see at home
if I darken it a little bit let's just
darken this scene a little bit for you
so that you can see see outside I see
some trees I see some houses now I do
yeah but if I do that what I've just
done look at what it does to the room
the room is like pitch-black so we've
got an interesting case here where okay
now we've got that back light that's
really creating a shape in a shaded room
but I don't want to lose the scenery
outside it's especially the case if I've
got a photograph of like a suite that's
overlooking a beach right you know you
really want to be able to see that
beachfront property outside but you
don't want the room to be black so
there's a little bit of trickiness to
this and a little bit of happiness first
of all what I want to do is I'm gonna
create a duplicate of the layer I want
to have a backup of that layer so now I
have two of them they're identical so
either one of these are exactly the same
so with this first layer I'm actually
going to darken it a little bit so that
I can see outside so I'm simply I'm not
changing the white balance I'm just
darkening the photo so that I can see
outside see what's happening there yeah
so I can see that's a nice looking
landscape I've got some trees it's not
perfect but I want to get it so that at
least I can see what's happening outside
I can see that there's more going on in
the scene than just the room itself and
just a white window but now the room is
dark so now if I turn back on that lower
layer and turn off the top when you see
what happens when I switch between them
yeah okay so I've got the window this is
gonna be my window scene and this is my
room scene so let's correct the room
scene so I'm gonna go colors levels and
again I want to improve the white
balance because this is obviously under
saturated the the wall color is
obviously off I'm gonna grab some white
from the pillow look at how that Jam
brought the room right out of that now
I'm gonna grab the grays and brighten up
the room a little bit but notice how
I've completely lost my window okay
that's why I wanted to darken out
another layer for my window so there's
the window layer and here's the bedroom
layer so now I've got two layers to work
with so let's go back to our window
layer I'm gonna zoom in a little bit
here and this is where things get a
little bit hacky so we're taking it real
easy tonight I'm just gonna grab my
lasso marquee here free select tool they
call it and I'm grabbing the outside of
the window frame not the inside because
I don't want to mess up the brightness
of the inside you're gonna see that in
just a moment I'm gonna just kind of
trace around anything that is inside the
suite see that I'm not gonna oh I'm
gonna trace around that hit enter to
save that selection so now I've got a
selection that is that window can you
see that marquee it's a little bit
difficult but it is there
now I'm gonna holding my left shift key
so that I can multi-select so now I'm
selecting another marquee on the other
pane of the window I'm gonna go around
these pieces of fruit as well as I can
take your time a little more than I am
but this is for a demonstration but you
can see how quickly I can do this and
I'm just doing this with a touchpad on
while you're selecting that can I just
ask you the food wants to know did you
shoot and raw for this to be possible
these were shot in JPEG in auto mode and
that's intentional for the sake of the
demonstration because for a lot of users
you're just gonna be shooting from your
camera and getting the best shot that
you can just by pointing and clicking
exactly and then it's the regret
afterwards where oh I really wish I
could have made that a little bit better
we're gonna try to fix that up a little
bit so I'm tracing around this so these
are just shot JPEG in auto mode so I've
traced around hit enter so now I have
both of those panes selected so just to
show you I'm gonna control C control V
and then turn off that layer and create
a new layer so that you can see what
I've actually done so that's what I've
actually just selected and and
highlighted so what I want to do now and
turn on all my layers with that
selection I'm gonna right click on the
top layer which is my window layer and
I'm gonna add layer mask with that I'm
gonna choose the selection because I
want to create the mask based on my
selection and are you ready for the
magic I'm gonna add that now it's left
my window like that
look at that hmm okay that is incredible
now I'm going to zoom out so you can see
how those two layers those two different
versions have now merged together and so
quickly like I'm doing this live maybe
so there's my window all the windows
problems yeah not all of them I'm on
Windows 10 it's probably gonna crash so
there you have it so there's another
example of how things look now keep in
mind I've got links below this is kind
of hard to see on your TV but I've got
links below if you're watching this on
youtube or on our website category-five
TV where you can download the full sized
image and you can actually see the
difference between the original and the
version that I've created here tonight
live on the air but I can definitely see
that yeah on my screen that that just
looks stellar now another trick that I
could use so and this is something that
I would recommend that you do and this
is just kind of a side tip for you
there's something about when you create
a clip like that how there are these
stark lines and sometimes those can be
very very visible because you like see
that the the kind of blue line right
there yes that's because there's a bit
of a shadow right there that's a part of
the other layer so what I want to do
instead so let's just backtrack a little
bit and with this layer here I want to
now I've got my selection I'm going to
right click and go select and I'm gonna
feather okay
now observe the dimensions of your image
this is 42 72 by 28 48 so I can say
probably about 50 pixels and and you
will be able to gauge this as you grow
as a visual editor I'm gonna say 50
pixels is about right it might be about
30 but let's try that I mean now I'm
going to lay add my layer mask and what
I did there I'm gonna turn off the
bottom layer is that I softened the edge
do you see that it's not so stark so now
when I turn back on the bottom layer
that blue line that was there is much
more natural-looking because there's a
little bit of a gradient right leading
from one photo into the other and then
you end up with this nice soft edge on
the curtain here that really looks so
natural that you would swear that that's
actually just the light pouring into the
room right it's beautiful so then you
end up with a photo that's perfectly
usable and again you can check out the
original image below let's jump back to
my samples and one final item with the
white balance correction let's bring up
the typical scene in the bathroom where
lighting is always off color is always
off right and it doesn't look terrible
but there's a very definite yellow hue
so I'm gonna right click and go colors
levels
and I'll just say I want to show you
this on multiple different images
because I know your images are gonna
vary from mine so we're learning
techniques we're not learning specifics
these are techniques that you can use in
order to improve your photos after the
fact I'm going to choose that white
Doppler like I did before and I see from
the sandwich I've got a white toilet
I've got white towels
but they may be speckled with some gray
I've got a white curtain and I've got a
white sink but the white sink has some
grays in it you see that so we know that
that's a little bit off but let's grab
that and watch what that does to the
room Wow do you see that yes and if I
click on the wrong thing let's say I
tell it that white is actually this
brown tile it's going to completely mess
up the photo see what happens yeah well
you can click anywhere else if I click
on a brown towel it's gonna say Brown is
the color and that's what I'm talking
about how if you don't have any white in
your photo your camera's gonna select
the wrong thing as being white so let's
grab the sink because I think that's
gonna give us a really nice white
balance you can see if I turn off the
preview so now it's off you can see how
it's got a real yellow hue it's kind of
like there's a mask over top of the
entire image giving it that yellow look
turn back on the white balance that I
created from the sink and it's got that
really pops out you can see that the
colors are right and now I can safely
adjust my shadows and make that look the
way that the room actually in fact looks
and there you have it it's bananas
bananas you heard it here folks lighting
and color Corrections these are
corrective actions once we've already
taken the photos right so we've taken it
and now we've made it we realize we made
a mistake once we've imported them we
need to fix these photos we're going to
show you after the break a couple of
tips that can quickly help you to just
take better photos right out the gate so
that there's a little less corrective
action that needs to be done and you can
actually just take better photos from
ground one nice stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
alright welcome back let's get into it
you've got some questions in the chat
room absolutely okay so soul boo was
asking what if after you've taken the
picture you discover there's nothing at
all white in it so like before you could
just use a piece of paper and just add
it to the corner right but what if right
so why would we do that why would I take
a piece of paper and put it in the
corner it's so that afterwards I have
something I can Doppel right because I
know when I'm looking through the camera
lens or through the through the whatever
you call that the viewfinder I'm able to
see oh you know what there's nothing
white in the photo so we have to kind of
think ahead as a photographer like if
I'm taking pictures when I'm taking
pictures in a suite mm-hmm I'm looking
at things like are the bedspreads
wrinkled are the photos straight are the
lights are the lampshades on straight
those kinds of things like as as you're
taking photos whether you're
professional or not you've got to kind
of think of these things and one of
those things is what in this photo is
gonna give me white balance right okay
so instead of you taking the picture
hypothetically I'm taking the picture
and I pretty much take the lens cap off
I like take the lens cap off turn the
camera around yeah okay the batteries in
zero white things in my there's nothing
I'm still gonna get beat up on YouTube
series there's nothing like it's like
it's just so that's where color
correction comes in okay that's
happening on a future episode I want to
say next week but I know that we've got
some things happening next week and it
may not happen I want to be here for it
and I'm not here oh well that's perfect
so two weeks from now okay we were
looking at color correction which is
different we're gonna actually be able
to adjust the colors without something
to base our way no white in the picture
and that takes creativity nice thing
about white balance is we know hey that
piece of paper is supposed to be white
so let's topple that and it will fix the
colorization based on that right well if
you don't have anything white in the
photo there is gray Doppler so if you
find something that's supposed to be
gray in the photo then you can adjust
things based on that right you can also
use color
correction tools desaturation tools
things like that that will be able to
assist you as well
okay those are the things that we're
gonna be looking at but backing up so
you've got the camera yes and I said you
know before the break we looked at how
we could correct photos that we've
already taken but as we're taking photos
as I mentioned we kind of want to we
want to be smart about what we're doing
so I've got my camera and I'm and I'm
taking a shot right and I'm looking and
I'm kind of looking beyond the camera
lens and saying okay is everything
straight is everything looking good have
I got something that's gonna give me
good white balance in this photo and
then I take my shot because tonight
there was a there was a truck that was
parked right in front of the studio and
I said oh that's a cool shot I want that
because I've got the Sun setting behind
it and it's coming beyond and then I
took the shot right where's the truck
where's the truck man so fast it's the
speed of light that track our camera I
mentioned when I was talking about the
window yeah it's gonna set the exposure
level based on the scene right and it
saw the Sun and then it just gets
everything else because I wanted the sky
in the photo so of course as I'm setting
up my shot I've got the the sky and I've
got the truck well the camera in its
auto mode because I'm assuming that
we're all kind of rookie beginners and
we're just learning how to use our
cameras and so so I might have it I
might have it in auto mode I might have
it but regardless when I push down that
button it samples things from the scene
right usually it's a pinpoint in the
middle of the scene so if I've got this
scene here and in the center I've got
this big bright area that's what it's
going to base its exposure value on
mm-hmm not the truck that is in fact
down here would it be a different
exposure level if that bright Sun was in
a different part of the picture like if
it was in the upper right it would
change everything with my camera and its
default auto settings yeah it's a
pinpoint in the middle of the photo so
toppling photo okay so that may not
always be the case mm-hmm
but when I'm taking my photo so I wanted
to grab your DSLR and if you feel the
button that is your shutter and I want
you to feel this so push down on that
okay push down all the way yeah there's
like what do you feel here's a good
double there's a double yeah you feel
that yes with your DSLR if you push down
sometimes we just take our photo and we
we take for granted that there are
actually two buttons that are a part of
this what's the first one the first one
is to set your exposures set your focus
so okay so okay so I'm taking a picture
can I just hold it yeah I will be see I
will be care notice this this is
something that I do and and this is
subconscious but do you notice that okay
every time I pick up my camera we know
if I drop yeah if I drop it that's
that's as far as it's gonna get okay so
I am okay that's what I do okay so I am
taking the picture do I go half way and
then all the way the rest of the way or
do I can't I go half way and then come
back off and it saves it no so as soon
as you release it it's reset back to hey
try again okay okay so instead what we
want to do is we want to take our camera
yeah and we want to find a point that's
in the same focal range as what we're
actually taking a photo of so if I'm
taking a picture of this wall and
there's a window right next to it I
could say this is my focal point and
then I can I can I can widen up the shot
so okay so when you say okay I'm gonna
point the camera and then I click to
take my photo but I push all the way
down to take the picture but then it
samples everything and creates the
exposure level and creates this right so
instead what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to that's my shot that I want but the
truck is down here right so I'm actually
going to look down at the truck
don't change your depth because then
you're gonna have focus issues cuz I'm
gonna be setting these in a second so
here's the photo I want I'm gonna
actually move down my head to the truck
now I'm gonna have a half press and I'm
gonna here my lens kind of focus and I'm
gonna see that it's clear on my screen
in in the viewfinder and then with it
still half pressed I'm going to move my
head up and then full press it's this
step I've been missing right so now that
photo that looked like that
yes looks like that
whoa okay so we can find that find that
point within your photo where like can
you can you even see it there
that's there it's the same photo that's
incredible
but all it took was just looking down at
the truck and then moving up now this is
a poor example because the weather
wasn't quite what I wanted today I was
going to take a nice nature shot and it
started snowing that was the only amount
of blue sky that I could find in all of
berry that was it yeah it was it was
like a little oh you had it all it was a
little opening but just to show you I
mean that's not the photo I mean you're
saying oh well that's a stupid truck
that's it just happened to be in my way
just actually the example that we're
giving that makes sense to me now
so here's the here's the truth of the
matter is Dave had one time bought me
this is her husband Dave yes
bought me a camera and I mean I just
take pictures like I'm sure it's a
picture that era it's a camera that has
the double sure but a DSLR I always
found that my my camera was better
because when you take a picture with
your camera you can touch on the screen
where you want the focus to be and then
just press the button on your phone on
your phone
yeah well that you can do it enough you
can do it with the one or two kind of
I'm gonna take this to the next level
for you so you're in my scene so say say
Sasha is my shot okay so but I don't
want her to be right in the center of
the shot I want some of the scenery
that's behind right so what do I
typically do is I frame my shot so that
Sasha is a little off to the side and
I've got the sunset behind us eh all
right and then I take the picture well
now it's looking for a focal point it's
looking for exposure and it finds it in
the sunset behind you okay because
that's what's in the center of my frame
so in auto mode that's what my camera
focuses on so instead I point it
directly at you I focus it on you with
the half press then I move it out and
then I click all the way down so then
you are bright there's not that
backlight causing you to be like your
facial expression be unvisible right it
fixes that so now we can very very
easily even in auto mode take better
photos everybody watching right now is
like they are there digging out their
camera and they're checking for the half
yeah try that yeah there's a real thing
the one other thing that you can do and
I recommend that you do it is start
looking at lens attachments the one well
of course there's the the UV lens all of
my cameras have a UV lav lens on it
because they're cheap they're clear they
don't cause apparitions and they protect
your actual physical lens okay so this
is a protective layer but on top of that
get yourself a polarizer 15 bucks that's
what a polarizer does is it acts like
sunglasses for your camera so if you
take any pictures outside you're gonna
be going to Whistler BC next week right
you're gonna be taking pictures
snowboarding yes well if you're outside
in the snow that's white it's gonna be
it's gonna be blanched completely so you
put a polarizer on there and it acts
like sunglasses for your camera and it
just kind of darkens it up and makes it
so that it finds good exposure good
white balance nice and it's like 15
bucks see and pick them up anywhere I
wonder if I can get that shipped from
Amazon to my sister's house because I'm
going to visit her there you go all
right yeah you can get them on Amazon
for sure so there you have it that is
you know just some quick tips for you
with the GNU image manipulation program
get it for free at gimp.org and a couple
of tips for you with improving your
photography out the gate so you don't
have to do so many different
modifications to the photo after the
fact thank you
let's hop on over to the newsroom all
right here are the stories were covering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Sony has officially ended production of
its PS Vita games console and
has announced a new way for
environmentally conscious shoppers to
help reduce emissions a voluntary
program that lets Prime members schedule
one bit specific day per week for
deliveries Microsoft is creating windows
light for dual screen and Chromebook
like devices and Linux kernel 5.0 has
been released and we'll tell you what's
new these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias Jeff Weston
Jemma you're building a brand new
beautiful website what are you you're
terrible actor what this where acting
comes into play you're supposed to act
ok I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
satiric mannan here the top stories were
following this week Sony has officially
ended production of its PS Vita games
console the handheld console has been
gradually phased out over the past few
years and this weekend Sony announced it
would be discontinuing the Vitas final
final two models the PS Vita struggled
against rival devices as well as a surge
in the popularity of mobile gaming with
no plans for a successor games critics
say that a Sony version of the
successful Nintendo switch is unlikely
when the PS Vita launched in Japan in
2011 it initially sold well about
300,000 units in the Vitas first week
but these figures dropped sharply Sony
is estimated to have sold only 10 to 15
million units of the Vitas entire
lifetime in comparison Nintendo switch
console has sold more than 32 million
units only two years after it first went
on sale not only did the PS Vita have
trouble keeping up with the popularity
of Nintendo DS's family of portable
gaming systems but the final but in the
years since the Vitas launched also saw
an explosion in mobile gaming with
smartphones and tablets becoming
powerful enough to run graphically
intensive apps
although the Vita rolled out with
high-profile titles such as unchartered
golden Abyss Assassin's Creed 3
liberation and LittleBigPlanet PS Vita
the beginning of the end came when Sony
announced in 2015 that it would stop
making its own games for the Vita
deciding to focus instead on tight
for its ps4 console in 2018 Sony said
that it would cease physical production
of the Vita games and that 2019 would be
the final year the device was
manufactured while the PS Vita has been
consigned to history Sony's believed to
be readying a new games console hmm I
think that the switch has nailed it okay
so yeah here's the thing with the
handhelds I'll tell you to be honest
with you I never even heard of the PS
Vita oh come on I never even heard of it
come on and I have a switch but I have a
ps4 and I'm really anticipating the PS 5
like we were super anticipating we're
holding back buying games knowing that
it's gonna have coming it's coming
yeah so I feel like Sony just it needs
to pay attention to that end of things
like mmm I feel like Nintendo has the
handhelds they've got it they don't
amazingly Nintendo was on this like yeah
yeah from your perspective
it kind of going down right like it was
not doing too well and then all of a
sudden the switch nailed it like the new
Wii you know this switch is great like
we have we have friends we go over to
their house with our switch console like
like everybody connect someplace
together yeah we have some major T's
like we're super cool so switch is the
bomb now at home we play the ps4 a lot
ok right so I'm excited for Sony to be
focusing its attention really on the PS
5 because there are some games that I'm
waiting for Nintendo really nailed it
with the switch like yeah amazingly so
to the point where they found a happy
medium between console and mobile mm-hm
it's almost annoying because some of the
some of the games in the Nintendo store
are basically mobile games so you got to
kind of sift through but yes at the same
time there's some really good titles in
there and it functions really well it
works really well it does such it
translates really well like my kids will
pull it off the 55 inch TV and take it
upstairs and play with it on the couch
mm-hmm just seamlessly it's brilliant
but the PS Vita was before this I'm sold
it's like a hangout come on I never saw
I just don't even know and that is the
trouble this is why they ended
production they never got to me I just
didn't even know it like wow never once
even saw commercial for the PS Vita
maybe that's it
I didn't even that's a good point maybe
the marketing was just not there I
didn't even know what I was reading it
how to say it
like is it Vita or is it Vida I'd like
vitamin never seen it and I feel like
Sony can do better so maybe they just
were behind it themselves if they had
pushed it better maybe it would have
been a better product and there you have
it there's the there's the point right
there yes she just didn't know about it
yeah or else maybe I would she was a
Sony fan she's got a ps4 she's waiting
for the PSP that marketing was a part of
it I am super brand loyal so probably
it's your fault it's your fault Sony
come on pick it up
right Amazon has announced a new way for
one specific day per week for deliveries
last week Amazon announced that it would
be making a program widely available to
Amazon Prime members that would allow
them to schedule all deliveries for a
single day once a week the so-called
Amazon day service will be voluntary and
targets customers who are concerned
about their carbon footprint grouping
purchase deliveries will help Amazon cut
down on emissions associated with
sending a delivery truck to the same
house multiple times a week and the
company says holding orders for a single
day during the week will also allow it
to group orders within a single package
thereby reducing packaging customers can
select their preferred day of the week
to receive shipments customers can add
items to their Amazon day shipments up
to until two days in advance of the
shipments customers can choose to remove
an item from the Amazon day delivery
having it shipped more expedia
speciously
if necessary selects Prime members have
already had access to the program but it
was made available to all Prime members
of last Thursday the program is a part
of Amazon's plan to get 50% of its
shipments to net zero carbon emissions
by 2030 interesting so I
although am in
like environmentally conscious person I
like the environment I didn't think of
the environment I like the Empire I love
the environment I love this earth I'm
happy that we live on it
that's not what I thought of I thought
of all of the people who steal things
off of people's porches remember that
story we know today there's no well I'm
just I'm just gonna pick a day when I'm
and make it my day hey they're picking
the damn home I like say I always have
Saturday's off hmm Saturday's my new
ship day that's it BAM I'm home I'm
curious to know how much of a
differences can actually make because if
you and I were neighbors yeah and I
wasn't subscribed to this but you were
yeah well the truck is still coming
right
right so you're delaying your shipment
but mine's still coming so what
difference does it make now where I
could see it making a difference for me
personally but it would take everybody
participating in this is like
Christmastime right as at Christmas time
it's like oh here's another great idea
for the kids oh here's another great one
and so you're ordering multiple
different orders rather than putting
them all into one package right I mean
if it's Christmas you don't want the
packages to be delivered at a time when
you're not home and they are right it
would make sense for you to pick a time
you are home that's the part that I like
that doesn't affect me because it gets
delivered to the office but but it could
be put into one box my Christmas time
just as an example my clinic is closed
three day three days a week
Wow the reason you do with all your free
time I know right yeah I would not pick
a day the clinic was closed if I was
having something sure right yeah it just
I loved it and now to me the carbon
footprint like the emissions
minimization to me is secondary to the
convenience of just picking the day I
really love it what are your thoughts
again I'm just a little skeptical about
the impact whether it's really that
notable on the environment this is what
I'm saying it's not I mean that's how
it's being marked it's how it's being
marketed and I understand it's being
marketed like that because we all love
the earth and we all
to do well for the earth but for me it's
the convenience of knowing I don't
necessarily need next a shipment I have
I'm a primary I don't need that I need
it to come when I'm available to receive
it sure that is it okay yeah you don't
want it left on your doorstep not these
days no no it's crazy
tyrunt's yeah your porch pirates
Microsoft is creating windows light for
dual screen and Chromebook like devices
Microsoft is preparing a new lightweight
version of Windows for dual screen
devices and Chromebook Chromebook
competitors they're stripping back the
windows user interface with dual screens
in mind this new hardware could launch
as early as later this year depending on
chip and PC maker readiness Intel has
been pushing OEMs to create this new
hardware category and machines could
appear much like Microsoft's Curie your
concept dual screen laptops or even
foldable displays in the future either
way Microsoft wants Windows to be ready
for PC makers to take advantage of it
the windows Lite interface will be
similar to Windows as it exists today
but will be more of a blend of what
Microsoft does with its surface hub
shell and the limited functionality of
its Windows Phone continuum user
interface Microsoft might be targeting
dual screen devices initially but the
longer plan is for Windows like to help
the company better compete against
Chromebooks Microsoft has previously
tried restricting Windows 10 with an S
mode to just Microsoft Store apps but
most of the legacy of the Windows
interface remains Microsoft is now
looking to ship something a lot more
basic with Windows Lite and build on top
of it for a more complexity down the
line it's not clear exactly when
Microsoft will ship windows Lite or what
it will eventually be named the software
maker has been experimenting with these
ideas for years as it is watched Chrome
OS grow in popularity throughout schools
in the u.s. Microsoft is holding its
build conference in Seattle early in
early May and that would be an ideal
opportunity to start revealing parts of
what its window lights strategy is
surely if it wants developers to build a
native app and web experiences for the
new platform really comes back to kind
of the Sony case or it's like they're
they're just a little bit behind yeah
where technology is where the user is
yeah Microsoft is the same it's like
okay well everybody is using their
phones and their tablets and they're
like oh we should probably do that yeah
something like that yeah yeah it'll be
interesting to see how they make that
switch do we even do even want it new I
am I know and I would be aggravated by
them trying it's like it it's it just
kind of feels to me like it's not a
needed thing right now I mean do yes
competition and everything is a good
thing obviously but but you're not good
at it Microsoft no and I don't I don't
care for you to try to be a part of
something else like yeah always a
follower always a follower Linux kernel
5.0 has been released and we'll tell you
what's new previously earmarked to be
version 4.2 one the new release comes
with a bucket full of improvements as
you'd expect but don't expect grand
changes just because there's a natty new
version number linus torvalds explains
the numbering change is not indicative
of anything special if you want to have
an official reason it's that I ran out
of fingers and toes to count on so four
point two one became 5.0 as always the
bulk of the improvements sit at the
lower end most major changes are
invisible intangible and uninteresting
that said there are some notable new
additions worth mentioning these include
speedy data encryption to low-end
devices in hardware AMD freesync support
for dynamic refresh rates and no screen
tearing the Raspberry Pi touch screen
driver out of the box and a boatload of
new hardware support the upcoming
release of a boon to nineteen point o4
is almost certain to include Linux
colonel 5.0 or a later minor revision
should one emerge before Colonel freeze
on April 1st that said you don't have to
wait until then if you're an early
adopter who's not afraid to break
everything it's possible to install
Linux 5.0 mainline kernel now there's
been a lot of updates to like older
hardware components as well and
improvements I think we're gonna see
things really evolving as far as like
the the performance goes right I like it
I also really just like like Linus
Torvalds like crazy sense of humor he's
just he you wouldn't know it's a sense
of humor unless you really analyzed it
yeah he's so straight with this
presentation don't look at a 5.0 do at a
5.0 should we jump into crypto currency
market for the week I do want to just
kind of quickly review we're kind of on
the up-and-up
things are going up of course Bitcoin
according to coin gecko this week as of
1800 hours Eastern Time on the 6th of
March a Bitcoin up 90 $5.34 us so it is
currently at the time of recording
sitting at three thousand eight hundred
and sixty dollars and fifty eight cents
litecoin up to 5500 five aetherium at
136 eighty-nine also up gaining five
point nine two US dollars in the past
week mineiro
is up to 49 20 per coin and stellite is
losing just a little bit I mean it's
such fractions right by the dollar 50
you a dollar everybody who has a billion
stellite is rich one point five zero ten
thousandth of a cent
I really need to write this out a little
bit differently uh turtle coin at zero
point seven seven ten thousandth of a
cent not to be mistaken for seventy
seven cents per turtle coin because if
that was the case wall I would let be
absolutely rich we'd be laughing all
could you imagine giddy giddy remember
though that the the cryptocurrency
market never closes and it is all
volatile big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sascha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson stick
around right after the break we have a
Kingston DataTraveler 2000 to give away
if you've cast your ballot it could be
for you
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching as you know if
you've been following category 5
technology TV we've got to replace our
broadcast server
it runs Telestream Wirecast it's amazing
software all of our cameras plug into
that device and then we're able to
control them we're able to produce the
show live on the air you see me pushing
buttons and everything and it actually
happens live and then it goes out to you
so that you can watch category 5
technology TV every single week so far
we have raised 375 dollars toward our
goal thank you to everyone who has
pitched in we appreciate it so very much
we're a ways off we need to raise about
two thousand more dollars in order to
get to that point we've added everything
up we've figured it out so we have a
processor in line we've got all of the
peripherals in line we do have some
sponsors that are helping out as well
but we need to actually raise a thousand
dollars a month for the next two months
in order to be able to to build that
computer we can do that we can do that
and the reason we're doing that it's not
so the Robie can have a great gaming rig
no it's because our broadcast system
that we'd use to broadcast category-five
TV is on its way out it's actually dying
that like there's blue smoke coming out
of it right now I can we can smell it in
the room not really but it is bad it's
getting there it's been really gracious
to kind of hold on but it's at at the
end of its life for sure so we do need
to replace it
our goal is by mid-may we'll be building
this system so that gives us just about
two months so $1,000 a month to raise so
just keep it in mind if you're able to
pitch in a little bit extra then just
keep that in the back your mind and
actually head on over to our tip jar
donate category-five dot TV and throw
some in there if everybody just you know
threw something in them we'd be there in
a matter of exactly it like immediately
and I mean if if you're thinking in
American dollars hey there you go do it
in American we're up here in Canada so
what is a thousand dollars to us is four
dollars to you exact so you know just
just keep that in the back here mind as
well your your twenty dollars may go a
little further than you expect so so
that's something to keep in the back
your mind so thank you to everyone who
has been supporting us in that it is
something that that we're excited and
eager about but at the same time it's
just it has to happen yeah it's not
something we planned for it's just it's
something that needs to occur in order
to keep going at the strength that we
are and incidentally it will be an
upgrade for us because modern hardware
is a lot newer and current than stuff
that we built eight years ago kind of
thing so so that's going to improve
things around here we're gonna be able
to do even better quality shows for you
I believe that very much also to our
patrons if you're on patreon you can
participate in in that by getting some
exclusive content like our vlog behind
the scenes and that is at patreon.com
slash category-five and we thank you for
that okay we ready for it now time for
us to give back to you just a little bit
now I have been in love with Kingston's
data trap
mm yes this thing is awesome because
you've seen it on the show cat 5 TV /dt
mm I don't need to really give you a
review but I will give you a synopsis
because we have shown this on the show
it is an encrypted flash drive that has
a touchpad in it so you don't have to
use any software in order to decrypt
your device you punch in your password
and now it's ready you plug it into
anything including like a smart TV or
some other device where you can't
install decryption software and it will
work and it's encrypted so if someone
doesn't know the password they can't
access the files if they try to guess
your password if they do it 10 times
it's gonna wipe itself it base it
destroys the key so it will no longer be
decrypted all right data is just garbage
don't lose your pass so don't lose your
password but that that is like a great
security feature so I've got one of
these to give away thank you for casting
your ballots more information is below
let's get right into it if you see your
name well good luck here we go I see
Richard blessing hey buddy William
uh we got Joel everybody's flying by
Neil Bob David Thomas all right Allen
Peck hey Michael Rutherford good luck
everybody stand
Peter
here we go Baker and things are slowing
down
Jennings Harrell congratulations you've
just won yourself a brand-new shiny
Kingston DataTraveler DT mm make sure
you send us an email with your shipping
address and I'll get one of those in the
mail for you right away hey there's
still time to qualify because maybe I've
got more than one I'm just saying
so make sure you check below because you
may want to win one of those these
things are fantastic but that's all the
time that we have this week
congratulations to our winner Harold we
just need to know where to send it it'll
be honest way to you and thank you to
everybody for sending in your ballots if
you already sent in a ballot don't worry
you're still in the next draw but you
still have time to send in a ballot if
you haven't done so already do it your
way next week we are snowboarding on
kilometer long trails that's right 11
kilometers that is the run I'm gonna do
for sure I'm committed to that one
awesome have fun be safe send us photos
or video if you can I'll try and white
balance at all that'll be great and you
have a fantastic week we are on twitter
at category 5 TV or there's myself
personally at robbie ferguson we're also
on youtube as category 5 TV or if you
prefer to watch edited down copies of
category 5 you can look up linux tech
show we're also on the roku channel
store and you can get our Plex or Kodi
channels at github.com slash cat 5 TV
and of course our main website ties
everything together you can find that at
category five dot TV have a great week
everybody see ya
[Applause]
