I would like to have a moment for us to
get to know the hosts ok so I've
prepared a series of questions 42 look
it's gonna get seven nope nope you're
all wrong oh we're gonna get personal
here try it because after 10 seasons I
think people just don't know us enough I
think I should open this up to the chat
room too if you have questions that
you'd like us to answer yeah go ahead
that's right today's your Jeff what is
the answer to life the worst question
the better we want to make this awkward
so to start off with Sasha yes if you
could max out your credit card at one
store what would it be the grocery store
really yeah that was quick that makes
sense because you have like then you
have so much for good hops wait this
costco count as a grocery store yeah
guys like you could buy like this and
everything yeah you could buy anything
you want a costco 100% the grocery store
yes how about you I you know it's funny
I prepare the questions and I didn't
actually anticipate not thought about it
if i was to max out at one store it
would probably does amazon count as a
store no yes yes online it's not unless
I back a location than the amount of
times i find myself just browsing
through amazon going ya can't afford so
on it ok that would be it be amazon
where will you me captain does it have
yeah category but does it have to be
like a physical store or can it be
something like amazon as well in my in
my opinion is like in my opinion it
ought to be a store ok fine because i
have two answers then because if I could
do anything like since I'm a pilot I
just like going by my own airplane yeah
like a guy walk into a store Beulah well
unlike 737 please um I know like maybe
going to like some cool computer store
like best buy of the kind of cool best
buy get some because they have music
games and computer parts let's rather
between best buy in Canada computers I'm
not sure it's another thing that's good
you know there's a lot of good stuff
Canada schema
well I category sighs okay next question
choose a movie title for the story of
your life life is beautiful okay are you
really you're coming up quick I know I
know I figure she's cheating ah well you
wait what's a question professor was
because she doesn't choose a movie title
for the story of your life that's kind
of I don't want to say it's a depressing
10 let's let's go for something funny um
Henry and the box of chocolates because
you're never going to know what you're
going to get I don't know it's come yeah
I don't know like I was just randomly
thinking of like Tom Hanks because like
I was ringing up arikil about him as
like movie tom hanks Forrest Gump
because you know life is a beautiful
thing you know it's about to jump in the
clouds even though that was about a
winery but you like drones I like wine
blaze both ways you started with the
deeper drawers I was like you like drunk
so that's fun to flying and drunk aren't
good combinations but hard work would
you rather have your fingers replaced by
mice or be able to speak backwards or
only be able to speak backwards oh all
this big backwards yeah well what kind
of mice mice mice or computer mice you
would just be a robot oh really love
when was the last time you saw a
computer mouse I could chew off your
fingers replaced by mice so you could
chew other people you had a hand of mice
oh that's what it was I think so wait
like physical like animal knives or
computer my assistant I think it's going
to be computer mice okay okay
interesting what's the next in the next
real question what's the nerdiest thing
you do in your spare time category five
all right happy volunteers all right we
got officially had murdered um
congratulations banner haha what
you I'm going to sink our thoughts as
well all right okay well I yes sit at
home and find projects for my raspberry
pi
that's cool yep I got it's pretty cool
yeah yep I particularly like to find the
ones where people like this one does it
work and I want to be the guy to find
the answer to it you're that guy on
ready spend so much time on that game
for me thank you oh I have an obsessive
personality okay let's get into the
realm of scared do you have any strange
phobias I don't actually have any
strange phobias however I strongly
dislike being alone I'm not slinging I'm
not like it's not like won't want like a
loan in life I feel like I'll never
actually be alone but I get kind of
creeped out I come from a really big
noisy loud family I get kind of creeped
out when I'm in a house by myself I
don't love it Henry that's crazy any
weird phobias uh I don't think I do like
I'm not like afraid of spiders or
anything like I'm not that good of a
swimmer so like maybe like being stuck
in open water probably yeah I I have an
odd one really in that I am not scared
of any bugs at all when I'm outside in
their home but why their own side in my
home all I want is them to go back out
well there's little they aren't paying
rent that's why you know if we're going
to stay at your house all about the
dollar bills I seriously it's like
spider you can chill with me it's you
need to pay or share the bear winks okay
okay yeah I could sketchy like what
about you um weird noises that I don't
know where they're coming from non
association with the source like me if I
can't figure out why can't figure out
where the noise is coming from I just
get these tingles in the back of my neck
and I have no clue why and it probably
goes back to there was yeah about six
years ago my wife and I were laying in
bed and about two o'clock three o'clock
in the morning we heard this
blood-curdling scream I woke up out of a
dead sleep I honestly thought there was
some woman getting chased on the street
because I ran to the window was going to
call the police and this thing went on
probably five minutes nobody outside
there's no animals couldn't figure it
out my wife's like what is it walking
around the house trying to figure out we
could
and then it just stops we could not
figure it out later the next day I
happen to go in the basement and found a
mouse and a mousetrap but the way it had
snapped it busted its John so is the
mouse screaming in pain and that like my
gosh gut-wrenching i don't know how i
feel about this story I felt like
horrible to this day I still feel
horrible about that Mouse but because of
that sound and not knowing where it came
from it's just mess with me I hear
random sounds and I can't handle it you
know what's interesting as I was
watching that Netflix it was a show
called brain games and it tricks your
mind it's like really well worth
watching but they were showing how they
can guess your age depending on what
frequency of sound you can hear really
which means that because you are of a
certain age not old but of a certain may
discover there are noises out there that
are around you all the time that you
can't hear do you find that creepy no no
even though they're they're like there
could be like high-pitched screams you
can't hear right now that's correct but
that's okay that's fine cuz I can't I
hear it thank you talking here that's
the problem oh my gosh seriously great
chef okay if you were a vegetable which
one would you be this was hard for me
what do mean this is hard I just asked
it I know but I read if I was a
vegetable what vegetable would I be see
this is different than what's your
favorite vegetable right that's not the
question I know there's no right or
wrong i think i'll probably be a carrot
but why why would you be cared very
versatile is a very versatile right
people like them they're earthy i'm kind
of down to earth they're down a nurse
i'm down to word Federer um you know
what I will probably be a watermelon
because I'm just full of joy time well
kind of oh shoot yes make the case for
watermelon being a vegetable not a fruit
because ground no it's got seats yeah by
to the ground part zucchinis a fruit or
vegetable I could be wrong but I think I
remember my grade nine science teacher
saying if it's got a visit
feed it is technically a fruit so what
about a beat them so I'm gonna be in
beat me wrong I'm sure somebody in the
internets from Galilee on YouTube
watermelons might be a vegetable there
another fruit i'll probably be sin
because like you know i cropped abuse
all the time and you know so recovery
yeah i'm andrea i think simply for the
purposes of versatility i would be a
potato why would you like to be sped up
because there is really nothing you
can't do with the potato i mean you turn
it into fries you can i mean i've seen
people make pancakes with potatoes don't
understand i wanted to shoot out of a
cannon yeah potato can lots of cool
stuff and pretty sure potatoes like if
you they do have a certain amount of
electrical current you can run like a
little levity diverse are you saying
that you have an electric personality
they are shocking for having personality
yeah okay if you could be invisible for
a month what would you do start with
Henry ah probably drink coffee I got a
great size then don't you can judge me I
don't like go to the space station
nobody like why it's like five people on
here but we can't find the other person
wants to be like in the corner where
Chris Hatfield was staying is like space
it's awesome up here then let's come
down on like the next mission but no
because since it's only for a month
randomly like reappear on a space
station somehow yes you would and I'll
be really awkward because it'll be like
hey guys I don't know how I got up here
but um I was invisible for a month and
it's cool I'd like to know what level of
invisibility I have like I can't be
detected through x-ray or scan or
anything I can like fly anywhere I want
to go not flying visible you can play
airplane walkthrough yeah all on the
scanners no that's that's so it's only
visible if you're invisible we're
talking visually I know but if you can't
see me at secure I can walk past
security onto a plane correct Sasha why
do you make the truth she could follow
to break securest let you can see me
walk on who the Invisible I have metal
on you would be detected by metal
detectors maybe she doesn't wear you
seen so I have to
naked the whole month Wow moving on ah
naked space area what is uh man when
that month or is it a stir oh oh my
goodness okay favorite Disney Princess
and why bell cuz I like reading and my
favorite colors yellow Henry there's
only one answer that's Leia man Oh
starving there you go actually
mine I think has to be Elsa let it go
yeah Jeff not I I don't know why but
I've never seen that Josie you've no se
frozen no oh I came after you have so
much homework to do so I should let you
borrow my daughter for two and a half
hours and she's gonna walk you through
that movie okay and the short film like
the summer yes where she's got the cold
and after them okay all right let's go
into a speed round okay first thing that
comes to your mind as I asked questions
okay all right go to breakfast food is
also not something that's a lot of work
no you put the battery thing at burn
your go to breakfast the first thing you
go to for breakfast waffles like say I
work at six thirty in the morning you
don't eat breakfast now about your dress
there in the speed round Sasha I'm sorry
okay questions okay thank you all right
Picard or Kirk I'm Kelly Picard push the
card cuz she's also an admin I got to do
the speed round with you now I don't
know favorite candy bar crunchy mars bar
because the space all right standard
transmission automatic standard standard
drive a standard and it's for sale and I
be watching hahaha toilet paper over
under
under under oh it's over like you could
under have you not seen the original
patent it goes over because it's harder
because you have to greet under the
toilet paper like the role but if it's
over then you just take it off the talk
you're worried about the amount of
effort yeah I'm getting your toilet
paper tickets if you're taking a break
in the washroom it's a washroom break
exactly so why do more work if you don't
have to do work you just relax they're
just like you're on your phone or
whatever it's like I just reach over
grab some time I think it actually
drives everybody at my work bonkers
should I don't even pay attention to the
over/under I just throw a role on this
on it's all good they say somebody said
mostly effort hahaha somebody said
mostly effort doesn't involve the toilet
paper I can argue for that next next
subject okay yeah linux is not an option
Mac or Windows Windows smack you and oh
sorry I just offended so many people out
there cuz mr. Pak Nana mrs. pac-man mr.
nice is what what what it was just a
question why I guess the dirty looks so
why can we do a look why would you ask
that question is I want to know all
right okay you have to ruin a kid's life
do you reveal the truth about mythical
holiday icons or erase all Disney
content from history well technically
Disney a lot of the things our base I
know this is the speed round most their
stuff is based on stuff so I'd get rid
of the Disney stuff because you have the
mythical stuff that's what I'd say i get
rid of the mythical stuff because i
think that you could always explain it
with a really great heartwarming story
and keep the other really good
heartwarming stories that are busy i
feei feel like we're getting cutie for
speed around because i'm like both of
you just made ruining children's lives
philosophical that's how deeply i hear i
got a car key thought okay spell
superfluous no time for that it's a
speed round i gotta keep going Jeff okay
no technology for a year or no people
for a year no people no technology
really yeah build people out of a
computer for the one who wants to
replace human beings
robots I want that I don't want to
replace real human being suppose I learn
technology into people you wanted to
replace your grandma with a robot
kitchen I that's no robot grandma has
already died I want her to come back to
life as a robot I want to turn this
technology into people i want more
people even if they're not really human
autopsy have you seen i needed like
black mirror on netflix love it there's
an episode about that you saw that right
yeah gex oh yeah Hayley Atwell yes good
do you have any any questions comments
thoughts concerns general no not at all
just learning a whole bunch about you
guys good times okay you have do you
have another one do I have another one
joined ask another one yes I've got tons
of questions okay Jeannie Nibhana grant
you one wish other than world peace what
is it let's go like to say airplane but
I feel like I've you so much I would
probably like to understand everybody no
matter what language we speak so like a
it's like that new translator that goes
in your ear but right it's just you it's
all very cool ok now for suck up points
favorite thing about Robbie how he
brings light to the day you know like he
just shines so bright because like no
hair so then he brightens up my day
Sasha I what I was reading the chat room
yes I wasn't the only one when you heard
me saying Sokka point it didn't make you
go we need to pay attention because I'm
going to get some points here wait wait
whoa is it favorite thing about Robbie
favorite thing about Robbie yeah his
endless patience Oh endless patience
Henry chose my walnut don't you think oh
my guess yeah I mean he brightened up my
day with eclair yeah sure it's practical
and insulted I just kiddin man he has
good attitude he's uh he brings joy to
people's life try and coffee coffee hell
it's a coffee
what about you Jeff let's see what's
your favorite thing about rod my
favorite thing about Robbie is that
after all the years he still likes being
around me because we've known each other
for years and years and years how does
he do it and for some reason just gave
his technology is still not rubbed off
on me after really good be honest you
seem really really dedication not only
designers with me yeah only i SPECT all
the viewers it's incredible that's true
yeah see there you go you guys are
awesome she's saying because like you
guys are like well like a family and I
know I used our comedy a lot you guys
dropping the feels feels their handshake
Oh a good time okay okay so that wraps
up by get to know the hosts hopefully
you've learned something new and Julie
says I want to work on superfluous okay
what about Julie Julie says i want to
suck a board Thank You Julie oh there we
go you get Sasha's pen
[Music]
you
