here are the top stories from the
category five dot TV news room samsung
claims to have found a way to make Wi-Fi
data traveled five times faster than it
does currently it said its engineers had
overcome two significant technical
problems that had restricted the
transfer of data at well below its
theoretical limit of 4.6 gigabits per
second samsung said its engineers we're
working on Wi-Fi that operated in the 60
gigahertz band current Wi-Fi systems use
two point four and five gigahertz
gigahertz bands and some can operate at
speeds in excess of one gigabit per
second samsung said it had managed to
limit the amount of interference when
many devices were connected to a Wi-Fi
hub or hotspot in addition improvements
to the antenna had helped signals travel
further and be less susceptible to
getting lost while traveling the
breakthroughs could mean data could
travel at a rate of 4.6 gigabits per
second if the technology lives up to its
promise it would mean a one gigabyte
file could be transferred in less than
three seconds the first device is built
to use the 60 gigahertz Wi-Fi standard
are expected to appear in 2015 for some
reason this reminds me of like the tech
shows or the movies where it's like you
have to like sneak in under the laser
beams like quickly steal a hard drive or
like a file and get so fast
can you imagine though as we're
considering going Wireless with our
transmission of our internet service
here at the studio we're on wireless
right now using LTE which seems fast and
I think we're getting around 20 megabits
a second 4.6 gigabits per second when
it's good to have a hard wired network
that runs at one gigabit a second that's
considered good so we're talking 4.6
times that being at the 60 Hertz 60 60
gigahertz range I wonder how distant it
will travel because I would expect that
that may be kind of an indoor kind of
thing maybe not something that would get
through weather conditions and things
like that'd be interesting to see how
that shapes I feel like lately people
have been really like blowing open to
limits because there was that that news
story I did about a month ago about the
new hard drive it was the new capacity I
don't know what it was maybe it was oh I
can't remem gauge something really big
the capacity was really big I can't I
can't recall either oh no I believe you
4 i'm sure you would not want Maddy
which somebody will say anyhow all right
Dropbox has confirmed that a bug in some
older versions of its desktop apps
deleted the files of some people who
turned on selective sync which limits 0
which sorry Robbie oh that just sounded
painful yeah yes all right Dropbox
courant the ball selective sync which
limits cloud syncing to certain folders
typically this would happen after a
crash or forced reboot making a bad
problem worse at least a few users found
that they'd lost year's worth of content
through no fault of their own Dropbox
says that it's restoring files when it
can it's also releasing fixed versions
of its apps preventing older apps from
working and putting extra safeguards in
place to provide this kind of error from
happening again affected users are
receiving an email that offers a year's
worth of Dropbox pro service for free
that is what they are getting four years
of files lost these efforts won't be
much consolation to those who lost
access to files at a critical moment
however it at least shows that Dropbox
wants to learn from its mistakes
category 5 TV reminds you that a backup
is only a backup if you have other
copies elsewhere storing the only copy
of anything be it on your own computer
or on an external drive or in the cloud
is not safe make sure you always have a
bare minimum of two copies preferably
three of any files that matter to you
good advice mm-hmm now to truly teleport
an object you have to include all its
quantum properties now physicists have
worked out how photons have many
properties such as their frequency
momentum spin and orbital angular
momentum but when it comes to quantum
teleportation physicists have only been
ever have only ever been able to
transmit one of these properties at a
time so the possibility of teleporting a
complete quantum object has always
seemed a distant dream or something in
Star Trek now a team of Chinese
physicist has worked out how to teleport
more than one quantum property the team
has demonstrated it by teleporting both
the spin and orbital angular momentum of
single photons simultaneously they point
out that there is no reason in principle
why the technique cannot be generalized
to include other properties as well such
as the photons frequency momentum and so
on that's an important step towards
teleporting complex quantum objects in
their entirety stretches atoms molecules
and perhaps even small viruses to learn
more about this exciting breakthrough
visit newsroom category-five TV for
links to the full literature Robbie yeah
I have to say that that scares me yeah
when you mentioned viruses that kind of
I agree that would be concerning I think
we're a long ways off from human
teleportation that's the impression that
I get but
yeah microscopic organisms being able to
be teleported is I wonder how far like
point A to point B is what distance can
I travel at 60 gigahertz a second I
wouldn't want to accidentally be testing
how far you can send a virus when we're
really busy battling not spreading them
yeah maybe they can teleport
inoculations that's a better that would
be a better idea let's work on that
twitter has sued the US government over
surveillance laws under current
regulations Twitter cannot reveal
certain information about government
requests for users data relating to
national security Twitter argues that
this violates the right to free speech
as defined by the first amendment to the
US constitution the firm said that it
brought it brought the case in an effort
to force the government to be more
transparent about personal data requests
Twitter's lawyer Ben Lee wrote in a blog
post it's our belief that we are
entitled under the First Amendment to
respond to our users concerns into the
statements of the US government
officials by providing information about
the scope of the US government
surveillance for surveillance Twitter
brought the action against the US
Department of Justice and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation in a northern
California Court last Tuesday way to go
Twitter for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias visit the category 5
TV news room at newsroom category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Sasha tomatoes
