welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 451 for Tuesday the 10th
of May 2016 so great to have you here my
name is Robbie please help me welcoming
the one and only
Jeff Weston how are you I'm wonderful I
want to hear all about your trip but
before we get into it tonight what is
happening on the show oh so much stuff
going on tonight we're going to be
answering the age-old question that's
been asked since the dawn of time the
cavemen asked it is it really worth
upgrading to SSD sounds great we're also
gonna be continuing our series come to
think of it how to breathe new life into
old hardware so we're gonna be taking a
look at that old laptop back there we're
gonna fire it up with both the built-in
hard drive we're gonna do some
non-scientific tests to see how fast it
is so we're not gonna be blowing things
up tonight not blowing things up tonight
unless you know maybe there's time at
the end of the show then we're also
gonna stick a beautiful kingston
solid-state drive into that old computer
i'm excited we're just gonna do the
head-to-head one-to-one comparison you
know does it really make a difference to
spend a little bit extra throw an SSD
into that computer and boot it up doing
some real time time trials sounds
fantastic
can't wait that's good good times Jeff
are you ready with the news I am ready
with a look at this both so prepared I
may have been off for a while but I'm
not rusty yet yeah what do we got all
right well here's what's coming up in
the category 5 dot TV newsroom can I
just say before we start
Shelly was here just before you oh the
cameras down here there we go Jeff's up
here all right I'm like getting like a
crop top going on here we go all right
here's what's coming up with a category
5 dot DV newsroom the discovery of an
Instagram glitch has earned a 10-year
old yes you heard me right
a ten-year-old boy $10,000 from the
Facebook bug bounty Netflix knows what
you'll click on before you do and we
won't see a new Need for Speed game this
year which is unfortunate but lastly a
holographic smartphone has been
developed by researchers in Canada stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show I'm Robbie
Jeff hey you too our chat room Hey -
songbird haven't seen you around in a
while nice to see ya Albuquerque turkeys
joining us tonight we've also got kal
hydro and leech and x1 Linux 26:56 like
the first part of your name mm-hmm it
alludes to an awesome operating system
which we're gonna be looking at a little
bit tonight just a little bit just we
may be biased we're ever so slightly
I'm sorry Windows users you have found
the wrong show once in a while we show
Windows but that's really just for the
monetization on YouTube pretty about you
that's it
that's it folks that's so good laughs
our Linux fans can click on those banner
ads and watch the show on YouTube and
help us out man it'd be a great help
indeed hey Jeff you just got back from
the Caribbean I did yeah he'll us about
the trip it was awesome seeing you from
the boat having your phone of all things
Skype video isn't a wonderful wonderful
thing I really enjoy like ours doing the
news from Mexico I really think we need
to get a Mexico studi for cat5 I think
so I will gladly be the correspondent
don't see if we can work that into the
budget no I was good I decided to take
my family on a road trip my wife and I
didn't look like there were any roads
where you were going no no I kept those
off-camera although I do have
yeah I did film the road part of it okay
but no I took my family on a road trip
we decided to do that because I mean how
often are you gonna be able to take a
family on a cruise hmm you know never it
gets quite expensive when you continues
to rub it in folks continues to rub it
in I've saved up for a while I've got
three kids so so I cost a lot and I know
yeah I know that I couldn't I couldn't
do that right now
fair enough but he had a good time yeah
it was good we we did a road trip down
to Tampa hopped on a cruise ship had a
couple of ports there the kids
absolutely loved it swam with stingrays
yeah it was nice to see pictures of the
kids having a blast day and getting to
go see some various things the cool
thing about the trip they had no clue
we've kept this feast for months and it
was trip itself trip itself school
Caribbean instead ya know we didn't tell
them anything we've every aspect of the
trip it was a surprise so it's okay
we're we're not going to school we're
going on vacation where we going can't
tell you you got to find out when we get
there it'll be two days from now yeah so
it's gonna drive yep 28 hours earlier
ended up 28 hours they were excited and
did you
you took shifts I guess cuz you know no
I did a straight run did you sleep I got
like half an hour no we stopped in North
Carolina I've heard of jet lag but
that'd be like that'd be nasty so when
did it when you got to the boat where
you were you out of it no we were okay
we gave ourselves 48 hours to get down
oh okay but yourself some layover time
yeah but I decided you know what I'm
just gonna push through so we can get an
extra day at the beach and that's what
we did and so I got some good rest
before we loaded up on the boat great
that was a lot of fun but I missed you
guys any viewers from Mexico the
Caribbean where we're all were you uh
Cayman Islands and Cozumel Mexico Tampa
Florida we also stopped in Myrtle Beach
sounds rough
West Virginia stopped in Myrtle Beach oh
yeah we just you know swam for three
days to two days we're supposed to be
one day we were gonna go to Washington
we're like yeah the beach is better than
politics so
nice well the whole community and us
here we appreciated you taking the time
out of your trip to actually remote in
and go and do the news and from a
technical technological standpoint how
cool is it I think about how
broadcasting used to be where you had to
have rigs of equipment and gear and
satellite dishes and big phones that use
satellite networks to call in your call
in and it sounded terrible and it looked
terrible if you had video yeah and now
what do you use and like you had your
cell phone yeah I just I had my Wi-Fi on
the boater this is just like that huh no
it's just my data like I got in I'm just
out on the ocean folks broadcasting live
from a thing that fits in my pocket the
South are pretty cell phone company had
a great plan it's really cool seven
bucks this is where I'm at
technologically this is this is an
exciting time for broadcasters it was it
really is the people on the boat got a
kick out of it too because I just you
know I walk up onto the deck and I'm
like yeah it's a good spot the sun's
right and sit down and be chair and just
start recording and I finished and
there's this couple behind me they start
snickering they like that was amazing
we're on some sort of a TV show some
sort of a TV show and then he said it's
category five technological new
technology TV and they went whoa yeah
like we broadcast around the world all
areas yeah
are you watching for many of those areas
where where Jeff was and we had recently
the the ladies from new every day also
did a tour down in California
oh cool through the they drove all
through the the desert there and did
some pretty interesting stuff on their
show speaking of new every day
shelley de silva is becoming a bit of a
category 5 celeb alam she was here on
category 5 technology TV last tuesday
two weeks ago she was on new every day
one week ago well a few days ago on
friday she was back on new every day
once again i guess they liked her and
asked her back so so yeah she's she's
doing the rounds and if you haven't seen
some of the shows that we have here on
category 5 technology TV is one of our
shows the network we're producing
several shows and you can catch those on
our roku channel it's probably the
easiest way to find them all or you can
just head over to say
show show TV that's one of my shows and
you can click on the category 5 menu and
see all the different shows that we have
there and it'll take you out to their
individual websites that's cool and
we've also got I'm working on a new
website for category 5 TV I'm just gonna
have all the shows all in one place
that's what I'm looking forward to I
just got a future show idea I what is it
we took our sjcam with us and did some
underwater video well that's like a
GoPro knockoff kind of idea yeah yeah
yeah cat 5 dot TV slash action cam yeah
go there you'll see it you'll see the
accessories you can buy it right there
it was good but I have no video editing
software on my Linux system oh so oh I
have video open shot tutorial coming up
yeah all right I just look at that yeah
look at that so your weekend just passed
what were you up to anything going on it
was a busy weekend it's my weekend my
wife's everything yeah yeah so lots
going on was busy here yeah boy oh boy
yeah Mother's Day like I got up and made
blueberry pancakes for everybody and
then we did we did Church in the morning
had a nice Mother's Day service and then
in the afternoon I went outside and I
and I actually this is crazy right for
Mother's Day our backyard since we got a
dog a couple years back the dog is
wrecked the backyard so it is mud every
time it rains mud prints everywhere yep
so my poor wife you know the regretting
the dog thing because all these muddy
footprints and everything and so I set
out and and I bought a cultivator yeah a
hand cultivator I'm not the kind of guy
that has 450 dollars to pay for one of
those gas ones so I got the handheld
like it's like well bleeping mud so I
cultivated the entire yard laid down Oh
laid down new grass seed that's
a--that's a small yard but it was a big
but that's a big job a big job I'm sore
if if you need some fertilizer yeah my
dog apparently is on steroids and does
that help let me tell you steroids on
the grass yeah it kills my lawnmower the
grass is so thick in certain areas alike
uh we got to get the dog to go to other
areas see my dog for a few weeks
Saturday was fun here it was the
International Day of free comic books
everywhere what well there's a short
form for it free comic book day just
take out international Garvey knows what
I'm talking about it is international
though Garvey there is it was
participating in it at his store and
viewers from all over the world we're
participating in Free Comic Book Day I
took my kids here at the Big B comics
very there's a great little shop and
when I read that they were participating
so how are they gonna pull this off it's
a tiny little shop it feels packed when
it's just me and my kids in there yeah
and so to to fit in a whole bunch of
guys dressed up in costumes plus they're
kids
oh so the way it worked was okay you get
four free comic books just for showing
up if you dress up however you get I
think it was for more free comic books
or something like that no it was to more
free comic books if you dressed up two
more if he gave to the food bank so we
brought food bank donations yeah I
dressed up as Spock of class what that
picture was for that's what that was for
all right my kids my my oldest son
dressed up as Iron Man okay and my
youngest son dressed up as spider-man
yep
my daughter dressed up as a princess
mm-hmm and so we went and my wife was
there she was dressed up as a beautiful
woman
well played that's that's what she
dressed up as and
so we got eight comic books each that's
amazing I just grabbed serenity I
grabbed serenity right off the top of
the pile and let the kids go to town and
so there was no limit on what book you
could take they had a giant table of
these are free comic book day comics so
these are specifically for this day and
they're their full-length comics and
they they had them all laid out and
everything huge stacks of them and then
boxes under the table for when they ran
out
and they had tons of stuff everything
from The Simpsons comic books to
serenity right I had to go with that
they had the the usual stuff like video
game comics like Sonic the Hedgehog
right and they had stuff that I didn't
recognize because I'm not you know I'm
not on the up-and-up when it comes to
comics more of a sci-fi guy that's why
serenity really stood out to me I needed
to get that so I'm looking forward to
reading it but I also said I did make a
purchase while I was there got my new
wallet I had to do Eric it had to be
done but at least it's not read they had
read and I thought know if I buy read is
just gonna get stolen well exactly
because this is old trick this is not
TNG this no this is the original series
but I thought that was fun so there you
have it I like that there you go
more pleather lots of leather on the
show you never have too much pleather
never have too much pleasure
[Music]
Sasha didn't know the difference when
she was on the show do you remember she
was talking about watching TV and she
just seemed clueless when it came to the
audio fidelity of the speakers on her
television set so I hear that episode I
thought maybe you weren't maybe you were
remote again they keep doing these
things where you're like hey I got this
fancy phone I can remote in that's true
I don't recall the conversation but that
again so then you must this must have
been when you're in the backyard could
be or something like that
I don't you you'll look it up so she was
talking about her television and she
can't tell the difference between my
sound bar at home and her televisions
built-in speakers and I'm like come on
now I don't even have to hear that but I
can really I couldn't smash hi and my
wife does the same thing Becca does the
same thing where she she didn't
understand when I bought the sound bar
because we watch our shows on the TV and
it's got a built-in speaker and it's
fine apparently right but to me the the
the kind of audio file that I am and
having grown up with you know working
with reel to reels and really focusing
on quality and you know I was the one
who built speaker cabinets and put them
positioned just right and they were all
acoustically balanced and there was no
cross talk and no echo behind and all
this kind of stuff I even put a
subwoofer in my seat that's how good my
sound was see onboard TV sound is about
as like as hello line is riding your
bike for three hour commute to work to
me it's like a telegram but it's not
youth it's not worthwhile so I went out
I bought a sound bar that I mounted
above the TV and this is funny because
I'm a bit of a geek but I'm also stupid
when it comes to renovations and stuff I
put it up and I thought oh well this
would be smart if I kind the sound
portion the speakers are on the ends
okay and the TV's like a 37-inch so the
sound bar extends beyond it so I'll put
the sound bar kind of behind the TV so
you just see them extending out the side
so that it's kind of hidden it doesn't
look too too bad right mounted
everything got it up and running
use the remote and it doesn't work
because the freakin remote sensor is in
the middle of the sound bar
nice so I'm like come on now was it IR
based no red odd the remote was yeah it
was you can get those infrared repeaters
I know but Here I am you know I'm
already having to explain myself it had
to go up like them so I had to raise it
up and put it up luckily I had I had
used anchors that matched the the paint
on the wall we have a pretty mild round
tone on the wall so so I did that and I
hung it up above and had to move it yeah
I move it up and it sounds so much
better so much better I in a previous
job life I used to install satellites
and I went to this one guy's house I
think I talked about on the show the guy
that had the hundred and ten inch TV you
mentioned it I did well so same job
different house though
a guy had built his floor up had
subwoofers in the floor with a set who
needs heated floors when you can have
subwoofers floors well it was a sand
base so that so that the subwoofers were
in the ground when this and then when it
vibrated through the sand the entire
floor rumbled I like it was amazing I'm
so cool so I keep saying to my wife when
we renovate our family room I I'm gonna
be having some fun
oh yes look something she's like an how
are you paying home theater you know
it's amazing what you can get in such a
small package like the soundbar versus
the old you know big speakers yeah kind
of environment and my sound bar has
Bluetooth which I've just recently
started tapping into really at the the
House of Marley headphones the the rebel
beetee's really made me realize the
quality of Bluetooth these days so now
I'm using my phone and I'll synch it up
to the sound bar with Bluetooth when
we're not watching TV TV's off and the
sound bar just works as a wireless
speaker to my phone yep so I can put on
music and it sounds great yeah there's
no latency it's fantastic yeah I do the
same thing at home I love it yeah it's
great brilliant what are you using what
do you do does it matter to you if
you're just using the speakers built
into your television there
what do you have well according to
songbird they rumble the floor by the
washing machine spinning is that how is
that how yours works that that's how
somber you've used it maybe if you've
got a Raspberry Pi connected to the
sound system you can make it Rumble at
just the right time just the right time
place the boots just on the side there
so that it really gives it that shake
it'd be good
throw some change in there for a little
bit of high trouble I don't remember
what was in I think it was boots in the
washer and and it was spinning so fast
and I heard of this it was loud right
and so I'm like what is the neighbor
listening to dubstep or something so I
went downstairs and it was hitting the
wall of the dryer so hard that it was
actually her the washer it was flexing
in and out every time it would hit it
would flex oh wow I'm like okay we need
to balance that load yeah just a little
bit so I've been there done that
that's awesome yeah downstairs on our
big-screen TV we've got an old the old
computer speakers yep I have a logitech
surround sound computer speaker setup
and it's got a nice little sub and it
sounds really good does yeah so I just
plug it into the headphone jack of the
TV and I'm done and done simple easy
great upgrade real simple and we're all
about upgrades tonight we're talking
about the upgrades now spark sparkly is
saying that he just got the onkyo amp
and a 7.1 speaker set what's that one an
Okie oh oh in KY oh I don't actually
know is that how you pronounce it on Keo
Augie ghio with a 7.1 speaker set
acoustic I don't even know what an ankh
EO is that must be the brand so where
are they from
I'm not sure let's take a look at
amazon.com and Elroy says a 37 inch
vizio sound bar but mounted in front of
the TV in front well that will obstruct
the view my friend do you mean above oh
okay so this is a component amp unit I'm
gonna show you real quick what you can
do any time you're shopping on Amazon
anywhere like that I know we've covered
it on the show but just really really
quickly if you head on over to any of
our shows websites so category five dot
TV for example that's our website for
technology TV and you click on support
the show support us and you'll see I'm
just bringing it up here so that you can
see it just bring in up my screen here
it comes there it is
we've got desktop presenter going there
okay so support us and then we've got
partner affiliate links oh-ho we've got
a new one this week my friend gearbest
check that out we're going to talk about
that a little later click on at the
Amazon of choice so if we went to
amazon.com and then what you're actually
doing is you're supporting category five
TV by doing your shopping here and
that's the only way to do it because
then you're you're actually using our
link so there's the the onkyo amp look
at that so the old-style component unit
so I guess there's there's something
really to be said about still going with
those you know larger bigger is better
kind of units but you can get smaller
speakers that sound really good it's
sure and I really looking at those
prices you know two hundred and fifty
bucks you know and you know Elroy was
saying that he picked up a set what did
he get for 79 bucks it was a Black
Friday sale no come on now the Vizio
sound bar Emily I'm like even if you're
looking at some of the 250 bucks you
know for Nike oh that's a that's a great
deal to our 50 bucks but you pick up
some sound system for 79 bucks
that's incredible can that I would love
to know more about what you got and then
we're gonna see if we can find it on
Amazon and then and provide some links
for you either
yeah our online shop because really you
know that if we can come up with some
kinds of deals like that that are
fantastic and you know as we kind of
branch out as well we've got amazon ebay
now gearbest yesterday yes as partners
of the show of the network and so these
are places that you can do your shopping
and and hey if we can find some deals on
that kind of stuff fantastic I have got
out of component units because of the
kids right I think I would go back to it
but having kids you know my biggest fear
I have some nice speakers here at the
studio and they are here at the studio
because
they are actually my own home stereo
system but I can picture my
five-year-old putting his finger through
the tweeter yeah you don't want that
don't want that that won't go well so
they're here kind of for safekeeping and
I use them for listening here but
eventually they'll find their way back
home yep so cool share your thoughts in
the comments below in the chat room as
well
but certainly if you're on demand hey if
you're watching us on youtube comment
below please like and subscribe and give
us a thumbs up right there just below
the video all right all right Jeff
should we get into the news we're moving
along with the show tonight we can do
that jump right into it my friend all
right it's Tuesday May 10th 2016 and
here the stories were covering this week
the discovery of an Instagram glitch has
earned a ten-year-old boy $10,000 from
the Facebook bug bounty Netflix knows
what you're gonna click on what you do
we won't see a new Need for Speed game
this year and a holographic smartphone
has been developed by researchers in
Canada these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category-five dot TV network by shopping
gearbest
that's right Jeff cat5 dot TV slash
gearbest it's an online store for the
geek streak in you or the loved ones of
course I mean especially your loved ones
right because cap v dot TV slash
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices to their
cellphones you betcha cap 5 TV slash
gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked Android cell phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those make a great gift
absolutely from high tech watches to
action cameras headphones even virtual
reality headsets cat5 dot TV slash
gearbest has you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
it's true it's just a bunch of random
electronic sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping at camp five dot TV slash
gear best yeah all right you kind of got
me there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff
now that the winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals on
sailors oh my goodness well check this
out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again well you're gonna
find gearbest on our partners pages for
any of your favorite category 5 TV shows
like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest so
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash your
bastard that's right
happy shopping I'm Jeff lessen and here
the top stories from the category 5 TV
usual social media giant Facebook has
paid a $10,000 reward to a 10 year old
finish boy for finding a glitch in its
picture sharing app Instagram Johnny
whose last name was not released for
privacy reasons and go figure is the
youngest ever recipient of Facebook's
bug bounty which is paid to users who
find bugs or weaknesses in its platforms
he says I wanted to see if instagrams
comment field could stand malicious code
turns out it couldn't that's what Johnny
told Finland's el Talha T newspaper
you know sorry about that Thanks there's
a newspaper in Finland that that that
has an awesome name just difficult for
me to say anyway Facebook said the
glitch was fixed in February and the
reward was paid in March Johnny who's
still too young to have a Facebook or
Instagram account of his own which is
ironic said that he learned coding from
YouTube videos and found a way to delete
user comments from Instagram accounts
the young coder said I could have
deleted anyone's comments from there he
said he was thinking about a career in
data security but for now he plans on
buying a new bike and a football with
his reward money a new bike with rocket
booster boots from gearbest cat5 DV / q
best I love how you were able to segue
that into an advertisement for sporting
the show and buying cool stuff it's true
but that's crazy man I've got a nine
year old at home he gets excited when he
can like kill an Enderman or something
in Minecraft but hacking in Instagram
getting a $10,000 bounty that's $1,000
per year of this kid's life see and I
hear the story and I think about bone
eight to ten years ago there was that
kid named micro who bought micro
Microsoft yeah Bob and I think he got
like a six thousand dollar computer from
Microsoft for copyright oh yeah so they
could buy his website I think this kid
just hacks and gets ten grand there you
go that's amazing there you go
so that's the moral of the story here
folks is it pays to hack websites to
clarify they're looking for what did
they call them white hackers white hat
hackers white hat hackers and so these
are you know you're hacking with the
intention of X not exploiting for
malicious use but for exploiting so that
you can notify the companies right of
the potential of being exploited for
malicious use I do believe that some
country companies I think Google's one
of them that actually hires their IT
guys that way sure McAfee is another
example of a company that generates
viruses right I don't know if it's true
but it's a theory there worked why are
there all these viruses and
cafi suddenly is able to figure it fight
them before everyone else true not true
that was just a joke all right every
time you watch something on Netflix
Netflix is watching you back dan dan
didn't if you use Netflix recently you
may have been an unwitting participant
in the global streaming services
experiments and 2014 the company
conducted research that revealed users
spend about 1.8 seconds
deciding if they want to watch something
it also found that the users pick what
to click on by assessing the thumbnail
image that Netflix presents to them on
logging in through a series of a B tests
the company realized that it could
greatly widen TV show or movies audience
simply by changing those thumbnail
images Netflix then implemented a system
that tests images based on their
research Netflix once used artwork from
the studios for thumbnails but that art
wasn't designed to be viewed in a stream
competing with other images today
Netflix designs its own images based on
what it has found users are most likely
to click on in an unbreakable kimmy
schmitt test for instance users engage
with the last image in which Kimmy and
her friend Titus both have strange goofy
looks on their faces is that what we
need to do Jeff puts train let's try it
how many people are gonna watch this
video we're gonna hold it for like 10
seconds yeah but it takes a photo every
10 seconds yeah so we have to do that
again okay ready you ready and go
slowly face and they're already in the
web chats it's gone it's gone it's not
Universal however the images that appeal
to a Netflix subscriber in the United
States may not be alluring to someone
scrolling through Netflix in say Brazil
as shown in this in its grid of images
smart marketing or creepy profiling yeah
well you let us know your thoughts in
the comments below
for one thing unwitting participant
witting Pacific participant I think it's
mostly the fact that you didn't know
that they were testing you yeah you know
it's Netflix what come on basically
that's internet-based you're being
tested someone Netflix is AI to monitor
your viewing habits that's why it's so
cheap
of course hello but also how fantastic
is it that when I fire up Netflix for
the first time in you know on the
weekend or something it's got all these
new shows for me and they're perfect yep
see here's why I hear the story and then
my first thought is they're gonna use
this for marketing sure because you know
I mean right now Netflix doesn't have to
give its subscriber data as far as how
many people view a particular show and
the studios are freaking out because
they're going we have we're paying this
crazy money for you to have this show we
don't know how many people are watching
it so now Netflix is gonna be able to
turn around it's my suspicion I haven't
read this anywhere but they're gonna
turn around and go hey with the proper
imaging based on our research we can
make your show more popular for an
increased fee there's that but think
about this if they're able to present to
me shows that yeah I'm gonna love this
and it's happened where we're flipping
through their recommendations and we
find shows that we will watch we don't
binge watch but we'll watch one show a
night and we will watch it from episode
one right season one right to the end
and that's you know we've been waiting
for Kimmy Schmidt season two and now
it's here we're working our way yeah all
right so they're smart they make good
recommendations so now flip that reverse
it take it away from the consumer which
is me and say to the broadcaster and the
production studios hey I know you're
working with X network we have this many
people that will watch your show because
we have these numbers that say these
people want your programming if you
don't bring your stuff to us you're
gonna be dealing with these numbers you
might have a million viewers we have 10
million that are just sitting there
waiting to watch your show so give it to
us we're not gonna pay you what they're
gonna pay you but we're gonna pay you a
small amount per viewer and it's gonna
equalize because there's just many
people's yeah a much wider audience
that's the way networking is gone and I
think that the intelligence behind their
algorithms are able to use it not only
for the consumer to give me new
programming but also to drive people
broadcasters show creators to want to
include their shows on the Netflix
platform you know as as we're discussing
this I'm starting to realize I'm seeing
a lot of like glitter force girls
popping up in my YouTube feed I need to
create my profile I think that what the
kids watch it when they created profiles
first thing I did was I renamed my
profile which was like all spongebob and
yes everything else I renamed it kids
yeah and I created one called parents
yeah I think parents does not have
spongebob in it I should hope not
yeah but he probably has my little pony
definitely my two years ago plus a few
days ago ghost games told the world that
there would be no new Need for Speed in
2014 now skipping the year and explained
would allow it to create a highly
innovative addition to the series in
2015 which ultimately turned into 2016
for the PC today the studio put forth a
very similar message saying that it's
taking stock and that the follow up
won't be out until sometime in 2017
since we released Need for Speed last
November with
and humble bought the support from our
players and the ongoing collaboration
with you the studio said we've learned
so much from your feedback and much of
that has gone into shape the free
content updates to need for speed
features such as manual transmission rap
sharing snapshot pro speed lists
customization items bigger garage and
more will come directly from your
suggestions we've also introduced hot
rods saw the return of drag racing and
once again went toe-to-toe with the
infamous Eddie ghosts Gables emphasized
that it won't be going quiet between now
and the announcement of the next game
the feedback our community has already
given us is already shaping the future
of Need for Speed and it will continue
to do so as we move further into
development for the next game so please
do keep it coming it said I remember
playing Nev like the first Need for
Speed back on my windows 95 machine
really and that's the one where you know
if you had a fast processor the game was
crazy fast and got slow on it super slow
and you I truthfully I haven't played
Need for Speed since it ruined it for me
and I just haven't gone back you didn't
like him it's because my processor was
too fast so I hit to drive up but it was
a that I cleared the course so I was a
big need for speed fan back in those
days there early days then Hot Pursuit
came out and I loved it but it was
starting to feel more like a how do you
say it like a chapter kind of game like
you had to achieve things in order to
unlock other things yeah I like to just
drive I want to just drive yeah that's
what I want yeah anyway we'll have to
see lateral I don't I don't think I'll
probably play it but whatever Canadian
researchers have developed what they are
claiming is the world's first
holographic flexible smartphone with a
bendable display that allows multiple
people looking at it the device to see
different 3d images depending on their
perspective to view to view the device
called hollow flex you don't need those
thumb dumb plastic glasses you have to
wear in the cinema to watch 3d movies
and it doesn't employ head tracking to
tailor the appearance to the viewer as
devices like the newer Nintendo 3ds
instead the smartphone sports a full HD
LED display with 920 by 1080 resolution
and but it's one that's flexible so how
does it actually work well when the
device displays images renders them into
12 pixel wide circular blocks over the
top of the display is a thin 3d printed
micro lens array consisting over well a
16,000 fisheye lenses when the pixel
blocks are viewed through the lens array
it makes the images look 3d to the
viewer depending on the angle when in
fact they're actually only
two-dimensional the one downside to this
technique is it makes the appearance of
the display decidedly more pixelated
once the full HD resolution is
effectively down sampled via the image
rendering process you're left with a
pretty chunky look in 160 by 104
resolution image still it's an
impressive effect that makes 3d images
viewable by multiple multiple people
simultaneously and the team that
developed it says the technology could
change how we use our devices for
example with the touchscreen you can
manipulate virtual objects on screen on
X&amp;Y accesses axes as much as any
smartphone or tablet allows but flexing
this flight could raise and lower the
object on the z axis
if coupled with sensors that can detect
the user in the environment around them
other interesting applications could be
possible as well one of the researchers
says by employing a depth camera users
can also perform holographic video
conferences with one another when
bending the display users literally pop
out of the screen and can even look
around each other with their faces
rendered correctly from any angle by the
onlooker that's cool that is kind of
neat I'm I'm not a visual person so I'm
have a hard time picturing this phone
but that's that's cool I love the way
technology is changing it's pretty neat
I just am wondering where the selling
point where where it will step out of
novelty and jump into actual usability
see that's the great thing about tech I
mean even if you've got something that
is a novel idea today somebody's going
to take that idea and go I got an
application I'm gonna run with it and
suddenly
it opens this whole new realm of
technological advancement yeah maybe the
the idea behind it could influence the
TV of tomorrow exactly but thinking of a
1080p screen that then becomes such a
low resolution image so you think about
a 4k screen and stepping down to like
480p in order to get this 3d effect now
might be cool as resolutions you know so
say an 8k screen right oh that could
produce a 720 I'm just throwing numbers
out there I defer the actual math but
say it could do a 720p holographic image
that's pretty decent that I could feel
like I could reach out and touch the
thing that's in front of me we're
probably not that far off from getting
there I think so I mean things are
progressing pretty quickly so alright
it's kind of neat okay I need indeed if
it comes out we'll have to get it on the
cat 5 store yeah we'll be like you can
bend the z-axis and we'll be like that
crazy shot of us with our heads frozen
yeah it would pop right out of your
screen all that works just next to me in
the forehead that could be great yeah
all right big thanks to speak to our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us if you found a news story
that you'd like to send email it to
newsroom a category 5 TV for all your
tech news with a slight linux bias this
is the category 5 TV newsroom at
newsroom category 5 TV for the category
5 TV newsroom I'm Jeff Weston thanks
Jeff this is category 5 technology TV
you'll find our website at triple-double
you category 5 dot TV please do check us
out comment below make sure you like and
subscribe if you love this video give us
the thumbs up and tell your friends
about category 5 technology TV as well
we do this every single week we've been
doing it for 451 weeks and if we're
still going strong and we are gonna do
this as long as we possibly can so we'll
be saying 800 weeks at some point we'll
be will actually be popping out of the
little phone screens I love it now
something else that's trying to go as
long as it possibly can
is this computer behind us I know we're
trying to breathe new life into older
hardware so folks if you're ready for it
let's jump over to our old computer over
there Jeff my man we've got this old
system that Kelsey two weeks ago had
installed Ubuntu matei yes and when she
installed it it breathed new life into
this old system that was running Windows
Vista basic so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna actually do some clock work
here we're gonna time you know what's
the performance like we've installed
Ubuntu matei we know that it runs we
know that that it boots up and works
great it's it is in all essences a
usable computer now yep from an old
piece of hardware just for reference now
this computer is whoa I got some cool
sounds going on it's a compact 65 10b so
it's not a bad little machine but it is
older and it was running Windows Vista
basic and out of the box when it arrived
here it was basically just a write-off
e-waste but I love that it's like an
inch thick it is very very thick it's
heavy and it probably you know it's it's
it's good enough to want to revive yes
so tonight what we're gonna do is we're
gonna compare that stock hard drive it's
a spinning 5400 rpm hard drive that came
with this laptop we're gonna compare the
performance not scientifically but in
real life terms
you know how fast is it to boot how fast
is it to open a program how fast is it
to find files so those are the three
tests that we're gonna do tonight we're
gonna look at it with the stock hard
drive that came with it with Ubuntu
matei and then we are going to look at
it with a beautiful
Kingston HyperX series savage hard drive
those are the SSDs from their gaming
line of hardware they are beautiful you
can find out more about them a cat5 dot
TV slash SSD so through our performance
test tonight again not scientific just
looking at it from a layperson
perspective we're gonna determine is it
really worth spending the little bit
extra to throw an SSD hard drive in an
older computer to breathe new life into
it so what I've done out of the box
already we have a boon to matei
installed on both hard drives so we
don't have to wait for that tonight and
you know how it was
done two weeks ago in episode number 449
category five technology TV installed
Ubuntu matei on this computer so that it
was done and the version that I
installed on the the SSD is exactly the
same same flash drive same settings same
everything
nothing has been installed it has never
been connected to the internet so no
updates have been run no indexing has
happened on the hard drive so this is a
real test one to one if you could pass
me my phone there Jeff
we're gonna use this as our very
scientific way of clocking the
performance of this system so we're just
going to bring up a stopwatch here I've
got my clock app and let's jump over
here and what we're gonna do first is
we're going to boot up this computer
system
there we go I'm kind of wrapped around
here so I've got my clock there it is
it's as simple as that Jeff here's the
power button I'm gonna get you to push
that at the count of three well I'm
going to count down from three and I'm
gonna push start on my stopwatch so
three two one now okay so we are
counting Jeff has pushed the button and
here we go right now in this computer is
the stock hard drive so this is a 5400
rpm standard laptop hard drive and what
I'm timing to is I've got it set to
automatically login the user account on
both hard drives and when the Ubuntu
might a welcome screen is finished
loading I'm gonna press stop so we're up
to 27 28 30 seconds so far no visual
input or output from the computer other
than the square there we go now we've
got the Ubuntu mattei logo we're at 40
seconds
you know Elroy was saying in the chat
room that thank goodness is and windows
have you taking forever I was thinking
the exact same yeah well you know a lot
of people do time the performance of
their computer but you know does it turn
on quickly yep it's important and it's a
funny thing here we go I gotta be ready
screen come on screen Wi-Fi networks
detected
there's the welcome screen
and boom 1 minute 7 seconds point 2 so I
don't know if you do you want to jot
that down for sure Jeff is our our score
keeper so he's gonna keep track of
exactly what what we're looking at here
so it's pretty slow 1 minute 7 seven
seconds point two two there you have it
okay so pretty slow indeed but it's
working it's up and running but for an
older computer to be even to boot up at
a minute
yeah and it's usable yep exactly so
we're happy we're happy we've breathed
new life into the system okay let's go
back to our system I am going to simply
close this window okay because we want
to do everything exactly the same
between both computers and Jeff what I'm
gonna get you to do is click on
applications and then office and we're
gonna go into libreoffice writer
but we're gonna before you actually
press it we're gonna count down from
three again so I'll listen I'll let you
hover it no okay we'll do this in
real-time so if you point to it and
hover and I'll count down from three to
one now here we go
this won't this won't take long at all
once it's completely loaded there we go
eleven point three seconds there we have
it folks so that is with the spinning
hard drive now the final test that we
want to do as I mentioned there has
never been any indexing on this hard
drive so I'm just gonna jump into my
terminal let's see if I can find a
terminal here system tools maybe there
it is mate matei sorry terminal I'm just
gonna go sudo a lass just to see if I
actually have super user pass yeah I do
okay so I can become super user so in
the home folder I'm going to go sudo so
I don't get any any errors let's clear
that sudo find dot - I named in
case-sensitive search for the name star
dot txt
alright ready for it I'm going to reset
my timer so you've recorded that yet for
libreoffice
three seconds as soon as I say go we're
gonna hit enter three two one go
this is doing a search through the
entire hard drive for all text files
remember that these are exact duplicates
between the two hard drives we're going
to be seeing a real performance
difference between the solid state hard
drive from Kingston and the the actual
built-in hard drive that came with this
computer so let's wait until it gives us
the prompt again as if we can go back to
using our computer searching through
finding all kinds of stuff that came
with the Ubuntu Mattei system any
comments there we go thirty six point
nine seconds to do a search thirty six
point nine thirty six point nine there
you have it all right now are we ready
to see how easy it is to upgrade our
computer to assault at state hard drive
absolutely the one thing I'll mention as
I mentioned that I've already done is
I've already set up
Lubuntu Matei exactly the same on this
Kingston Savage from the HyperX line so
this is the savage 480 megabyte hard
drive and this particular now what I've
got is I've got the the kit so this is
an upgrade option that's available for
you it's called a bundle kit you can go
to camp five dot TV slash SSD and what
this includes is the beautiful HyperX
hard drive
this is the HyperX savage and they all
look the same but they come in various
capacities from 120 all the way up to
960 gigabytes that 960 excites me
they're so fast and it was under 500
bucks - they're cheap which is amazing I
know this one here I'm using the 400 and
an 80 gigabyte hard drive for this test
you may go with something smaller you
can go with the 120 gig it's still going
to be bigger than what came in it this
kit this the bundle kit comes with this
guy here which is a brilliant little
bonus just a nice little screwdriver but
ok so we're gonna use this for our
upgrade tonight ok so it's got two
Phillips two different sized Phillips
and a flat
head I'm gonna grab that there just what
you would expect for my a good quality
it's a solid metal nice looks like it's
a tooled piece as well yeah it's like
it's all one solid piece nice there we
go we've got our screwdriver this also
surprisingly the bundle comes with an
external chassis oh no way I can
actually put it in an external chassis
that came with it no extra charge
right so it's got the cables and the
setup and anything that you need but
having an external chassis that came
with the the bundle kit what a bonus all
right so you can take it out of the
computer and move it in it also has a
3.5 millimeter adapter plate up this
will allow you to install this in a
desktop computer versus tonight we're
installing it in a laptop computer they
think of everything it's all included so
and of course you can follow the links
and just get the hard drive itself at
cat5 dot TV slash SSD where if you
follow the links through to Amazon
you'll see the bundle kits if they are
available for the particular model that
you look at so here we go okay so let's
let's throw this into this computer nice
and simple
let's get a look there are a couple of
screws every computer is just a little
bit different this one has two screws to
get into the hard drive compartment here
make sure you ground yourself that is to
discharge any static electricity you can
do that by touching a ground plate
anything that has a grounding a computer
chassis that is unpainted this is my
hard drive so this hard drive can be
removed with a single screw right here
it's a little bit different for each
computer but you'll see there is the
spinning hard drive I hope you guys can
see that okay so it's a Hitachi 5400 rpm
little tiny hard drive so I'm just gonna
remove these quick little mounting
screws now in the chat room Revit EJ
could say that he's added three of these
to his laptops and it was a welcome
change so already we've got viewers who
are saying yes I love these hard drives
which is great you know what it makes
such a difference in performance and
you'll be surprised I think these days
and I don't know Jeff if you can hit the
I I'll teach you how to how to work this
someday there we go
the
the fact is is that it's a an economical
way to upgrade your computer and and the
performance gains we're gonna see here
are more than their exceptional but
they're more than just getting a faster
computer right like all together you're
gonna be more productive it's gonna
function quicker you're not gonna be
waiting for simple tasks and you know
when you open a program you want it to
open course so can we actually get this
old computer to operate at a speed that
is reasonable like really reasonable so
that this thing can actually run our
programs and become a computer that
we're gonna use
that's the question tonight so you'll
see I've put the HyperX hard drive here
in the in the mounting kind of frame
that came with the laptop here so this
is just how it mounted into the computer
there's a slight bit of magnetism on
this on the screwdriver so that's kind
of handy if you fumbling around with
sausage fingers like I am there we go
make sure that your SATA is facing the
right way these ports that's your power
and data okay and now I realized for
tech show you would assume that most
viewers would be fairly tech savvy but
for that anybody who's watching that
isn't does the hard drive fit in a
specific way or could they put it in
upside down by accident yeah they could
put it in upside down but then it
wouldn't go in and it's only gonna go in
one way so what I would do is observe
how it came out and then mount your new
hard drive the same way it's it's pretty
easy to tell if you've done it wrong you
can go back and it's only four screws
it's not a hard thing to redo but BK you
know you don't want to jam it if it's
not seeming to fit retrace your steps
find out what you've done wrong
and for those of you who have never done
a computer upgrade like this it's really
not that complicated
so you purchased this piece of hardware
through cap 5 dot TV slash SSD and now
you've got the SSD hard drive and we're
able to upgrade our computer as simply
as this so now this Drive simply drops
in there and then we slide it into the
backplane and now it's mounted into it's
basically the drive is connected to the
motherboard okay so I'm just that simple
just that's
now we screw it back in this one's kind
of nice that the screws have spring
mechanism so that I can't actually lose
the screws on there that's kind of nice
like that I like those little features
yeah there we go got the plate back on
and we're actually ready so if you were
doing this yourself and you've just
purchased a HyperX savage hard drive
through cat 5 TV slash SST if you've
just done that you've just installed
this hard drive keep in mind that hard
drive comes to you blank
it has nothing on it okay so it's a
clean slate now you're going to have to
either if you if you want to you can
image which is to make a duplicate of
your old hard drive onto the new hard
drive which you can you can do that
using a tool like Clonezilla for example
that's free from Clonezilla org or in
our case we're just installing Ubuntu
mattei Linux it's a free operating
system you can download it from a boon
to - Matt a.org it's spelt ubuntu Ubu n
tu - ma te dot org you'll be able to
download that for free and install it on
your system so keep in mind that it's
gonna be a clean slate you're not gonna
have any of your files on there so just
be mindful of that you'll want to copy
them to something else okay are we ready
for the same test absolutely it was
really that simple
could it be Jeff gonna bring back up my
clock here and I need to power on the
time we're looking to beat is one minute
and 7.2 seconds do you think we can do
it I think we can do it three two one go
alright we're getting the post booting
up the in the ethernet adapter I gotta
hover over the stop symbol there we go
cuz that's where we were with the other
hard drive yeah we're booting up this
old laptop it's a compact 65 10 B now
with an SSD from Kingston HyperX wait a
minute
don't wait a minute it's not what you're
kidding what what was that like 30
seconds tops 28.7 and i think i was a
little delayed pushing stop
I'm not kidding you buddy that's just
the hard drive change that's it
all I did was put in a HyperX hard drive
you're kidding me hold on twenty-eight
point seven seven compensating for
sausage fingers we're gonna call it
twenty eight nine two seconds there you
go
all right let's bring up libreoffice
writer' you ready for it
what was our time on the other computer
eleven point three cycle of point three
is the number to beat three two one go
I think I missed it again it was too
quick did two two seconds I didn't even
feel it I thought I was gonna be able to
have a nap that's amazing okay Wow final
test is the moment of truth and remember
neither of these hard drives have ever
been indexed that means that my find
statement is the first in death the
first time that this hard drive has ever
been looked at by the by the the system
okay so I'm gonna go sudo alas which is
what exactly what I did on the last hard
drive then I typed clear and then I
typed sudo find dot for current folder
cuz I'm in the root folder write CD /
now I am good thing I checked sudo find
dot - I named four in case sensitive
search star dot txt okay so if you're
standing by I am three two one go
what's the number to beat we're looking
to be thirty six point nine seconds okay
it's done what wait four point what is
that four point five seconds four point
nine four point nine point nine seconds
these are identical folks I completely
unscientific but completely true that
switching your hard drive to a Kingston
HyperX savage hard drive this is a
solid-state drive with no moving parts
has now taken it from 11 seconds to low
to do a find on your hard drive
no thirty six point nine
six point nine for a search to four
point nine you shaved off thirty-two
that's okay on on we got to be amazing
go to cap five dot TV slash SSD they're
not an overly expensive upgrade for your
computer but here you have it it's an
old computer that we have breathe new
life into by doing two things for one
thing we've put a solid state hard drive
in it and second secondary we have we've
upgraded the hard drive to a kingston
hyperx so savage so SSD you know I may
have my math wrong here but just on the
search for the dot txt that's a seven
point five times faster search just like
that that's incredible what was the
other one
you do the math folks I mean it's 1
minute 7 seconds versus 28.24 the start
I knew it was gonna be faster Jeff I
didn't realize it was gonna be that
stark that thing is I don't do you
notice it's it's performing like a newer
system now this thing was free because
it was e-waste
so if I close this it's instantaneous
let's bring up my home folder and it's
like it's responsive it's navigating
like nothing else and that's a boot up
of almost three times faster let's yeah
it's ridiculous so why would you leave
that old hard drive in when for such a
small amount you can upgrade your hard
drive that's a very minute man
Mythbusters ok I've got eyes like that
really credi laptop at home I was
telling you before the show it's like
nine years old I am ready to you want a
little thing for one of these in there
buddy yeah I thought I'd like revived it
with putting Linux on but I need to
switch over the hard drive I think so
that's amazing I absolutely adore these
hard drives incidentally the HyperX
savage is what we're running in our
broadcast server so when we're
broadcasting live we have two of these
in there
one of them is for Reid one of them is
for right which is overkill that's my
overkill yeah but basically Wirecast
runs Windows 10 on one of the drives and
the second drive is recording to disk
because we record raw motion JPEG right
there's your upgrade folks check it out
breathe new life into older hardware
with Ubuntu matei and the Kingston
HyperX savage solid-state hard drives
check out the specs find out more see
where you can get them at cat 5 dot TV
slash SSD thank you so much for joining
us tonight then a fun show great show
always fun to have you here and I
understand it you're gonna be back I
will be back next week yes gonna be back
next week and next week we've got an
amazing show for you we're gonna be
looking at how 3d printing is absolutely
revolutionising industry yeah we're
gonna take a look at that we're going to
talk with an industry professional who
understands this stuff and is going to
break it down to us locals really cool
it is gonna be a lot of fun we're gonna
learn a lot next week and I will see you
next Tuesday night Jeff will be here
I'll be here a great week see ya
[Applause]
