[Music]
plex media server think of this as kind
of your own home brewed netflix love it
Wow
kind of a good way to explain it because
we're all familiar with the Netflix
interface and how it lays out you know
you go into comedy and there's all your
comedy shows and this kind of stuff
flex allows you to create your own
service so that you can import your own
library your favorite online shows if
you want to add category 5 TV for
example we're gonna show you how to do
that you can add your home movies yes
your music library we've got we've
ripped absolutely and we've ripped all
of our Christmas music this year and we
put it on our Plex so now we just say
play Christmas music and it's just a
shuffle library of non-stop Christmas
excellent very cool commercial free Plex
is a free piece of software now they do
have some commercial components they do
have a subscription service called Plex
pass Jeff maybe you can touch on yeah a
bit of what the advantages of that are
yes so I did not initially sign up for
plex pass just use regular plex media
server and then about six months in I
decided I want the ability to download
download yes sir you're gonna download
my files from or black remotely so you
can well that's one of things that comes
with Plex pass so I signed up for the
lifetime subscription I think it was on
our 50 box or something like it was but
now I'm covered for life ok but it
allows me to on my other Plex devices so
say like my tablet sure I can wherever
you've got the app installed right your
laptop your computer your tablet your TV
your Roku
yes I could be sitting Amazon fire hotel
and download my files and so you have a
local copy yes you have to download it
or can you still have to you can stream
it also with plex pass comes some of
their other additional features they're
always rolling out some cool stuff
I think trailers is one that I would
really find appealing I'll be able to
see the trailer before I click on the
movie yes even on my own library right I
love that we're looking through Netflix
Beca and I'm I
and looking for a new Christmas movie
and how do we do it we bring up the
trailers on Netflix so we bring up the
description oh that one sounds
interesting play the trailer mhm well
you can do that with a Plex pass on your
own plex server yes it's it's good
there's a lot of added features and
truthfully I don't even utilize them all
sure because but they're there you get a
lifetime subscription that's done
exactly yeah yeah I'm so plex media
server itself is absolutely free we have
installed it and shown how to use it on
multiple kinds of devices so go to our
website category 5 dot TV and simply
click search and do a search for Plex
ple X and one of the videos that we've
done Jeff and I did a tutorial on how to
set up Plex Media Server on a Raspberry
Pi 3 which is how I'm running at home so
keep keep in mind that makes the
Raspberry Pi 3 your server and then any
device that you use your tablet your
phone your computer your your Roku can
connect to that and stream the video to
your TV or whatever it's so cool so
we've shown those things go to our
website and do a search for plex to see
those but tonight we're gonna do
something a little different something
that we haven't done yet and that's to
show you how to install plex media
server so this is the server component
on your Windows machine ok you may have
a Windows machine that's always on and
if you do we can treat that as our
server and that's the one that all of
our other devices in the house will
connect to and be able to stream video
from in addition to that our plex
channel has been updated to version 1.9
now that's a big leap for us we're gonna
show you tonight how to download and
install that on your brand-new plex
media server all right so hello to the
chat room I see you up here on my laptop
but I'm gonna have to minimize you my
friends bringing up a new tab and in
order to get Plex again it's free we're
just going to go to Plex I'm gonna bring
up my screen just so that you've got it
plex dot TV slash down loads just like
that alright so I mentioned that you can
install this on multiple kinds of
devices one of the things I need to
mention as well you can in fact install
plex media server on
your Nass yeah think about that for a
moment if you've got a smartass you can
install Plex on that and then your Nass
itself becomes the server I have it
installed in on raid on my own raid
server yeah so I've got eight hard
drives in my server and I've got a
massive library and it's amazing and
you've got the power of that of that
server as well so now that I'm at the
download page I'm one step closer to
awesome I just click on download and it
skims me down here I'm running Windows
right now so it automatically detected
that but check this out Mac Linux
FreeBSD Synology Netgear QNAP these are
NASA's QNAP on raid Robo ace who stole a
su store the so Star Trek us now we're
getting into the obscure ones folks the
ones that nobody's ever heard of we're
moving along Seagate we've heard of them
Western Digital hard drive manufacturer
Terra Master and then other docker it's
hello
Dockers like a kind of like a
virtualization platform but really it's
like sharing resources on a Linux
architecture so those who use it know
what it is how it works
we today for the sake of the demo or on
Windows so we're just going to download
that as simple as this boom again it's
free and I'm gonna click to open that so
that's gonna take seven five four
because windows knows countdowns three
three minutes three minutes yeah but
that little blue two minutes so as that
downloads we're gonna take a very very
quick break when we come back we're
gonna install Plex we're gonna get it
set up and then we're gonna put our you
know category 5 TV Plex channel on our
plex server so that we can watch
category 5 from anywhere on our devices
check it out we'll be right back
Jeff Weston Yellin you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you
you're terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
the download is complete and we are
ready to install Plex Media Server on
our Windows machine now there's really
not a lot of options here where do you
want to install it - I'm just happy with
the default and we're gonna go install
party yeah sure you'll want to install
this well I yes thank you for asking
windows ya rhotic have you said no in
the middle of show ya why isn't it
working so this is installing all of the
components for Plex Media Server and Wow
is it done already so yeah apparently so
let's see what it what it does when I
click on launch it's most likely going
to bring up my web browser because Plex
is in fact a web browser-based utility
on my computer I mean you're not going
to install a program from a computer in
order to access it you just gonna access
it through your web browser it's as
simple as that didn't bring didn't
launch anything let's try 127.0.0.1
colon and then the port the default port
for Plex is always 30 to 400 and then
slash web and it is there it's running
look at that beautiful my dash
board is empty now I can add a library
and I can say this is movies and I can
say this is movies and I like to say
movies drama or movies sci-fi and I like
to organize myself that way so that
everything is kind of together and then
I can click Next and I can browse for
media if you're not sure how plex media
server works from that end of things go
back and watch our PI episode in its
plex media server for Raspberry Pi 3 you
can google it you can go onto our
website category 5 TV pardon me and
search it there and you will find it so
what we're interested in tonight is
getting category 5 TV to work on plex so
people are asking hey how can I do that
how can I get plex installed on or how
can i get category 5 TV installed on my
plex server without having to download
you know through an RSS feed and get all
the files downloaded locally and then
that takes up a massive amount of space
so here's how we do it folks you ready
for it
category 5 dot TV slash subscribe this
is where you go for any of your
platforms that you want to use for
category 5 TV shows you can break it
down by show or you can get the
consolidated feed if you want the RSS
feeds we've got audio we've got low
quality SD and HD and so on so but here
we're here for plex
we've got Roku and Cody as well let's
get our plex plug in now I'm gonna walk
you through how to do this because it's
a little complex for somebody who's
never done this before I want to show
you how to obtain it how to install it
how to get it up and going so this is
called github and this is where we code
the plex channel so you'll see you know
here it says three days ago it was
updated so you know that hey this is
this is more recent than the one I
installed three weeks ago so we click on
cloner download and then we go download
zip and that's going to download our
channel and it's extremely small so it's
going to be really really quick to
download there it is it's done and now
show in folder is what I'm clicking on
but basically it's in my downloads
folder and now I'm gonna right-click on
it in Windows and go extract all similar
process on Linux or Mac
wherever you are so now there's a folder
called category 5 TV - master first of
all I want to go into that because I see
that there's a redundant copy of that
folder within that folder so we're gonna
actually work on this one go into that
and you see oh those are the files okay
so right here now the - master has been
added by github this is a known thing
and if you read the Plex manual it'll
tell you you got to remove that so we
removed the - master so that it is now
called category five dot or yeah
category five dot bundle and that's the
naming algorithm for Plex so then I'm
going to cut that folder now I'm ready
to move this into my plex
plugins folder it's going to be located
at different places depending on your
platform but here on Microsoft Windows
it's nice and easy to find I'm gonna
simply go into my address bar up here at
the top and type % local app data
percent ok hit enter and this is the
local application data for all of my
installed applications and I see one now
called plex media server which I can
enter within that folder I see plug-in
support and plugins the folder I want to
enter is called plugins you'll see there
is something called service bundle
before I paste I want to show you in
Plex what we're actually doing if I
click on channels I want you to be able
to see the difference you see that there
are no channels installed so now back
there I'm gonna right click and go paste
and so now within my plex media server /
plugins folder
I've got category 5 dot bundle and if I
enter that it's not another folder it is
actually the content of the github
repository you can also use git if you
want so that you can just do a git pull
and it will automatically update to the
latest version that's a good idea if you
know how to do that but we're showing
you the kind of the novice entry level
way of doing this so that's nice and
easy
so now that I've pasted that into the
correct folder I should be able just to
simply refresh my browser with f5 in the
channels folder here on plex and lo and
behold we have one channel installed
it's in fact syncing to our channel
right now that's why it took a moment
for the for the icon to come up if I go
back home click on channels now I see
it's instant
right click on it and there we go so
we've got category five technology TV
the newsroom new every day the pixel
shadow scratch coding for kids nature
sounds we've got shorter clips and watch
live so watch live obviously during a
live show you can use that if you want
to go shorter clips you can see
shortened clips like little seven-minute
segments instead of the full one hours
these are great so that you can just
kind of skim through the content if
you've missed a couple of shows and you
want to see what's going on or if you if
you want to share it with somebody as
well category five technology TV
obviously our full-length show so these
are like one hour plus and this goes
back you know you can you can go back
how far can we go there we go just
scroll Scroll scroll hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of hours of free
HD video content you can flex and chill
amazing
just wow so here's last week's episode
so if I just simply click on that you'll
see that it shows me the description it
gives me a little bit of info about it
and then I can hit play we go back in
time by a week oh no goodness look at my
hair I am so much older than I was then
our camera this week looks way better
yes it does so you can go fullscreen
that we look better yeah it's it's us
I'm gonna just mute the sound here cuz I
don't want you to have to hear it and us
at the same time but there you go so
that's actually streaming to Plex to my
plex media server to my browser and and
I'm able to access that now in our
scenario tonight I've installed and I'm
accessing Plex
from the very same computer Microsoft
Windows installed and and so on now all
I need is the IP address of that laptop
or my computer that is now running plex
media server right and from any other
device on my network I can connect to
that URL so the IP address colon 32400
right slash web and now I've got the
plex interface and I can stream to that
awesome a computer connected to your 4k
TV perfect nice attempt an app installed
on your phone
good tabs nice I'm the guy saying nice
this week I said it once already there
you have it folks so that is Plex Media
Server with our channel installed on a
Windows system check it out let us know
what you think we'd love to field your
questions we'd love to know how you're
enjoying our channel as well as your
just Plex in general remember go back
watch the Raspberry Pi 1 cuz we get into
more details about how to add your
library and yes like that and just play
around with it have fun it's cool it's
non-destructive so you can add your
library your home movies and it's you
know create descriptions it's this a
database on that computer in which you
can backup and you know it's fantastic
it's your own homebrew Netflix check it
out flex dot TV
[Applause]
