for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 282 of
category 5 technology TV so great to
have you here hey everyone it's the
twelfth of februari 2013 Krista how do
you been oh pretty good pretty busy yeah
yeah really busy um just a ton of work
and yeah you know freaking out a little
bit of snowboarding so snowboarding too
yeah Simon kind of been the season
around here I know it's finally snowed
there's no this year people yeah yeah
how about you busy you busy yeah I've
been busy I'm making some really really
cool jquery kind of Google Maps
integration systems right now really
really excited about some of the things
that I've accomplished with that so you
know I'm working on not just the design
and programming aspect but the actual UI
and that's really kind of fun day club
it's neat when you know when with work
you're doing a project that's exciting
they actually like well you know I love
doing it anyway but but when you're
doing something that's like you're
taking ideas from other places and put
them all together into a system that you
hope is going to end up being better
than any one of those individual kind of
companies are websites so that's when
i'm up to these days cool that keeps me
busy yeah and keeping up with the snow
oh my goodness yeah but it's been
amazing time three feet it's been
awesome though last year we had nothing
more than that oh we tried it's like
falling on clouds like like that are up
to your neck yeah but like it's hard to
get up but when you fall I've seen the
photos you know people like opening
their door and there's a wall of snow no
that's pretty awesome that you haven't
seen that no no it's true not quite here
and berry but a good three feet or so
yeah i shoveled the driveway like a mad
man took me about an hour and a half in
the morning on Thursday God then you
come home and my wife got home that
afternoon and she had another two feet
of snow today and she's probably go
there didn't even show me
a husband a mind set her meanwhile you
know I thought it was being a good good
guy and I'll spend an hour and a half in
the morning before I go off to work but
no no not so much nature was against me
yeah can you do how's everybody doing so
good to see you nice to have you here
join us in the chat room its category 5
on freenode or of course just go to our
website category five dot TV and you'll
see the option to join the chat there
and you'll see it through the week on
the interact menu want to give a big
shout out to my buddy Jim he's 86 years
old and he's been trying to tune in to
the show he's learning his way around
the computer he is running Linux so
everybody say hi to Jim how and I hope
he's able to join us tonight and
certainly you know hey Jim nice to see
you thanks for watching yeah thanks to
everybody cool yeah well there's mature
MTV idea to Jim we've got people let us
know you know we got King Arthur saying
hello imagine that King Arthur saying hi
to jen lots of people from all over the
world gym congratulating on a you on
your step to learn to use the computer
and exciting stuff awesome Toby's mom as
well learning learning her way around
running Linux awesome it's like a virus
is just spreading its good good virus
good virus hey what are ya I'm not oh
all sorts of awesome interesting things
well oh I did it again all right oh I
did it again well Britney Spears yeah a
little bit yeah that wasn't Simoes is
just so fancy and I I don't get to use
it enough that I don't know what all the
buttons do and that really turns you
into a pop star it tell my husband helps
too yeah that to you mm-hmm hot so let's
come back to some lesson bears new
details now so mom come up in the
newsroom Oh luxuries smartphone maker
vertu has launched its first Android
operated handset and it's worth over ten
thousand dollars mmm Wow hey excuse me
what uh yeah over ten thousand dollars
wowzers and he thought your phone was
expensive
huh sony ericsson for the win Apple
Microsoft and Adobe have been called to
appear before Australian Parliament to
address / overpricing hmm hmm your
private flickr photos may have become
private thanks to a software bug oops
and for a limited time nettalk is
offering unlimited SMS messaging for
free woohoo stick around these stores
are coming up later in the show I should
mention Robbie types these things out
before the show mm-hmm and the issue is
that flickr private photos have become
public oh i mistyped that and i caught
it as have you come right and i didn't
catch it as as yeah but that's that's
what happened so i will definitely hear
what's going on with that yeah that's
some scary stuff want to say hey to all
of our viewers tonight on youtube
because youtube was blip TV hatin last
week and saying what's going on here you
guys are always giving shouts out to
blip TV what about us so youtube it's
all about you right now we're
broadcasting live on YouTube right now
are we broadcasting live on blip TV I
don't think so we're right here on
youtube youtube youtube.com slash
category 5 TV thank you for subscribing
to our videos and also i want to mention
if you don't have time because youtube
viewers they've been conditioned to have
a slightly shorter attention span right
it's true you know it's true you don't
want to sit through those 30-second ads
any more than the next guy to watch a 5
minute video let's check so that said
we've taken some of category 5 TV
because we know you don't want to always
maybe you don't have the time to sit
through a full hour show we've created
something for you it is Linux tech show
com Linux tech show com go there and
you'll be able to find two minute to 20
minute segments of category 5 TV all
edit it out of the show there you have
it well thanks to you too all thanks to
youtube so the good parts is what you're
saying so when Robbie goes rambling and
that's cut out of the show right that's
the
part that we keep oh yeah throw away all
the other stuff it's just me talking
about now like the snowboarding clip at
the beginning of the show yeah that's
gonna make it oh good something imported
stuff yeah okay stay tuned I feel
welcome I think that our YouTube all
right also though i do want to give
shelter to people watching on miro
internet TV and first run TV also roku
we've got a growing viewership on that
device thank you for watching the show
papas an email if we've never mentioned
your device or the platform that you're
using live at category 5 TV we'd love to
hear from you and know how you're
watching the show people say to me all
the time well how do i watch do I have
to get on to how computers yeah I mean
if you have a tablet you can watch on
that if you've got a mobile phone you
know like a smartphone you can watch on
that how great is that all you have to
do is just scan our QR code or go over
to em wat cat five dot TV just on that
device on your tablet on your smartphone
and you'll be able to watch the show
right there of course you go to our
website category 5 TV as well or as I
mentioned our YouTube channel and all
those other partners that we have as
well absolutely yeah how cool is that
mm-hmm also category five dot TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
Aztec is here and the International
Association of Internet broadcasters
thanks Krista yeah we got a message in
the chat room whether it be a week ago
or a couple weeks ago somebody enter the
chat room and just simply you know I
know you were talking in the chat room
everyone was just having a conversation
and somebody made a comment is anybody
else offended or opposed to the fact
that category 5 has google ad placement
on their website Oh Heather shaking her
head no I like it when when Big Brother
spies on me so I just wanted to clarify
for the viewer who said you know I got a
problem with this mm-hmm that's okay but
i got a check here from google that's
paying for this free show that you're
watching tells us out this chick yes
it's sign friends it real have you
checked i well I printed it too
hey I printed him but this is the real
thing okay so that's why it's there
that's why those ads are there I'm going
to take that to the bank and I'm going
to make the show even better for you or
I might just pay the bills I might pay
our hydro bill this month because these
lights are really expensive to run or
maybe you know next week it's just like
in the dark well do the show as well
headlamp line row we have to Heather
actually the video very shaky because
she's pedaling on the budget but that's
what it's about i mean so if you know if
it came down to it and and you decided
you know I I want google ads off the
site so I'm going to donate you know
whatever a couple hundred bucks a month
or something to offset that then that's
fine and then i would say okay well
whatever but but really realistically
that's those ads are there to help the
show and i want you to understand that
that it really does advertising
placement and brand placement your
donations as well that's how we're able
to do this because we are volunteers but
there are very very heavy expenses and
those expenses are growing because our
viewership is growing we are now being
broadcast in areas that we've never been
broadcast before and the cost of that is
exponentially higher i was looking at
even just our database just the database
that holds like the the show information
for all of the RSS feeds i'm going to go
to our website all that stuff is it is
growing exponentially to the point where
it's like two or three hundred dollars a
month just to maintain our MySQL
database like and and all these things
combined web hosting the bandwidth that
we use or hydro the space that we use
everything all together plus the
renovations to build a new studio it's
it's a lot so so the ads help us but
what I do try I think you find when you
go to our website nothing is in your
face and bothersome or or you know
nothing is taking over the site and
forcing you to have to click around or
something right so it's very well
designed I try to be very non intrusive
comes to be advertising so we appreciate
your support if you see an ad that you
would like to click on because you like
what you see please do it helps us out
cool very cool shot just went on to the
site and clicked on a whole bunch of
banners yeah appreciate appreciate that
very very much hey we love to receive
your postcards and we would love to
receive them this week Krista how do
they send those in oh my goodness you
can send your awesome fantastic
postcards to category 5 TV and that is
to p.o box 29 00 9 in Barrie Ontario
Canada postal code l4 n7w 7 thanks
Krista we've got an exceptional show for
you as I was saying we've got those
theobroma chocolates to give away we've
and I guess we've got lots of people
joining us on the chat room hey tu they
can take a look at what's going on there
yeah absolutely gone look down on each
you
Hamish
so no questions then no nothing okay so
quiet in that case we'll be right back
after this at eco alkalines we believe
you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV you'll
find our website at triple w category
five dot TV hey please follow us on
twitter our twitter account is down
there we love to chat with you on
twitter our facebook page is cat five
dot TV / facebook and it's growing you
want to see some behind-the-scenes fun
stuff that happens you know and you
don't get to see it here on the show
because no shenanigans ever happened
here on the show ever ever but stuff
happens and so we posted on our facebook
channel on our facebook page that's cat
five dot TV / facebook another thing
that we have is is the bald nerd com
blog and and one of the things that
we've been trying to focus on with that
i've been trying to focus on is is
giving you some good information with
regards to security and keeping yourself
safe and this week i had an interesting
revelation and i posted it to bald nerd
calm you can go there and read the whole
thing but we were pricing out some hard
drives a user a customer wanted to get
an external hard drive for their DVR or
whatever it was right so we started
looking at the different specs because
these DVR systems are pretty specific
about what type of hard drive you can
use and I started to see that some of
these hard drives have a built-in
encryption ship okay so does that mean
when you copy data to it it encrypts it
before it puts it on the drive ah and
then as you're copying data off of it it
decrypts it so that's a safety it's a
security kind of thing right the picnic
stuff is now encrypted with 250
fit aes so got to thinking about that
and I thought okay so you've got this
hard drive its external you copy all
your personal data to it it you feel
like you're safe because now it's
encrypted it's on this drive right but
yet you plug that into another computer
and because it again is going through
the decryption chip that's built into
the external chassis there's no
protection sure it's just it on the
drive it's just kind of doing it for
it's like all sense of circuits and
giggles and yeah pretty much it gives
you a false sense of security thinking
that stuff on my drive is is encrypted
because the chip that encrypts it also
decrypt sit when you're you know using
the USB or SATA ii SATA connector so
what's you know I've got to thinking
they've made me think of a couple
different things scenario is somebody
breaks into your place mm-hmm grabs your
laptop computer and your and your
external hard drive are they gonna sit
down and meticulously unscrew the
chassis from the external hard drive
take it apart take out the internal hard
drive and leave the chassis which
contains the unencrypted chip are they
going to leave that behind they're not
dedication they're just going to take
the whole thing right so they're walking
away with the encrypted data but they
also have the decryption new ship so
they're able to read that data anyways
and it did nothing for you so then I
thought okay well what on earth does it
really do when would the encryption chip
actually have an impact when we can make
a difference and it is when that drive
gets taken out of the chassis right okay
when is that gonna happen yeah how often
do you do that power surge ah happens
right so your drive gets that your drive
is no longer working and what do you do
you send it away to a data recovery lap
right and you say okay I need my data
it's got all my family pictures and
everything on this Drive what do they
say the drive is encrypted we need to
get a decryption chip in order to do
this they have to find a compatible chip
if it's even available a lot of times
it's not because remember it's a
security feature right if they can find
a decryption chip it's going to possibly
double the cost of your data recovery
it's
probably not even going to be possible
and it's going to take a lot longer so
if you have critical data on there even
if they're able to get your stuff off
and decrypt it guaranteed expedited
service is not going to be available I
actually had a chat with with Phil
priest and he is a data recovery
technician at its p/es data recovery
calm I'll put a link in the show notes
for episode number 282 but he did make
the comment that unless you have that
decryption chip you can't get the data
off so the one time that you really want
to be able to get your data that drive
you can that recovery technicians to say
okay we can't do it because the data is
is garbled mm-hmm is the chip got fried
in the power surge so they call up the
manufacturer and they said you have a
compatible chip with this serial number
and they'll say yes or no if it's
available bumps up the price of your
recovery takes a lot longer if it's not
available your dad has gone forever so
got me to sing again well it sounds cool
anyway it's like if you're reading
around the box you go oh what a handy
feature and then you watch the show and
you realize how not handy and you
realize that that is truly a false sense
of security with those automatically
encrypted hard drives so give my blogger
read it's bald nerd calm if you're
interested in learning about these kinds
of things and certainly you know just I
would welcome your comments directly on
the blog as well but doesn't that make
you think a yeah you don't realize I see
something on the shelf it's encrypted oh
it's safe I know just know on those
extra line of features you're like all
the Sun that's one more future than that
one let's get sounds great fantastic and
external hard drives while we're on the
topic of external hard drives the other
thing that happens is people come in and
they say that all of their data is on
this Drive because it's their backup and
I realize no they've actually moved all
the data on to their drive so then if
that drive ever crashes it is still the
only copy when you have an external hard
drive you need to have a copy literally
so your computer has one coffee your
external hard drive has a second copy so
that if either or crashes you get a
power surge and it
takes out everything in your house your
television your computer everything
lucky for you you had backed up to an
external hard drive and disconnected it
so it wasn't susceptible to that power
search because it's not even plugged in
see what was your I'm saying that's
thinking hmm so there you go just food
for thought there you have it hmm I feel
smarter already mmm you missed an
amazing show last week did I I miss a
lot of amazing shows these days
theobroma fine chocolates cat five dot
TV / yum if you hadn't seen last week's
episode all you got to do is just head
over to linux tech show com scroll down
a little bit and find under I think
health and wellness or something
everything's categorized yeah it's
fantastic under health and wellness
you'll see theobroma chocolates because
of course dark chocolate is good for you
so we have a box of these to give away
we'd like to ship these to you we have
been collecting ballots all week at cat
five dot TV / yum and what I'll do is
I'll let you open that up I get to open
it yes the production oh there's a
little name in here who could it be it's
folded a million times of a box of
theobroma fine chocolates from cat5 TV /
yum is sam's Rivini service ma'am um
yeah and send us your mailing address to
live at category 5 TV we're good
congratulations happy Valentine's Day to
everybody you're gonna enjoy those or
your loved one you're gonna share them
with your organizer or your girlfriend's
gonna be really happy that's the idea or
your mother sister yeah all right we
should hit the mailbag sure we got lots
of stuff going on tonight I'm trying to
watch the chatter and Krista's trying to
watch the chat room congratulations to
to Sam for winning those chocolates not
for krista krista couldn't make it last
week sorry about that buddy I know we
hate them all I know that's just awful I
did want to come I swear that's why
I know Olivia know the work stuff is
just haha hectic alright let's see here
here is an email from Daniel now do you
proofread these or do you just pull them
up and there they are I just kind of
pull them up alright have you proof that
I don't know let's take a look yeah I'm
gonna read it real slow then I'm just in
case alright so the question is I'm
writing this with tears in my eyes oh my
family and I came down to Madrid Spain
for a short vacation unfortunately we
were mugged at the park of the hotel we
were where we stayed oh I'll cash credit
card and cell phones are stolen office
but luckily for us we still had our
passports that is lucky careful we've
bent in embassy and the police but
they're not helping issues at all they
told us to wait for two to three weeks
before anything can be done at our
flight leaves in a few hours time but
we're having problems sorting out our
hotel bills and the hotel manager won't
let us leave until we have all our bills
settled and also the hotel wouldn't
accept any third party payment such as
credit cards right because their credit
card machine is faulty at the moment
wondering if you can loan us some cash
we promised to refund it once we get
back let me know if you can help us out
so i can give you the needed information
to wire the money sorry wire the money
to us here in Madrid Spain it has been
so embarrassing for me my family please
help us out of this terrible situation
we're freaked out at the moment I need
your urgent assistance Thanks wow how
does that make you feel awful and scared
and and just could you imagine that be
in your situation when you think of it
that way you're just yeah you get
Patrick you get this email and poor
Daniel Daniel man if only you were a
real person I would be so concerned for
you right now but here's the thing it's
not a real person it's not a real person
what it's a real email received in our
inbox
and here's how it works we've talked
about phishing scams we've talked about
how people will try to trick you into
giving them money or your personal
information for identity theft things
like that these kinds of emails are
interesting because they're done one of
two ways usually one a virus gets into
your system a Trojan horse or something
and what it does this is scary what it
does is it gets your address book and it
matches everything not pay and it sends
everyone an email but it makes it look
like it's from a legitimate person in
there in the address book so I might
actually get it and it will look like
it's from crystal wells and oh my
goodness crystal wells is a study in
Spain well sure I'm going to wire her
some money absolutely the next step if I
respond to that and I've been through
this with with with viewers and with
with customers the next step is you
respond and they say well I can't
correspond by phone because my cell
phone is busted and they're still using
I've been arrested now and they won't
let me use the phone you know these
kinds of things it's all it's all a
trick and I've also I know two
particular individuals who have
unfortunately fallen for this and have
wired a thousand dollars at a time oh no
and never would see that money so the
tough thing with this situation is they
look so real they sound so real and they
seem to be from real people that you
know I'm going to tell you the second
scenario here's one that actually
happened I was involved with the
recovery of this gentleman had traveled
wherever he went for pleasure it was a
vacation with his family and he brought
his iphone and for some reason he had
his iPhone settings set up so that it
was not using a secure connection to the
email server so every time he would
check his email it would transmit his
password over a non-secure connection he
wouldn't know any better it's the same
as it's always been but remember he's
traveling very high usage rates what's
the first thing he's going to do he's
going to look for a public Wi-Fi
terminal mm-hmm and he's going to get
connected to the Wi-Fi because
he's not having to pay this massive data
bill because he's you know he's way down
south so he connects to Wi-Fi and
there's somebody that's connected to
that same Wi-Fi with a packet sniffer
and they are monitoring all this
unencrypted traffic could be somebody in
a coffee shop with a laptop could be
somebody works there if their malicious
it could be just any Joe within range of
that Wi-Fi signal could be somebody
living in the apartment just down the
street you've got about it you know on a
good day you've got about two miles that
those things will reach so somebody sits
down and there's packet sniffing and oh
here's this guy from Canada traveling on
pleasure I now have his email password
so what do I do I also have his mail
server information all that stuff so I
can log into his email I can check his
email find out who the people are that
are in his contact list and find out
more information about him get to the
bottom of you know who this guy is who
he communicates with and now i'm going
to send this email i'm going to spoof my
email address so it looks like i'm
daniel mm-hmm because this is my good
friend daniel right and i'm going to say
that I'm in big trouble wire money now
and people unfortunately do fall for it
because it seems really real especially
if it comes from someone that you're
sure you know it's gonna look like it's
coming from somebody that you're not gay
yeah usually from address books and
things like that sometimes you can catch
it sometimes you can't as a home user
you probably are going to have a harder
time catching it in business all of a
sudden I get one from a customer or
something as obvious they're not going
to ask me for for this because they
might have bought a product off of me
five years ago right yeah so it's pretty
obvious but when you're at home and
somebody who is you know a friend of
your cousin then you've you know you
know who they are and you trust them and
everything and all of a sudden whole
this is it's really scary stuff so just
a little heads up for you get a watch
for those kinds of things and I'm going
to stress again we mentioned it last
week on the show if ever you're in doubt
about an email that you've received if
you get an email you're not too sure and
viewers have done this viewers a
forwarded me emails and said is this
real and I'll research it and I'll look
into it and I'll make sure and i'll give
you links and i'll give you proof so
that you know beyond a shadow of doubt
not this is real sometimes it is
sometimes I've received something that
they've said you know I've got an email
here it looks like it's from my bank it
seems a little bit fishy is it real and
I've looked into it I've investigated
I've even go so far as contacting the
companies involved and just to find out
just keep you safe so if you're ever in
doubt email live at category five dot TV
and Robbie will help you out that said
if you are truly in need in Spain just
let us know trying to help scary stuff
is scary yeah hmm jeez well we need some
good news times flying in tonight great
to see everybody led zep nice to see you
again Swiss Andy are you ready I'm ready
I hope this will ya good news on that
rating news all right all right here are
the top stories from the category 5 TV
news room luxury smartphone maker virtue
has launched its first Android operated
handset the vertu ti it costs seven
thousand nine hundred euros which is six
thousand nine hundred ninety four pounds
more than ten thousand six hundred
dollars and is made at the firm's
headquarters in church crookham
Hampshire the device had a titanium
frame and a sapphire screen but it was
not four gig or 4G sorry enabled said
its designer hutch Hutchinson there's a
name you know until last year the
company was owned by Nokia and
specialized in highly priced handsets
designed for the Symbian the symbian
operating system chief executive Perry
goose teen told the BBC that vertu had
chosen android / windows as an operating
system because it was more established
hmm wow I love they've selected Android
because it puts them in a really high
class that is crazy expensive phone ten
thousand six hundred dollars it's got I
mean I sure it's made of titanium I mean
you drop it it's a sapphire screen
is it waterproof that's what I want to
know yes really drop to the toilet
because that would be a problem for me
mm-hmm deal-breaker what kind of apps
are available Yeah right right so it's
great yeah you should have a Swiss Army
knife feathers as it should have a lot
of cool stuff right I'm all screen from
the picture it's mm-hmm Robbie it's
pretty good I don't know it's just a
touch over my price range look but a
little bit you know it's just me mmm-hmm
let's see here a Perl Apple Microsoft
and Adobe have been called by the
Australian Parliament to appear before
committee looking at pricing levels the
House of Representatives launched a
probe in July last year to see if some
goods were more expensive in Australia
than in other parts of the world
consumer bodies have often complained
the Australians are overcharged the
firms have previously made written
submissions to the committee but have so
far declined to appear in person they
are now scheduled to appear before the
committee on march twenty second hmm I
didn't realize that that they were
bumping their prices up in Australia no
I had no idea there that's crazy you
just assume i meanwhile I mean it seems
really unfair since you can go down the
street in China and get microsoft
windows for four dollars it's perfectly
legitimate put on the street but take
your tugboat is that it just just saying
maybe not legitimate cars maybe not all
right what else you got for us Kristin
Oh more exciting things as more as hmm
in an upfront email address to its users
flickr vice president Brett way and sent
out an email blast on the weekend
stating that the privacy of some users
photos have been compromised he says in
the email while performing routine site
maintenance we identified a software bug
that may have changed the view the view
setting on some of your photos from
non-public example private or viewable
by only family and friends to public
affected photos were visible on flickr
between january 18th and februari 7th
2013 as a precaution to protect its user
users privacy flickr is therefore taken
the liberty of automatically marking
some photos as private to allow users
a chance to log into their accounts and
correct the permissions this means that
if the photos were embedded or linked by
link to buy other side oh sorry link to
buy other sites they may appear broken
at this time it is recommended that
flicker users log into their profile and
make sure photos have the correct
privacy settings may be scary if you if
you post like family photos and things
and I I strictly use Flickr for business
or category 5 photos and yet really
embarrassing shots of Christa and things
like that so and then make sure you
check out our footage thanks Robbie no
problem they're all there they're all in
there thrilled so I'm not on very often
I promise i made them pry once a month I
made them private so nobody would see
them crazy yeah I'm sure that that weird
fishing you did Tuesday night yeah
that's the whole world could see you now
it's all fixed thanks Robbie hmm to
celebrate valentine's day and only for a
limited time by a net talk do a device
at any net talk retailer or at nettalk
calm and he's promo code love 2013 to
activate the SMS text plan of for free
the same as around forty dollars per
year that's pretty good the free net
talk SMS text app can be downloaded to
any android kindle fire sorry kindle
fire or iOS apple device to utilize the
texting service that's wrong those
really cool couple that with the nettalk
regular like talk app mm-hmm which you
wish you can get as well when you get
the nettalk duo wouldn't have talked to
a Wi-Fi and suddenly you can make calls
through Wi-Fi for free right anywhere in
canada us you can SMS now that's cool
for free sweet what was that code again
love 2013 so l.o.v.e 2013 there you go
mm-hmm cool stuff and if you folks but
liking get the full stories at category
5 TV / newsroom the category 5 TV news
room is researched by roy w nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have any news stories
that you think is worthy of on-air
mention just email us at category sorry
email us at news room at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room on
crystals
thanks Krista make sure you check out
quarter eee electric if you're in
central ontario looking for an
electrical contractor give them a check
out at quarter eee electric com also
category 5 is brought to you in part
tonight by netflix once again go to cap
five dot TV / netflix for your free one
month trial we'd love to extend that to
you and I have a feeling you're gonna
like it haven't used it yet they're
getting more and more shows they are I'm
not available anywhere else people used
to say oh well I can't catch the latest
that I watch on cable but now their
shows that are coming out exclusively to
Netflix minutes it's starting they're
becoming this like television network
yeah which is pretty exceptional you
don't have to find their up day be a lot
more frequently now too and more current
stuff yes you don't have to wait for it
you don't have to watch any commercials
you don't have to you have to wait till
next week this is like if you start the
show you just like I know you could just
watch it all listen like Mr D was really
dating flopped the whole season on
netflix so you just watch it at your own
pace you don't have to wait for it once
a week or anything like that you don't
have to watch product abs and this and
that because it's the next kind of
generation where they realize that if I
hold up a product that there's value in
that as an advertiser so now we don't
have to take 15 minutes out of the show
to show you 30-second commercials yes
and that's where Netflix comes in and
says yeah we're gonna do it a little
differently how cool is that cool
category five is not on netflix when
that beanie that's a pretty big
distribution mechanism boy oh boy that
our next step boy am i jumping stone
what block netflix is on category five
next best thing there you have it
tonight we are going to look at how to
promote our businesses through social
media we're looking at facebook we're
looking at Twitter we're gonna cross
promote we're gonna get you set up so
that you can be promoting your business
online are you doing this i was just
going to say what a fitting topic are
you looking into this um you know I've
thought about it I'm pressure i have a
twitter account by pretty sure haven't
got as far as even like everybody follow
crazy a profile picture he's pretty sure
she's on
there I don't think I've ever written
anything on there so just look for the
orange egg the only one name it's the
only one that'll be on Twitter that has
no anything on it that's me ya know it's
something I have thought about but it's
also a matter of I never scheduled
identify scheduling right to doing it so
why is that because it's so complicated
that's not it is in not not complicated
in like a oh this is really difficult
but complicated in that it's something
else to add to okay here's my to-do list
today yeah guys what media up down I
have to set up a Twitter account in a
facebook account I've got to communicate
through Twitter and Facebook I've got to
make sure that I'm on google+ and
although no another one came out Google
Plus now yeah get on that how am I going
to do all this is really impossible to
keep up I can attest to this because we
try our best with the show and this is
not my full-time job so you know that's
that's how it is so business owners know
that it's important to have this I'm
sure you know that it's important to
have social media because what
especially that's where everyone is yeah
um we have you know I I have I do social
media training professionally and and
one of the things that you know tends to
come up is that sometimes customers
believe that Twitter and Facebook are an
advertising yeah sure if you want to buy
ads that's fine but having a Twitter
account and posting about your business
is not about advertising it's about
reaching out to your potential customer
base and your existing customer base
it's about communication it's about
becoming an interactive office and being
accessible to your clients because plain
and simple it's a different world now
people don't necessarily get in the car
drive across town go into your office
book an appointment they don't
necessarily pick up the phone yeah they
probably don't have a fax machine so
they're not going to fax you something
they're going to do it through
electronic means these days because
smartphones are the way to go most
people unfortunately in some cases don't
want to have to make a phone call they
want to have a lot of people are much
more comfortable email or otherwise yeah
there'll be a message on facebook here
i'll send you
a direct message on twitter so make sure
you follow me back that kind of stuff so
we're not going to get into the real
inner workings of Twitter and Facebook
and things like that tonight because its
vast I mean you know that it's fast and
it's it's there's a lot to it there's a
lot to learn but I want to get you
started on the right foot I want to help
you to get set up with your profiles get
started so that you can manage these
things in a practical way so the first
thing that we need to do obviously let's
start with twitter because krista sorely
needs this first thing we want to do is
we want to sign up so twitter.com is
where we want to go I'm going to switch
screens here so that you can actually
see my screen twitter com and down at
the bottom right is where it is we're
going to put in our name or email
address in our password let's make up a
name because we're just we're going to
create a fake profile just for the sake
of the demonstration Krista what'll it
be um a monkey this is my real potatoes
monkey potatoes reminds me of episode 2
I think of season 2 of a person of
interest when he said her real name is
root oh well at least that's what she
goes by so there's there's my name
monkey potatoes did I even spell there
no I think it's oh yes alright so I got
to write this down it's not gonna
remember that monkey why do you do this
i was thinking like jack daniels ooh oh
well that could be taken this will be
available ok ok so i mean that's my
that's my name now um ok my email
address is demo at category 5 TV and I'm
gonna make up a password there we go
sign up for twitter ok so my full name
Krista it looks great yes see some
people there might burn my email I
already heard my email come through
passwords ok username is available
monkeybutt beto's sweet i get my real
name as my twitter account now that's
not bound to happen if your name is
Robbie Ferguson it's already probably
taken right so it might make suggestions
see you down at the bottom here
and you might want to make it your
business because if your business name
is something really long it's going to
get cut off because twitter has a limit
so you might have to go with something
like you know if I'm crystal Wells
designs I would probably have to go with
CW designs something like that right
because krista wells designs would it's
way too ridiculously long leash a muppet
million people are going to try ok so
monkey potatoes alright that's us keep
me signed in taylor twitter whateva
create my account you can read over all
the stuff of course there we go we are
now on twitter how great is that next
it's going to give you a tutorial is
going to say hey these are some popular
people you can follow Ryan Seacrest if
you want now you know what we're going
to do we're going to go category five TV
and we're going to follow them because
that's our favor there we go it says we
need to follow for more we don't really
we can skip it just by removing all this
stuff from the address bar and deleting
it and hitting Enter or just going to
twitter com if we want though we can
follow Ravi Ferguson there we are we can
follow kid Eric let's put an at sign
before that to force it to be the right
guy where is he I thought there yes kid
Eric follow all right and Hillary rumble
there she is now it would be nice if we
had crystal wells because we need one
more Heather what what can we follow
tonight what's your what's yours
yeah okay let's do that bailey jay
thompson will do some promotion for you
there you go all right so go everybody
go follow bailey jay thompson she's the
author that was on the show just a
little while ago okay so it tells us
that we're good to go go next all right
what do we want to do okay this is
getting a little ridiculous to me I
don't want to follow up on five more
people well and they're all celebrities
and stuff you can if you want okay what
we're going to do is we're going to skip
over this i'm going to delete all this
excess stuff at the top just so that is
twitter com now we've skipped over it
we're in yes we can see all these you
know what's going on with with Bailey
and Ravi and all that stuff I can tweet
by clicking on compose a new tweet we're
limited to 140 characters so we're you
know our first tweet is always going to
be hello world that's important next
tweet this is a great week about my
business in faerie see the hash not just
a link for my city ferry so how cool is
that and I'm going to tweet it there we
go notice I'm I'm a green egg we're
going to change all that by going up to
our settings and go edit profile you're
going to want to upload your own photo
try to make sure that it's a square and
don't be afraid sometimes what happens
is businesses will upload their logo but
it's more wide than it is tall sits like
drop it off yeah if that happens to you
use a program like GNU image
manipulation program or adobe photoshop
or call your graphic designer or talk to
somebody who has graphic design
capabilities and just have them create a
proportional image that has your logo
centered in it but is a perfect square
and then that's going to look a lot
better for you so we're not going to do
a profile setup tonight we're just going
to show you where to find it and that is
where you'll find that you can go over
to the left here and go design and then
you can actually choose some of the
preset looks that would suit your
company or of course you can customize
it yourself using HTML color codes or by
dragging the colors of
on this this palette here okay so and
then you save your changes and you're
good to go so now we've got a Twitter
account and we can now be found on
twitter at twitter.com sorry / monkey
potatoes okay so twitter.com / monkey
potatoes or at monkey potatoes becomes
us and there we are and you'll see that
my tweets are now there if i click on
very it's a hashtag so it's going to
actually take me there so somebody says
so well how do you know what hashtag is
is the one that you want to use I do you
know let's name an industry if it's
graphic design right so we'll in graphic
design if I'm tweeting how do I know
what hashtags to use and why would I do
that basically people are going to
follow different hashtags they're going
to be monitoring for things that are of
interest to them they're going to follow
people who post in those hashtags that
are of interest to them as well so you
find hashtags that have to do with your
business have to do with what you're
tweeting and then they become links that
other people can follow but also people
will subscribe to those but you want
them to be the proper hashtags you hear
about hashtags all the time one of the
ways that we can do that is we can just
go twitter.com slash search and that's
going to give us Twitter search engine
and from here you can just test it if I
go pound which it turns it into a
hashtag and very and hit enter I'll see
that okay these are the top tweets first
thing I want to do is I want to click on
all so that I can see all of the tweets
in kind of chronological order and I'll
see that the most recent one is from
monkey potatoes how awesome is that and
that was two minutes ago before that the
last one was 51 minutes ago and before
that two hours ago so I know at this
very moment it's about once an hour that
people are tweeting using the berry
patch tag so I know that this is indeed
an active hashtag if I see that nobody's
posted in that hashtag for three months
I realized that you know what this is
kind of a lousy hashtag nobody's
watching at nobody cares don't waste
your 140 characters on a hashtag that
doesn't matter so you look for hashtags
that matter within your industry we go
twitter.com slash search
and we say we're going to be talking
today about social media so let's see
what let's see what hashtag will try
social media as a hashtag we can't have
spaces in a hashtag we see that 22 hours
ago okay we haven't clicked on all see
what happened there 22 hours comes
before 35 minutes because we're looking
at the top basically the best of or the
most popular so I click on all and that
makes it chronological I can see the 22
seconds ago 24 seconds ago 57 seconds
ago so this one's so active social media
that we're getting a tweet every couple
of seconds several times per minute yeah
yours is probably going to go by the you
know it's just going to be one of a
million tweets but it's possible
somebody could be watching that feat at
that very moment and be able to pick up
on what it is that you set so that's the
basics of hash tagging next step we want
to get set up with facebook make sure
you do get around you know get on to
Twitter profile and actually set it up
make it look good and things like that
next up being Facebook we want to sign
up for this so we're going to sign up as
who we really are monkey potatoes Oh
Krista my email address demo at
category-five TV of course we're going
to retype that really quickly I'm new
password birth date April 12 1971 now
remember folks that is not my birthdate
it's monkey potatoes all right so this
tells me oh we require everyone to use
their real name on facebook what if that
is your real name what if it is how do
they know that we'll just call him John
Doe so embarrassing for that poor
unfortunate child that was actually
named monkey potatoes I know and they
don't let you have your own page were
you thinking when you named the child
that we require everyone to use condo
must be too common Smith seriously how
can you know that that's not my real
name oh just fire okay we're in we are
in so i am now John Smith monkey
potatoes alright so you can find your
friends you can get adding people and go
through it's going to force us to get
started kind of thing let's see are your
friends already on facebook can't we
skip any of this that skip this step
there we go okay skip save and continue
we're not going to fill in any profile
information because remember right now
we're doing this for our business we're
not trying to create a personal profile
for ourselves okay sometimes what
happens is we get a somebody tries to
like us on facebook when really they
should be liking our business right
right don't like me what category 5 TV
oh you can become a fan of my fan page
but you don't become a friend of Robbie
Ferguson because I don't even know you
in person kind of thing yeah don't fool
yourself no one really likes you anyway
I know that nobody's my friend told his
family and I was there's a
differentiation and there should be a
differentiation on facebook between
here's my personal profile and I'm
logged in as John Smith and this is me
personally this is only my very close
friends should have access to this I
don't become friends with people that I
don't personally know but then what we
do is we create a business page so
we've clicked on at the left hand side
like pages and then up at the top it
says create page this is where we want
to go so tell it what we are we're a
local business or place choose a
category we are attractions things to do
business or place named monkey potatoes
street address 555 live ville Avenue
whatever very Ontario l4m 3g for phone
number 7 05 seven seven seven seven
seven seven seven sorry if that's your
number you are going to get spammed okay
I agree to the facebook page terms get
started it probably says somewhere in
there that you're not allowed to call
yourself monkey potatoes we're going to
get in okay so we have created a page
what do you want to do again first thing
it wants you to do is upload your logo
and things like that follow through with
that it helps to look like your company
and then that way you know it is who you
are follow the steps provide some basic
information about monkey potatoes
provide a link to your website and then
hit save info I'm going to skip because
we don't need to do that but you can do
that we're going to skip enabling ads
for this moment now I have a facebook
profile and I have a page setup okay so
I'm now John Smith but I have a page
called monkey potatoes you'll notice
that now as I post it says you are
posting commenting and liking as monkey
potatoes so I am NOT John Smith now I am
monkey potatoes on my business and I can
change to John Smith and then it becomes
personal but right now I am my business
I'm representing and anything that I
post on here is going to be about my
business so post on my timeline and it's
prompting me it says that i need to
authorize my email so we'll do that
really really quickly we're going to
authorize our email you'll need to do
the same
demo a category five dot TV I should
have a couple of emails sitting in my
inbox there we go welcome to facebook
get started okay one more step to get
started on facebook complete my sign up
there we go so it is pretty
straightforward pretty easy to get there
i'm trying to rush through because i
want to show you as much as i possibly
can okay so now i should be able to post
if i refresh here there we go so write
something hello world there we go okay
so now we have a facebook business
profile this is now just strictly my
business this is where i post everything
to do with that business mm-hmm it's not
personal now there's my twitter account
my twitter account is separate from my
personal account one of my customers was
saying I you know I follow somebody that
I love their business and I'd love to
get updates from their business because
it's possible I might have an
appointment and the weather's bad and so
they canceled so I have to follow grace
I don't want to miss those tweets it's
important but it's really annoying
because they go out for lunch with their
friend and they tweet pictures of the
food that they're eating and they tweet
this and they tweet that and they're
talking about all the party that they
did on the weekend and so posting I
can't unfollow them on Twitter because
then I wouldn't get the updates when the
office is closed because of the weather
so I have to ensure that my phone is
going Bing Bing Bing Bing so as a
business owner remember that post
business related to have your business
account for business have your personal
account for personal keep them separate
but have fun with your business one to
remember you're interacting with your
customers right so it is personal it's
not an advertisement you're not posting
ads and links all the time sometimes
it's appropriate but not always
sometimes it's just about you know what
I was in a store today and I saw this
and it reminded me of something that has
to do with my business in my clientele
it might have nothing to do with your
business it might be all about the type
of person that is your customer right
right so now we say okay we've got
Twitter we've got facebook I've got to
constantly be back and forth between the
two and they have to post twice
everything and this is where things fall
through the cracks a lot of times
because you try so hard to update and
you end up facebook is a little bit
easier to understand and I can post
longer messages so I end up posting
everything to Facebook and nothing to
Twitter and then your Twitter dies so
then it becomes a problem so we have to
find a way to make this easier for you
the business owner to make it happen
really and truly go to hoot suite calm h
00 t su ite calm now we're signing up
for a lot of stuff tonight what we're
doing it we're condensing everything
into one night so we've got a facebook
account we've got a Twitter account now
we're going to amalgamate those together
using HootSuite we're going to create
something that is going to put
everything in one place sign up today
first field is my email second field I'm
going to go with John Smith because it's
more realistic password remember these
passwords should be different for each
service and you know just follow the the
standard password structure that I've
recommended you want it to be safe you
don't want people to be able to hack
into your stuff okay sign up here we go
should take no time at all we are now a
free member of HootSuite just as easy
okay so now what do we do we want to add
our Twitter profile and we want to add
our facebook profile remember we're
already logged into both of those so
it's really easy we can authorize it
with just a couple of mouse clicks I'm
going to add my twitter profile and
connect to Twitter it's asking me for my
monkey potatoes password remember
phishing scams monitor the URL this is
coming from API twitter com so we know
that it is legitimately Twitter it's a
secure connection see how it's got a
lock and it has HTTPS that means HTTP
HTTP protocol over a secure connection
ssl so now password for that
do you want to remember me sure
authorize the app and now HootSuite is
allowed to use my Twitter account so now
you see oh hey pires rock of ours
already posting to us follow pires wreck
so there we go there's my tweets and
things like that okay this is my great
tweet about business and Barry okay so
that's Witter now twitter is no longer
that twitter page is now part of
HootSuite ok now we're going to add our
facebook add another social network and
you'll see where I'm getting that is up
at the top here we've got our accounts
Twitter getting started on the getting
started tab we have add another social
network on the left hand side look at
what they got facebook google+ linkedin
foursquare wordpress myspace mixie and
you can add apps as well if you want to
go even further we're going to connect
to our facebook because we're just
getting basic today connect to facebook
there it is again https colon slash
slash WWF ace book com it's not fizzy
book or anything like that ok so do we
want to do it yeah let's login with
Facebook it warns you about what this is
going to allow this is a trustworthy
application and we trust that they keep
your stuff safe but it is what it is ok
this is what it's going to do we're
going to allow so next remembering that
we are not posting as us we're not John
Smith now where our business so uncheck
John Smith are you sure you want to
remove this profile yep so now John
Smith is not checked but there look at
that there's our business monkey
potatoes that one we want to add ok so
now finished importing ok there we go so
now monkey potatoes is a part of our
HootSuite John Smith was added but it
will not work because we unchecked it so
just X that close it best thing to do
all right so now we've got Twitter there
it is monkey potatoes on facebook there
it is so we've got them all in one place
but we still have to post twice right
watch this
posting from hootsuite okay couple cool
things here add links using this and
you'll be able to use analytics to track
anyone who clicks on them over here
you'll be able to schedule your tweets
you can use auto schedule which will
automatically put your your tweet and
your facebook message at the approximate
time that most people will see it so it
uses you know how many people are online
at the time and then it makes the
assumption that now is the best time to
send it so that you're not sending out a
tweet when everyone else is sleeping so
now you can also schedule this you can
say okay I don't want this one to go out
until the 14th and I want it to go out
at 105 p.m. do you want to email
yourself when you when it goes out etc
etc you can schedule that and it will go
out so I'm not going to do that I'm
actually going to send it what I want to
do notice this this is the next step
always over here on the right there are
your two accounts monkey potatoes on
Twitter monkey potatoes on facebook
single click single click it's going to
go out to both of those services all at
once so now I hit Send now and if I go
to facebook and go to my business let's
see where we are there it is monkey
potatoes down at the left there scroll
down a little ways and you'll see that
already on facebook it says posting to
HootSuite and now if i go to my twitter
profile monkey potatoes you'll see it
also says posting with from hootsuite so
we've effectively now posted to both of
those services it's been absolutely
simple we don't have to jump around
between different services we just check
off which ones we want to post to we can
schedule and all that kind of stuff
twitter is still limited to only 140
characters so keep it small when you're
cross posting like that you might want
to post something to twitter using
HootSuite and then create a longer
version an extended version for a
facebook or keep that small one post it
to both and then on your on your
facebook one use comments in order to
expand what you were saying and
and comment on it yourself so that
should get you started cool helpful I
think I might even you know take this
way follow her on twitter keep us posted
it's pressure yeah so there you have it
that is just a real quick yep get to
know how to do this and you know if you
have any questions email us live at
category five dot TV because that's what
this is all about getting you some
support Krista we have an exciting
announcement to make tonight yes we've
got a prize for you and I know we've
been talking about it a little bit over
the past little while and we've made
mention of it but the nettalk duo Wi-Fi
model this is the one that you can put
in wherever so I've got access to the
Wi-Fi you can take it to the you know
hotel in Europe and make local calls to
vary you can call anywhere in Canada or
us it's absolutely free it uses your
internet connection so you got to have a
fairly decent high speed internet
connection and then you are good to go
so we've got a year service to give you
it's got full unlimited long distance if
you activate it before the end of
februari you're going to of course get
the free SMS as well if you use that
love 2013 code so we've got one of these
to give away go to cat five dot TV /
phone to cast your ballot and we're
going to be drawing that on februari
26th so make sure you are watching that
show very important you have 30 days
from the time that we do the draw in
order to send us your information so
make sure tonight you get on there and
if you're watching this after the fact
through one of our syndicate partners
make sure you go to cat five dot TV /
phone okay come on nettalk duo plus the
Wi-Fi / me the Wi-Fi model there you go
come on it's all the time that we have I
can't believe it I can't let me talk
about that I know I like need a drink oh
boy take a breath and I'm dancing the
dancing so much dancing yep the things
we do yeah for you it's all for you
she's a trooper in she I had a mask on
so nobody will recognize me but never in
a little do they know we're posting the
behind-the-scenes cat5 da lifestyle this
book so the making of how cool was that
took about five months yes no video yeah
but it was it was thanks for being here
tonight oh it's good to see you and I'll
like once a month yeah just once a month
you know it's good great to see you
thanks everybody joining us in the chat
room love your feedback and comments if
you want to check out what was said in
the chat chat room you can check out the
chat logs on the episode page 4 episode
number 282 our website again category
five TV and we'll see you next week have
a great week see everybody
hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
