here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
YouTube is launching a music streaming
service offering both videos and audio
tracks in an attempt to compete with
Spotify and Apple music London England
has a solution to the cashless society
problem facing street performers and it
involves an investment in contactless
payment systems to Canadian banks say
accounts have been compromised
CIBC says Ford 40,000 and BMO says
50,000 customers the customer accounts
are affected ride-hailing firm uber will
give its European drivers access to
medical coverage and compensation for
work-related injuries these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston jump on
you're building a brand new beautiful
website what are you you're terrible
actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act ok building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV / dream host to sign
up for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat 5 dot TV / dream host this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux box i'm sasha Rickman and here the
top stories were following this week
tracks in an attempt to compete with the
likes of Spotify and Apple music YouTube
music will combine millions of official
tracks with the vast catalogues and
rarity rarities of remixes uploaded by
YouTube's users like Spotify it will
offer a free ad funded app alongside
premium subscriptions costing $9.99 per
month
launched yesterday in five countries
including the US and Mexico the Google
owned company said YouTube music would
come to Europe soon YouTube music
product manager elias roman said the
days of jumping back and forth between
multiple music apps and youtube are over
whether or not you want to listen listen
watch or discover it's all here in a
blog post he added that the service
would offer a mix of official songs
albums thousands of playlists and artist
radio plus youtube's tremendous catalog
of remixes live performances covers and
music videos that you can't find
anywhere else he promised that the new
app would offer personalized playlists
based on users streaming history much
like Spotify discover weekly it is
understood that YouTube music will
eventually replace Google Play Music
which is the company's current streaming
offering existing Google Play Music
customers will get a YouTube music music
package thrown into their subscription
for free well Roman reassured users that
their playlist purchases uploads and
uploads would remain intact once Google
Play was phased out hmm
so Google Play is being phased out we
are on Google Play
[Music]
understand okay this is good news for us
in fact oh sure huge because now we're
not going to be on Google play music
because it'll be shut down we'll be on
[Laughter]
YouTube music do this yes
how many people here by show of hands
use YouTube for music YouTube for music
that's um yes ish already SHhhh
okay I have recently discovered in
YouTube live because they have live
video streaming yep yep that there are
radio stations from around the world who
have a picture and they're streaming
their radio station on YouTube live yeah
for them it's free streaming for me I
can listen to radio from all around the
world is awesome I love it I'm a long
time shoutcast user like from way back
in the null soft days but I've recently
been kind of finding myself more and
more on YouTube live and that's become
my source for not only music listening
but music discovery well it's so
draining so many great artists that I
didn't know India yeah exactly yeah like
the independent scene is huge on YouTube
it really is oh and like I'm a big like
vocal dubstep chillstep fan and yeah
like chillstep there are so many indie
artists that are just phenomenal right
this is where it works for me what we
end up doing at home is because we have
our computer setup to our TV we open
Spotify and run the music but then have
to open YouTube so that we don't burn
images into the TV so we're playing
videos of anything oh okay right because
your TV has to be on right because it's
HDMI output yeah so yeah so now if i
have google music if they have the
actual stream with video right if they
have music and video then I won't have
to open two things I could actually
change my subscription from oh but if I
write to Google or not Google for it to
youtube music yeah but it's not
natural for me to play devil's advocate
though it's just like for free I can go
on YouTube and just look up at like
music videos and like yeah everything
else so like my only concern is is that
well it's awesome to have like that
content that you pay for but are things
gonna be like hidden behind a paywall
now on YouTube right I don't know but
they are such an advertisement based
platform so yeah there will be the
paywall sure but when I discover new
indie artists yeah and then I
immediately go on YouTube and I look for
their music videos I'm clicking on those
videos and what am i doing exactly
feeding that artists because they've got
ads on that exactly because like right
now at this time right now
YouTube bread is the example exact same
thing but it's video only right so it's
like for X amount of dollars month you
don't have to like watch ads right video
we're huge on YouTube red because we
burn the advertisements directly into
the video make sure you shop through our
website category 5 TV there you go so
yeah they love us there because like
it's awesome it's great content
YouTube's
huge like and to say that yeah anyone
can become famous for free in that sense
like we can all make YouTube account and
everything else that's like is that like
I don't want like all these new artists
to be like because YouTube's add a
really interesting stage right now right
cuz like there's like the entire ad
pocalypse that happened a few months ago
yeah there's the Adsense everything else
has been reshuffled especially like the
entire monetization policy has been
rewritten yeah yeah so like I'm really
hopeful that YouTube and Google overall
looks after their content creators for
this one because I want to see like all
these new like artists come into
fruition like I want this to work and
please like if they do do it eventually
give it Canada because we still don't
have yeah absolutely
our show like we need that funding in
order to be able to do show so when you
talk about when Henry's talking about
monetization shuffling and things like
that
it affects people like us who are
broadcasting to you for free because our
monetization has dropped because Google
has said oh well that channel doesn't
have enough subscribers that one doesn't
have enough subscribers that one we just
don't like so we're a drop in
monetization on that and boom there goes
the bottom line so we'll have to see and
we'll have to see what happens I mean if
it is it's gonna be great because we
already use YouTube anyways from yes
exactly right so to be able to have all
these hopeful features that you pay for
hopefully like it's gonna be awesome and
I love that it's not top 40 anymore
yeah we're in a world where the top 40
doesn't matter because we can watch
great music we can learn about new music
and we're not stuck just with what the
top 40 tells us we need to listen to
this age okay Internet London England
problem facing street performers it
payment systems
here's a casualty of the cashless
society you might not have previously
thought of the humble street performer
after all more of us are paying our way
through our way through smart phones and
contactless cards how can we spare
change to musicians on the subway London
England has a solution a new scheme that
outfits performers with contactless
payments payment terminals the project
was launched this past weekend by the
city's mayor Sadat Khan and a
collaboration with busk in London a
professional body for buskers and the
Swedish payment firm eyes Ã«til which was
bought this month by paypal for 2.2
billion dollars a select few performers
have been testing settles contactless
readers on the streets for the past few
weeks and con now says the scheme will
be rolled out across London's 32
boroughs Charlotte Campbell a full-time
street performer who was part of the
trial said that the new tech had a
significant impact on contributions she
said that more people than ever tapped
to donate while
while she sings and often when one
person does another follows the readers
need to be connected to a smartphone or
tablet and accept payments of fixed
amounts set by the individual performer
they work with contactless cards phones
and even smartwatches there's no details
yet on how many readers will be provided
to London street performers or whether
they will have to pay for the readers
themselves nice that's really cool so if
I'm a busker and I'm sitting there with
my acoustic guitar and I get to set that
a contactless payment I'm setting it to
million dollars I think this is great
honestly like I think that I have seen
commercials and who was it was like a
commercial for another like I interact
or something and it was a busker and he
had one of those little square phone
things and I don't know I I just
remember thinking to myself I don't have
cable TV don't see commercials I haven't
seen ten years Sasha
there are times you want to help people
and you can't because you have cash I
was walking through the mall to get my
new smartphone this this pass right and
some little girls were selling Girl
Guide cookies right case in point and
it's just like and I kind of wanted to
walk around them because I was a little
bit heartbroken do you take Visa
exactly okay so that's exactly the point
yeah I mean right now at Cash it's they
ask do you want to donate a dollar to
this or a dollar to that I'm a yes
person I always do sure you're standing
there with your debit or you're standing
there at point to purchase right so but
if if it's children at the door I I have
to give them the cold shoulder standing
at the door collecting and or like a
little kid
like a lemonade stand nobody's driving
by with money in their car anymore like
now they could get out and pay for their
little lemonade with it actually the
funny part about that is that when I was
in Air Cadets we have to do something
called tagging so it's like you go to
like your shoppers Drug Mart or whatever
your stand outside and collect money the
biggest thing like five ten years ago
whenever I was in cadets half the time
people are like sorry I don't have
change
I have friends still with a squadron and
they're like oh yeah we have like Visa
machines and stuff now I'm like why you
guys have like they know that like the
collections for the Salvation Army this
time they have like if they had that
yeah I would I always feel terrible like
cuz I do not carry cash anymore right
plain and simple so and you're not
expecting so I want to be collecting at
the door and so I feel very unprepared
so this what I would tap this works for
buskers and people accepting donations
this doesn't as much work for
panhandlers though yeah what would they
do
what would a homeless homeless person
doesn't have access or a bank account
yeah so if we're taking the cash like if
we're actually going cashless we're
taking the cash out of society are we
now really even further marginalizing an
entire people like absolutely that's a
scary thought and it's absolutely true
like how would I they in our city we
don't really see a lot of beggars if you
will yeah can we just go like full Star
Trek and just rid of money and that
would be fantastic
I mean hey that'd be great I wonder like
you see people on the on and off ramps
of the highway right and I mean some of
them you you want some of them you want
to drive past you want to give money to
and you didn't and before you're in your
car you have changed because you just
bought a coffee at the local Timmy's but
now Timmy's takes debit exactly and it's
tap on the way through and you keep
driving they have an app now you can you
can pre-order
a ton of ways this could help like when
I went to Newfoundland and we went
through one of the trails it was like
the puffin trail and there's a little
cash donation box because volunteers
maintain the trail right but what if
they had actually inside that box um
some device that was connected right
where you could just tap right to make
your donation because I'm sure that that
box is more empty than full because who
on a hike brings cash just put in your
Visa card with like a little note please
return to after charging like a dollar
someone needs to create like just to
wrap up this story but someone needs to
create a charity of some sort or a
ministry of some sort that has a device
that uses LTE internet and is connected
to the Internet and has a tap that they
can lend out to homeless people for
example right you know are people that
are looking for work or in between jobs
and if they're going to beg for for
handouts
for lack of a better term here's a
device that you can borrow and at the
end of the day because it's connected to
our network through LTE we will pay you
what was hopefully in cash because we
had a charity or a ministry and involved
as a middle person that could then
translate this tap system into okay
bring us back the device and we will
give you the cash that you've collected
they will always get the device back
because that's the only way they'll get
their money right right otherwise it's a
useless device it's true you get on it
folks we're going but it is kind of
scary beyond that anyway to Canadian
banks say accounts have been compromised
CIBC says 40,000 and BMO says up to
50,000 customers accounts have been
affected to Canadian banks warned Monday
that they have been targeted by hackers
and that the personal information of
tens of thousands of customers may have
been stolen something that appears to
have been confirmed in a letter to the
media from someone who said who said
that they were demanding a 1 million
dollar ransom from
the banks CIBC owned simply financial
was the first to warn on Monday morning
that hackers had accessed the personal
personal and account information of more
than forty thousand of the bank's
customers the bank said it received a
tip over the weekend that hackers had
obtained the data and that after a
preliminary investigation decided to go
public on Monday the bank's senior vice
president Michael Martin said in a
statement
we're taking this claim seriously and
have taken action to further enhance our
monitoring and security procedures then
later Monday morning Bank of Montreal
spokesperson Paul gamble revealed that
it too had received a tip that
fraudsters fraudsters had stolen data on
up to fifty thousand of the bank's
customers and that the party responsible
has threatened to make the data public
someone claiming to have stolen the data
sent a letter to the media outlets
across Canada
later that day threatening to sell the
information to criminals if the banks do
not pay a one million dollar ransom the
email ended with a sample of the
information in question the names dates
of birth and social insurance numbers as
well as account balances of an Ontario
man and woman living in BC banks are
caught in a tough spot on this issue
because they're being pulled between
competing forces they want to make it
easier to use technology to bank with
them but don't want to open themselves
up to more fraud that's a scary thing
for sure Canadian so somebody in America
should just pay because it's only 40
bucks from the Canadian okay so here's
the thing yep banks forever have been
known to have liked bank hours which are
not convenient to pay to people in
general because they're only open from
certain amounts of time yeah so I don't
understand the mentality now of banks
trying to like pander to the public and
make things easier and simpler because
it's actually to open your doors yo
right it's working against everyone to
have such an easy way into account side
a little bit of reading on this and I
found out how the hackers got in and it
was astoundingly simple oh it was the
security questions
no you gotta forget password and then
when you go to forget password it comes
up with a list of security questions but
the security questions are generally
like pretty easy to get yeah you can't
make your own what's your favorite
colors like green blue red just like
that bingo bango right right well it
should be if you forgot your password
which at the same time like if the banks
are found at fault it's like they'd
still cover you money well they're
liable absence ooh murmur say the CD I
see yes I think so but you have to keep
meticulous look at your account all of
your information it's not even the money
the money's like your social insurance
exactly everything else it's like buying
hosting from DreamHost
like they have a time guarantee yeah if
they're down yep they'll give you a
month free or something you have to be
sitting at your computer refreshing over
and over during that out is to catch it
and then report it to them and other
companies I use that example Rodgers is
the same and I wonder if like the banks
could do something a little bit less
comfortable for people like if you
forgot your password come in and prove
yourself in person Facebook well you
lost your password we're shutting down
your account delicious you call that a
picture of your face we're shutting you
down it makes me uncomfortable to think
that banks are trying to win us and
because of that they're sacrificing our
security well their business right they
want things faster cheaper easier if you
don't have to walk into the branch to do
a transaction or something then they
don't have to pay like X amount of
tellers right so they're saving money
meanwhile like they're not saving money
if we get all hacked and Oliver
shirts and then it's just like it's a
never-ending I just don't even want to
go here because I'm thinking about the
banks now and you don't want to get me
thinking I'm a customer service fanatic
oh so when it comes to the banks I'm
like customer
I am your customer but they see ok yes
the thing is that you have to remember
is that the villains of this world are
incredibly intelligent
so having security questions like what
is your favorite color or what was the
name of your first dog I bet you guys
why we match the keypad with our palms
as soon as she said like super villain
like intelligent I just thought of like
dr. evil from Austin Powers smart we
just need to be a little bit smarter all
right ok never any work on that section
ride-hailing firm uber will give its
European drivers access to medical
coverage and compensation for
work-related injuries the new
protections include sick pay parental
leave and bereavement payments uber said
it had previously focused too much on
growth and not enough on the people who
make that growth possible we called two
drivers partners but didn't always act
like it said ubers chief executive
darkest force key compensation package
will be available to all uber drivers
and uber eats delivery couriers across
Europe
Uber's announcement comes before an
appeal hearing at Westminster
Magistrates Court on June 25th where a
judge will decide whether Transport for
London should renew overs operating
licence in London after they'd withdrawn
ubers operating licence in September on
the grounds of Public Safety and
security implications uber has been
allowed to continue operating in the
city while it appealed against the
decision
uber said it will provide drivers with a
range of insurance coverage and
compensation resulting from accidents or
injuries that occur while they're
working as well as protection from major
life events that happen whether
driver is on shift or not in the US on
the other hand uber drivers continue to
fight in court for the right to be
classed as workers so interesting I'm
glad to hear that they're making
progress in it I feel like ubers like
really growing up and they're really
like yeah kind of I mean I suppose
they're they're Manning up probably in
reaction to their is that yeah they've
been closed down but the the way they
came back at it and now they're offering
compensation makes makes me respect them
so much more in that I am fairly certain
that the taxi drivers in the City of
Barrie don't get the compensations that
are now awarded to Ober you know yeah so
they may want to actually become Hoover
drivers well if it comes to North
America right yeah where if the benefits
come to North America we have uber yeah
I just I just love this entire shift
because like we're seeing like this
entire like internet economy really
really maturing in this sense right
because ubers not the only one there's
like a lot of other companies that are
online based dot say that are like
Airbnb drone base and things like these
other things that are now are providing
providing insurance so like if you're
Airbnb you write drone pilot flies are
drone a stall these other things they're
wising they're yeah they're saying okay
we got you covered like they're learning
hopefully learning for mistakes that's
it is it a marketing thing or is it
actually that the company is improving
and let's hope they're I think it's it
back I'm gonna go with the positive on
this they are growing up
big thanks to Ray W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
story sauce this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Richmond
thanks Sasha I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm
still Henry Bailey Brown it's been great
having you here folks have a wonderful
week we will see you again next week
