Lieutenant Commander Robby Ferguson's
Log supplemental it started 6428 4.3
it's been boring and even a little
lonely at times here on the bridge of
the enterprise we've been orbiting a
class-m world over the past couple of
days it was previously uncharted by the
Federation but what we found interesting
about the planet as we were passing
through the system was that the species
that we detected on the planet are very
much like humans as a matter of fact
pressure dr. crusher i should say took a
look a little bit closer at these
humanoid beings and found that their DNA
is almost a 100 percent match with our
own of course Captain Picard took this
is an opportunity to give the crew some
well-needed rnr and many of the crew are
actually taking shore leave at this very
moment which is why I'm alone on the
bridge but the locals just see our
people as of course being from another
continent or another area of the planet
so we don't have to worry about the
prime directive or anything like that so
this has been quite an opportunity for
us to basically look into our own past
being that these people being very much
like humans are at about the
technological level of a primitive earth
i'd say about 21st century earth level
of technology there's no warp drive but
they're experimenting with rudimentary
spacecraft and things like that what I
do find interesting about the planet is
their communication their level of
communication within the planet itself
the interesting thing is that there is a
vast network of silicon based computer
systems which are interconnected with
fiber optics and at some points along
the way also copper connections but this
particular network is being utilized by
end users who are broadcasting on a
global scale
which I do find quite interesting
there's a particular broadcast that I've
been monitoring over the past couple of
days calls called category 5 and
according to el cars here it's been
broadcasting for about four years
interestingly enough though I'm
monitoring the signal coming from this
broadcast on one of the main continents
and it's being interconnected through
this silicon based computer network with
all continents of the planet so viewers
are actually tuning in to this video
broadcast from all around this planet
very interesting so I'd like to check it
out further and I don't see a problem
with me leaving the enterprise for about
50 minutes of course there hasn't been
any Borg activity in the sector and we
haven't had any issues whatsoever with
the planet itself they are primitive and
we don't have any concerns with regards
to their technology so I will beam down
to the planet and check it out a little
bit further I want to check out this
show called category 5 so computer one
to beam down to these coordinates
category 5 TV in Barrie Ontario internet
broadcasting the current frontier
are the voyages of the show category 5
it's continuing mission to seek out new
viewers from all around the world to
explore strange new technologies and to
boldly go where no show has gone before
hey where's the rest of my team 00 buck
in the category five dot TV yeah I don't
know where Robbie is tonight um here we
are well welcome to tonight and it's
time for category by hey Turk nope hey
how are you what's going on here just
thought I'd beam down and see how things
are going here at category for hockey
yeah hmm how's everybody doing this is
episode number 162 of category 5
technology TV nice to have you here
we've got lots of exciting stuff going
on for this our halloween special
alright this is captain Robbie Ferguson
Lieutenant Commander oh I'm sorry
observe the pips observe the pips I I
apologize mmm-hmm so lots and lots of
stuff going on tonight we're gonna be
looking at Joe kosher is it really what
it's cracked up to be it is a multi
tracking studio software for linux so
we're gonna be checking that out in a
little while also the disposable
mentality of our world of our just that
mentality of everything is disposable
we're gonna be talking a little bit
about that tonight and of course
answering your questions here at
category five dot TV make sure you join
us in the chat room and eric i'm not
typing very well tonight just match the
key pod with the keypad with your phone
Thank well yet however weird that I I
don't know i think i got the votes going
though it's got the berry good woods
yeah the bear Gulch case I represent he
represents yeah very good primitive
life-form highly they all have blow
through hey now well he's got it
backwards over over here we're gonna
have fun tonight gonna have lots of fun
tonight all right especially you
especially you ooh we've got the central
air cranked up just for this guy yeah
it's not working that's kind of warm so
how do you do what do you do okay oh oh
that's gonna say this is just waiting
for that okay well
rear me could be a good show welcome to
everybody who's joining us in the chat
room at triple w category five dot t be
nice to have you here fantastic hey you
can get a uniform just like this genuine
license Star Trek at cat five dot TV /
costumes Myrtle what I'm quite actually
impressed and amazed a lot of people
have more like more people than I had
ever expected have gone and bought a
Starfleet uniform through our website
cat5 TV / costumes that's a great thing
some of the proceeds from your costume
purchase actually go towards supporting
the show you get me on the payroll I
will be right in there by 10 dear me the
payroll that's the kids karat kid such a
kidder I John before the show was
mentioning an interesting fact about
your costume and that's that you're not
going to be able to fit much well
there's no narrow gods even if you had
nano doubt if you wouldn't be able to
fumble with them but i have my
superantispyware and i could probably
write down something yeah and maybe use
that tiger studies and not drinking my
coffee very well I may have to and yes I
do have my teeth but see I somebody in
the chat room was saying I can't be much
of a hockey player I have teeth but
Wengert idea yeah yeah um but no I'm not
much about you clear shot just reminding
you that that your payroll is actually
two lumps of sugar in the coffee oh no
wait yeah how sweet it is cheers Jack
nice to see everybody yeah so you must
uh I guess you haven't been able to
click around too much I have not clicked
around it are you looking for questions
I Dexter you know how a couple of weeks
ago when you get your night not you know
I'm not supposed to talk with this thing
in my mind Haley debris think the most
card bill might help you couple of I'm
not I'm not gonna get too rough a couple
of weeks ago oh that's much better
that's much better much better gonna
have to adjust your mic now yes couple
of weeks ago Robbie you were well I was
commenting on when you took that out of
the pie
is just how i could smell the geek
losing from you mmm well sadly this has
been my hush babe that's not G cage it's
not geek you're smelling oh hey okay
well you know I figure that we did a
really good job on the floor check the
bag check and we gotta oh I have no idea
what he just said but let's talk about
flux capacitors and whatever else we mom
yeah ancient earth language right there
John says what is this primitive oh oh
oh you drink from that no that one was
in the garage I see that's what that ok
so you got some questions for me I have
a question you must have oh you do i do
bro have you have you had a chance to
review it i have not i couldn't clear
can go over let's bring up while you're
looking at that i'm going to bring up
some viewer testimonials on our website
category five dot TV just to give this
guy a chance now that he's got hands now
here in that click around Clifford gives
us five out of five sons and says hi
Robbie I've lost your snail mail address
if you could send it to me i will send
off a special gift to you i'm ok with
that we lack prezzies ok so you'll get
our mailing address right off of our
website if you click on that I think
it's just contact about us and contact
us you'll see our postal box there and
that should do just fine for you
Clifford says I've been keeping up with
the program on a weekly basis and i have
i have all the shows from day one
fantastic 162 weeks of episodes what a
vast improvement over time your new
sidekick assistant fits right in thanks
for that says you're a great addition
and i have to agree here is a note that
you might want to read before the show
something from techrepublic com com I
think that link isn't going to work
because it's got the two comms I'm
guessing so but definitely that's in the
let's give it a try let's see what
Clifford's trying to send us here
it is actually Oh it rii it fixed itself
that's cool it is actually calm calm you
see that uh see it's a little higher
life-form working on the techrepublic
interesting hmm i don't know if that's
just my dns saying hey this actually
works setting up file-sharing on the
next I'm not I'm not really sure what
you're sending me here it looks like a
list of a whole bunch of stuff well when
you try it without one of those columns
and see if do you think that am i doing
it might be different we can certainly
give it out sure we are not sure but we
are willing to try and that's that we
could ask my ex I've been wrong before
she'll tell mobile family but even
people she doesn't know so that's a list
it looks like a another wrong better tom
techrepublic oh it did too interesting
I'll have a look at that after the show
and see what it's all about Clifford
goes on to say I have a standing email
subscription to the Tekra to
techrepublic although a lot of it is
above my head I still like to get a feel
for what is going on in the industry
also there is a lot of free software
presented as well and not just for
windows fantastic he says keep up the
great work I really look forward to each
new show thanks again for a great public
service from cliff thanks so much for
the for the viewer testimonial there and
thanks i think i get i think that that's
like a like access to the techrepublic
com com yeah so but you can check that
out on Rizzo through through his link
there Joanie nevah leenon from finland
gives us five out of five sons as well
says i just finished watching the
non-technical third anniversary episode
be a Miro props on the preparation work
on taking clips from past shows in the
intro would have taken me hours just a
side note that was actually done
automatically using ffmpeg now I had to
write a script to do it so I created a
script the went in and routers well it
did actually but the night before the
show I was trying to figure out how can
I do this because I was trying to get as
many clips as I could and I
made a script to use ffmpeg to grab like
a five-second clip of every single
episode that's ever broadcast of
category 5 it then took those clips and
compiled them into a single video and
then I just superimposed the music on
top of that so you were at the mercy of
the software your script that you could
have had a you know so I didn't actually
go in and pick out specific portions
during that and that's why some people
when it was broadcasting said I can't
hear the talking well because it wasn't
about the talking it was so that you can
see kind of the the evolution of the
show over the the course of the 150 some
odd episodes that had broadcast up to
that point so that's that's how it was
done it was a simple script that that I
created with ffmpeg that went through
the folder and created all these little
clips so but thanks for noticing Johnny
goes on to say also it was enlightening
to see the support folk behind the
camera and otherwise Becca carry Christy
John there he is hey John there he is
he's always there he's behind the camera
but you don't get to see him as much as
well as mentioning Hillary and others
thanks for the brief history on the
show's formation to it was logical and
inspiring cheers for that and that
Joanie fine finishes off their
testimonial by saying I hope to get your
show advertised more so the viewer stats
will show Finland among countries that
follow the show most and thank you for
that I encourage you to tell your
friends tell till your enemies put up
posters in town if you want just let
people know that category 5 is in
existence at your local linux users
group it's great opportunity for you to
share that this broadcast exists being
that we are predominantly Lin eccentric
under 20 sweet sure let's see i wanna i
want to hit can I hit one more I think
you have to okay logic from here ferd UK
says i stumbled onto your show circa
episode 60 ish a YouTube clip about
linux brought Miro to my attention and I
found you there and have been watching
ever since I don't often watch live
because of the time zones but haven't
missed
episodes I find your show is very
informative yet a pleasantly laid-back
viewing experience the sponsors the
sponsor plugs are kept to a minimum and
the weekly banter oozes friendliness
which is it loses friendliness cheers
for that which is reassuring to a
technophobe like me top kudos on your
perseverance and I'm warming up to Eric
too he's got some big boots to fill
referring to the pillory yours from
logic thank you very much for for your
viewer testimonial hope I got your name
right and if you'd like to submit a
viewer testimonial you can get that to
us at category 5 TV click on interact
and submit a testimonial and it's just
hitting on that comment about the
sponsor plugs and stuff we do have
sponsors here the show you see banners
on our website but one of my biggest
goals with our sponsorships and with
on-air tags and things is that it would
never be intrusive I never want the show
to to be pushing sponsorships on you and
quite often what we'll do is well we'll
talk to our sponsors last week we had
brother on the show for example so that
we did demonstrate some of their
products we've got a printer to give
away from them and that's good product
but it was useful information useful
information to if you didn't catch last
week's episode and encourage you to
because it was about office organization
yeah for the home office user or the
small office I'm actually put a lot of
what was recommended by mark into
practice and I found it really to be
working well that touch it once for
example he said touch it once when you
get a file touch it once don't have to
go back to it so I've been doing that
with email and I find that it's really
really helping me to stay organized them
to be on top of everything as an email
comes in I touch it once and this is you
know marks words or ringing ringing
through my head as I'm working and
there's the email I see what the what
the client is requesting and I put it in
my calendar I respond to them it takes
me two seconds to do that to schedule
them in and then just send them a quick
response saying hey we've got in the
schedule for next Tuesday or something
like that so it's really working so and
encourage you to check out last week's
show episode number one
t one where we discussed a lot of those
kinds of tips to keep yourself organized
in business very very cool indeed yeah
okay we got some questions in my
Canadian Tire hockey water bottle that
is very Canadian yeah that looks like
it's straight out of the 80s it's
probably headed since the 90s yeah it's
probably got like there's a BPA and
everything oh true I'm sure it does it's
probably made in Canada fantastic
awesome all right um I don't see that
every day im go to sponsorship all right
well there's a fella named Brian also
known as drumstick hey drumstick aka
Ryan who has an inquiry all right by
email okay so i have installed a windows
application under wine in ubuntu 10.10
gram in my applications menu or on the
desktop do i need to try reinstalling in
wine or is there another way thanks very
cool Eric I got to ask what is your
position in hockey usually flat on my
butt no um I die sometimes senators
sometimes left wing left wing yeah like
that just like that fantastic
I come up with these things all right
put me in coach okay here we go I type
really quick so I can change things so
with regards to getting wine links on
your desktop or on your application menu
so I thing like wine stains on your
shirt wine as in okay and people have
said because it because it's a easy way
to remember they call it the windows
emulator it's not an emulator and they
say don't call it an emulator it's an
API so what wine does is it lets you run
certain windows applications on Linux
there by bridging that gap between linux
and windows where users say oh but i
can't use X application on Linux so
that's what's holding me on Windows well
as a matter of fact if you check out
wine you may actually be able to run
that application on your linux computer
thereby eliminating virus issues sure
thereby eliminating fragmentation on
your computer so many benefits to it so
wine is a fantastic application also a
programming interface so what I'll do
let's see what I have installed in wine
wine comes with notepad fantastic
there's actually notepad on online right
so it's it's the windows notepad I guess
this is not the the official one for
Microsoft or anything it's very similar
it's like a clone but it is a Windows
application I don't actually have
minesweeper on here GAD well mine came
with notepad and I've installed multi
quence multi quinces a multitrack
recorder i was i was actually playing
around with that so but i'll just say
that i did try to install it and deal
with the midst of everything as well it
doesn't know its its strict multi multi
tracking so with this application for
example what we can do right-click now
in okay well we're asking about an
application that we don't currently have
a link to i'll tell you though what you
can do if you do have a link to it is
you can just grab that wine link drag it
to your desktop
and now you've got notepad on your
desktop okay click on it and it brings
up your windows application see how fast
it runs to a so that's for an
application that you do have if you
don't have that you do have a menu
shortcut for it if you don't have you
can you can determine the location of
your wine applications by going into the
dot wine folder in your home folder any
folder that starts with a dot and Linux
is a hidden folder so what you do is you
bring up your your computer so places
home folder and then hit ctrl L to load
a location and go to the end and type
slash dot wine just like that so when
you hit enter it's going to take you
right into the folder slash dot wine so
it automatically has slash home slash
Robbie or whatever your username is and
you'll see dr c and if you go in there
this is actually like a stripped-down
version of windows drive c internet
explorer as a as a folder automatically
cool so if i look at for example my
multik ones there's multi kxe which if i
double click on it is going to run that
windows application see that so this is
actually a windows windows only
application according to the software
manufacturer so for me to create a
shortcut to that i can right click on it
and go copy interesting thing now i'm
going to bring up my g edit what's
really really cool about well there's so
many things but one of the cool things
that i love about linux is when you copy
a file you are copying so much
information about that file to your
clipboard so that when you paste the the
system is going to automatically
determine what it is that you're pasting
to and it's going to give you the
appropriate information as i'm opening
as i've got a text editor here remember
i copied that file right so that was the
exe file i right click on it and I go
copy and I go over here and in a text
editor if I paste it doesn't give me any
kind of jargon it gives me the exact
location of the file the full use of the
full path to that executive Oh file so
all I need to do to add that to my
applications menu is go right click edit
menus I'll zoom in a little bit here
applications are going to right click on
it go edit menus that's going to bring
up my menu list let's say I want to put
it under sound and video because that's
what it is it's a sound and video
application over here i'm going to go
new item it's asking me for the name I'm
going to call this multik once it's an
application the command now if I paste
in that command it's going to give me
the executive all but what I need to do
is I need to put that in apostrophes so
I've gone home and I've put an
apostrophe before gone to the end and I
put an apostrophe after that protects
you so that if the file name has spaces
in it if the folder name has spaces in
it there's not going to be any problems
it's going to actually be able to exec
you so now before that command so I've
entered that much so far who commit show
up you're going to lose if you mouse
over the menu item milk so before the
command so I've got that in quotes i'm
going to type the word wine space okay
that's our ability to run Windows
applications and then it is opening
program files multicon small teak exe
and see there is a space and program
file so this is a good thing that I've
got that in a bunch of fees which is
single quotes yeah so now if I hit OK on
that right out of the box it's added
multi quince with just a generic icon so
now if I go applications sound &amp; video
I've got multi quince there click on it
and it goes done and done it is in fact
coming up I don't like I said I didn't I
don't have multi quince working on the
computer but at least I can demonstrate
that how to create the shortcuts under
sound and video multi quince
see it is actually coming up but it
gives me an error because I don't have
direct ex installed there it is okay
sweet so now that I've got it up there
again if I want to grab that and move it
onto my desktop or copy it onto my
desktop there it is okay and if I want
to change the icon again right click
edit menus and go back to that item
right click and hold and let go on the
word properties that can be a little bit
tricky right click and hold point2
properties and let go over here click on
that and that's going to allow you to
select what you like the icon to be and
I'm certain you can find an icon that
you're happy with or of course you can
use the actual official icon for the
application if you like to browse for it
this is category 5 technology TV I'm
your host Lieutenant Commander Ravi
Ferguson and I'm left where your kid oh
sure do we have time for more questions
yeah but tell me what's coming up in the
news i left i will tell you what's
coming up in the news come up in the
newsroom that was a good intro yeah yeah
i thought so yeah oh my goodness sony to
cease manufacturer of the cassette
walkman I they didn't already I they
still have you say cassette I still have
a CD walkman but my goodness they still
well that's amazing maybe people people
give me CDs and I still have some
cassettes but I don't even have a way to
play a CD oh wow let alone a cassette I
do have a VHS player though which is
brilliant I return table with natural
diamond status
vinyl records 00 is indeed I'm coming
over to your place to listen to music
and they'll bring us coffee with you
okay kubuntu unity or is that unity
unity into energy Oh unity yeah I don't
know that anybody anybody out there got
an opinion on a like unity unity will
breathe continual life into the comp his
window Mitch oh this emphasis compass oh
yeah okay you know the thing that lets
you do all the fancy effects on your
desktop with linux if I do do ya like if
I do all this kind of stuff and you know
boom that's all powered by compass right
I did not know that it is now you know
now in the rep comp is there gonna
breathe continual life into the
conference window manager that's
fantastic at school flash video replacer
lets users watch youtube blip TV and
vimeo without flash oh how cool is that
that's moving forward yeah and the
London Stock Exchange switching to linux
may serve as a wake-up call for
executives who don't see open source is
commercially viable so stick around
that's incredible for the latest news
from the category 5 TV news room
tvnewser slashing stick around depends
on over yeah the cat at the newsroom you
know we have news it's about tech in
general I'm pretty high tech well I'm
wearing glasses because I have two
people notice that but and Star Trek
they've miraculously made it so that
everyone including the blind can see
sweet but I do need to wear glasses
tonight John is saying that here's some
news about entropia universe AKA planet
calypso there's community advisors are
on the gateway now at many times which
are real players to help out in addition
to the computer-controlled helpers there
that's great so you've got some real
life people helping you learn how to use
the
very cool what's up oh I think they're
they're having some issues with the way
we connect pronounce things that's
nothing new something about having our
own language and nobody understanding is
that's a little harsh out there come on
now okay keep it keep it nice that's the
thing about they know that we're also
Canadian and where and where it will let
it will let it slide it's okay we take
it cuz we're just so nice let me get one
of the vote on the ACE oh yeah all right
every load to have beds for outside
that's that's not right I thank you for
that work oh uh yeah cheers oh whoops I
had the wrong date on the episode I was
so busy prepping for all the Star Trek
II stuff well I didn't look at the
camera footers cheers he's like what's
going on thanks for noticing all right
you had something for me I'm sorry not
to get off on it I had a friend ask me a
question today so I thought I'd bring it
bring it here if that's great yeah he's
got a calendar as a google calendar yeah
and he has it on his website and he has
the agenda view and he was able to embed
all that and it's all very cool but he
has it's only showing four weeks and
that's the most he can get it to show
really at a time on his agenda view and
when you take a look in there it says
special view you've got one day two days
three days six days a week two weeks
four weeks and that's as far as it
appears to want to show I've got our our
calendar is displayed like a month
calendar okay so and this is powered by
google calendar i have not i've not
tried doing the agenda view but so he
chose the dates where you have stuff
sort of an a-list right right and he's
only and he's trying to go beyond right
for he doesn't have any dates happening
in the next four weeks so it's not
showing anything you can click to see
more Oh
with this stage so if he doesn't have
anything booked this month they're just
a blank page yeah so so we have to see
future of course the first the first
thing I would check is google calendar
settings which I've not I've not played
with the agenda view much because I just
I'm I'm so old school I could not keep a
paper calendar but when it's on my
screen it has to look like a month
calendar there's this just something
about me but if that were a limitation
of google let's just say that that is
not a setting that and i'll just say you
know go through the settings log into
your account and and see if there's a
setting for embedding your calendar in a
different way but if that is not
available than what you could consider
is using the XML which is like you could
set up an RSS aggregator for your xml
version of your google calendar oh which
then you could set just for how many
entries you want and you can find a ton
of different aggregators out there but
for example if i go to my calendar we've
actually got a link directly to our xml
so those who would like to subscribe to
it can and this has got all of the show
information that i have entered in the
calendar so how i display that
information because this is xml right is
completely up to me i can load that file
into my PHP application or whatever it
is that i'm using as a server-side
language and then i can aggregate it and
manipulate now put the data however i
like but in that regard it you could
just set it to show the upcoming ten
entries and it will just give you all of
them as opposed to skipping over ones
that where there aren't any that month
right now that would be something I
would check in to have a look and go
through that with yeah I'll report back
what you want to find is a is a like a
PHP driven free open-source aggregator
and there's so many magpie for example
would be a good one mate but yeah it's
popular it's well supported and and just
is a great application you have to have
a PHP server it grabs the xml file and
allows you to spew it out however you
like very cool yeah well yeah set along
I'll report back on how things went cool
users not on joomla no okay if they were
on joomla there's something called news
feeds so just keep that in mind if
you're on joomla you can use news feeds
to aggregate any XML or RSS that's all
built into joomla so that's pretty handy
all right yeah well we have another
question also by email from Oh from Nick
lizarraga hey Nick hello Robbie I
watched your show since you came over to
the lime technology for him anyone read
that's what that is Oh lime technology
no yo create certain rightly proud very
cool yeah anyway I thought I would try
you first since I cannot find a good
solution I need a method of taking files
name I think file names from a certain
directory and adding those file names to
a table in either MySQL or SQL Lite you
know where I can find such a thing thank
you and keep up the good work Nick I the
command I'm thinking of is open door
open dir or reader as an alternative if
you go to php.net type in open dir to
get the syntax let's see
and first example opens a known
directory and proceeds to read its
contents so you're going to have a
little bit of programming knowledge I
don't know of a prefabricated software
to do this but as a PHP dev I would say
use open der get the directory cotton
contents as a list into an array and
then parse it however you like spew it
out with a you know create your tables
in mysql and use update to to populate
that information as a chain as the
directory contents change but if that's
if that's not something you're able to
do let me know because to create
something like that is not is not overly
cific it's not overly hard for somebody
coming from 24th century space so no
it's reasonably simple there you can
take some of the examples off of php.net
and put it together open der and then
just standard mysql population so all
right hope that puts you in the right
direction and I'm assuming that you have
PHP because PHP is pretty much on
everything now because it is open and
fantastic but I would be happy to to
write something if if you hit a snag if
you're not able to do it so just give me
more information and I could do that for
you not something for the show so much
but I'm happy to email cool ok more
questions yeah and we've got to hit the
news pretty soon we'll do that right
over this one then love questions you
can send us a question live at category
5 TV or of course join us in the chat
room at category 5 TV we try to keep an
eye on that and say hi in the chat room
as well there's lots of people there who
would love to hear from me ok well this
one's for Troy 74 hy 74 all right hey
Robbie and Eric hey i recently installed
ubuntu 10.10 to bit or 64-bit ubuntu
what is the difference this is a good
idea to choose the 64-bit version if
your hardware supports it keep up the
great shows guys I watch every week
either live or next day and learn
plethora of useful information brilliant
thanks for joining us it's nice to have
you here for 74 I would say definitely
it is worth going with the 64 bit at
this point if you support it if your
system supports it what is the
difference 32-bit is basically limiting
you to four gigabytes or a little bit
less than that of RAM three point two
gigs three point four gigs which
obviously if you have more than four
gigs of RAM in your system you want to
go 64 so that you can take advantage of
that extra ram most systems these days
are going to have you know eight gigs of
RAM but if you don't then 32-bit could
work could be fine if you don't and you
think you might eventually upgrade I
would still go with 64-bit it's
important to make sure that your forward
compatible other advantages of course
64-bit is technically faster it's it's
got a lot more power as far as
processing data at the epic kernel level
so a lot more can happen it can it can
process 64-bit applications faster than
a 32-bit operating system with process
its 32-bit applications so but that's
whether that's noticeable or not it's
probably not to you but certainly the
RAM thing is a huge deal because the
more RAM you have the perceived speed of
your computer goes up because your
computer is never swapping to your hard
drive for lack of RAM that's a that's a
key thing either that or it's not ever
hitting that maximum if you've got three
point two gigs of usable RAM you run out
of that pretty quick if you get into any
kind of production work or playing any
games or anything like that so
definitely if your CPU supports it and
you feel like you may exceed the four
gigabytes of RAM or you already have
then you definitely want to go 64 bit if
you have more than four gigs of RAM and
you put a 32-bit operating system on
your computer you'll basically be
discarding the additional
Ram you won't be able to use it so and
that will degrade performance and and
it's kind of a waste because you've got
the hardware might as well utilize it
right back in the days where 64-bit was
unstable or there weren't a lot of
programs for 64-bit platforms and and it
was hard to get on a 64-bit system it
was tough those days are long gone
interoperability between 32-bit and
64-bit is seamless and you can still run
your 32-bit applications if there's not
a 64-bit app and and you're not going to
have any trouble I'm sure only once we
still see trouble with or adobe flash
but as eric is going to be telling us
there might be an alternative to that
even so good luck lots of good comments
in the chat room as well category 5 TV
check out the IRC logs if you're not
here live this is episode number 162
cheers and dr. over 26 yes it is as it
says in the footer as it says in the
footer route there you know I wish I
knew I was from the future is that for
recovery well I maybe I was maybe he's
eagerly and I transmitted to the PI self
John and Here I am one week later are
you uncomfortable that's it's almost as
I'm not weird this is a geek I'm
smelling but it's certainly something
are you playing after this I am so you
just gonna get in the car and drive
there like I'm a it you're gonna like
Auto saw server you're gonna really
dislike this uniform after after so many
hours like weren't aware this is hockey
apparel he's gonna look great which will
make that eat up more but yeah
yeah I would certainly see you yeah all
right well yes there's what's happening
to news the news after 30 count on 30
years you were just a baby and sorry
after 30 years sony has announced the
final lot of Sony cassette Lachlan's
were shipped to retailers in April and
once they are sold there will be no more
no more no more what am I gonna play all
of those cassettes on did they ever have
an 8-track what no sure the first walk
which was produced in 79 1979 and over
400 million were sold 200 million of
those being cassette based ones Eric I'm
sorry but that's the year I was born
he's like yeah I was in fact of legal
drinking age dear we do span the
generations here account it is truly the
end of an era foodie is moving along
okay okay with gnome shell and kwin
omitting comp is from the Linux desktop
the future of the comp is window manager
and his development looked
uncompromising some exciting news came
to us from canonical yesterday following
March Shuttleworth's announcement at the
ubuntu developer summit in orlando that
not only will unity be included with
April's release of the ubuntu 11.04 but
it will be powered by comp is rather
than muttered i muttered unity is a
sleek streamlined interface which is
currently shipping on the notebook
edition of ubuntu linux Jono bacon the
community manager at canonical the
developers of pooh pooh pooh says compiz
is much faster most notably on hardware
that has traditionally had the most
trouble from bug reports quality meats
design meets performance the exciting
thing about dis news is that it means
compass is not dead and that development
will continue in full force with the
backing of unity which is continuing to
grow in popularity canonical stresses
that Ubuntu can
to be a gnome distribution shipping the
gnome stack and supporting the no Maps
the difference is unity is different a
different shelf for gnome giving users
new experience that is designed for
absolute ease of use canonical promises
the support for the latest version of
gnome shell will still continue in the
blue archives that's great I'm glad to
hear that i love kompis Oh Firefox
add-on his letting users drop flash from
popular video sites such as youtube and
watch their provided videos in non flash
video format presenting the videos in a
native player embedded in the page
rather than flash the performance
benefit particularly when viewing video
in full screen is rather substantial
especially for Linux users who are more
often played with Adobe Flash
performance issues than users on
Microsoft Windows flash video replacer
gets around the performance limitations
with high CPU used to flash dramatically
changing the website source code on the
fly replacing the flash video
automatically sites look very much the
same but the videos themselves playback
more smoothly use less CPU power and
display much better in full-screen mode
hmm that's very cool users can install
the flash video replacer Firefox add-on
by visiting addons.mozilla.org and
searching for 16 1869 got that 16 1869
the add-on currently supports youtube TV
and vimeo and work specifically with
on-demand pre-recorded content not live
content because category 5 TV episodes
are hosted with blip TV users with the
add-on can watch past episodes in their
browser without having to rely on flash
well there are limitations the concept
is sound and users who want to get away
from flash or have trouble getting
flashed perform well we'll definitely
want to check this add-on or check out
this hat on
the London Stock Exchange has completed
the transition of one of its smaller
trading pools to Linux and in so doing
has created what it claims is the worlds
fastest trading platform the use of
Linux on the turquoise creating pool and
the speed increase it has brought comes
just two weeks ahead of plans to migrate
the main London Stock Exchange to Linux
from its current microsoft.net platform
according to think dot co uk it seems
clear that while companies still hold to
the old mindset that open source cannot
compete in the commercial world they'll
get a wake-up call when they realize
that their companies are in fact being
traded on linux based systems and at
nearly double the speed of the current
microsoft based platform get the full
story is a category-five TV / newsroom
the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
becca ferguson and our community of
yours that you folks if you have a news
story you think is worthy of on-air
mentioned email newsroom at category
five dot TV category five TV is brought
to you in part by planet calypso this
massive multiplayer online game is
available as a free download from cat
five dot TV / Calypso now once you've
got two downloaded and installed on your
Windows computer make sure you say hi
and there's something for everyone here
on planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free a cat5 dot TV /
calypso if you're a Linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat5 TV / calypso i'll see you
on planet calypso
so tonight I want to look at this
application that i noticed as i'm
installing ubuntu 10-point out Joe
kosher it's a multitrack audio editor so
I thought okay I've got ten point oh
four on my system and it's available for
ten point oh four so this is a great
thing so we thought we'd check it out so
I installed it on 10 point 0 for using
synaptic package manager it's felt just
like it sounds gelco sure maybe it
doesn't sound like that for all I know
it's good with jock assure chakra sure
Johnny's her talking to a hockey player
might oh never noticed I'm i changed the
camera very quickly i created a test
project to get us started and i'm going
to open that project the interface is
quite simple and this is a free
application available for linux that's
not too bad first thing you want to do
once you've created a project is create
an instrument by clicking on add
instrument up at the top left this is
where we get into our very simple
multi-tracking interface cool so if you
want to track with an acoustic guitar
probably should do a bass drum first or
you think possibly possibly we don't
have a bass drum tonight if you want to
use let's say you want to record
yourself singing along with the karaoke
track you can overlay is that clear is
that what karaoke sounds like to you
well no I you can open an audio file in
that case the system supports mp3 flac
wav OGG Vorbis it's got a fantastic file
set based on gstreamer i'm going to
create a vocal track and just go ad
you'll notice as I add this track it is
ready to record I've disabled the
recording I've been able dit but by
default the vocal tract is going to be
ready to record if I hit record that Dan
tan tan-tan tan tan-tan tan
that was fantastic and then 10 10 10 how
cool so now I want to add another
instrument so look fit you know and
we're just kind of zipping through but
neat that there's a half-decent
multi-tracking application available for
Linux so that's pretty cool so now I
want to create another instrument add
another instrument and this is where you
say okay well I'm going to add some more
harmonies I can add more vocals right
just create another track if I want to
add and at what these tracks are really
doesn't matter it's for its for your
visual representation right but let's
say acoustic guitar that's what I'm
going to add now I've got a track that's
ready for acoustic guitar so I've
disabled recording on vocal make sure
you do that otherwise it's going to
record over my fantastic vocal track
that was fantastic and then hit record
on the acoustic guitar and as a guitar
junt know this Roque I would if we had
more time tonight but we just we're not
going to actually do a production but
just kind of show the interface example
this is it's a nice simple interface
easy to get in easy to create your first
multitrack and and get your way around
so I've created the acoustic guitar
track which I may have done before I did
the vocal because now my beats are going
to be completely unsynchronized which by
the way there is a metronome so if you
click on the metronome you pinch a
little bit in the big zoo what does that
even mean no I'm not true but yeah so
anyway so that's ready to record this
one is off of record and now if I hit
record it's going to start recording the
second shot that bitch and now I've got
two tracks recorded one as an acoustic
guitar one is local and good to go I've
got some pretty bad latency on this
laptop so there are some pops and clicks
and stuff there but I'm sure with that
with your desktop computer you're going
to have some fantastic performance
you're going to enjoy that very much
it's called joka sure and i will post
the link for that I think it's called
Joe Fisher a lot of geography sure could
be jockey sure it's Jo Jo Jo sh ii are
available at Joe Cassar gorg kosher
org yokel sure as available as a free
download for open suse there's a source
tarble if you want to compile it there
is a windows installer people I didn't
know this so for our windows viewers who
are thinking this doesn't appeal to me
because it's for linux there is a chance
to install it on your windows box but i
still encourage you to install linux
instead and then there are of course
installers for ubuntu 10.4 nine point 10
9 10 48 point 10 and you'll find it in
the repositories as well for 10 point 10
sad no done there you can run it without
installing CR what do you mean oh no
running the latest joke joke oh sure
without installing ok so we can't oh if
you had another version version see i
see so you can get the bzr like the
latest build anyways check it out Joe
kosher org is their website will do 12
different pronunciations in one night
you'll be able to download the
application from there fantastic fan
tastic no no no go straight no nanodots
tonight we gave away the last ones sorry
dude but you can still find out more
cat5 TV / nanodots and certainly if you
purchase some make sure you let them
know that you heard of them through us
may be good i wanted to briefly touch on
our disposable hardware mentality and I
think this hits close to home for john
who what is it the year that you're
studying in school that pertains to this
green business management
yeah stuff that we're doing that's
unsustainable I'll just repeat because I
don't have a microphone on the
unfortunately we got to do something
about that I went into the future shop
this week and I'm just I'm shocked by
the that mentality because I don't share
that mentality I've got the same cell
phone that I've had for four years I
think eight years and it still works
that much my guitars older than you or
I'm sure well but I don't I don't like
the thought of throwing things in a dump
just because there's something newer and
better right I went in because we had a
problem with one of our webcams the
microsoft lifecam that i purchased there
and I'm because of my mentality that I
don't want to be the kind of person who
just throw something away so it didn't
work I didn't go into the store within
the 30 days because I wanted to try
everything I could knowing that they're
just going to throw it out I wanted to
try everything that I could to try to
get the thing working i installed new
firmware i installed new drivers
reinstall my operating system tried it
on different computers still no go so
finally four months later after all this
trial i took it in and they said they
wouldn't take it back because it's
beyond the 30 days you have to take it
back within that 30 days well if I had
done that you would have just thrown it
out and I could have and I would have
lost that chance to try getting this
thing to work and I would have just
ended up in a landfill guaranteed so
then on that same mentality as I'm going
out of the store I came across this
flyer and nothing nothing about a
particular store this is a mentality
that we have in our in our world really
I don't know if you can see that John
can get in a little you see that
don't fix it replace it that we're
publishing posters that say don't don't
fix your old phone and don't fix that
old toaster don't fix the DVD player go
out and buy a new blu-ray because you
need it which is which is not
necessarily true I think that we as a
population and not to rant or anything
but I think that we need to really be
mindful of the fact that our world we
have to be careful that we don't run out
of resources we need to be recycling we
need to be using things to the best of
our ability to to the point where they
seriously cannot be repaired anymore I
think that's a mentality that we need to
avoid it's very difficult for the
consumer though you take an inner cell
phone it's bad it'll give us three one
of you if you commit for any more year
they offered me a free free Nicole yours
repaired it's gonna be flat 100 right
over there in line they said you want a
new phone you've got 145 final dollars
cuz you've been with us so long without
upgrading your phone you can get a new
one for free today so my old one works
yeah so but it's tough you know it's not
easily repaired anymore true
everything's but it still works I can
understand but I Bradley doesn't work
it's used to get them repaired certainly
and we have that happen with a TV and
our DVD player yeah recently so what I
ended up doing is I'm using the DVD
player as a 5.1 surround sound and we've
got a second DVD player running the
actual DVD it's the best I can do to
keep that thing going as long as I can
but I think we need to be careful that
we don't subscribe to that mindset there
was a show of documentary that I saw
once where everything that we buy were
voting because the companies know what
it is that we're buying this is why when
I buy a printer i'm i'm looking at
brother because i know that they have
sustainability in mind and that they're
working towards you know they have
environmental consciousness so i find
that that that's very important when I'm
shopping when we buy something we're
voting so do we buy something that
they're just trying to put this mind set
on us don't fix it replace it like we
need to be careful of that for sure
so that's my rant for tonight from the
future from the 24th century because the
world is not what it used to be from
where i am a vehicle well i guess you
know what I really have to get going
back up to the enterprise we're almost
at a time we're gonna leave us back your
honor three well it's been a lot of fun
and getting to interact with your
species while primitive now watch that
hockey stick I can make it disappear but
I have that power you should take this
with you show the kids back home they
don't have room for that kind of thing
on the enterprise really I hope everyone
has had a fun night tonight hey this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online at triple w category 5 TV but
I've got to go so I'll just kind of I
get I suppose leave things to you well
here I am okay and there you go oh my
goodness I think he's gone John what we
do now well you got well that was
episode 161 when I was gone 162 I was I
was in the past but we'll be back next
week with I hope probably makes it back
for next week that'll be episode 163 we
have all kinds of great stuff in store
for you and I hope everybody enjoyed the
show tonight this is a Eric kid we
missed that left-tenant to Commander
Robbie Ferguson that's how a Canadian
would say lieutenant commander Robbie
Ferguson I'm Eric Kidd Missy all again
next week
here we are back on the bridge of the
enterprise and I'd love to show you how
all this is done behind me of course is
a green screen you can see myself there
and it this is actually a channel on
Wirecast there I am on my microsoft
lifecam and i can move this around the
screen that's on the green screen
because using chroma key there i am so i
can place myself there turn on chroma
key and now I've got this seamless I put
myself there because it would hide the
fact that I have no legs because as a
matter of fact this is how the screen
actually looks in reality so with this
picture for example I'm able to get
myself and I can position myself
anywhere on the screen that I like I can
zoom in and out to make it work with the
scene because you want to make sure that
everything looks like it's proportional
to the scene itself and now if that's
what I save that's where it's going to
place me on the scene for my close-up
shot or let's use the bridge view for
example you'll notice that I'm actually
sitting behind the console this effect
was accomplished using an application
called GNU image manipulation program
with which I was able to take my scene
and then using the GIMP I was able to
cut out just the
desk area for the for the terminal and
place that a top everything else so now
channel B being me I actually fall below
this channel the foreground channel that
channel of course is nothing but this
which I've placed where it meant where
it's meant to go and there you have that
effect of being able to type on i'll
type push buttons and that's how that
works the software that we use in order
to create this live chroma key or green
screen effect here at category 5 TV is
called Telestream Wirecast I'd encourage
you to check it out at Telestream dotnet
I had a lot of fun this week I hope you
did too and I can't wait to see you next
week when I'll be back on planet earth
tuesday night at seven here category 5
TV until then have a great week and of
course have a safe and fun halloween and
you know it's coming they've long and
prosper
