the arocs Black Talon finally got it up
in the air it's I don't know like a mini
drone I guess you'd call it cuz it's not
a micro it's not a nano it's quite a bit
large I that do you know how heavy it is
like is it like it doesn't actually live
into grams or something it oh no it's
nothing like that I don't have a scale
not here on the set with us it was very
very light it's like I kind of play
around with it oh yeah yeah so I did
this was the first time because it has a
built-in 720p camera with fpv oh so you
can definitely see what's going on you
can but I've never I've flown with the
let the screen on the on the hand
controller as we did on the drone zone
but I've never flown with the virtual
reality goggles first time do you feel
how was it it was really cool really
neat yeah do you want you feel like you
were flying yet yeah I want to see the
skies out I was there with my I was in
the field with my with my 9 year old son
Zack he was doing some film work for me
but then he wanted to try them on and
here's our reactions to the Erik's Black
Talon ok I'm in the air whoa
oh man how far am i back oh this is
really weird
not very far oh man I'm looking at
myself haha
that is cool I want to I want you to fly
soon with me with the virtual where's it
going I think the wind just caught it
but this is weird because I'm seeing it
from the drones view not from my own
eyes
well you're seeing it from your own eyes
can you see the drone through the camera
not really
okay so first time in the air whoa I'm
just pointing that I'm pointing at the
junk-- okay but you cannot see it I
can't see it okay well I'm going to come
back toward us and then I'm going to put
on a V I I'm I'm kind of low how close
am I um wow this is trippy I find I'm
moving my my head with the drone but
you're not no I am oh I'm looking up and
down with my eyes I'm afraid to get any
kind of acceleration or speed because
there's a little it's not like a latency
there's a little bit of a choppiness but
the clarity is really good and obviously
I am flying this with just my cellphone
in these goggles that's cool back I like
to try I don't think you should go and
much further am I pretty far yeah see I
see what the drone sees so to me it just
feels like I'm just I'm there you're
flying yeah you're stupid I know I'm not
moving very very fast because I'm a
little nervous too I'm moving really
slow aren't I
no that's pretty fast I got a little
nervous there because I did kind of take
off
wow that was really really cool okay you
want to try holding the you want to put
the headset on yes okay jack is going to
my camera guy today is going to try on
the headset so put those on and can you
see just a bunch of grass right now
Oh God now I feel like I can fly because
I feel like I can see the drone okay so
I was moving pretty slowly how does that
feel back you're looking all around
you've got your you're looking at the
sky with your head in that trippy yeah
okay I'm gonna try one of the faster
mode waiting getting a bit of lag
I hear it
it's nice that the FPV works so well
[Music]
frames per second nope that is
first-person view of the virtual reality
that stepdad where he has no fpv so fpv
now let's try the altitude hold which is
really impressive for a drone that
doesn't have a GPS that's amazing that
altitude hold means that it stays in the
same position so look at that now the
wind is taking it away but the altitude
is staying the same I'm not touching the
rod my nose but then I scream
so alpha-2 whole works surprisingly well
for one without a GPS
did you fly it right over my head
yep do you think sex okay it's going
there's a good little play around flier
there she is the Black Talon from Eric's
drones nice little flier with a lot of
fun to fly actually cool
just want to reach out and touch it to
the VR doesn't need experience loan with
goggles no because like again I do like
the commercial stuff where we aren't
really allowed to okay um but I have a
few friends that love drone racing oh
yeah and like yeah of us got one of
these things cornell ago a hundred miles
and i would want to go somewhere where
you could like go like check out caves
or check something out where you could
also surely go constantly right like get
all up in the weird crevices in a cave
without crashing your drone sure not
good enough added that you could set up
obstacle courses and things you see if
you like Red Bull Air Race like the
little pylon let's do that let's do that
category by their race
[Applause]
