[Music]
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering your weeks top tech stories
Linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
gdpr is already making making an example
of Google
they've been fined 50 million euros over
ads French data regulators CNIL said it
has levied the record fine for a lack of
transparency inadequate information and
lack of valid consent regarding ads
personalization the regulator said it
judged that people were not sufficiently
informed about how Google collected data
it's personalized advertising the first
complaint under the e use new general
data protection regulation or gdpr
was filed against Google on May 25th of
last year the very day the legislation
took effect the two groups filing the
claim said that Google did not have a
valid legal basis to process user data
for ads personalization as mandated by
the gdpr
although Google's European headquarters
is in Ireland it was decided among the
authorities that the case would be
handled by the French data regulator
since the Irish watchdog did not have
decision-making power over its Android
operating system and its services in a
statement Google said it was studying
the decision to determine its next steps
well then so so oh the thing is I love
Google like I switched away from
Facebook oh sure right and then I put
all my love in Google and now Google is
doing some weird well not necessarily
suddenly doing but but wouldn't it be
difficult to be as big as Google yeah
and then have something like gdpr
suddenly come into effect and looking at
your massive amounts of code right and
the incredible infrastructure that they
have and oh my goodness so getting
called out on that one thing and it's a
pretty obvious thing - it's completely
obvious I think if I search something
right it pops up and all my google ads
is that not the thing right like I
search like say I searched winter
camping sleeping bags
now everyone on your network is getting
that ad right exactly like 100% yeah
it's tough but we knew that gdpr would
be making an example of some big
companies and and Google seems to be
yeah congratulations you're number one
well that's the thing there's the
biggest company so they're the one
that's gonna be targeted but I mean if
they're not the only ones doing this by
any means right they're just the biggest
ones the first to get made an example of
but is it really being made an example
of because it's petty change to Google
right right yeah and it's and we knew it
was happening all along so it's not like
they're shining a light on to something
that has worried us gdpr to is a
difficult thing because it's a European
regulation or law and and so me like for
example like our website category 5 TV
we are based in the US technically
that's where our hosting is and so we
have a lot of viewers in Europe and and
so our website if I was collecting any
information has to be transparent about
that right and and so if I wasn't
transparent about that I don't collect
any information but we do use ads on the
website so do the the advertisers that
post on our website they're third
parties right they're not Google they
used to be Google I wish it was Google
cuz they pay a little better but but you
know what do they yeah it was
responsible for that yeah it makes it
really really tough for for some
businesses for sure it's tricky but
it'll all come out kind of in the end as
far as these regulations and
legislations they're all new right so
they'll develop and flesh out yeah and
and they're pushing and driving toward
protecting our privacy and putting our
data back into our hands so that I have
to say yes I opted into that to be able
to share that data and to be able to
store that data right so it's a good
thing yeah it's a very good thing it's
good that the default is security as
opposed to where the default used to be
right
you know a free-for-all yeah yeah so
this is good we'll see what comes of it
exactly a massive list of compromised
accounts has been leaked to the tune of
773 million accounts and the have I been
own service has got their hands on it
have I been owned the breach
notification service that serves as a
bellwether for the security of login
credentials has just gotten its hands on
its biggest data haul ever a list that
includes almost seven hundred and
seventy three million unique email
addresses and 21 million unique
passwords that were used to log in to
third-party sites according to the
services founder Troy Hunt the monster
list is a compilation of many smaller
lists taken from past breaches and it
has been in wide circulation over the
past couple weeks
it was also posted to the mega file
sharing site at least one of the
included breaches dated back to 2015
dubs collection number one the
aggregated data was likely scraped
together to serve as a master list that
hackers could use in credential stuffing
attacks these attacks use automated
scripts to inject credentials from one
breached website into a different
website in the hopes that the holders
reuse the same passwords the list
contained 12,000 separate files that
take up then up to more than 787
gigabytes of disk space has 2.69 billion
rows many of which contain duplicate
entries that hunt had to clean up about
663 million of the addresses have been
listed in previous have I been alone
notifications meaning 140 million of the
addresses have never been seen by the
service before HUD said that some of his
own credentials were included in
Wednesday's notification although none
were currently in use
have I been owned has now begun the task
of emailing more than seven hundred and
sixty eight thousand individuals who
signed up for notifications and nearly
forty thousand people who monitor
domains anyone who hasn't signed up can
still check the status of an email
address at have I been owned com what's
would I take from that story there's a
couple of interesting points now
the creator of have I been owned found
his own credentials on there right so
that tells me a couple of things first
he is obviously very security conscious
and and protects his passwords and his
yeah and yet his his accounts were
compromised so if someone like him the
very creator of have I been owned is
able to have their data compromised it
means it's not always the users fault
right that the data is compromised so
think about that for a second so so what
we need to realize is that his second
point in the story
mmm-hmm so my second point based on the
story is he said well but none of those
credentials were still active so what
does that mean okay well he is security
minded right his data was compromised
but it's okay because it's no longer
current so we know that he's been
rotating passwords he's been changing
accounts he's been using various email
accounts for different things and so
even in a data leak like that he is not
compromised because the information that
was compromised is no longer valid
because he took steps to protect his own
rat counts super forward thinking of him
sure and something that I should be
doing I should just take a whole day of
changing my passwords and that's a tough
thing to do and and not only changing
passwords but looking one of the nice
things about having a password manager
is that it reminds you of all the sites
that you did sign up for right because
sometimes I forget I'll get a
notification from have I been owned that
Adobe's website was compromised
I used Adobe's website what Yahoo was
compromised when did I have a yahoo
account I don't remember
Oh Flickr or you know like there's
connections that I may not make and so
having that password manager is not only
great for
maintaining a password list and being
able to change passwords and keep them
very very strong but it also helps me to
be accountable to the accounts that I've
created so that I can look at the list
and say oh I signed up for an Adobe
account I haven't ever logged into that
so let's shut it down right let's at
least change the credentials to
something stupid because I'm never going
to use it so if they ever get hacked I
don't want the credentials to be legit
it makes sense we can take those kinds
of kinds of steps so take that story and
kind of learn from you know the this the
kind of underlying theme of it which is
rotate your passwords and know that it's
not going to be your fault necessarily
if a data breach occurs so it's not some
people say oh I'm never gonna fall for a
phishing scam so you know I'm not
concerned get concerned yeah I'm pretty
sure that the creator of have I been
owned didn't fall for a phishing scam
and quite probably didn't fall for them
yet his data was compromised so keep
that in the back of your mind google
hangouts begins winding down this year
but service will live on in chat and
meet spin-offs in March 2017 Google
announced that hangouts would split into
meat and chat apps kicking off what has
been a long slow road to shut down the
original version of the platform almost
two years later we now have an official
timetable for the winding down of the
well.you service as Google attempts to
wrestle a bigger share of the team
communications market away from
competitors like slack the timeline
begins with the transition of G suite
users from classic hangouts to chat and
meet this year followed by a consumer
transition which will likely begin in
2020 the plan begins on April 16th when
Google will start pushing G suite
administrators and users toward adopting
the meet and chat platforms with an
emphasis on chat the slack like
messaging platform mainly these are
admin facing changes beginning on that
date administrators will be able to
disable classic hangouts user interfaces
at this at the time of their choosing
and will also be able to control both
class
hangouts and chat or meet in their
respective settings Google vault
customers will have to make a few
decisions about mail retention rules
between March 16th and April 16th next
features from classic hangouts will come
to chat over the summer Google plans to
add features like integration with Gmail
chatting with external users improved
video calling and the ability to make
calls with Google Voice then in October
Google will start retiring classic
hangouts 4G Suites customers all
remaining users will be transitions to
chat as it stands now chat and classic
hangouts are fairly interoperable but
group conversations are separate between
the two products the two will continue
to be interoperable until October as for
protecting any data you might have in
classic hangouts
it seems the transition will carry along
your past message histories into chat
but that is yet to be confirmed
additionally there's also Google takeout
if you want more peace of mind other
than that
it all seems it seems all that's left to
say is
rest in peace google hangouts you served
us well we're evolving yeah and I mean I
feel like they are already offering us
replacements we've had done Google
Hangouts even on the show right and it's
always been evolving it's the platform
has been great but I think with the
evolution of the platform it makes it
difficult to keep up as you know I'm not
someone who uses it every day no some
people do and so you know you're on top
of the latest technology that they're
offering but I mean it has to evolve
yeah I feel slightly uncomfortable the
fact that they give you two options to
transition - right like they have that I
think it's more splitting up the
functionality between two different
products so that it's a little more
targeted to each need so if I got rid of
Google Hangouts what I need to have both
chat and me right like do I need to have
both I we shall see I guess right or do
I could choose one or the other
I guess not I wouldn't have to choose
one or the other it just seems
I don't know I think I would put it akin
as to like Messenger chat versus Skype
you know and and right kind of keeping
those two platforms separate so you've
got the chat and you've got the like
visual meetings and calls and things
like that right and and calls in general
I do like Google's yeah I'm gonna I'm
gonna be into this you'll see we'll see
let us know if it impacts you Microsoft
has begun beta testing windows 10
patches with an with actual beta testers
Microsoft releases C and D updates to
people who click check for updates in
Windows updates those people become
unwitting of beta testers January 2019
C Update has a rare distinction
Microsoft tested it with windows
insiders first CMD updates are released
in the third and fourth weeks of most
months they include non security fixes
and are only installed for people who
click the check for updates button in
Windows Update these people essentially
beta test the updates before the fixes
form part of next month's table Patch
Tuesday updates those Patch Tuesday
updates are named B updates as patch
Tuesday's is in the second week of each
month these C and D updates have caused
problems before for example a D update
recently caused blue screens on
Microsoft's own surface book to Hardware
only people who clicked the check for
updates button would have installed it
and encountered the problem Microsoft
calls these people seekers and thinks
that they're looking for more updates
but we think most people clicking that
button have no clue they're opting into
unstable updates there's finally some
good news though this month C update KB
for four seven six nine seven six has
actually gone through testing in the
windows insider release preview ring
earlier this month this is still a C
update and it's still only installed if
you click check for updates but seekers
who do click that button will be getting
a patch that's already gone through a
round of testing with people who know
what they're getting into windows
insiders are of course people who have
chosen to be beta testers Microsoft
first pushed a test version of a
cumulative update to the release preview
ring back in November 2018 but this time
Microsoft put two builds through the
testing cycle using insiders to actually
find problems before the stable release
that's just a month after the release of
the initial release of the disastrous -
October 2018 update which deleted some
people's files Microsoft was so
confident in this big update that the
company didn't even bother putting it
through the release preview testing
before unleashing it on those
unfortunate seekers who clicked check
for updates now Microsoft has been
chastened and it's putting its even
putting smaller patches through real
testing before rolling them out and
that's progress we just wish Microsoft
would stop its shenanigans with the
check for updates button that button
should never oft users into additional
less tested patches without warning but
at least those patches are getting more
testing first I'm in the industry and I
had no idea that is so sneaky so if I
push check for updates they're assuming
oh well Robbie wants to try some new
updates that we've been experimenting
with oh did they just make that
assumption that's like a flying leap
that's idiocy I I write that story and
I'll tell ya my my feelings for
Microsoft well they stayed the same well
yeah and ok at least at least as you say
they're gonna put them through testing
now right so that means hopefully the
October update will never happen again
because that was horrible for a lot of
users right but to think ok so keep this
in mind if you click on that check for
updates you're actually opting into
receiving better patches yeah stuff that
hasn't necessarily been marked as stable
that's kind of worrisome yeah it scares
me that's let's jump into coin
Geko report this is what the crypto
market looked like as of 1800 hours
Eastern Time on Wednesday the 23rd of
January 2019 now Bitcoin lost about
fifty six dollars and forty six cents
u.s. it's at three thousand five hundred
thirty two dollars and forty one cents
litecoin looks like the only one that's
gone up just a little bit only thirty
three cents US but hit thirty $1.48
aetherium went down a little bit as well
one hundred fifteen dollars and forty
six cents Manero also lost a bit at
forty four dollars and fifty three cents
now stellite and turtle coin the little
guys are chugging along behind and also
losing a little bit of ground there
stellite now at two point one to ten
thousandth of a cent and turtle coin at
one point three three ten thousandth of
a cent both losing just a little bit do
not forget that the crypto currency
market is always running it's always
changing its volatile and if you're
gonna get in on it you need to be ready
for that and be careful just remember
that big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news for the slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Richmond and I'm Robbie Ferguson
[Applause]
