hello it's tuesday februari 10 2015 and
hear stories recovering this lip TV
seems to be winding down since the
company that bought it was itself
recently bought out luckily the big bad
wolf is a work of fiction because UK's
open housing market now features homes
built of straw if at first you fail get
up and try again google is taking
another stab at Google glass but this
time they're not letting us see it until
it's ready the Aquarius efore point 5 12
edition smartphone is coming to market
and your TV is listening to you be
careful what you say these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
depending on where you're located in
this big old world of ours you may
remember it as either the Sega Mega
Drive or the Sega Genesis and now more
than a quarter of a century after its
original release in Japan it's more
convenient than ever to take these
classic sega games with you my review is
coming right up just stick around try it
buy it
I'm sash with rheumatism hearing the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
a lot of online video platforms have
disappeared over the years now it looks
like one while not shutting down is
having a pretty brisk spring clean blip
TV the video distribution startup
acquired by maker studios which is now
itself getting acquired by disney has
been sending out notices to many users
telling them that their accounts are
getting closed that's on top of the fact
that it's currently not accepting new
producers Jeff O'Connell and SVP of
technology at maker studios and blip
says blip isn't shutting down we're just
closing more accounts as part of our
effort to focus the library in the
meantime while blip the site is up and
running it seems to be somewhat on
autopilot the company's blog has not
been updated in three months and one of
the last entries entries invites users
to instead follow the maker studios blog
of the two people who ran the blip TV
blog one now describes himself as VP of
Product at maker and the other works
elsewhere hmm i don't even know of blip
TV is that weird what is blip TV the
story of blip TVs demise yeah and that's
why they were able to be purchased for
so little but fact is we actually
broadcasted through blip TV for many
years I mean it was a great service to
provide RSS feed provision so the files
the big video files that we have to
serve up but then you know YouTube
really I mean blip TV had nothing on it
but it was a more of a focus platform
more for shows as opposed to little
short videos kind of thing so so we
actually continued to upload to blip TV
even though it's been dwindling for some
time and viewership has gone way way
down on blip TV because it still is a
provision source for for RSS feeds so in
an event that say Vimeo went down we
could roll over our feeds to blip TV and
people would still be able to watch the
show on on their Roku and on RSS feeds
because it would be coming from blip so
now that they're gone that means shows
like ours have lost that feature but it
also means that some shows that we're
really heavily broadcasting through blip
don't know that there are as many
anymore right it kind of felt like it
was Wendling for some time well black
was you know it's still sad to see them
go yeah we monetizable platform and that
story all of a sudden became very
depressing to me I never got another
gone you're doing great I didn't even
know they were awesome and now they're
gone yeah I know oh they were semi
awesome okay they were it was one of
those things I mean like any startup in
any company that tries to do something
differently it's got to be it was great
for content producers that's the thing
it was not great for viewers right and
and continues to be so mm-hmm so we've
pulled out so we're no longer on blab
right the old shows are there and
everything Tonight Show will be the
first one that's not being uploaded to
blip TV which is kind of sad because
we've been there since the beginning
you've been around a long time folks so
here's a great fun story as you can see
a studio D is made of brick but the
first straw houses in the UK to be
offered on the open market are on sale
those straw walls might be most readily
linked to a story of pigs making
questionable construction choices the
team behind these homes says the
material could help sustainably meet
housing demand the homes are the result
of an engineering research project led
by the University of Bath the houses on
a street of traditional brick built
homes in Bristol are clad in brick to
fit in with the surroundings but they're
prefabricated walls or timber frame
filled with straw bales and encased in
wooden boards professor Pete Walker from
the University of Bath led the research
and says that straw is a very efficient
insulator so these homes should reduce
energy bills by as much as ninety
percent can
here to the other houses around the site
what yeah are they building them in like
this Shack area or well I you know I
mean I'm not done reading the story so
who knows but I wouldn't worry I've been
worried that um straw is extraordinarily
flammable right like timber burns timber
doesn't flash burn the way straw flash
or blown in insulation for example blown
in foam insulation that I would think
would be very effective and efficient at
in comparison to something like straw
but without with the flame retardation
basically it's able to repel but not as
sustainable right not a sustainable
exact this is I think pointing towards
sustainability you just don't want to
lit candle in your home hmm you don't
want to have Jack be nimble over at the
Three Little Pigs house although these
are not the first homes in the UK to be
built using straw bales they are the
first to be built for any buyer in the
open market professor Walker says the
more we can build out of renewable
materials like straw and timber the less
carbon will be in the atmosphere so we
can reduce climate change effects hmm i
would agree i would just worry about the
safety like i would rather have a clay
home than a straw home right thinking on
the carbon thing though that makes me
think too that it because as a an
organic matter straw would be carbon
absorption right would it also helped to
help the air right unless you had a damp
problem because that's true too right
cuz straw as a natural product with mold
easily with every moldy so unless you
were to spray it with a fire-retardant
material and a mold resistant material
thus making it less healthy as opposed
to more right I would like to look into
this more maybe build myself a straw
home Google is starting again from
scratch with its glass project sales of
the controversial smart spectacles were
halted in January and development of the
prototype has also believed was also
believed to have been stopped
first revealed in 2011 google glass made
a big impact in mid 2012 when the
company demonstrated it at its
developers conference using skydivers
and stunt cyclists the wow factor but
many working on the device were unhappy
with the exposure because it meant its
final development had to take place in
public the New York Times said the
controversy the project gained gave rise
to tensions among the development team
forcing some Q researchers to leave
glass development is now being driven by
the former apple gadget designer Tony
Fadell who has reset the project the new
version will be developed internally and
only released when finished I wonder
like it seems very like a covert
operation I wonder what the glass maybe
they'll just coming from the company
that has purchased artificial
intelligence companies and robotics
companies and now is working behind
closed doors I just wonder like what
what is google glass going to become
because i think most of the pushback
from google glass was that it was it
just was it's creepy and it makes you
feel like you're always being recorded
right so are they just gonna make it a
little bit less creepy by to fake
eyeballs well i was thinking like could
you really put like that maybe a contact
that would be in your eye that record
augmented reality in a contact lens now
that would be awesome that would be
really great that means you could close
your eyes and read your email hey why
are you sleep you can watch a movie wow
i think it from a design perspective I
hope that Tony will improve upon their
logo because I don't know about you I
like to Kern my logos because GL ass is
not a real thing Ravi I haven't had a
lot of sleeve if I all of my designer is
there's a yeah yeah learn the current
man lovely well good luck to you google
glass I still think you're creepy and a
boon to powered smartphone is coming to
the market a year and a half after
previous attempt to launch a model via
crowdfunding failed the aquarius
efore bright slideshow mode sorry about
that oh sorry what we just went into a
slideshow it's the Age of Aquarius the
Aquarius EE 4.5 Ubuntu addition relies
on a card like user into the interface
that is not focused on apps unlike the
original proposal the handset does not
become a desktop PC when plugged into a
monitor it is initially being targeted
at early adopters who developers hope
will become advocates for the platform
the British company cannot have
canonical which developed the
linux-based operating system said it
hoped to emulate the success of Chinese
companies including zo me which it with
its launch strategy Jia me this includes
holding a number of flash sales in
Europe beginning this week in which the
device will be sold for a short period
of time giving the developers an
opportunity to gauge demand in response
to feedback before committing to a
bigger production run the aboon to
handset can run apps written in either
html5 web program programming language
or its own native qml code however its
operating system effectively hides them
away instead of the traditional
smartphone user interface featuring
grids of apps that it uses themed cards
that group together different facilities
canonical calls these scopes and they're
reminiscent of the swype based card
system used by the Google now personal
assistant the phones themselves are
being made and sold by a Spanish company
BQ which already has an Android variants
of the hardware they include an eight
megapixel rear camera a 5-megapixel
front 1 and a 1 gigabyte of ram memory
they will cost about 170 euros which is
195 dollars or 127 pounds so this is a
phone that I would want Robbie yeah yes
what self professing geek wouldn't want
in a bundu phone so what's the scope
what do you think a scope would look
like I don't know you know I'm gonna
have to experience the the
to platform on phones I really like the
ubuntu edge and the whole idea behind
marks vision for a phone that was
dockable to become a desktop computer
basically really kind of like that idea
so where they're going with it we'll
have to see I know that some of the
flash sales are going on today I think
they're taking a break but we're going
to see more and more of these getting
actual physical reviews since they are
becoming available on the market so so
what you're saying is that possibly this
could be a product that I could fuck my
new show hey there is no not to be an
idea where your phone how's your samsung
treating you is this be kind of bleeding
edge for sure no pun intended how
awesome would that be not so awesome in
the tech world I feel like this happens
weekly actually Samsung is warning
customers about discussing personal
information in front of their smart
television set what yes scary stuff the
warning applies to TV viewers who
control their Samsung Smart TV using its
voice activation feature when the
feature is active such TV sets listen to
what is said and may share what they
hear with Samsung or third parties it
said Samsung's privacy policy for its
net connected smart TV sets explained
that the TV will be listening to people
in the same room to try and spot when
commands or queries are issued via the
remote it goes on to say if you're
spoken words include personal or other
sensitive information that information
will be among the data captured and
transmitted to a third party the third
party being the company providing speech
to text conversation for samsung
publicity about the issue LED competitor
LG to create a software update which
ensured data collection was turned off
for those who did not want to share
information so for what I understand
your information will only be gathered
while you're actually actively using the
voice recognition on your remote like
it's not always constantly working
that's kind of the the misconception I
think when it comes to you know news
stories and
these kinds of technologies and that
there's a fear mongering that happens
right and Samsung's immediate almost
while the warning or the the admission
that this is actually happening it kind
of makes everybody sit on edge but the
fact is yeah I mean to activate Siri how
do you what do you do you hold in the
the home button nerds right there's a
process so on your samsung remote
there's actually a button that allows
you to activate the feature I have one
of these remotes and literally I have to
press a button talk in the microphone
channel 4 and then it switches to
channel 4 right so if while I'm pressing
that button I say I am planning on
taking over the world right then
everybody hears that and it doesn't
switch to channel 4 instead I take you
over to the Microsoft channel or Google
glass okay yeah I think that it's it's
more it's the fear of you don't
necessarily know what your technology is
doing behind under the hood behind the
scenes that mean we hear about smart
cars and the fact that they're
broadcasting unencrypted information and
being able to be controlled by
unencrypted connections and then you
have a smart TV that when you tell it
what to do it actually transmits that
voice command to a third party service
if it doesn't recognize it off the bat
it's translated then and sent back but
who's to say you know is that knows
who's intercepting it who's controlling
it who is in charge of that information
in that content that data TVs have
webcams built into them now and so it
starts to become very creepy when you
think about the Big Brother aspect and
you know the the ability of governments
to you know use these kinds of
technologies that it could happen I
think makes people fear that it is
happening even though it may not be yeah
creepy and scary but I think we'll be
okay
for all your tech news with a slight
Linux bias visit the category 5 TV news
room at newsroom category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
through made it
you
