here are the story is recovering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom Sony
has officially ended production of its
PS Vita games console Amazon has
announced a new way for environmentally
conscious shoppers to help reduce
emissions a voluntary program that lets
Prime members schedule one bit specific
day per week for deliveries Microsoft is
creating windows Lite for dual screen
and Chromebook like devices and Linux
kernel 5.0 has been released and we'll
tell you what's new these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with the
slight linux by us Jeff Weston GEMA
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
what are you you're a terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman in here the top stories
were following this week Sony has
officially ended production of its PS
Vita games console the handheld console
has been gradually phased out over the
past few years and this weekend Sony
announced it would be discontinuing the
Vitas final final two models the PS Vita
struggled against rival devices as well
as a surge in the popularity of mobile
gaming with no plans for a successor
games critics say that a Sony version of
the successful Nintendo switch is
unlikely when the PS Vita launched in
Japan in 2011 it initially sold well
about 300,000 units in the Vitas first
week but these figures dropped sharply
Sony is estimated to have sold only 10
to 15 million units of the Vitas entire
lifetime in comparison Nintendo switch
console has sold more than 32 million
units only two years after it first went
on sale not only did the PS Vita have
trouble keeping up with the popularity
of Nintendo DS's family of portable
gaming systems but the final but in the
years since the Vitas launched also saw
an explosion in mobile gaming with
smartphones and tablets becoming
powerful enough to run graphically
intensive apps
although the Vita rolled out with
high-profile titles such as unchartered
golden Abyss Assassin's Creed 3
liberation and LittleBigPlanet PS Vita
the beginning of the end came when Sony
announced in 2015 that it would stop
making its own games for the Vita
deciding to focus
instead on titles for its ps4 console in
2018 sony said that it would cease
physical production of the Vita games
and that 2019 would be the final year
the device was manufactured while the PS
Vita has been consigned to history
Sony's believed to be readying a new
games console mmm I think that the
switch has nailed it okay so yeah here's
the thing with the handhelds I'll tell
you to be honest with you I never even
heard of the PS Vita oh come on I never
even heard of it come on and I have a
switch but I have a ps4 and I'm really
anticipating in the PS 5 like we were
super anticipating we're holding back
buying games knowing that it's gonna
have coming it's coming yeah
so I feel like Sony just it needs to pay
attention to that end of things like mmm
I feel like Nintendo has the handhelds
they've got it they don't amazingly
Nintendo was on this like yeah yeah from
your perspective you know it kind of
going down right like it was not doing
too well and then all of a sudden the
switch nailed it like the new Wii you
know this switch is great like we have
we have friends we go over to their
house with our switch console like like
and everybody connects someplace
together yeah we have some major T's
like we're super cool so switch is the
bomb now at home we played the ps4 a lot
okay right so I'm excited for Sony to be
focusing its attention really on the PS
5 because there are some games that I'm
waiting for Nintendo really nailed it
with the switch like amazingly so to the
point where they found a happy medium
between console and mobile mm-hmm it's
almost annoying because some of this
some of the games in the Nintendo store
are basically mobile games so you got to
kind of sift through but yes at the same
time there's some really good titles in
there and it functions really well it
works really well it does
Satch it translates really well like my
kids will pull it off the 55 inch TV and
take it upstairs and play with it on the
couch mm-hmm just seamlessly it's
brilliant but the PS Vita was before
this I'm sold it's like a hangout come
on
just I never saw it I just don't even
know and that is the trouble this is why
they ended production they never got to
me I just didn't even know it like wow
never once even saw commercial for the
PS Vita maybe that's it
I didn't even that's a good point maybe
the marketing was just not there I
didn't even know when I was reading it
how to say it like is it Vita or is it
Vida
I've liked vitamin never seen it and I
feel like Sony can do better so maybe
they just were behind it themselves if
they had pushed it better maybe it would
have been a better product and there you
have it there's the there's the point
right there
yeah she just didn't know about it yeah
or else maybe I would is a Sony fan
she's got a ps4 she's waiting for the
PSP that marketing was a part of it I am
super brand loyal so probably it's your
fault zone it's your fault Sony come on
pick it up
right Amazon has announced a new way for
environmentally conscious shoppers to
help reduce emissions a voluntary
program that lets Prime members schedule
one specific day per week for deliveries
last week Amazon announced that it would
be making a program widely available to
Amazon Prime members that would allow
them to schedule all deliveries for a
single day once a week the so-called
Amazon day service will be voluntary and
targets customers who are concerned
about their carbon footprint grouping
purchase deliveries will help Amazon cut
down on emissions associated with
sending a delivery truck to the same
house multiple times a week and the
company says holding orders for a single
day during the week will also allow it
to group orders within a single package
thereby reducing packaging customers can
select their preferred day of the week
to receive shipments customers can add
items to their Amazon day shipments up
to until two days in advance of the
shipments customers can choose to remove
an item from the Amazon day delivery
having it shipped more expedia
speciously if necessary selects Prime
members have already had access to the
program but it was made available to all
Prime members of last Thursday the
program is a part of Amazon's plan to
get 50% of its shipments to net zero
carbon emissions by 2030
interesting so I although a man in like
environmentally conscious person I like
the environment I didn't think of the
environment
I like the entire I love the environment
I love this earth I'm happy that we live
on it that's not what I thought of I
thought of all of the people who steal
things off of people's porches remember
that story we know today they're gonna
know well I'm just I'm just gonna pick a
day when I make it my day hey they're
picking the damn home like say I always
have Saturday's off hmm
Saturday's my new ship day that's it BAM
I'm home I'm curious to know how much of
a differences can actually make because
if you and I were neighbors yeah and I
wasn't subscribed to this but you were
yeah well the truck is still coming
right
right so you're delaying your shipment
but mine's still coming so what
difference does it make now where I
could see it making a difference for me
personally but it would take everybody
participating in this it's like
Christmastime right as at Christmas time
it's like oh here's another great idea
for the kids oh here's another great one
and so you're ordering multiple
different orders rather than putting
them all into one package right I mean
if it's Christmas you don't want the
packages to be delivered at a time when
you're not home and they are right it
would make sense for you to pick a time
you are home that's the part that I like
that doesn't affect me because it gets
delivered to the office but but it could
be put into one box my Christmas time
just as an example my clinic is closed
three day three days a week
Wow the reason you do with all your free
time I know right yeah I would not pick
a day the clinic was closed if I was
having something sure right yeah it just
I loved it and now to me the carbon
footprint like the emissions
minimization to me is secondary to the
convenience of just picking the day I
really love it what are your thoughts
again I'm just a little skeptical about
the impact whether it's really that
notable on the environment this is what
I'm saying
it's not I mean that's how it's being
marked it's how it's being marketed and
I understand it's being marketed like
that because we all love the earth and
we all want to do well for the earth but
for me it's the convenience of knowing I
don't necessarily need next day shipment
I I'm a prime member I don't need that I
need it to come when I'm available to
receive it sure that is it okay yeah you
don't want it left on your doorstep not
these days no no it's crazy pirates
yeah your porch pirates Microsoft is
creating windows light for dual screen
and Chromebook like eight devices
Microsoft is preparing a new lightweight
version of Windows for dual screen
devices and Chromebook Chromebook
competitors they're stripping back the
Windows user interface with dual screens
in mind this new hardware could launch
as early as later this year depending on
chip and PC maker readiness Intel has
been pushing OEMs to create this new
hardware category and machines could
appear much like Microsoft's courier
concept dual screen laptops or even
foldable displays in the future either
way Microsoft wants Windows to be ready
for PC makers to take advantage of it
the windows Lite interface will be
similar to Windows as it exists today
but will be more of a blend of what
Microsoft does with its surface hub
shell and the limited functionality of
its Windows Phone continuum user
interface Microsoft might be targeting
dual screen devices initially but the
longer plan is for Windows Lite to help
the company better compete against
Chromebooks Microsoft has previously
tried restricting Windows 10 with an S
mode to just Microsoft Store apps but
most of the legacy of the Windows
interface remains Microsoft is now
looking to ship something a lot more
basic with Windows Lite and build on top
of it for a more complexity down the
line if not clear exactly when Microsoft
will ship windows Lite or what it will
eventually be named the software maker
has been experimenting with these ideas
for years as it has watched Chrome OS
grow in popularity throughout schools in
the u.s. Microsoft is holding its build
conference in Seattle early
in early May and that would be an ideal
opportunity to start revealing parts of
what its window light strategy
especially if it wants developers to
build a native app and web experiences
for the new platform really comes back
to kind of the Sony case or it's like
they're they're just a little bit behind
yeah where technology is where the user
is yeah
Microsoft is the same it's like okay
well everybody's using their phones and
their tablets and they're like oh we
should probably do that yeah something
like that yeah yeah it'll be interesting
to see how they make that switch do we
even do even want it new I am I know and
I would be aggravated by them trying
it's like it yes it just kind of feels
to me like it's not a needed thing right
now I mean do yes competition and
everything is a good thing obviously but
but you're not good at it Microsoft no
and I don't I don't care for you to try
to be a part of something else like yeah
always a follower always a follower
Linux kernel 5.0 has been released and
we'll tell you what's new previously
earmarked to be version 4.2 one the new
release comes with a bucket full of
improvements as you'd expect but don't
expect grand changes just because
there's a natty new version number linus
torvalds explains the numbering change
is not indicative of anything special if
you want to have an official reason it's
that I ran out of fingers and toes to
count on so four point two one became
5.0 as always the bulk of the
improvements sit at the lower end most
major changes are invisible intangible
and uninteresting that said there are
some notable new additions worth
mentioning these include speedy data
encryption to low-end devices in
Hardware AMD freesync support for
dynamic refresh rates and no screen
tearing the Raspberry Pi touch screen
driver out of the box and
a boatload of new hardware support the
upcoming release of a boon to nineteen
point o4 is almost certain to include
Linux kernel 5.0 or a later minor
revision should one emerge before kernel
phrase on April 1st that said you don't
have to wait until then if you're an
early adopter who's not afraid to break
everything it's possible to install
Linux 5.0 mainline kernel now there's
been a lot of updates to like older
hardware components as well and
improvements I think we're gonna see
things really evolving as far as like
the the performance goes right I like it
I also really just like like Linus
Torvalds like crazy sense of humor he's
just he you wouldn't know it's a sense
of humor unless you really analyzed it
yeah he's so straight with this
presentation don't look to 5.0 do at a
5.0 should we jump into cryptocurrency
market for the week I do want to just
kind of quickly review we're kind of on
the up-and-up
things are going up of course Bitcoin
according to coin gecko this week as of
1800 hours Eastern Time on the 6th of
March a Bitcoin up $95 and 34 cents us
so it is currently at the time of
recording sitting at three thousand
eight hundred and sixty dollars and
fifty eight cents litecoin up to 5500
five aetherium at 1:30 689 also up
gaining five point nine two US dollars
in the past week Minero is up to 49 20
per coin and stellite is losing just a
little bit I mean it's such fractions
right by the dollar 50 you a dollar
everybody who has a billion stellite is
rich one point five zero ten thousandth
of a cent
I really need to write this out a little
bit differently uh turtle coin at zero
point seven seven ten thousandth of a
cent not to be mistaken for seventy
seven cents per turtle coin because if
that was the case well I would let be
absolutely rich we'd be laughing
can you imagine giddy giddy remember
though that the the cryptocurrency
market never closes and it is always
volatile big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
