what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category five dot
TV or email us at
category 5 TV and now let's begin here's
your host Robbie Ferguson's welcome to
episode number 161 of category 5
technology TV 161 week so you say wow
like it was just yesterday well you was
just just like it seems like a few weeks
does this is only like that was alive
for me I for fantast I don't know hey
welcome to the show great to have you
here my name is Ravi Ferguson hi mera
kid that was good you'd think we planned
that we did we were working on that
you're like 20 minutes before the show
tonight we've got lots of stuff going on
of course it is Tuesday October the 19
2010 case you were wondering you can set
your clocks by us here we are we are
going to be looking at some new audio
editing software that is available in
ubuntu as of two point oh four and also
at did I say 2 point 0 for 10 point 0 4
and also 10 point 10 it's available in
there we're gonna be qualifying you for
a draw for a brother multifunction
Center printer and we got something to
give away tonight as you still play with
the nanodots I plant we made this very
nice it's like a string or something i'm
i'm waiting philippine just collapsing
know what I was pretty pretty powerful
yeah you're come your hard drive I'll
show you so that's that's really what we
got going on tonight and certainly we've
got lots and lots and lots of questions
we got ice trying to learn twitter
twitter.com slash kid Eric to follow him
and there's my mom / Robbie Ferguson to
to chat with me and of course our
hashtag being category five tonight we
have our our friend Mark joining us from
Brother Canada mark Rowell is there he
is hey Mark how are you what you owe me
hey Mark I mark is joining us from
Brother Canada and Mark would just kind
of wanted to talk with you tonight a
little bit about now I I was previously
self-employed way back in the day and
and one of the things that I had real
trouble with was was keeping myself
organized keeping my business organized
and would love to kind of tap into your
knowledge I know you've been kind of
doing the rounds in can
about finding out what what we can do to
get our our home offices and our small
businesses organized so love to hear
what you what you have to contribute to
that kind of conversation and we're
watching the chat room here just so you
know mark to answer your questions so
make sure you get the chat room up there
its category five dot TV and we welcome
your questions good to have you here
nice to be here thanks for thanks for
having me yeah cheers hi Robbie how many
how many hours a month would you say you
spend cleaning your home office this
week or this month oh like how much how
many hours a month my wife is watching
this so I dare not inflate those numbers
mark I would say maybe three or four
three or four hours a month myself yeah
but but my home office is really my
studio right so that's a little bit
different when I was in business for
myself I would say it was it was much
much less than that my wife said that
you know and I would say that that goes
along with what we've found is that most
people don't really pay much attention
to cleaning the Home Office it's a place
where you know you normally you just
throw stuff on your desk and then you
get back to it whenever you can because
you're too busy going on with your
professional life or your personal life
and it becomes a more of a footlocker
than an office sometimes yeah agra moto
says that he spends probably about 15
minutes a week and I know exactly what
you're saying there but I I'm organized
to the point where my piles I know
what's what and where's where things are
well ya see but and it's great that
should that that is that way there was a
sustained he knows done in the USA by
gfk Roper custom research they surveyed
800 part-time and full-time
professionals to measure the cost and
the effects of disorganization in the
workplace and they came up with some
really amazing facts one of them was if
they estimate that the total cost of
looking for items in the workplace in
Canada and the US talks 89 billion
annually what that's in terms of work
hours lost just looking like this is
this is just the guy getting paid
fifteen dollars an hour to look to walk
around looking for pens it's it's it's
all levels of all levels of the
workforce that's so staggering unimac
it's a it's a very very serious problem
to be a to be disorganized in the in the
home office as well seventy-eight
percent of the respondents in this study
felt that a disorganized or messing look
messy looking desk was unprofessional
and that's that's their perception of
themselves as well as others other
people's perception of them sixty-six
percent of these people that were
surveyed estimated that they spent up to
30 minutes a week just looking for lost
work related items at their desk or
around the office and fifty-six percent
of people spent a similar amount of time
just looking for files they could not
find in their in their computer wow so
disorganisation is a is certainly
something that we all have to fight
constantly but you know there's
basically you know a few basic
principles that you can follow to help
yourself through this and Ellis it takes
it's a just follow these principles and
a little bit of discipline and you'll be
much more organized I mean Sergeant Rhee
said Robbie that you're kind of
disorganized but you know where
everything is yeah well you could be
just getting yourself a step further
into you know exactly where everything
is and you never lose your concentration
looking for it that's the idea and
that's what we can talk about I have a
few techniques I'm I'll give an example
you have a messy work desk some very
very basic technology like an inbox an
inbox is just like a simple box that you
put paperwork in and instead of
spreading it horizontally on your desk
put it in the inbox and then decide 15
minutes or 20 minutes away you're going
to take to individually go through each
of the items that gets piled up into the
inbox and there's a rule that's called
hio which is handle it once in other
words you got a building that box pick
it up go to the Internet do that post
dated bill paying and then done that
stone
that's one less piece of paper in your
life that's a brilliant thought and I've
never really given that a lot of thought
but really I think you're kind of I
don't know if my wife has been talking
to you on the phone or what like I'll do
that where I set something on my desk
and then Tuesday night comes and I've
got to clear off the desk because it's
time for the show and I got to get ready
right and yeah my wife does this to me
mail comes and stuff and when every
Tuesday night I come down to the studio
and here's all this mail and stuff to go
through and I don't go through it
because I end up throwing it aside or
putting in a box because I don't have
time for these boxes but it's usually a
black hole well yeah once it's in there
it's so what what kind of advice can you
give to somebody like that where you
know I'm constantly just clearing things
off my desk and where does it go it
probably goes into a box and I may never
see it or not see it until I go through
that box I think the key you just gave
to me is is the fact that you don't see
it because there's so much stuff on top
it's a matter of taking a bit of time
each week you can you can you know
specify yourself with this a time or a
specific day of the week and take 20
minutes 30 minutes just to get through
that you'll feel more organized you'll
feel more confident your desk will be
more open Amanda you'll feel more more
able to work in a concentrated fashion
there's a lot of different variations on
the inbox you can have what we call a
meeting box which is a when you're
working on projects you gather all the
elements one by one and you put them
progressively into this meeting box and
when it's time to go to that meeting all
you have to do is just grab that that
folder and run you don't have to sit
through a bunch of stuff and panic just
before your your meeting you know my sis
are being built as your as you're
building your project that that's
another variation you should always have
another box is called a file box which
is a could be the same size as the inbox
but if there's documents you know you
won't be looking at for like another
three weeks or month or four months I
you know you what you can put them away
into that box because you know you're
going to take some time and file them I
love why to put them in your filing
cabinet or you can scan and
electronically in your computer that
those those are just a couple of ways we
have morning higher mark to come in for
an afternoon every week
well gia I don't know if you could
afford yeah now we give up until we give
it a lot of free advice on our web site
to another thing I want to talk about is
labeling labeling is very simple but
it's actually a really effective way of
organizing yourself I give an example I
made these splat folders here hope you
can see them I'll just bring up to okay
and I made these with a p-touch laidler
he touched label is something that you
can you can get and pick up for forty
nine dollars you can get different
colored labels you can and you can color
code your file folders sounds kind of
simple but in fact something is color
coded what that actually enables you to
do is pick out the necessary information
much more quickly if you're looking at a
stack of papers it's hard to
differentiate use have to start reading
those those papers in order to define
your way through them if labels are
color coded on your folders then you can
just you know that for example your your
medical folders are labeled blue your
personal folders are labeled red you've
got your bill folders or late or labeled
green for example you you choose your
categorization but it'll certainly help
you become a quicker person in office
organization that makes practical sense
and I'm glad to have you here on the
show this is mark ruell who's joining us
from Brother Canada brother dot CA is
their website just sharing some
practical tips with us on home office
and small business office organization
you can join us in the chat room
category five dot TV if you have some
questions and now is there somewhere
that people can email questions to mark
if if they're not able to get a hold of
you during the actual live broadcast
tonight there's a well you can you can
email us at brother dot CA or public
relations at brother dot CA also you can
you can email MLS there
we can answer your questions if you have
them for sure great because there are a
lot of people who watch category 5 not
necessarily live but through miro
internet TV and other syndication
partners so so that's great to have them
we appreciate that questions in the chat
room make sure you post them to my
attention or to add to Eric kit amol
that will watch for it and i'll let you
continue I will you know I was going to
suggest another a style of office
equipment that you can think about that
everyone basically needs a printer right
but if you were able to get a machine
that not only prints but scans copies
faxes does all of that in the same
footprint as would a printer then you'll
be you'll be ahead of the game in terms
of the space you've saved in your home
office which we all know is probably a
small space to begin with so I brought
along an example here which is a jet
multifunction Center Princeton color and
is can be very useful around the office
if you can you can do things like scan
scan your documents into your your PC
that's it that's a great way of getting
rid of paperwork you've got a lot of
paperwork don't be afraid to scan them
in and you can actually get rid of the
hard copies afterwards because if you
have readable copies that's actually
it's actually something that that is a
perfect replacement for for your actual
hard copy so you can reduce the amount
of paperwork inside your office or from
the plane is available just like this
very very simple use machine yeah eric
was just bringing up a valid point us
and I guess I guess really it depends on
what the what the purpose of the paper
is but if how does Revenue Canada feel
about doc if they if you've got tax
related stuff is that uh yeah it's
actually possible on the revenue canada
site they actually do state that if you
have scanned copies legible scanned
copies there are worth the originals in
terms of their value to to revenue
canada so it is possible to to work off
scam coffee so long as you can print
them out afterwards and prayed hard copy
if necessary mmm pack your stuff up kids
but that's the other neat thing about
doing that kind of thing like archiving
your documents through through scanning
is that you're you're able to back them
up if units right if you have a fire or
flood you're not losing the only copy
that you have you exactly you can make
several copies and you can put them in
different places on DVDs you can put
them on a hard drive on a all sorts of
things you can also there's a free
software that comes with this particular
machine which is the multi-function pro
software and it allows you to not only
scan in those documents very easily but
also note 8 them if you want to remember
stuff about say a certain bills that you
have you can you can actually do little
sticky notes on those bills before
filing in the way so it has that extra
flexibility to it the electronic filing
goes right and and that particular model
that you have there does it have a sheet
feeder as well yeah it's got a 35-page a
sort of ten pages a sheet feeder some of
our mock said 35 but this one is ten
pages so what's great about sheet peter
is that it allows you more time to do
other things you know around your office
while you're scanning in because it's
it's automated that you you put in a
maximum of ten sheets on this model and
just let it go it'll-it'll scandals one
by one and get them all into your
computer sort of in an automated way
right and these machines have basically
kept up with technology a lot I'll give
an example of this one brother just came
out with with an appt a free app which
is called I printing scam which allows
you with the machine like this one to
actually take a document let's say
you're going to a meeting and you've
gotta talk of it like this that you
actually want to share electronically
you can take this and put in a machine
and then you can select the brother apps
that you have an iPad and you select the
not sure if you can see that correctly
but now I'll just can skimp on the iPad
there yeah so this is Manning from the
scanner wirelessly to your iPad directly
yes that's right from the scanner
wirelessly to the iPad we're working on
a Wi-Fi connection here it's ad hoc
right now and it's just going
going to go into this this very simple
application it's actually quite unique
right now there's no other manufacturer
that it can actually get you to scan
from your MSC into your iPad but we can
also print from the ipad to the mfc
wirelessly as well oh wow so I see the
advantage see just popped up on the
screen there the advantage is you can
you know basically if you want to
concentrate on this chart you can make
it bigger only nifty things that an iPad
can do you can do with this application
very simple you can email it to people
at your meeting you can upload it to a
computer or upload it to the server
there when you come back in print stuff
out wirelessly on the mfc that people
have given you on your iPad so I mean
basically speaking you know one hundred
and forty nine dollars you can get a lot
of functionality out of multifunction
units such as this one mm-hmm so
features in that particular model that's
the mfc J 615 W is there like a card
reader for photo printing and things
like that yes actually yes it taken
print photos quite well I see there's a
there's a USB port here at the front for
pic bridge and USB direct printing you
can also scan to to a USB key as well
directly without the use of grant you
see you have a different memory card a
memory card slot that fits the different
types of memory cards so that allows you
to you know to put a little flexibility
in not only for yourself in the office
but also for your family so it's kind of
a machine it bridges the gap between
your office use and your family's right
so it's great great home office edition
basically I actually upgraded to a
brother mfc 6490 CDW a while ago from
the individual components and I was one
of those people mark that really had
trouble I guess I guess you would say I
had trouble grasping why I would trade
in my old scanner which scan just fine
and my old printer which printed just
fine for an all-in-one unit but then my
my printer needed needed a new drum or
something it ended up being almost as it
was like as much money to buy a new pair
and it's with the multifunction Center I
found not only like you say being able
to to print directly from the USB but
also scanning directly to the USB when
we had to do our taxes for example I put
the the papers into the sheet feeder and
scan directly to a PDF file on the USB
stick and I presume that this printer
will do the same thing and it's just
fantastic that it'll do all that and
it's just walk away and hands-free
without the need for the interim step of
a computer where you have to you know
hook up the computer to it and print but
of course or and scan it using a printer
a scanning application so save a lot of
work there for me but also using it for
home use like 44 just printing home
photos and stuff saving money printing
our own photos on photo paper has
anything exactly nice as well there's
been a lot of different applications and
what you said earlier on about it being
one machine instead of like two or three
that it's only one machine to learn it's
only one machine to change the
consumables on so I mean it's a win-win
situation you're getting something
that's that's two more compact it gives
you more space but at the same time it's
also easier to learn in and up cute very
indignant too yeah these machines are
extremely intuitive they have to be
because they're there they have to be
very appealing to the Home Office that's
our that's our main focus a brother
where were were basically experts in
Home Office and small office creation
machine creation fantastic sorry to do
do you have a question oh I was just
gonna comment it takes up a whole lot
less real estate than all that bonus
that you might get might want to play
with the absolute Liam and like you can
see for those of you who are watching
and see behind mark shoulder there the
footprint of the printer is is quite
small but the size of a little print and
that's that does everything so so that
obviously is going to help us out in the
Home Office the small business who needs
an economical printer what are we going
to like what would it cost not to turn
this into a printer advertisement I
don't want to get to do that because I
know we're talking about about
organization and and effective use of
technology for for our businesses but
but that in mind you know we do have to
think economically as a small business
or as a home user who's trying to do
business
us we definitely are mindful of the
economy and you know how much
consumables costs so looking at this
particular model that you have like
where does brother fall in with that
with just not only the economics but
also the environmental friendliness of
of consumables well there's a whole
range of products that there's there's a
fairly wide price range and that's
because there's not only one technology
there's inkjet technology there's laser
technology in terms of the inkjet
technology that that's more than one
that bridges into family because you can
it allows you to print photos and we
have very vibrant colors when it comes
to laser technology that's where someone
is printing like several hundred pages a
week and that's a business printer
basically so there's a lot that there's
a lot going into that so I mean you got
it you got a kind of feel out what is
the best technology for you before you
go out and buy that's that's certain in
terms of the ecological sense there's
there several features that that we have
on our printers that are eco-friendly if
you don't mind me using the term sorry
for you see how well good there's
there's stuff like toner save mode aim
save mode you can print draft when you
you know you can saving when you don't
have to use that the super high quality
right if you're using of just draft
documents we got a cartridge system I'm
not sure if you can see here but there's
just four cartridges for individual
cartridges in attachment so that means
that you change only the cartridge that
needs to be replaced you don't have to
replace a whole big cartridge and you
just throw out just because you're out
of one color that's one of the key
advantages that we have over the
competition in terms of that in terms of
our laser machines it's very similar we
have a drum and toner system John's
naturally last a very long time toner is
toner and you can go through it quickly
or more slowly but essentially on a on
an integrated toner drum system when
you're throwing it out you're throwing
out the drum in the toner right whereas
brother system is drum and toner
separate so you can keep the same drum
worth maybe depending on the model maybe
20,000 pages 25,000 pages and you can
change the toner occasionally so you're
you're throwing a lot less plastic into
the environment that way
right so some some ecological features
if you will on that was fantastic and I
appreciate that about brother and and
their mindset towards towards both well
like you say that the cartridges being
into individual like that we can save a
lot of money because if I run out of
yellow ink because somebody printed you
know a picture that had a lot of yellow
flowers in it it destroyed you lose
someone printed a picture of Spongebob
and and ran off a bunch of that then
then you're you're just having to
replace or or I guess you can get do you
support refills with these things or I
don't want to touch on that if it's no
no it's okay the refills for us is it
sits matter of we can't really there's
no real control on the quality of the
product thereafter right because if you
start refilling then what exactly is
going in there we are ranks are
basically engineered from from the
beginning of the machine if you will to
match the technology of the machine so
in terms of toner that's that's the
exact cooking temperature it's like the
type of granules that go into it and in
terms of the anchors there's a lot of
different different elements that have
to give the proper viscosity in order
for the print head not to get clogged in
order for the game to go onto the page
and not sink through so there's a lot of
R&amp;D that goes into the development of
these technologies that makes it and the
machines are built alongside the inks
through the the the manufacturing the
engineering the development the
manufacturing process so I mean your
best bet with a brother machine if you
want to optimize your results if you
want the optimal results you use brother
genuine consumables because any other
kind of consumable whether it be
refilled or you know errors out there
just won't optimize the brother machine
just one optim-ox equality yeah makes
sense especially when a lot of these
refill places do like they it's like a
blanket ink right like will refill
inkjet printers and it's like the red is
the red and the
I yeah well yeah so the viscosity and
and other variables are all factors in
the quality of the printing so we
appreciate you coming on the show is
there anything more that you can they
you know more tips that you can give us
just real quickly before we wrap up and
head into the news I know you're anxious
Tony to go into that but anything else
that can help us to be organized in our
in our home businesses i would say
whatever system that you develop make
sure that it's something that you stick
to and that you do regularly if it's if
it's a half an hour a week maybe that's
all we need just to get you you know
have yourself an organized and specific
time that you sit down and go through
documents and sit through them to get
yourself more organized i think it's
it's just being regular being
disciplined and you'll win you'll sit so
much more time in the long run right
well might I mean if there's other you
can come to brother CA and come see a
you know we have other information on
the Home Office and plenty great
products so that you can look at to
optimize your home office as well
fabulous thanks for being on the show
mark the printer that is that's behind
mark there a game that's the mfc J 615 W
and we're gonna actually be giving one
of those away in four weeks so we're
gonna be taking some qualifiers tonight
I'm gonna tell you more about that and
mark thanks for that I know our viewers
appreciate the chance to win a fantastic
device okay well thank you very much for
having me Robbie thanks for being on the
show mark have a great night see you
mark ok ok this is category 5 technology
TV i'm your host ravi ferguson and you
are i'm eric kid he's he's over here
going Ames was I was writing on the
screen there's a spelling error isn't
really no no actually no Lee the
copywriter did a fine job today fine job
you know actually I've tried lots of a
remanufactured cartridges and refills
over the years yeah I always seem to go
back to buying either a finite roddick
so you always get my feelings hurt
absolutely right there so yeah so what
that's just now you you wanted you want
to tease to the news cuz we didn't get a
chance because I'd like to do the
interview right off the top of the show
but so you let us know what's coming up
in the news that'll be
that'd be great Oh brobbey what's coming
up at all it was really oh yeah well
sipi you surprised me is well there's a
question here will linux users be
excited or upset about BBC Radio's new
HD audio who knows we'll find out later
oh great online tracking companies and
advertisers are using facebook apps to
mine user data for their purposes Oracle
confirms their plans to continue
development of the three openoffice.org
sweet and who into linux provides touch
screen features similar to the ipad take
the knife so stick around for these and
all the other latest stories from the
category 5 TV news room stick around
with you guys thanks very ok yeah don't
go anywhere where would you possibly go
well you just want to tune in fantastic
we got stuff to give away we got a
printer to qualify for we got nanodots
to give away Eric's over here I don't
dots during descent earth would you stop
with my nose out I can hear it in the
microphone yeah and and Marcus is
wondering what that noise is mark seems
to have gotten over don't gotta give
people we need to give away this pack of
nano yes cuz Eric need to get this off
the Saturday are addictive i gotta tell
you i hope they i'm i'm making a you
know you can make your sweetie some
jewelry some bling on I messed it up
already messed it up um yeah so focus
what do we got you got some questions
come on Splash I know you're having a
good time it's kind of nice yeah and
it'll cure what ails you apparently no
that's not one of their claims yeah
Corey's just for Corey said I'm on the
nano duds no way put a wanker down their
down they are cool though you got it you
have to touch these two really know how
neat they are is as cool as you know
like people's way back in the old days
when I was a kid say the thermometer
broken and all that very very few roll
around before I mean this stuff isn't
dangerous but well as long as well eat
it but you're not gonna do it on purpose
it's really neat
I haven't seen you make too much out of
it yet but they were going on and put
that right there are you give those
various later it's gonna give him away
on me well Bruce more has a question
paper maybe it's a comment okay he and
Joy's your show yeah mural very good so
there's an congratulations on the fourth
year so thank you he sees that you
recommend seagate barracuda drives and
he says I've trusted them myself for
many years until recently okay when I
was building myself a new computer 100%
lubuntu a couple of years ago I chose a
shiny new 500 gigabyte seagate barracuda
within a few weeks I was experiencing
some random file corruption problems and
suspected a possible hard drive fault so
I bought another 500 gigabyte see by
seagate can I start over again I mean
okay just picking up for hand replaced
it unfortunately the file corruption
issues continued and I also noticed
recurring slow performance as well
program is taking abnormally long to
launch etc over the ensuing months I
made countless attempts to isolate a
cause changing cables checking various
software settings even running with
slower system clocks all to no avail now
I'll just say my first flag with that is
you need to check your firmware version
on your hard drive if you if you buy a
new hard drive right out of the box you
get a brand new hard drive and a lot of
times you're gonna have a firmware
update that comes out after people have
started using the drives and back in the
day the 500 gig was a pretty big hard
drive and so the first thing that they
did is they released a firmware update
for the seagate drives if you didn't get
that update you're gonna experience some
problems not really a seagate hard drive
problem but you got to be you got to
know that that the firmware is important
so you always check the Seagate site or
any manufacturer for that matter i have
the same problem with one of our webcams
know where it was really really
problematic checked the website there
was a firmware update I've been there
wireless rotors same sort of idea yeah
so not to interrupt but that would be
the first thing that we should check so
a few months ago I was looking at the
Ubuntu
10.04 Disk Utility it showed my drive
with a reassuringly green discus healthy
status I decided to look at the detailed
smart data that's smart and was shocked
by what I found there my dr had racked
up a trillion with an exclamation mark
seek errors many millions of readers and
some like 50k replaced sectors my
original seagate drive reported
proportionally similar counts I had
finally identified the source of my
problems I replaced this drive with a
new one from Samsung and have enjoyed
error-free rock solid performance ever
since and keep a close eye on your smart
data especially for large seagate drives
I hear you Bruce for sure Bruce but but
definitely like I say reiterate check
your firmware version because those
drives and I'm quite often the newer
drives as they come out there they're
released like an oem drive right is
packaged it's released and nobody ever
opens the package because you're gonna
buy it now right so even if the drive
has been sitting on the shelf for two
years and you think well you know 750
get drive there that's an old Drive it's
going to be fine it may still have the
original firmware on it so if a new
firmware update has come out if they
detected some kind of problem with the
firmware that's corrupting data or
something like that and I I agree it did
happen to Seagate unfortunately with
those 500 gig drives but but that
doesn't mean the drive is no good it
just means that you need to update the
software that's built into the chip and
then once that's done you'll be good to
go so dig those out of the garbage can
Bruce yeah although warranty may have
replaced them Mayo because they would
just update the firmware and put it in a
used system or something but definitely
has something to check and then yeah
people recommending try spinrite as well
as is a is a good piece of software but
that would be that would be step 2 first
one is I would check the firmware thanks
for that though definitely and I'm glad
that you found that you found
better luck with another hard drive
because that would have been frustrating
trying to diagnose that yeah that's why
Robbie's here no good listener hey Rob
yeah this is Frederick rabbit has a
question hey Fredrik rabbit okay um hey
Robbie hey I really love the show I've
been using a linux since hardy heron i
have learned a lot since those early
days and i am always trying to learn
more i hope we can help me with this one
thing yeah how can i easily refresh my
desktop with a bash command without
restarting my computer examples of why I
would like to do this are as follows
example 1 I installed a new game from
the Ubuntu Software Center but it was
not available in the applications menu
under games ok I am able to guess the
command to run the game using alt f2 I
could also under system preferences main
menu see that the game was checked and
should appear in the menu but it would
not appear until I completely restarted
the system shall we go into example 2
example this is a very well organized
demon it certainly is he was living to
mark and he's got other stuff needed an
example thing 37 of them Wow example 2 I
was able to set up you share to act as a
media server using my xbox 360 and it
worked wonderfully by the way however I
would like to be able to restart the
service by a command line instead of
restarting my system if i add files to
the shared folders they are not
immediately available from the xbox menu
any suggestions on restarting services
with the system running can be
appreciated for you share up the good
work Cheers you share I'm just going to
quickly see if there you could type go
into the terminal and go you share dash
dash help you share space dash dash help
but i believe it's a let's see if
there's a restart command because with
that you're it's a running application
it's like it could be the daemon or
whatever you want to call it is running
so
there has to be a command from the from
the console of the terminal that allows
you to restart that what it is I'm not
sure because I haven't installed it I
don't have an xbox 360 or any use for it
but do type you Wow free that's not what
I meant any use for the software look if
somebody wants to send me an xbox 360 i
will set up a media sharing server look
guarantee but that's not what I miss
thanks for calling me on that so I'm try
to behave myself in the future if the
commands you share go into terminal type
you share space dash dash help and see
if any of those options that excuse out
are going to allow you to restart the
system so as far as your gnome issue
with with your panels when you install
an app and through synaptic package
manager through after or whatever and
you're expecting there to be a new menu
item on the on the applications menu
it's not there yet and then you have to
reboot your computer apparently in order
to see that it's not really necessary
because all you need to do is restart
gnome panel so what you can do is you
could actually hit alt f2 I'm gonna see
if I can get my screen up here my lovely
festive
jump put the gun on that hurt hey
jumping the gun a little bit on that
well you know halloween is coming ok
kill all we don't need a dash nine but
you go gnome dash panel what that
command does is it does exactly what
you'd expect it takes known panel and it
kills it it closes it down forcibly but
what happens is when two then detects
kind of like windows with explorer.exe
right if it crashes it automatically
reloads so with killing known panel so
kill all space known panel gnome dash
panel it's going to kill your panel and
then it's instantly going to reload I
can demonstrate that just to show you
how how quickly that's actually going to
take effect so if you watch my panel is
up here so that's this guy here watch
the applications and my and all my
options up there so I'm going to run
this command kill all known panel there
goes there it is its back but it's
reloaded so now instantly I've got
access to those applications without
having to reboot my computer so that's I
think what you're looking for with that
some hope that helps kill all space
gnome dash panel that's right everett i
was paying attention good dreams thanks
to thinking of this cuz I nanodots yeah
yeah so you're able to pay attention now
yes somebody sent me drunk I'm home no
what what else we got going on hey
everybody this is category 5 technology
TV you'll find us online triple w
category five dot TV it's so nice to
have you here having a good time John
you having a good time don't worry I
think I've got a camera on you tonight
there he is hey hey what are you looking
at in your cup there oh dear ah well we
got I can go and get him some look I
need you here okay I need you here you
know who else is here who else is here
we have some new viewers fantastic
welcome we have these are the ones we
know about anyway well I should have
looked over that's my handwriting really
bad
oh I think that's Amanda Hayes that's
right that looked like a pair of T's not
an H and I was room for a man dad eh yes
okay 24 hey so hey Amanda Hayes 24 and
Joe limon 5 from Missouri hey yeah nice
to have you here and we have B hedrick
from Iowa welcome and this could be i
would say kiddies e kit easy okay hey
new jersey take it easy nice to have you
here anybody joining us for the first
time in the chat room we'd love to hear
from you category five dot TV you'll see
us in the chat room on freenode net
irc.freenode.net and our hash our chat
room is category five yeah and if you'd
like to be mentioned on the show all you
have to do to become a new viewer is
just register on our website it's free
category 5 TV you become a registered
viewer that's all it take is glam yeah
we don't spam we don't sell or give away
your information we don't love to know
marijuana we don't do that either is
that song doesn't so just make that out
no no it's that's real egerton fantastic
yeah well there we go how I didn't know
that how did you not know that yeah you
weren't born with uh dear me I don't
know that's that this guy's department
uh-huh we've got you forgot news and
then we'll hit question why don't we go
to news now yeah
okay we'll take a look well we'll hit
the news right now and then we'll that
we'll come back and we'll see if we've
got that question well here's everything
you need to know from the newsroom
Robbie and all you viewers BBC has
decided to do something about poor sound
quality of their online BBC radio feeds
but some would say you're going about it
all wrong BBC listeners will experience
the new HD sound beginning on radio 3 in
December as long as it is supported on
their platform PhD sound feeds will
indeed provide a much more full sound
and wider frequency but it will be
available solely in a browser-based
player at the beginning and there is no
word yet as to what audio codec it is
actually going to use or if the streams
will later be made available to linux
based media players like tome or even
common windows players such as winamp I
supposed to say totem so in this case it
is my shell carry not so I told him give
me give the copyright or a bit of it was
that a transcription error at midem ok
well you may not know this the sky is
blue water is wet and Facebook has some
serious security issues when it comes to
your private information none of these
statements comes surprise to anyone
except except some kids I know who know
we won't get back in the latest of
facebook security concerns The Wall
Street Journal has determined that a
significant number of advertising online
tracking companies are using Facebook
apps in order to transmit your private
information to as many as dozens of
companies one company in particular was
also found to be mining user information
in an effort to compile a database of
user information which will later sell
to the highest bidder yeah even with
your Facebook security set to the
strictest settings you are not protected
from this type of exploit while Facebook
attempts to protect its 5 million users
from this type of data mining chances
are they
either will not be able to fix this one
or very least not well mouths not very
optimistic we can't be very optimistic
with facebook security can we I guess
not they have 500 million users if you
can't that's a massive amount of people
that is that are affected by some more
than 300 it's much more yeah I don't
know where you got that number I just
pick the number fantastic all right
oracle announced its participation in
the ODF plugfest during openoffice.org
tenth anniversary celebration plugfest
is a conference in Belgium which is
aimed at improving the open document
format Oracle also stated that it would
continue to develop a baton release
openoffice.org as open source software
the free office suite will continue to
compete directly with Microsoft's
commercial office product this comes as
relief to it's 100 million that's quite
a few users 100 million users who are
eagerly awaiting the final release of
openoffice.org 3.3 whose release
candidate is now available for download
off their site open offices future looks
bright and we'll look forward to seeing
some of the new features Oracle
introduces in the years to come the Open
Office suite is a free download from
openoffice.org but you're not yeah with
a studying stunning video what the
heck's in this cotton with a nice nice
taking another run that right yeah go
ahead I'm getting a bit of a colder I
think I caught it from much you're given
you're giving a hunter otter from the
host oh yeah with a stunning video
presentation canonical demonstrated on
Thursday Oh new you touch stack
interacts with unity the netbook
specific version of ubuntu you touch I'm
wondering if I said st. you touch since
I'm saying pupunta just you Todd you
love using it again hope their desktop
in is drag with tools and applications
using their fingers and the touchscreen
much like an iPad with the current
version impressing users on ubuntu 10.10
to 11.04 which releases in April will
focus on further improving the gestures
feature of you touch and we can look
forward to what this means for
touchscreen devices running ubuntu okay
all right so you can get the full
stories at category 5 TV / newsroom and
the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
Becca Ferguson and our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email newsroom at category 5 TV there
you go category 5 TV is brought to you
in part by planet calypso this massive
multiplayer online game is available as
a free download from cat five dot TV /
Calypso now once you've got it
downloaded and installed on your Windows
computer make sure you say hi and
there's something for everyone here on
planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat five dot TV / Calypso i'll
see you on planet calypso this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online at triple w category five dot TV
where it is just flying a lot a lot of
it we're well we've got 15 minutes to to
go and prizes to give away we're taking
qualifiers for that brother printer
that's the that is the mfc j 615 W and
you can find out more about the specs
through cat five dot TV / mfc short for
multi function centre now the the the
one thing that is is kind of unfortunate
today with this particular prize not not
to the Canadian viewers but we can only
unfortunately ship this within Canada
that's just that's just a rule with this
particular item you know that we try
very very hard to have prizes be able to
be delivered to jot open the nose job
does like but in this particular case it
is going to be Canadian viewers only for
this particular item that's the mfc
printer from Brother Canada so for those
of you who are watching from Canada make
sure you email me con contest at
category five dot TV and let me know
your username in the chat room your real
name as well as your mailing address and
phone number and in four weeks time we
are going to be conducting that draw and
of course we're going to be taking
ballots during that time in the meantime
we do have nanodots to give away which
are shipping globe
and we've got lots of lots of exciting
stuff coming up in the future as well
what if gadget wisdom guru gets a post
office box in Canada can he as long as
you've got a Canadian shipping address
certainly I mean who's to say right but
as long as we can ship it to you in
Canada then there you go so that that
covers it all right sorry to all the
viewers who cannot qualify for that
particular one but I'm gonna find other
stuff to send to you so there there we
go you have Russian hey we have an
inquiry by email hey huh it's from
kristi burton hey Kristi Burton how's
the weather oh that was my question
wasn't it her question hello awesome
Robbie that wasn't her question not this
time not this time Kristi Eric how about
some guitar you won't let me play it on
the show it's a way it's out of reach
felling that perhaps you can answer a
question I need to incorporate a
profanity delay for radio okay okay I'm
not the only one to put it in the words
of someone named Dave in a Christian
radio news group looking for an
inexpensive audio delay system we are
analog through our our entire system we
use an audio console between our on-air
automation and our stl okay as an aside
someone here suggested that we send our
audio out to an internet streaming
server and use the round trip delay as
our profanity delay good thinking but I
would much rather have something in
house oh I see what your stat is totally
under our control and has better quality
than an in the grass dream I appreciate
any suggestion you may have may you and
your studio and plant be blessed to end
quote and I need to know too that was
the email that was quoting no I was like
thanks Kristi that's so sweet okay so
end quote and I need to know to is
digital a different ballgame we're
analog out to the tower but the files
are
sure anyway blessings to everyone and
special hides of Hans and you too I say
that correctly and hope I can see the
show live tonight if I'm done my meeting
okay well I hope you're here if not I'm
sure somebody will relay the message the
okay last question about analog versus
digital now the the files are digital on
the computer probably mp3s or something
along those lines then they go through
the mixing console I'm sure and then out
through the analog stl out to the tower
that's the the sir the what's the stl
technically that's the transmitter links
to do transmitter link so from the board
it goes out through the studio
transmitter link to the tower and then
it's broadcast so there's really nothing
in between your mixing console which
provides the analog signal through the
stl out to the tower to the broadcasting
transmitter so in that case I'm starting
to grasp what you mean about about
looping back through an internet feed
and the problem with that is going to be
using bandwidth out and in and you're
relying on your internet connection
order to do that unless you put a
shoutcast server internally or icecast
server internally at the studio and do
it through the land that doesn't make
any sense and I don't need to explain it
but it'll make sense to the guy who
recommended it okay I wouldn't do it
through the internet because then you're
relying on that internet connection all
the time both up and down somebody
installs a torrent program on their
computer which is bound to happen at a
volunteer radio station and then all of
a sudden it knocks out your feet so
that's a big problem plus then you're
going to have something on the other end
on the receiving end that allows you to
mute it or bleep it if there is some
kind of censoring that's required and
like you say there's going to be some
quality loss there but if its internal
you could broadcasted mp3 let's say 356
kilobits per second because its internal
you're going through a land at a gigabit
a second so you've got more than enough
bandwidth to handle that as long as it
doesn't hit the internet in that case
you're not going to lose any quality
because your mp3s are going to be at 256
or 320 320 idola 256 will do a three
something whatever the actual number is
so that's that is a way that it could be
done through the land I would say if you
don't want to spend any money that's
really your only option or call up a 320
thanks dr call up a DJ store that does
live that provides mixing consoles and
effects units mini controlled effects
units for djs because DJ's quite often
and I mean DJ's like we're even cuz they
use delay i sling donor up just like
that pose basically the boom box cuz
sometimes I gotta go boom boom boom you
know they got to back it up a little bit
which you could use to censor it's a
little bit of a workaround but anyways
there you go with the nanodots always
with the nanodots also with a DJ rig you
could have something that has a delay
system with reverse which allows you to
back up in time if somebody says a cuss
word or something you get that reverse
button it backs it up like two seconds
and then it just cuts that out because
there's a 10-second delay so you're able
to do that without losing any time on
the air so disadvantage to a delay
system you'd have to have something in
place that's going to be controllable as
far as how much time you're going to be
spending in the delay because if if
you're you're doing news radio Christie
so your time stamps have to be very
accurate so you know if it's 6am you've
got to be able to say it's 6am with
confidence and it's not 602 because
you've got a two-minute delay based on
an mp3 encode and decode on a shoutcast
server so and you don't have any control
over that if for some reason the server
lags or skips all of a sudden that the
delay becomes bigger and you don't have
control over the length of the delay so
you might be good to look at something
that's designed for like I say the DJ
stuff but it can be expensive dan
systems let's see if I can pull this up
on my computer has a free piece of
software called radio delay it was
designed for sport nuts dan systems com
and it's dan with 2 a's let's see if I
can track this down
if anyone can do it rub you can do it I
will try for Christy I can do all things
okay so let's see what we have audio
audio stuff radio delay real-time audio
delay so I click on that link and radio
delay is a tool to delay audio from your
FM radio in your TV or your TV tuner
card or whatever or external input
source so you need a computer with a
balanced input because you don't want to
unbalance your signal at a radio station
and then you'll need a balanced output
back to your stl so this program here is
just a tiny little program that that
will allow you to control a delay you
see the slider here delay in seconds so
you're able to control how long the
delay is for you set the input device to
your first device set the output device
to your second device and that software
is free so that's going to be your next
best thing it's going to be obviously
very very cheap but you have to have a
computer that is reliable get something
with a raid controller with a raid 1
something that has two hard drives
running at all time so that if one fails
you've got a backup or better yet
install the operating system on a USB
flash key or something like that
something where there's no moving parts
and or do a raid one with with solid
state drives something along those lines
so there's so much stuff you can do and
there are a lot of rackmount units yeah
the deejay ranks but you're getting into
the thousands of dollars most times I
don't really know if there's anything I
could suggest that's going to be cheaper
than that there are a couple of you know
there's the delay play from delay play
calm I don't know that that's going to
suit your purpose but it is a cheap
little unit for like 50 bucks let's see
if that one comes up so this little unit
has just a slider that allows you to
control how many seconds the delay is
for but then again it's going to be an
unbalanced signal and I don't think your
engineers gonna like that I think
they're gonna want to keep things
balanced in which case you want a
computer software this can allow you to
use balanced inputs and outputs so hope
that helps I hope that that that helps
your your colleague who sent you the
original email or that it was in a
newsgroup or something like that
I hope that helps you out this is
category 5 technology TV you can find us
online at triple w category 5 TV and
we're not going to get to look at that
audio software are we tonight
unbelievably quick really quick but I've
got stuff to give away I gotta get rid
of these little dots so you can't play
with them anymore I'm play with anything
you'd like me to wait join us in the
chat room this is your last chance to
qualify for nanodots category five dot
TV get in the chat room it's a cool
little game you can do all kinds of
things check out cat five dot TV /
nanodots for some videos because Eric's
demonstrations just do not cut it
justice well alright dude you know what
I'm taking this one I'm gonna build you
a car with moving parts a helicopter
maybe a hover for Howard by magnetism
yeah yeah that's it brilliant okay
John's not and I said yes yes magnetism
brilliant fuel economy is fantastic on a
magnetically powered car unless your
drive to actually drive toward the poles
yeah in order for it to move you can't
drive east or west yeah you sometimes do
yeah to pedal with your feet it's all
good we're taking qualifiers for the
last set of nanodots tonight you got you
got to put these up there just so check
it out of like much when you're playing
with them well I don't really know how
to work it but because you've been
playing you're very close all good it's
all good
lots of names in the chat room tonight
somebody want to know if that brother
was going to work on their window system
yeah brothers fantastic heard for Linux
support these days yeah they were one of
the printer manufacturers that really
got on board with providing proper Linux
drivers and I love them
my brother mfc was just find both like
scanning printing all the
faxing and on its it's all available
that's very cool yeah here we go last
pack of nanodots see a lot of friendly
faces and gad will is our winner tonight
congratulations it's good
old nano dogs can go nanodots
so the the last pack of nanodots goes to
gamble well congratulations graduations
yeah I may not send them to you though I
may just hang on it this is category 5
technology TV you'll find us online
triple w category five dot TV and we are
just out of time tire can somebody said
my goodness we could go with the UH no
dots they can hear that they can hear
back I know he's offended her people I
do you notice I gave him a pen that
doesn't collected it this week I said oh
look we got we got pens that are
sponsored by superantispyware com little
does he know I actually you know that
that's that's fantastic thanks for
sending us the pens superantispyware com
but truth be told I just didn't want to
click on them but check it out
superantispyware com you're such an
adult it worked oh now we just got to
get rid of all the rest of the Nano done
since don't know I'm so playing all
right it's been fun tonight I hope
everybody's have fun how are you doing
in the chat room we'd love to chat with
you a few minutes after the show and
just see how you're doing and if you're
watching this on one of our RSS feeds or
mural internet TV iTunes it's great to
have you here make sure you pop me an
email live at category 5 TV just to say
hey or if you have a question about
technology and you weren't able to get
it in tonight we'd love to hear from her
with a suggestion a suggestion we
welcome suggestions and we welcome
viewer testimonials which next week
we're actually going to be reviewing
some of the ones that came in over the
past couple of weeks category 5 TV is
where you'll find us if you want to
submit a viewer testimonial it's
interact you'll see submit a testimonial
thats it for our it flew by tonight it's
gone it's gone it's in the books yep
under the rug another one next week's
162 have a fantastic week John you take
care good to see ya yeah see you folks
cheers there buddy yeah
