for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 293 of
category 5 technology TV it's the 30th
of april 2013 already yeah nice to see
you good to have you here we have
category 5 radio up tonight yay
excellent so those of you who want to be
able to you know listen to the show but
you don't want to have to look at us you
don't want to look at us it's more like
if you're driving you know you're
driving around town and and you know
it's great to be able to watch your
favorite show on here but it's probably
not the best idea so jots got the link
there in the chat room you can also go
over to our website category five dot TV
and you'll have all that there as well
great to see everybody hey did you know
that today marks one two years since the
internet was made free royalty-free no
way to the public 20 years today seems
like such a long time I know we're gonna
talk a little bit about we're gonna
reminisce about where it's come from
hard to believe though dad i was there i
was there people I didn't know I think
that was I like 20 years ago yeah I know
not a lot of people didn't yeah it was
kind of new it's just like it was just a
wee babe but my green shirt yeah I like
it it's very cool Barkley yeah you know
like Anna green kind of not sparkly kind
of turn you can make it sparkly okay and
and green your rings in this fantastic i
was actually a plan where we would ya
entirely on plans but how do you like
that what do you got coming up cool
things what up in the newsroom a massive
hurricane on saturn has been captured by
the Cassini spacecraft CERN in
Switzerland is big in the news this week
as they celebrate 20 years of free open
internet and their labs will see how
anti-gravity husband is being tested
sorry and when they're not dealing with
antimatter CERN is working on a project
to recreate the very first web page news
advertisements could track your eyes
while you shop and display ads specific
to your interest based on what you're
looking at stick around these stories
you come up later
in the show how cool is that that was
awesome good water cast for the win
tonight show as you may have guessed is
brought to you in part by ads irk they
are the next generation of ad serving
and if you've got a website you might as
well monetize it so check out ads irk
they can help you with the fastest
asynchronous JavaScript ad serving in
the world at zerk com we've also got our
mobile website is online with category 5
radio Ross you can just listen to the
show so if you're driving around go over
to mcat five dot TV you'll be able to
actually listen to the live broadcast so
that you're not distracted by the
visuals because the visuals as you saw
you know with chroma key and everything
are something to behold so yes mm-hmm
never know you never know and category 5
TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters welcome to art division
also j/s Fagin 2 and E Brona joining us
brand new viewers registered on our
website at category 5 TV tons of
benefits to registering on category 5 TV
we're going to take a really quick break
and then I want to show you the latest
feature that we've added to our website
so stick around don't go anywhere we
will be right back at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
battery's not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm yeah this
is this is category 5 technology TV hey
check out our web site triple w category
five dot TV and on that website we've
got a really cool new feature you may
have read about it on my blog bald nerd
calm but what I'm going to show you here
is something that's that's new and I
think exciting if you go into the show
notes of our show so that's any episode
of category 5 technology TV you'll see
that the video starts playing and all
that what's one of the things that's
tough about a show such as category 5
technology TV it's really it's a one
hour show you want to send a very
specific thing to to a friend or family
member that you know ok me maybe we
touched on something that they really
need to see or maybe it will help them
with their computer problem so all you
have to do now because before you'd have
to send them a full one hour video or if
you're lucky maybe the the feature made
it on to Linux tech show calm but you'd
have to basically tell them ok here's a
one hour video started at about thirty
six minutes into the show and hope for
the best I'm going to show you something
really really neat now as you're
watching the show you'll see down at the
bottom of YouTube which is the the
embedded player here like here at 16
minutes and 26 seconds 27 seconds so
let's say that's where the feature was
starting so i could just pause the video
so that's at sixteen thirty so make note
of that on the left hand side 1630 now
all you have to do is up in your address
bar for this page all we got to do is
add / 1630 with a colon in the middle so
16 minutes 30 seconds so if i send that
link now to somebody it's actually going
to start the video at the 16 minute and
30 second mark you'll see where where it
started there whoa yeah super cool just
to demonstrate that let's make it a
different number let's make it 25 30 I
don't know where that's going to land us
in the show and you'll see that it's
actually started at 25 30 so now you've
got a way to actually send category 5
technology TV very very specific points
in the broadcast be able to send those
to your family friends loved ones post
them on your blog if we say something
and it you know is in line with what
you're saying on a blog entry or
something there's a cool way to to be
able to link to us cool new feature
that's really cool
tonight we're going to be we're going to
be dealing with a ton of your questions
I'm so happy to look at the mailbag this
week and see just yeah there's a lot of
a huge amount of questions so we're
looking at the topics this week and oh I
think it's time to deal you know to
address some of your viewer questions
and make sure we get through some of
those and a lot of you realize that
Sasha door made us was was meant to be
on this week she does extend her regards
and she was thinking that she was really
hoping to be able to make it
unfortunately work her other work has
his conflicted with her volunteer work
here and we miss her tonight but thank
you christopher I'll just have to put up
with me sorry folks what up with her
yeah not so bad not so bad we always
have fun mm-hmm not too shabby I I think
back I want to think back a little bit
because tonight's a reasonably big deal
in that you know CERN is looking back at
the past 20 years of the internet and I
thought we'd sort of do the same because
20 years ago today basically the
decision was made to take this thing
that they had crew created basically and
called the internet and the web and said
okay let's let's actually release this
as something that is free for people to
use and then that opened up everything
for for what we have today my first
experience with the internet was like
was before the internet so bulletin
board systems I know a lot of you at
home were involved with you know BB
essing and and fidonet and things like
that do you know what that is is that
before your time I ran my very first BBS
okay so let's back it up because we need
to we need to teach here because krista
doesn't even know what i'm talking about
a bulletin board system right so back
then computers had there was no internet
so how do we communicate email was a
very very different thing because now
you send an email and it's pretty much
instantaneous back then it was kind of
an ad hoc thing so if I if I was in
barrie say I would set up my bulletin
board system which is a computer a
hobbyist computer so you've got to be
really committed to the cause it built a
computer you'd put daus on it you put
tell
guard on it or renegade or something
like that software to run this bulletin
board system so then people would dial
into your computer with their modem so
they call the phone number with their
modem and it would connect they'd have
high ASCII characters come up on the
screen in the form of boxes and graphics
to try to make it look good there were
things like door games and very very
rudimentary stuff right and if I send an
email here's the crazy thing if I was
lucky enough to be a bulletin board that
was associated with fidonet this is kind
of an overseeing group of bulletin board
services that were interconnected if I
had that which I did people would log
into my BBS because it was a local call
for them okay right there's no this
getting on a website halfway across the
world was not heard of it was getting on
to the local bulletin board service
service I'd send you an email let's say
you're somewhere else okay okay so I
don't omit pick a spot Saskatchewan
that's you just have fun okay so your
far right so I would go into my bulletin
board service login locally through my
modem which would be really really slow
hmm create a new email put in your email
address and send you an email then I'd
start working around on the bulletin
board and playing door games which were
really cheesy text based games roleplay
games that were like would you like to
turn left or right and you type in right
enter and then oh you you know
choose-your-own-adventure kind of stuff
some of them were a little better than
that but so then when I'm all done my
session it's revvin identity yeah thank
God think about this just think about
this in the comprehend this in the with
the way the internet is now so then I'm
done mm-hmm I log off it now freeze up
the phone line I love that BBS service
so now the BBS service says oh that guy
just sent an email geez so it then dials
to the next BBS computer which is the
local call which might be across the
across town and then it dials to that it
uploads the email and then the next one
it hangs up it dials the next one and it
takes day like sometimes day
for the email to ad hoc all the way up
to Saskatchewan Wow each of these
computers would send it through side you
just be sitting there going Robbie
supposed to send something why hasn't he
responded no text messaging no because
the whole idea was being able to do it
all without long distance calling ah
super convenient yeah like I could have
called into the BBS in Saskatchewan and
sent you an email instantly but then I
got to pay long distance and imagine
okay the speeds are what's what's the
speed of your internet right now I had a
couple Meg's a second at least we were
dealing with well my first modem was a
1200 baud which is 2.4 kilobits per
second ooh that's like snails yeah snail
piece we go to one gig video at 2.4
kilobits a second still sending oh boy
months and months three months if it
ever gets there because it would drop
carrier somebody would pick up the phone
mom and pick up the phone and try to
make a call you ruined it you're on the
internet again I don't act again we
didn't even have multitasking back then
Windows Linux Mac OS mm-hmm you can open
3 4 5 10 different applications so you
take for granted that you open your
browser you open the game / Photoshop or
whatever and you've got all these things
going on all at once we didn't have that
right there's one program running on
your computer in the given time that was
it so then desk view came along some of
you remember that and desk view allowed
us people who were running bulletin
board services to multitask in a very
very rudimentary way so we could have we
could have things running our bulletin
board service running and still be able
to use our computer drumstick meshing we
had tea srs which is true tsr sr
terminate and stay resident applications
so things that would you'd run and
they've run in the background and you
could keep doing other things but it was
a very very interesting time
then modem is started getting better and
better right we got the 14.4 modems we
had the 9600 i don't know i mean 28-8
kilobit per second 28.8 then the 56k
came out and it was revolutionary that's
the speed of it 56 kilobits per second
and this was an exciting thing super
fast but because as this 56k and the and
and the V 90s came out and compression
now we were getting speeds of up to I
don't know 40 kilobits a second if we
were lucky some of us would get 60
kilobits if we had a really good
connection those old us robotics modems
that SAT serial connected to your
computer and made all that terrible
noises they're connecting yeah the ISO
cards and all that kind of old junk some
of us still have laying around I'm sure
an xt computer with an ISO card there
you go but then my last experience
Kahless leads up to the internet I
promise you we're getting there my last
experience with VBS Inge was when Robo
board came out because I was
transitioning from Tel Agard to Robo
board because they we had better speed
now no longer do we have to be text only
Robo board came out in 92 and was the
first ever graphical user interface
bulletin board service remember there
were no websites it was it was providing
a service that was in place of internet
because there was no such thing and then
of course 93 was when internet came
along to the to the public consumer so
renegade all of these kind of became a
thing of the past so all of a sudden
Robo board became competition with the
internet and of course was very quickly
killed off by the internet so what a sad
story I know but those were the days and
now you send an email you take for
granted is just gonna get there I mean
just yeah my first experience wasn't
nearly as a dramatic or link well I kind
of saw the internet birthed I mean I was
they're building its baby building
blocks the BBS's and building fidonet
with my friends and you know she's like
no yeah that's it so late a lot of
things I don't understand in that whole
little story yeah but Saul you some of
you know what I'm talking about and it's
like oh yeah tell a guy renegade yeah
nostalgic Johnson and Robo border and
and a desk view are just two of those
pieces of software that just changed the
world and people don't even know what it
is anymore right she doesn't know what
it is you can play back the video I
explained it already I'll listen when I
play about it was your first experience
with the internet I just remember my my
dad got internet and he was hooking
everything up but he was so exciting and
said Krista you do you want to come
check this out and I was like okay I'm
out of how old it was like maybe grade
six or something he's like what website
do that it was like there were only
three to choose from there was no Google
and he's like how about 41 how about
Disney I was like okay so we SAT there
for 20 minutes and the website where the
web page kind of finally came up yeah
literally and that was pretty much it
that's that's all I really qatar-based
at that time was it text-based know
there are some texture is some pictures
probably Jeff pictures probably really
low like pixelated kinda thing Sam
that's all I remember how that it became
awesome just like that because people
like Krista got involved in the
graphical design end of the of the
Internet you got faster speed is
everything because with the internet now
it's like even everything that we do on
our website if we didn't have the kind
of speed that you need in order to be
able to watch this video what would it
wouldn't exist right so as internet gets
faster and faster what's going to happen
what are we going to see I mean video is
just going to become full 1080p HD maybe
for K through the internet that's crazy
no problem yeah big improvements on
Hardware good guy huge huge changes what
what was your first experience with the
internet we'd love to hear your comments
make sure you send us your comments you
can actually post your comments on our
website category 5 TV find the show
notes for episode number two
93 and we'd love to have you comment
there after the after that's posted some
we'd love to see a commenting on our
website through you know Google+ or
Facebook is fine too or pop us an email
live at category 5 TV before we move on
to news because I know we've got some
exciting news stories well I guess you
know what we can we could probably get
in that I you sure well I was just
thinking we've got so many viewer
questions we've had so many of your
questions come in um yeah I hear I see
where you're going with this you
positive I understand yeah I don't want
to you know step on anyone's toes no no
let's let's let's dedicate the rest of
the show to our viewers okay the
questions all agreed i'll read superfast
sounds good okay here we go here the top
stories from the category 5 TV newsrooms
at enormous hurricane raging at Saturn's
North Pole has my two thousand
kilometers or 1,250 miles across big
enough to cover the UK 12 times over who
says striking images of the storm or
snap from a height of 420 420 thousand
kilometers which is 260 thousand miles
by the Cassini spacecraft which arrived
at Saturn in 2004 they were captured in
red and infrared wavelengths and have
been false colored to show detail
scientists say the Hurricanes winds
reached a staggering 150 miles per
second through an attack miles per hour
but they do not know just how long the
storm has been brewing mmm so basically
we're not moving to Saturn anytime soon
I guess not don't wait for the storm to
pass and wants to move in a storm
researchers at CERN in Switzerland
Switzerland have proved the merits of a
way to test antimatter as the source of
the long postulated anti gravity
antimatter particles are the mirror
image of normal matter but was opposite
electric charge how antimatter response
to gravity remains a mystery however it
may fall up rather than down
move now researchers reporting in nature
communications have made strides towards
finally resolving that notion antimatter
presents one of the biggest mysteries in
physics in that equal amounts of matter
and antimatter should have been created
at the universe's beginning yet when the
two meet they destroy each other in what
is called annihilation that turning into
pure light Oh mmm-hmm really I wouldn't
read this incorrectly in life why the
universe we see today is made
overwhelmingly overwhelmingly of matter
with only tiny amounts of antimatter has
prompted a number of studies to try to
find some difference between the two
tests at CERN's LHC be experiment and
elsewhere have been looking for evidence
that exotic particles decay more often
into matter than antimatter I'm guessing
is it has to do with the with the
parallel universe oh yeah you're
guessing I think there's probably a
universe of antimatter I'm sure you do
yeah yeah what kind of universes do you
think sorry oh well I mean that's
another day another story another day
they're just so many universes one of
them just filled with antimatter yeah
that would be problematic if there was
an equal amount of antimatter just
floating around easy way to get rid of
clutter yeah no big deal just take a
vial of antimatter and just splash it on
garbage bag Lee what's this Air Force
yeah but imagine how much your stuff
will be gone if becca head hello boy
hold of that yeah this would be a pretty
empty room another computer antimatter
antimatter good idea actually like you
are this is going excellent idea yeah I
can't wait to see what they discover
excellent mm-hmm on April thirtieth 1993
certain published a statement that made
worldwide web technology available on a
royalty-free basis allowing the web to
flourish a team of our team at the
european organization for nuclear
research cern has launched a project to
recreate the first web page the aim is
to preserve the original hardware and
software associated with the birth of
the web the World Wide Web hat was
developed by Professor Sir Tim
berners-lee while working at CERN the
initiative coincides with the 20th
anniversary of the research center given
the web to the world for more details on
the historic restoration project you can
visit first dash website web datsun dot
CH yeah the internet has come a long way
in there you go first website ever oh
it's too flashy oh yeah too many
underlines animation and the blue with
the white on the end the black that's
edgy I like it hmm uh-huh an advertising
system which is able to track your I've
movement by movements while you shop has
been created by researchers based at
lancaster university the sideways
project uses softer to locate faces and
I movements of shoppers captured on
camera it could allow for video screens
which change adds depending on what you
look at in a shop the team told the BBC
they hope the technology would be in use
in shops within five years Wow neat get
the full stores at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w national
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a new story you think is
worthy of honor mention you can email us
at news room at category 5 TV for the
category five dot TV news your mind
crystals thanks Krista tonight's show is
brought to you in part by netflix cat
five dot TV / netflix you can get your
free one month trial there also net talk
now offering unlimited text messaging
eliminate the need for a wireless text
plan from your cell phone provider
upgrade your nettalk duo account with
the net talk text plan for the cost of a
couple cups of coffee per month you'll
receive unlimited texting throughout the
united states and canada check out cat5
TV / phone and start saving money today
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie ferguson i'm crystal
balls category five dot TV is where you
want to go and you can get your emails
into us at live at category five dot TV
we're going to do our best i think to
get through as many of these as we
possibly can tonight once in a while we
do this viewer question extravaganza
when the mailbag comes in and there is
overly full for the week so we're going
to do our best to get through it so
thank you very much everybody for
sending in your questions without
further ado let's get started here is
our first question from Greg he says can
you recommend utilities to quickly
assess the performance of a machine
ideally it would be live CD or bootable
USB that could test cpu speed memory
performance dr throughput video
performance and perhaps other critical
components my goal is to compare system
systems and determine dito my goodness
determine which funds go to the recycler
ok hmm well the first thing that comes
to mind automatically is going to be
ultimate boot CD let me just look up the
URL of that ultimate boot CD is is
basically and it is what you would think
from the name it is a boot CD that is
the ultimate of all boot CDs got that
fancy word rainbow at the top there
saying all it's good what does it yeah
oh yeah look at that gradient fantastic
ok the official explanation of ultimate
boot ultimate boot CD it is completely
free for download or you can or can be
obtained for a small fee perfect if you
had somewhere oh that's that's just a
disclaimer all right let's see ultimate
boot CD com it tells you all about it
it's kind of speaking of old looking
websites like the from 1992 1993 yeah
this looks like one of them it does but
the software itself the collection
itself is exceptional you see what comes
with it I mean bios tools okay cpu tools
do stress tests and find out how fast
your cpu is hard drive and boot
management data recovery device info and
management Diagnostics disk cloning I'm
just scrolling up a bit just to see what
is there one of the things that I'm
wondering is you know this is just a
huge assortment of stuff right so let's
see if we do a ctrl f for download
watch out for the ads at the top you
don't want to accidentally click see
those are all ads there there it is on
the left hand side this red box over
here download ubcd that stands for
ultimate boot CD sorry for the the
convoluted nature of their website but
hopefully you'll be able to to see what
it is here so the boot CD is just a
basic text mode boot up and when you
boot into ultimate boot CD it gives you
all these different options it really is
you know it's something that should be
in every technicians toolkit it's
something that you really do need to
have and you'll see on this download
site I can find it really really easily
there they are there are iso files here
and many different ways that you can
download it md5 sums all that stuff
other one that comes to mind is called
fair next test suite I would think that
that maybe i'm not sure if it actually
comes on ultimate boot CD i'll just
verify that just before i know it
doesn't look like it I'm just doing yeah
just a control f doesn't look like it so
i'm going to go to farah next test suite
calm I think nope see if I can find it
Oh phoronix I believe it was yes that's
it sorry I was mispronouncing it because
then that caused me to miss spell it
there we go phoronix test suite
automated open-source testing framework
so this one can be just simply installed
on any system so you can you can throw
this on your Mac on your Windows
computer or on a linux computer you can
you can do whatever you want I believe
it's even in the repositories and if not
let's see how easy it is to get this for
you so here's an official release 4.4
and a development release we're going to
stay away from development releases
because usually with something like a
benchmark and hardware like something
that works so close with the hardware I
personally won't recommend that you
home start with the development release
just in case there's something that you
know could cause some problems there is
a debian and ubuntu package so that's
pretty awesome let's see what's under
there oh it's just a deb pack so that's
awesome you can just run it so let's do
it let's see what happens fair next for
next test suite install the package
should be pretty easy and good to go and
it's been a while since I've used that I
think it may be pts is the command to
get it to run we'll just verify that
just installed it nice and easy so two
options for you ultimate boot CD and
phoronix test suite I'll post the links
for both of those in the show notes for
episode number 2 93 we've got a lot of
questions to get through tonight so I'm
not sure if I'm going to be able to show
you how to use vernix test suite and I
would have to refresh myself I think
anyways but on their website there is
documentation real quick and simple
documentation up at the top ok and oh
and there it is it's actually literally
for our next test suite list tests so go
there rather than me giving you a
tutorial on you know refreshing myself
and then showing you how to use this
this is this is all screenshots and
shows you exactly how to run some
benchmarks and everything so that's
another excellent excellent tool really
can you know we can stand by that but
there you go hopefully that will help
you out good and then yeah just look at
look at each system and see what's going
on and what what's good and what's bad
let us know how it works for airing
thanks for the question
alright here's one from m allen west hey
m allen west hello Robbie I've been
using fogger in a boon to but I haven't
been able to get the flash plugin to
work on it I was able to find a website
that says how to install it however the
tar.gz was not found any help would be
great thanks to all the cool cats said
gori five team category five lever
here's a link care for you okay I'm
gonna pull up the link here m allen west
ok let's grab this and let's take a look
at what what he's actually coming up
against here ok so a tutorial to help
get flash working working in fogger now
I'll be straight up honest with you m
allen west that i am not familiar with
fogger i think it was a like-kind of
like a prism kind of thing wasn't it the
where you can run websites as if their
applications but what i can do is i can
help you understand what's going on here
so let's look at what what the fix is
and basically ok they're telling you to
make a folder called fogger flash fix
and then go into that folder and it's
going to be in your home folder so then
at w gets this and this is the only
charge easy file that i see here so i'm
guessing that that's what you're talking
about that that is actually dead so
let's paste it in here yeah not found
you see that the link to that tar file
is gone so what we can do ok looking at
this that's the step you're getting
stuck on w get which is download this
file it says but that file is gone it
could be an old version or maybe it's
linking i don't know why it's on
macromedia calm for example and then
it's untiring it and then what is it
doing it's making a directory and then
moving the or copying the lib flash
player s 0 file into that directory so
we can do all these things as long as we
have that tar file but the problem is
literally just this line we can't get
that tar file because it doesn't exist
so what we're going to do instead
remembering that that flashes Adobe's
product will go to let's just go
player download let's try that install
adobe flash player at get adobe com
flashplayer that sounds promising there
we go okay if you end up on the adobe
website just go up to download up here
and then adobe flash player it's going
to take it to the same place at adobe
com so then we want to choose what do we
want to go with the tar.gz for other
Linux because that's the one that it's
telling you did 2w get right so we're
not going to W get it we're just going
to go download now and let's open it and
what will we see inside of that file is
that very file that you're looking for
the lib flash player s 0 so with this
file now download it through your web
browser you could recreate the steps
that are here so we could just extract
that file using file roller which I've
brought it up in already just extract
that file you're not gonna be able to
extract it to there because this
requires superuser access which is why
there's a sudo command here but you
could extract that file to your home
folder and then follow all the commands
from here forward and that will do this
at will do the same thing so if that's
the only problem then I would say that
that should that should get you by so
give it a go let us know good make it
look so easy I don't even I don't know a
thing about about it oh so I could have
been a waste of time could have been oh
I'll go on to the next one it will know
something about this one here is one
from John hello Robbie m and the cast of
crew and crew of cat5 I just had a
question about your last episode if I
feel that I've received an email that is
a phishing scam would there be any clue
in the full headers of the email that
may help to determine its legitimacy
yeah sometimes but they're very very one
thing that we've stressed on the show is
a their various scammers people who are
trying to trick you with phishing scams
they're very good at at spoofing and
tricking you spoofing is a technique
that allows
me or you or a hacker or a Fisher to
pretend that there's somebody else that
can involve spoofing headers so the
headers themselves are not a de facto oh
yeah this header is fake because they
can make it look really really
convincing there there are some advanced
techniques to to trying to figure out
where an email actually originated from
and whether or not it was the actual
mail server of the the provider really I
think it's going to come down to looking
at the body of the email just being
smart about it it's it's a tough call
though because they're very good at
tricking in fact I received one I wonder
if I can just bring it up on the screen
I received one this week and I was
impressed I gotta say I wonder if I can
find it here just really really quickly
if I can find it quickly then I'll show
yet there it is okay I got an email
which I've talked about this we've
talked about how you get an email that
looks like it's from paypal oh yeah I
received one look at this so actually
looks really really good it does so it
came into my inbox and it says you sent
payment for a hundred 4949 to this
person for the silver dial chrono steel
watch now I just what you always wanted
oh sweet okay so of course what am I
gonna say I didn't buy that and so you
know well if you think you have 45 days
from the date of the transaction to open
a dispute in the resolution center click
here paypal calm / help what is that
actually linking to wedding studios com
slash WP content / plugins / akismet
slash WP status and a bunch of other
stuff you see that down on the bottom
left remember the technique that we've
shown you before oh well paypal.com /
help it looks legit right so right click
on it go copy link location bring up
your text editor this could be notepad
in Windows this could be G edit on gnome
it could be whatever paste in look
that's not paypal at all it's this long
crazy thing because it's a phishing scam
so I don't need the headers to see that
but look at how real that does look
right and maybe the headers would show
me a little bit more let's look at the
source of that here here's what you're
talking about the headers now of course
I can tell from the email address that
that's not coming from paypal right you
can tell a whole bunch of different
things about this received from TV GAO x
dot PL so we know that that's not paypal
so yeah there there are certain things
in the header that are going to tip you
off but you'll notice that I already
knew before I ever got to that point
beyond a shadow of doubt that this was a
scam right but yeah the headers could
give you a little more information but
keep in mind if they're really good
they're even going to spoof that the
headers are going to be hard to tell so
all right so just be careful oh yeah
mm-hmm all right here is one from John
I'll just expand on that job is just
saying the chatroom good point now I've
right clicked on an email link to copy
it to my clipboard and see that it's not
legitimate but if I wasn't sure let's
say it's a case where twitter has said
you need to log into your account in
order to secure your account so it
doesn't get deleted don't even touch
that email but what God is saying and
what I agree with just go to twitter com
login the way that you normally do and
then you're going to know we've had it
happening in the studio and I think
Heather's seen this before as well I
believe where you get an email until
what's the smart thing to do is to
actually log in through your normal
course of action i log into my paypal
account i see oh i didn't actually pay
for a watch there's no transaction there
yeah no big deal just delete it yeah
delete done and done Marcus spam
forwarded on to spam assassin or
something crazy like that alright thanks
folks thanks John it's a question from
jimbo hey Jimbo hi there i loved how on
last week's episode you brought back the
fire effect from barile barrel barrel
yeah the barrel project he said I love
it too I installed point Linux from
episode to 90 but can't figure out how
to turn it on how did you get that
working ah sure okay well on
episode 2 90 I believe if that's correct
we actually showed how to install point
Linux how to get there's a couple of
packages there there was a point Linux
specific a comp is package which gives
you a lot of the comp is stuff then
there was comp is plugins extra which
gives you some more stuff if you've got
all that stuff installed as per episode
2 90 then show you what you need to do
because we already been through how to
get comp is config settings manager and
all that so I already have it installed
and you do too I'm going to bring that
up watch this I'm going to just do a
quick search for animations and
out-of-the-box animations add-on is
going to be turned off and if that's
turned off all of the effects that you
have so close animation I've got it set
to burn you're going to have a very very
small list there because without the
animations add on I'll show you can turn
that one off animations add on now when
i click on animations and I go to close
animation you'll see that there's really
nothing there there's no burn that's
what I think that's exactly what's
happening to you so close that go back
turn on the animations add-on plugin
then go into animations and you'll see
that here i am on clothes animation
closed effect is burn and i can set that
to any number of things so now when i
close a window usually what I do is I
just bring up you know a terminal or
something if I close it it burns itself
away so that's one effect I can also do
things like you know a paper airplane or
something so do it again there you go
yeah so you just kind of play around and
I like things like the the trek kind of
effect of the the beam up that you see
there when I open a window there it is
when I close it and of course like you
say burn is kind of one of those things
that is classic to the old barrel
project when the comp is originally
forked and became comp is and barrel
then barrel is gone compiz fusion became
the amalgamation of the two and now
they're kind of becoming a thing of the
past but point linux brings it back to
us and puts it back on our linux desktop
just the way that we love it
so nice to see those things again to be
honest with you I love having those back
so thank you very much for the email I
hope that helps oh let's see what more
you got for me I got lots all right um I
don't know who this one's from okay but
how do i connect my android tablet to my
laptop using an hdmi cable i connected
my tablet to the TV using an hdmi hdmi
cable it is working good but i cannot
connect my laptop my laptop is a toshiba
c850 i want to share my tablet screen to
the laptop screen is impossible well
here's the thing when you plug it into
your TV your TV has an HDMI input but
your laptop has an hdmi output so the
laptop you can plug into the TV the
tablet you can plug into the TV but both
of those are outputs so if you take the
cable from the tablet and plug it into
the laptop you're actually you could
cause damage because they're both helped
outputs and it's a digital signal it's
got a lot of power to it so and I've
broken things that way to be honest what
you need to do is let's see if I can
find the device I'm going to recommend
that you and you're going to have to
spend money to do this because a HDMI
capture is not free if you really want
to be able to do it we're going to look
for a black magic intensity not the pro
cuz the pro is the PCI Express it's
called the shuttle and it's available in
USB 2.0 3.0 in Thunderbolt depending on
your device so I'm going to show you how
to find that we've got a hot link to one
of our sponsoring stores so I'd
encourage you to use this anytime that
you want to purchase any kind of
electronics whatever cat five dot TV /
be in bh okay that's going to take you
right over to B&amp;H photo-video they're an
excellent store we actually buy a lot of
our stuff here at the studio from them
even you know simple things like though
you see this blue that flick brick wall
behind us right like all this kind of
stuff comes from B&amp;H not a real brick
wall it's not we can actually we can
fold it up and put it in the back
take it elsewhere we've done that before
for photo shoots and things which is
pretty awesome and that's all from B&amp;H
and B&amp;H is a great shop whether you're
into photography videography if you want
to set up a home studio if you want to
go all out and do a professional rig
that's the place to go reason that I
suggest use cat5 TV / bh you're going to
go there anyway you're going to get
great prices they have exceptional
service but every time you by using that
that code it's actually going to they're
going to actually donate some money back
to category 5 TV and every little bit
helps here at the studio we're all
volunteers and and if that's a way that
you can support us indirectly then that
I would encourage you to do that and we
appreciate that very very much so going
over there i'm just going to use the
search function here and i'm going to
type in black magic intensity shuttle
yeah you can probably get away with just
intensity shuttle or something and there
you go 189 dollars for the USB version
usb3 keep that in mind it's not going to
be backward compatible because it has
way too much data coming in or
Thunderbolt if you've got a mac or pc
that has Thunderbolt connection so let's
say we want to go with the cheaper
models USB 3 189 05 and what that does
is it actually gives your laptop
computer through USB 3.0 HDMI as well as
composite component s-video analog
connector so it has the digital and it
has the analog as well and that's
probably going to be the best way for
you to go when it comes to getting HD
hdmi video into your laptop because it's
economical and it works really really
well those are you know black magic
create some of the best capture devices
and then you just have to have a piece
of software that will just let you blow
it up full screen if you want if that's
what you're hoping to do cool so which
you can just use the included software
I'm sure good hope that helps oh here's
one from oops uh Ronnie Dean hey Ronnie
hi Robbie we have put together a video
studio here in Tennessee we are using
wire cast and we'll be broadcasting a
live weekly show on our YouTube channel
soon wonderful we have watched many of
your videos and those of
others also thanks for the great info
yeah you're very welcome here's the
question what camera are you using for
the backstage pass view you mentioned in
your studio tour video published on
April twentieth 2012 can you give me a
link it to where I can get one not funny
it's literally a year ago a year in 10
days that we publish that Wow okay at
that time we were using this bad boy if
I can get it over here oh this looks
jerky yeah Heather can see that so we'll
post that in for you this this camera is
just a I don't know a sony handycam and
i'm not recommending that you go that
route necessarily what's handy about
that it'sit's SD so very very low
quality 720 x 480 resolution okay so
you're talking DVD quality as opposed to
HD honestly reason we use that was just
economical we had it and my backstage
pass is a camera that people can switch
to the behind-the-scenes video at any
time throughout the live show it's kind
of cool as a you know fun kind of thing
for the viewers but it's really just the
cheapest camera that we have laying
around I would say you know it I
wouldn't go that route I would instead
you know pick up a NHD microsoft lifecam
studio yeah something like that and then
that's going to give you much better
quality for cheaper we have that land
around it was our old old broadcast
camera we don't use it anymore so yeah
just a cheap webcam would do it for you
and then we set up a secondary feed on
Ustream and then we I wrote a piece of
software using jQuery that just allows
people to switch between the two cameras
by themselves and we never pump any
audio through backstage pass because
then they'd have two feeds of audio
going so the audio always comes from the
main camera the video can come from both
so hope that sense so don't don't look
at what we used that was just because
that was what we had kicking around and
we still use it once in a while just to
have an extra shot but because of the
quality of the lack of quality of it 720
x 480 this one here just give you an
idea I mean these are vote you know
they're they're under 80 bucks easy when
they're on sale there
even less than that cap five dot TV /
cam I believe you'll find them there
those ones are a full 19 what is it 1920
x 1080 I think that's right something
like that I was full 1080p so can't go
wrong even if you're running in 720p
mode it's excellent and they also have
the threading for tripods always good
yeah mm-hmm thank you very much thanks
for watching the show and getting
cleaning some ideas from here's a
question from home Erik Erik I says
thanks for a great show with a lot of
information I saw your hundred and third
show and I'm just setting up a nun rates
are raising three existing 250 gigabyte
hard drives I feel that I will fill the
capacity very shortly oh yes what made
the best cost effective path to increase
the capacity change the parodies that
rate or change or add more drives parody
is what allows you to fail out a hard
drive so if i have three hard drives in
this case it's 3 250 gig drives so if
i'm doing that i have 500 gigs of usable
space and the third 250 which brings it
as you would think would bring it to 750
doesn't it actually gives you five
hundred and then parity and the parody
drive is basically it's a backup so to
speak not a backup literally but a
backup as in it's a fail-safe so if one
drive fails you can take out that failed
drive and put in a new one okay so in a
case like this you've got 500 usable
gigs that's not a lot of space by
today's standards 500 episodes of
category five and we're coming up on 300
so I mean you've only got 200 episodes
left in your drive is full so what I
would suggest is that ok parity drive
always has to be the biggest drive in
the array ok this is unraid line
technologies makes it will post a link
in the show notes for episode number 293
that's today what's cool about unraid as
you say is that you're able to do it for
free if you use three drives or less
okay so that's cool now I would
encourage you to support them if you
want to go a little bit higher add a
couple drives or whatever but
as you say it's free so it's great now
if you were to get the commercial
version you could simply add another
drive you get all the space of that
drive say for example in your case
you've got a bit of a catch-22 because
your parity drive is exactly the same
size as the other drives in the array so
in your case you have to in fact replace
two hard drives in order to get any more
capacity out of that array reason being
as i said the parity drive has to always
be the biggest drive so you need to take
out that 250 gig parity drive and
replace it with a one terabyte or a two
terabyte drive and you think oh well
that's going to give me more space but
it doesn't because it's only the parody
drive okay so it gives you no additional
space you're still stuck at 500 gigs but
then it opens you up to be able to take
out another now remember we've we've
we've taken out the parody drive we've
put in a new one terabyte drive okay say
for the for the example and we've let it
rebuild parity it's done now your array
is online and everything is hunky-dory
now I can take out another 250 gig drive
never take out two at a time there's
only single Drive parity and then we can
put in another one terabyte drive so now
magically I have twelve hundred and
fifty gigabytes because I have a one
terabyte parody drive which is going to
be as big as the the largest drive-in in
the array and then you've got a one
terabyte plus a 250 terabyte so now
twelve hundred and fifty terabyte
gigabytes essentially so well that makes
sense so you have to replace two drives
in order to get any more capacity out of
that array which is kind of unfortunate
but parity is all you know you you've
got to have parity and that's part of
the beautiful thing about unraid but if
you get the commercial version like I
say then you can just add another you
could go up to five drives without any
concern I run I think seven or eight
drives in my array and that it's it's
nice when you have a bit of an
assortment in my case I had a couple of
five hundreds a couple 250s a couple of
one terabytes kind of that kind of
environment so when I would buy another
one terabyte I would just pull out one
of the 11 of the 250s
I would get all the extra space 750 gigs
so unfortunately because your drives
match for me you don't have that
advantage yet so upgrade two drives and
then go from there I would say based on
that just take take from that and say
you know find a good deal and get the
biggest parity drive that you possibly
can be at two or three terabytes that
way you're never stuck in the same
situation again we can always roll them
down you know if you had a one terabyte
parody drive and a one terabyte data
drive you could always later replace the
one terabyte parody drive with a 3
terabyte pull out the 250 once it's
parodied and then take that one terabyte
that used to be parody and put it in the
place of the 250 and you have much more
space why are you laughing cuz I'm not
following oh it's all agree watching
write it down yeah okay make know it's
making out it's okay it's basically like
just this massive yeah makes sense in
this brain all right a last question
what wowzers spin from I did know who
okay mihail there hey hey buddy hello
Robbie my problem is that some time ago
my friends are my guests and enjoyed my
internet so on them had downloaded a
movie without paying for it and I have
to pay a fine of 800 euros but nobody
recognizes who's responsible can I
somehow check which computer did this
hmm seems like you should be able to
just not that I know anything about it
you're looking at you know are you gonna
hire a private investigator I try to
figure this out I mean you can look for
do you know the file name do you know
the md5 sum do you know any of the stuff
but it and is it legit like are you
seriously being charged 800 euro for
probably if they went over a usage was
that way like a usage I vaginal I
thought it was like a fine someone
should bites or is it a legal fine or is
it just they went over the limit is that
kind of a case it sounds like without
came from I have to pay a fine yeah I
don't know what to tell ya I mean cuz
most likely they would have watched it
and deleted it right
so how do you hopefully you'd have
honest friends you know who did it it
was me to set them all down in a heated
room yeah got a bright light there's a
girl in their eyes little break yeah
well yeah she's rough and tough folks
you get a Krista in there and and chill
chill she'll break them yeah yeah what
would you suggest in a case like that I
really I don't know can you beg and
plead for mercy cuz that's kind of silly
maybe take it as a lesson I mean I've
had life lessons like that where
something's happened and and
unfortunately it's either cost me a lot
or it's it's damaged reputation or
something and it's not my fault but
sometimes you just got to take it in
stride and just learn from it
unfortunately but that's a lot of euro
to be spending for nothing yeah I had
roommates used to do that they'd go over
our designated usage and then you get
charged on the actual yes and it's
pretty high especially like if you're
using a cell phone or something you know
people who use a cell phone and and not
realize how much their bandwidth is
costing when they share it to their
friends laptop to give them internet
access and it's like wow sorry but not
really sure not really sure what to tell
you they've made it of course of course
ya see that there you go this happened
to have a light pen on you a light pen
and ESET light pen with the stylus built
in da yeah yeah smart antivirus dot CA
you you go order it a like a sizable
license and i'll send you a pen how's
that I'll gimmick you know you want to
even send me a donation that will help
us to get the renovations done to get
the new studio put together and we'll
send your change we'll send you an e set
pen with the built-in flashlight and the
built-in stylus which is kind of cool
this was great in the winter because you
use your phone and yeah you don't
realize that if you got take your glove
off it's like yeah but this you just
you've got your gloves on and you can
use the stylus oh that's smart kenna
smart yeah usually I just I don't bother
I just go uh I'll text my friends later
I'll email him later than three weeks
later she's forgotten the email back not
that that's ever happened that might be
based on a true story dave made who
thinks that that's bribery and to that i
say yeah yes that's what is it bribery
if the result is positive like you get
this awesome i mean this is a great deal
fires is a really good show yeah you can
buy the antivirus what youíve enjoyed
the show every week it's a win-win you
get the antivirus you get the man
charging you for this stuff i mean so
you know it's like a couple grand in
their account send you a pen oh thanks
Dave bitcoins I don't even I wouldn't
know how to accept bitcoins and they'll
be worth half of what they are today
tomorrow so that'll be scary that's
gambling with your money right there
thanks everybody that's that's I mean
that's that's it for the show I can't
believe we actually got through all the
questions we did that was all of them
that's amazing thanks folks for sending
the men really really appreciate it
thank you to everybody who's listening
on category 5 radio tonight and on tpn
radio as well very exciting also who you
are joining us on our Google hangout
we're gonna actually be there chatting
with you after the show so if you're on
google+ make sure you go to our hangout
you can get there by the link at cat
five TV / g plus and that's spelt out p
lus if you stick around for about 15
minutes following the shoulder have a
quick chat with our viewers so really
cool
already that's it what's the square root
of pie I don't know yeah don't answer
that that like three point well three
point oh hi is why yeah yeah I do that
thanks for being here Krista already
know thanks for having me you guys are
put up with me fun is to get through
some of those questions thank you for
sending them in email us this week live
at category five dot TV make sure you
check out that new feature that ever
shown you earlier on our website
category five td's lead send it links
and tweet them and post them on Facebook
them there you go thanks everybody make
sure you stick around after the show we
are going to be on our Google hangout
don't go anywhere we will talk to you
there take care have a great week
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at 7pm easter if
you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch life and
turns in the community
going 5 is a production of fortitude
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
