hello and welcome to episode 2 since
it's Christmas Eve I decided to make a
tutorial how to make a Christmas tree
like this let's get on with it
[Music]
time to make this thing go too well
first you're gonna right click and press
delete on sprite 1 then press this and
this and this and this and convert to
vector and this then you're gonna zoom
in and what I'm gonna do is just use
reshape to will put do this and this so
there's the base of the Christmas tree
and ctrl C control V control V control V
control V and I'm gonna make some of
them a little bit smaller than the rest
to make it look like a real Christmas
tree kind of a cartoon
there we go there's the leaves under the
tree now we're gonna make the bottom
usually they're the bottom of a tree is
brown so do this then you're gonna go
here and press this a few times and
there is our Christmas tree with no
lights now the lights are just gonna be
simple do
so those are gonna be like the light now
for the star I'll just grab yellow
that's this then reshape
and it should work like this
mmm doot-doot
there's the star just make it a little
bit more like this there and that's the
tree and those are the lights now we're
going to make the lights different
colors so color shape pick whatever
color you want you can click on this for
any color then I'm gonna pick blue green
light green no yellow yellow looks
better then red make sure you color in
the middle otherwise it'll look a bit
big and strange and to get the color you
were using just use this suck tool and
then click on this again
so there are the lights what you're
going to do is duplicate now I'm going
to change the colors a bit like this and
then select then do do and then select
again do do flashing like that I'm going
to make one more so that looks even
better
doo doo doo
doot-doot whoops press this button to
undo then last but not least the blue
okay so there's our tree
so it makes it a tree one tree to tree
three one flag clicked go to x0 y0
control forever repeat ten feet ten
repeat ten repeat ten or simply just do
this okay so go tier glide one second to
X let's say 20 X 0 X minus 20 X 0 so
it'll look like this I'm gonna make it a
bit bigger and I'm also gonna make it
less 1020 no ten so that doesn't look
too like weird okay now to make it
bigger you go to looks set size to I
would suggest 200 percent that's pretty
cool 300 percent that looks even better
okay
also grab another when Flake clicked
forever loop next cost you it'll look
like that but make it look better do
wait one seconds
or 0.7 I'm going to change the this a
little bit
okay so there's that now to make it like
wobble you'll go to forever this is the
way I like to do it make a block whoa
bull and put wobble right here now this
will pop up define wobble
let's do turn one degrees turn one
degrees turn two turn two
okay repeat five and then repeat five
then repeat five again and then repeat
five again
that'll happen
and I'll just do repeat too far these
like that
repeat two just so that looks good so 5
times 1 that's 5 and then 5 times 2
that's 10 that's 15 point in dart
rection wait now just do during 15
degrees right there
that a narc
okay now put turn 15 degrees and point
in direction 90 at the start there now
it'll wobble like that now to make it go
up and down when this clicked forever
repeat ten repeat ten repeat ten repeat
ten
change Y by 10
- one oh gosh nope nope nope 1-1 what
wait this has to be one minus one there
okay doesn't go up very high so to make
it look to make it so that you can see
it better just change these two to a
negative two
there that's the Christmas tree wobbling
for the backdrop I'm gonna chew there's
this whole place that you can choose
backdrops I'm just gonna do raised that
looks pretty cool so this is our
animation so far now
all we really have to do is make another
sprite which is the floor
one flag clicked go - oh this is zoomed
in clear like that make sure it's not
zoomed in otherwise it'll look weird go
to X 0 y 0 and then I'm gonna make it a
little smaller like so so there's that
now to add music go to stage go to
events go to sounds if you want to add
your own just do upload sound full file
it'll take about a minute to convert
depending on how long it is there we go
this is the sound that I chose I'm going
to make it louder so that you can hear
it so select all and edit louder and
louder again I'll just keep doing that
okay that's as loud as it gets there we
go whoops
crap and then go to control go to
forever go to sound play sound Kratz
until done
so there you go hope you have the
merriest Christmas bye
thanks for watching
