welcome back to category five technology
TV Jeff you have DJ for so many years
we've been through this before
how's your hearing not so good not as
great not as great as it could be no we
live in an amazing time when you know if
hearing aids are quite expensive yes
yeah but we're starting to see companies
like japaese who are coming out with
amazing products we've looked at amp
sound and some of their other products
where they take like the bluetooth
earbud concept and turn them into a
hearing apparatus that also assists with
hearing impairment yeah typically
they're just amplifiers yeah it's not
like they're you know meant for like
tinnitus or anything sure but still they
work quite effectively did they require
a doctor's visit you do those ones
require a doctor's visit and possibly
thousands of dollars yes the the hearing
aids that I require of them cost it out
and I'd be it just under five grand Wow
yeah and you've got to go for an annual
maintenance and like go back to the oral
specialists and everything else
well japaese is like we love this
company they do a fantastic product line
but they're taking it further okay
they've said okay we've had success with
amp sound we've shown that there is a
market for a non hearing aid hearing
apparatus that assists with not deaf
people but people who are having trouble
hearing anyone be able to so let's just
make it better let's take that and let's
improve upon it the concept and Joby's
is always good at this okay so tonight
we're looking at be hearing and be
hearing is a three-in-one device so this
one is exciting not only is it going to
assist with hearing like it's going to
amplify boost your hearing as you say
it's an amplifier so it makes things
louder if you will but it also includes
a remote transmitter we're gonna look at
that but imagine imagine a case where
I'm on a date with my wife and I'm hard
of hearing I can put a remote
transmitter on her lapel and I can hear
her perfectly from across the table so
that's just one example
look at that okay isn't that awesome
okay that is like something you don't
see in hearing aid that's right
definitely something it's also Bluetooth
stereo headphones for listening to music
watching TV that kind of stuff and it
can make him take calls through your
smartphone it's all there is it's hard
to yeah so three and one device let's
get a look at this thing okay so first
of all let's just jump right into this
box I wanted to have this one kinda on
display
we know japaese is great with their
cases amazing okay let's let's pop right
in to this I'm gonna get a bit of a
close-up shot all right okay so this is
the case for the be hearing let's get in
this is your gratuitous unboxing video
of the new device from Joby's okay so
we've got a manual we've got some
various sized your attachments this is
the B hearing device itself which we're
gonna look at but you notice there's a
fair bit of accessories here Jeff which
we don't often see with these kinds of
devices so here we've got well let's get
first into here we go
they have yeah okay Joby's always
includes some form of portable charging
unit Jeff so you see this yes so this
fits in my pocket and the battery just
snaps right in here with a magnet just
goes right in and anytime I need to
charge my my hearing apparatus the be
hearing I just simply push the button oh
my god and it starts charging so when I
want to charge the charger I just simply
plug it into USB it can be charging
while I'm using the device and then I
carry that with me okay perfect for
traveling or whatever else then we've
got here link that's what I wanted to
show you here this is cool this is I
think one of the things Jeff this takes
it to the next level okay Sasha check
this out this is good
so you just I would clip it here and
that's not microphone you've got a lapel
microphone
okay ha now let's got an auxilary
auxilary input and for luck headphones
I'm gonna just kinda I'm just gonna
point it at him and see if he can if he
can understand what what all this stuff
means receive and transmit receive and
transmit oh why would we want to do that
why would we want to have a lapel clip
that can receive or transmit okay we
know it's got auxilary input yeah we
know it's got a built-in microphone
right so I'm sitting across the table
from my date and we're having a
conversation she's got this on here I've
got the B hearing on right I can hear
her through the microphone but yeah are
you yeah she can yeah it also includes
Jeff an extra set of year but ZOA way so
if we are both hard-of-hearing or if
you're both on a motorcycle right or you
know what other scenarios can you think
of I was just at a concert on the
weekend so to have that and then the be
there you're going to be able to talk to
each other I don't really need to get
into this part of the the system itself
too much you can understand that I can
plug that in there and set this to
receive mode right now it becomes
two-way communication between me and the
person who's actually wearing be hearing
okay so when it's in receive mode it
still is in transmit mode also yeah
we're able to okay send and receive
perfect because it's using the built-in
microphone to send okay it's using the
auxilary to receive right now I'm going
to church on Sunday yeah where I'm
watching a movie at home on the weekend
it's got an auxilary input so now I can
plug this into my TV I can plug this
into the sound board and now might be
hearing device is able to receive the
transmission from the hear link it's
become something that is connectable
yeah they say it's got about a 10 meter
range I actually like to set this up in
here and I walked outside I left the
studio and I went out into the parking
lot before I started losing it is more
than ten meters it's more than ten
meters and fades like concrete walls
yeah
so that is awesome
now let's get a look at be hearing so
this is the device itself it's different
than anything you've seen as far as
hearing aids go it's not a hearing aid
this is so much more I can take the
battery and just simply pop that in
there yep there you go it's all magnets
okay so just goes around your neck yeah
nothing clips this is gonna go around my
neck anything oh that's kind of weird
that's different right but but you know
I'm gonna just kind of tuck that in a
little bit right and then yeah so this
has got the receiver it's got bluetooth
it's got the microphone it's got
connectivity all that stuff and then
I've just got earbuds right and they
just look like any other earbuds like
I'm just listening to music or whatever
else there you go right it's also I just
look like earbuds and they're
comfortable they're good they're metal I
know that like my dad was hard of
hearing and he was embarrassed about the
idea of wearing so he went his in tight
the entirety of his life he needed
hearing aid not the entire to his wife
but his I don't life he needed hearing
aids he would not wear them right he
would have worn those because they don't
look like hearing aids look like
headphones yeah they look like
headphones so that that bridges that gap
with people I'm talking very good I'm
gonna get in here again I want to show
you how this works so this is gonna go
around my neck and we've got a couple of
different things here first of all we've
got bluetooth pairing and we've got a
fast forward and rewind button for our
device but also this doubles as volume
up and volume down then here's something
that keeps us from having to go to the
doctor in order to get our hearing aids
adjusted thing is is that I may have I
may be hard of hearing in my left ear
but not in my right Sasha right so I
don't want the amplification happening
in my right ear but I want it to happen
in the left ear quite a bit more so
Chubby's has thought of that and they've
included left and right volume knobs as
well so you set the main volume here and
then you can adjust left and right and I
know it's hard to see they're just very
very tiny little dials here but you can
manually adjust like that it's going to
do up to a hundred and twenty-five
decibel gains so
Wow you've got a pretty significant gain
on the on the audio so yeah the room
noise ambient noise so I put this on
like this with nothing else attached I'm
not I'm not gonna worry about any other
part of the device and just wear it as
earbuds right so it's just like a phone
hearing like Bluetooth headset right it
has the inline microphone and the inline
microphone actually doubles as the
ambient room microphone for when I
switch it to hearing mode like so the
amplification mode one time so if I
don't want the Bluetooth mode I can
switch on the hearing mode right over
here yep so we just power is over here
and hearing is over here I hear power on
and then amplification and it's
incredible Wow well yeah just all of a
sudden yeah boom is rocked at doing the
amplification yeah yeah that's cool
that's almost trippy because I'm in the
room with you so that's cool I don't
have to do anything else to make that
work okay incredible now I can sync that
to my phone yep I can also pair it to
this that's what I meant by sync I get
Herot I can pair it to my phone I can
pair it to this as well the interlink
and so if we're having that conversation
across the table you and me because it's
a very romantic date right and somebody
rings my cell phone it will
automatically switch over to smartphone
mode allow me to take bottom addict law
automatically they're paired and
connected to both devices at the same
time okay and then I'll take the call
and then once I'm done it will switch
right back over to the microphone or the
aux input okay so it's kind of a crash
course on be hearing
I wanted to kind to show it to you I
wanted to tell you that this thing
exists because it's it's really quite
exceptional
the quality is is very good I mean it's
you've heard hearing aids I'm sure it's
it's got a like that amplification it's
got that kind of it's not like a digital
sound it's I wish I could let you hear
it but it kind of it brings up the audio
it brings up the treble you don't get
any feedback from them like you do with
traditional hearing aids right but it
just in hey
the entire room would work in a
situation and in a school or a teaching
auditorium for any student this on the
teacher exactly give this to your
student who has trouble hearing exactly
or who's at the back of the room yeah
you know if you've got a student who's
having trouble sure why not
okay what else have we got to cover with
this that's really yeah it just works
really great I love it it's sure if it
comes in a nice case yeah you kind of
like you've covered it all no it's like
that is there is there an app no need
it's Bluetooth mm-hmm okay just a
Bluetooth headset so okay so I can
simple enough so when I when I mentioned
that there's a switch here for the
amplification mode so this is an
amplification mode switch here so if I
turn that off now I'm just in Bluetooth
mode so they operate just as if they're
just a standard jobbies bluetooth stereo
headset so listening to music watching
TV and I mentioned watching TV so plug
this into your TV it's got a headphone
headphone jack style input and JB's is
in fact included the cable so that you
can plug it into the headphone jack of
your TV and then sit back wirelessly and
be able to hear it much better for older
TVs they've even included an RCA adapter
oh yeah so they've thought of it also
this is gonna work on your TV what else
can you I mean yeah I think it kind of
speaks for itself right so these for
itself and we'll be able to hear it
hearing aids are so expensive and as
sasha mentioned they're not there's like
a stigma with them especially with
especially I think with young people but
I sure I don't think only with young
people but certainly I mean think of if
your kids have trouble hearing or if you
have trouble hearing oh absolutely
these are gonna work really really well
for you I am so happy with chippies I
love jubie's oh oh and somebody will ask
this so so you see these hanging down
here yeah I can adjust where it hangs
down from okay so I can actually kind of
put this behind my head by just Oh
okay adjusting that see that right so
then now it's gonna hang right over by
my ear right do you know what the life
is battery life battery life for the
hearing aid portion is about seven hours
you're gonna get close to that with
music right just standard like phone
calls and things like that okay
but the the hearing apparatus itself the
enhancement is seven hours but again you
can't you carry the charger with you
yeah it also has USB connectivity so if
your charger is dead you can plug this
device directly into USB oh and it's got
a USB cable again they thought of it
also it's directly connected and you can
charge it up in a couple of hours
super it's called be hearing from
Jimmy's it's brand new just head on over
to cap five dot TV slash be hearing
[Music]
[Applause]
you
