welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 374 Tuesday the 21st of
October 2014 hello welcome indeed
welcome to the show and tonight we've
got a really exciting show we're
actually going to learn to create an
e-commerce website we're going to be
looking at how to create a clothing line
website so you can self loathing on your
website but there's twist because that
knowledge can be can transcend any kind
of online merchandise yet if you are
handy with maybe crafts or something
like that you can sell them on your
website if you want to sell anything at
all you can do that with the knowledge
that we're going to teach you tonight so
stick around this is definitely for you
satchel what's coming up in the news
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV news room the BBC is going to
publish a continually updated list of
articles removed from google under the
controversial right to be forgotten rule
a pair of researchers have discovered
how to hack a smart meter allowing
attackers to lower their utility bill or
even have someone else get billed for
the usage an innovative company is
bringing offline access to internet
source information in ear areas of the
world with no internet and a malicious
worm that can roam the net seeking data
stored on insecure Hardware has been
created by a security researcher stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
crystals
Eric kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
introducing Beltone first a
revolutionary new hearing aid so small
you can hardly see it so comfortable you
can hardly feel it for the first time
ever you can control hearing aids
directly from your iPhone pick up the
phone listen to music and use your
hearing aids like wireless headphones
hear everything that matters try Beltone
first for a free trial call one eight
hundred Bell tone now this is category
five technology TV hello my name is
Robbie Ferguson I'm Kelsey Jensen Kelsey
how you been I've been good good this is
the studio D yes welcome to the space
very exciting I don't know if those if
everybody at home knows but you were
actually here helping out with some the
painting and and you can catch those
cat5 TV / studio because the backstage
pass videos if you want to see all the
work that went into this crazy place
we've got this big white wall behind me
it's actually a bit of an off up round
off white kind of thing we've got that
to contend with we've got some wallpaper
that still has to go up we've got the
TARDIS to go up on the door that we got
from thankee we gotta deal with this
glare issue my poor camera guy Adam is
having trouble getting that that white
balance of an exposure point right yeah
just let it doesn't look quite as ballsy
it's the glare it's the shine in this
extremely exuberantly Frank room had it
all tweets just before the show is
working with the exposure levels in the
camera and finally was able to get the
glare off of my forehead which is
amazing but the wall behind me was black
and can see Kelsey at all is like the
lights rep and there's just this glow so
we're gonna we're gonna nail it I wanted
to mention a game tonight make sure you
get over to cap five dot TV / green
sasha has got that gorgeous new green
screen studio Sasha what do you think of
the space I love it we picked it up over
a cat five dot TV / green those studio
like the it's basically a green screen
studio kit to get everything the lights
that green screen the stands everything
that you need to build your own green
screen studio in the garage or in the
basement however you want to do it you
get everything and it's all in one kit
they are like fifty-seven percent off
right now at cap five dot TV / green so
go check one out those are great i mean
i've done video production for local
companies and you know people want to
have just a sashy you know I mean even
video testimonials of customers it's a
really great it wouldn't be great to
have a green screen where absolutely do
something then I mean then you're not
limited to wherever the room is that you
have to be doing the filming yeah right
sometimes you're in a wee tight spot
like the last ODI ring and it's true and
I think Sasha actually you've been even
through this getting viewer tested are
not viewer testimonials customer
testimonials and you've got a wall
that's covered in whatever and you've
got the stuff all going on all around
just to be able to set up this green
screen here's a neat thing we love it
here at studio D it's pretty great
feature I would say I think so hope
everybody's having a wonderful week so
far hi to our chat room I see it's
starting to fill up could we see John as
always is there of course greetings jot
lots of people in Andrew Bates 10 yeah
joining us for the first time tonight
just discovered the show I'd love to
hear where you're from how you found the
show how you're watching us tonight and
welcome to the community welcome to the
show if you're new here make sure you
check out category five dot TV we've got
a website there that you can actually
sign up for a free account
and that gives you access to all the
backstage pass features we've got bonus
features that are coming up speaking of
incredible bonus features Sasha do you
want to tell them about our newest most
exciting feature that has come to the
category 5 TV studios I am super excited
I have I i guess i have my own news
channel i have my own news i am not very
good at on the spot i'm a roku channel
Ravi why don't you tell everybody I'll
put it up on the telephone you get under
linux tech show com you get onto our
roku channel you'll see that there is
the category 5 TV news room with Sasha
door made us we've also got RSS feeds
set up specifically for that content so
if you want to just get that little I
don't know five to eight minutes segment
once a week that is basically the top
news stories from the category 5 TV news
room you can do that go to cap 5 TV /
RSS go to our youtube channel linux tech
show com or of course you can catch it
on our roku channel category 5 TV which
incidentally if you're not already
subscribed we are the number two
top-rated science and tech show on the
roku that is a fabulous incredible and
thank you so much for voting for us we
appreciate that very very much I can
honestly say that if you follow from the
beginning right through you'll be able
to see me stuttering through my nerves
at the beginning and then they four or
five seasons from this point i will have
the perfect news anchor intonation if
you want to go there you want to go
there episode 1 of category 5 TV season
1 episode 1 i was just it was me in the
basement with a webcam Oh heard that was
that was it yes that's what we call
brutal yes and of course category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat5 TV / tpn and
the International International
Association of Internet broadcasters
cat5 TV / IA ib thanks Kelsey also make
sure you check out our mobile website
mcat 5 TV
scan the code go there check it out now
we've got live video and audio streaming
we've got access to back episodes as
well I think you can actually watch
every single episode of category 5 TV
right there on our mobile website that's
a feat of digital amazingness when you
think about 370 hours of this stuff tech
broadcasting right here from our studio
thank you to everybody who has
contributed toward the building of
studio D we're here and if you're new
here of course you know studio D Andrew
may be a new concept to you we were in
Studio C and the logical progression to
that was to move into studio D which is
probably about five times the space at
least a lot more space here we've got a
lot more space to work with and we've
got the green screen set we've got all
this set up and ready to go we're
broadcasting from here we've still got a
lot to do but we're in yes just the good
thing which is the best thing we're here
it's comfortable ah just take that na
that's great but there is still some
work to be done and I just wanted to say
thank you to those who have supported
the project if you are new here or if
you haven't been following along with
the videos check out cat5 TV / studio
because we've got videos there from
backstage pass which is basically our
behind-the-scenes videos how studio d
came to be can I give a quick shout-out
to my sister I just got a message that
this is her first show she's watching
live way to go yeah so hi Colleen all
the way in Alberta I call me joining the
show welcome what do you think of the
new virtual set for Sasha d how cool is
that right pretty cool welcome to our
newly registered viewers our new viewers
on our website we've got viewers all
over the world tonight if you'd like to
see a viewer location map just to see
where all the pins fall for those who
are watching the show right now go to
map dot cat five dot TV it's cool ready
to get into it alright I've got a lot to
cover tonight we're going to build a
clothing store using free tools yeah
nothing's going to cost us any money to
do we can actually do this with
wordpress what blogging software whoa
frightening what's nice about wordpress
it's already got things like user
management comments systems and all of
that kind of stuff all built into it and
then we had a plug-in which we're gonna
look at is called woo commerce whoa you
have to woo commerce woo commerce it's
really quite brilliant okay so I'm gonna
get over to demo cat5 TV / 0 17 that is
where our brand new store is going to be
set up let's bring it up was a fun word
to say let's see if we can get there all
right folks here we go so hello world
this is our brand new blog as as will
say but what we're going to do is we're
going to get into the administrative
acts aspects and we've been looking at
WordPress as a viable platform for
blogging over the past little while but
tonight we're actually going to turn
this blog into an online store i'm using
clothing as a good example because we
can get into things like sizing and
colors and variations of the products
right which transcends all kinds of
products so it's not just a clothing
store and if you're thinking oh well i'm
not going to start a clothing store well
it doesn't matter whatever it is that
you might be willing to sell or maybe
it's not for you maybe it's for a friend
or family member who is an amazing
painter right say or maybe a
self-published author and you want to be
able to set up a way for them to sell
their product maybe somebody who does
woodworking I mean it just transcends
all of these kinds of things that's what
we're going to do tonight so I'm going
to really quickly log into this blog at
demo cap five dot TV / is 017 there we
go okay I'm in bring it up on your
screen for you okay so this is I've got
a bay pardon me a base install of
WordPress here and what we're going to
do is we're going to go into our plugins
and we're going to add new
one of the nice things here is that
we're able to with WordPress anything
that we do as far as installing plugins
we're not having to download it to our
computer and then upload it to the
server and and do that kind of thing
what we're able to do with WordPress is
use the plug-in management to add a
plug-in and it's actually downloaded
directly to the server it doesn't go
through our internet it doesn't come to
my computer and then go up to the server
it's fast it's extremely fast because
servers usually have a very fast
connection to the internet and also it
saves your own bandwidth here we're on
LTE LTE internet so we pay for the
bandwidth we use it's nice to have this
ability to install things on our blog
without having to use our computer as
the intern step so looking at add
plugins in WordPress simply all I have
to do is WooCommerce it already started
buying things in so i just typed that
into the search it's gonna find it and
there it is from woo themes it looks
like an aardvark there you go burple
aardvark install now we're going to say
okay and it's remember because this is
going directly to my server it's not
coming through my computer it's not
limited by the speed of my computer it's
limited only by the speed of my server
and it's already done it's downloaded it
it's unpacked it it's installed it it's
successfully installed WooCommerce I'm
gonna activate that plugin thanks Kelsey
you have to say like that I know I know
you got it is mid-october yeah
hmm commerce all right so there we go I
clicked on activate plugin see what
happens here now as soon as that's
active you know what's gonna they're
done welcome to WooCommerce you're
already almost ready do you want what do
you want to do install WooCommerce pages
you got to do that because it's going to
give you like the shop cart checkout all
that kind of stuff so I clicked on that
what's neat about this plug-in is it's
not just a plug-in like some of the
basic things that we've looked at we're
literally creating an e-commerce
platform with a couple of mouse clicks
is really that simple it's really that
simple full stop it's already done what
so if I go back to that website then
what I count five TV / 017 that's just
our demo server so that we can play
around and monkey around the stuff let's
see what happens here okay now you'll
notice I've got cart checkout my account
so okay that's awesome up at the top
there sorry the full screen thing was
coming in so it's created this cart
checkout my account that's cool well
what does it mean so we're gonna jump
back here and I said we would be
creating a clothing store so we're going
to create our very first product so I'm
imagining that we've got a sweatshirt
right maybe maybe evening to do maybe
you've got access to a local supplier
that wants to do shirts and you can
great Karis easy breezy okay so I'm
going to go into woo woo commerce here
before we get our product set up let's
actually create basically set up the
store itself shouldnt get too ahead of
myself so WooCommerce and then settings
is going to let me into the the basic
you know the first step of setting up my
my system itself because what's
important here is that we centralize
things I want to have things in dollars
and and and I want it to be centralized
to Canada so if i click on base location
here and go canada you'll see that it
actually
mine's my country and provinces so I'm
going to go Ontario there we go so
that's important because we're going to
have the ability to add things like
taxation is shipping modules so that you
can actually calculate shipping
automatically it's all built into
commerce how great is it selling
locations where do you want to sell to
we'll go with all countries enable
site-wide store notice text no enable
that's all fine okay what currency are
we going to do pound sterling no I want
canadian dollars in my case of course
for you it's going to be whatever your
local currency is whatever it is that
you're working with okay how do we want
it to look yeah we're going to have the
dollar symbol or in this case of showing
a pound symbol we're going to have it to
the left that's perfect thousand
separators all that stuff is going to
stay as is and we're going to save
changes so now I've got it I've got it
localized to Canada you'll see it's now
updated two dollars and it's going to
display the the way that I want if
you're in Quebec you might want it to be
to the right for example for French the
way that it's written there and I can
adjust that fairly simply so now i'm
basically pleased with the the initial
setup of my store can you believe that
it were we're basically up and running
we just don't have any products yet
where we're there though so that's
really the next step for the next
logical step is to add products if i go
to products you'll see I've just got
nothing and you'll see those under
products products it's just loading here
it's a comment it's a little slow that's
okay and that could be our internet
because we are on cellular here ok so
the products section is absolutely empty
right now I can click on add product
there or on the left so clicking on add
product this is where things get fairly
exciting because I'm going to actually
create those items that I'm going to be
selling so look past the fact that I'm
doing sweatshirts and and look at the
fact this could be anything at all I'm
going to give this product a name this
is something that is this should be
fairly hooky that you want to you know
we're gonna call this the amazingly
comfortable sweatshirt okay here i'm
gonna say whatever it is that i want to
say about it beautiful huh sweatshirt
that might be a lot optimistic but
that's okay it's beautiful it's super
fun for me that's all we need to know
made of 100-percent awesome you're
probably gonna want more details there
you uh you uh yeah you uh you mentioned
that we're still on the cellular oh yes
here in the studio yes a good guy wants
to know for a bunch of getting regular
internet in here we can't no such thing
as regular internet at studio d there is
fiber optic internet which is seven
hundred and forty dollars a month that's
a little can't do it not going to do it
not not we can't do that we're a
volunteer organization we do the show
for free if you click on enough ads
maybe we can do it if you send in enough
donations maybe we can do it but it has
to be so so frequent I mean seven
hundred forty dollars a month yeah and
so that's crazy so what we hope to do go
to my blog not to digress away from our
feature but go to my blog bald nerd calm
and
we're hoping to put a tower on the roof
and send a wireless signal 5 gigahertz
to my house and then that way we can
piggyback off of cable internet which is
250 megs a second perfectly fine so that
would be fine that would be our solution
it costs us a thousand dollars in order
to do that I believe we've raised about
three hundred and fifty dollars if i'm
not mistaken so far so if you want to
contribute to that good guy we
definitely appreciate that but it's bald
nerd calm to find out more about that
thank you ok back to our presentation
here I'm going to look at ok so I've got
to put in a product SKU this is going to
help me during the order process this
could be your own skew or this could be
asked you with your supplier something
like that so I'm going to call it swe
014 sweatshirt whole one ok notice that
there is regular price and sale price
one of the reasons that I wanted to
actually do this feature was because it
can get really really complex if you
don't understand the inner workings of
how to create a variable attribute
product that's what we want to establish
here with pricing and things like that
and if you're not sure what that means
think about the fact that ok I have one
sweatshirt but i might have small
through to 5xl or extra small through
who knows what kind of variables there
are two the ordering process I might
have white red and black available to my
customers so those are all variables and
they could affect pricing because a
three XL might cost me more to
manufacture than an extra small for
example and if that's the case I may
have to have variable pricing as well so
one of the things that we wanted to
learn tonight is how to do that so
you'll notice regular price and sale
price I'm actually not even going to
touch those but here in will calm irse
I'm going to change my product type to
variable product and this you're going
to use for all different types of
products and notice the WooCommerce does
support external affiliate products so
if you're selling for amazon or
cafepress or something like that you can
do that and then group products as well
simple products are just you know if
you're selling a book and there are no
variables to it
variable product applies to things like
this where colors and things like that
are available everything else down the
list we're going to just kind of leave
as is for now we're not going to do
inventory control tonight but
WooCommerce does allow you to do that as
well as calculating shipping based on
weights sizes measurements all that kind
of stuff we're going to do is we're
going to jump directly into attributes
noting linked products is going to
actually make it so that as someone is
checking out if they've clicked on
walkie-talkie in your store and you're
also selling equal outlines batteries
you can link them together so that it
says hey you should probably also by the
batteries for this walkie-talkie let's
cross sales it's a bit of an upsell but
it also helps people to get the things
that they need if you buy a printer you
very well might need a USB cable and so
that's what I discovered all right so
attributes that's where we're going to
go you'll notice this is a blank page
and this is why it can be a little bit
confusing I want to do size and color
those are the two attributes that I want
to do for my sweater so I'm going to
click Add over here and I'm going to
click Add again so now I've got two
spots to fill in two different types of
attributes first one here i'm going to
call it sighs notice that i'm doing
sighs first there's a reason for that in
clothing because i'm going to have
variable pictures so if i select black
it's going to show a picture of the
black shirt if i select white it's going
to show a picture of the white shirt
just like any good ecommerce store that
supports jquery or Ajax or whatever so
size though is not going to change
anything so I want to actually have the
size be the first thing that's asked
it's going to be in order and then the
color is going to be the second thing as
ask so that it they've already chosen
their size then they chose to choose the
color and it changes the color of the
picture it might make sense once I do it
a little bit better so I've entered the
name as sighs what do we want to do
small medium large and I'm just going to
go up to extra large I'm not going to do
extra small or anything just so that we
have this to work with visible on
product page we want to turn off what
that means is you think about a cart
page or a product page and there's
specifications or something like that so
do you want to show small medium large
extra-large in a tab of specifications
it's really not necessary you just want
it to be something that they can select
during the order process so that's where
we say it's used for variations that's
very important that you check that
otherwise we're not going to have the
option to select it during checkout next
one these are attributes color what do
we want let's say we have white Oh
notice what I'm doing is I'm separating
them with a pipe and a pipe is that
straight line it's above your Enter key
it's on the the slash so it's not it's
not a colon it's a it's a straight up
and down line sometimes it has a break
in the middle depending on your keyboard
but it looks like you see on your screen
there I had no idea that's what it was
there you go it's called a pipe and it's
differentiates between the attributes
that I'm creating so small is going to
be one to select and it doesn't have to
be listed like that if you wanted to be
verbose you can put it in like that
right you can do whatever you like it's
your store I'm just going to go
everybody knows what that means and by
breaking it up by a pipe that means that
these are each so that's going to be an
option that's going to be an option okay
so similarly we're going to go red and
black separated by a pipe so now ok
don't forget used for variations I need
to be able to select the color of my
shirt save the attributes it's been a
little bit and it's done okay so what's
next now we notice that we've selected
use for variations what we need to
actually create our variations to show
you that it's going to make a lot of
sense as soon as I do and click on
variations here you notice that there is
nothing so if I save this product right
now it's not going to be available for
sale because I haven't actually created
any of the variations so if I click on
link all variations are you sure you
want to do this I say okay now it's all
going to make sense it's creating from
my attributes all of the possible
variations of this particular product
automatically so it's created 12
variations and you'll see
now as soon as i hit okay this is where
it makes sense all of a sudden we have a
small shirt white that's one variation
we have a medium shirt white we have a
large shirt white an extra large shirt
white a small shirt red see how that
goes so those are our variations next
step is to create basically the you know
you don't want to have to go through and
create the price for each one if the
price is going to be the same so I might
say okay let's do a bulk edit on prices
and hit go and i'm going to say these
shirts are worth 35 99 and then i hit
okay and it's created the price as 3599
for all variations that saves me some
time so now i'm going to go okay i need
some pictures for each of these products
i've got a small white shirt i'm going
to click on this icon over here which is
in fact it's not very clear so click on
it and it's going to ask you for a
picture and you can select a file i can
jump onto my desktop and I've got some
shirt pictures here this is white so
I've selected the white notice I've got
three different pictures there's the
white one and I'm going to click on it
and I'm going to say ok there we go
there's my variation image so once it's
finished uploading and processing there
we go set variation image down at the
bottom right there we are so now we've
got the white picture in for the white
small shirt now for the medium I don't
have to upload it again I'm going to
click on it again hits set variation
image same with the large nice and quick
now right because I don't have any more
uploading to do for that white picture
save ok so now red is where we're at i'm
going to add a picture i'm going to
upload a new file up at the top left
here because we don't have a red picture
yet there it is hit open and now set the
variation image so now i have a picture
for my small red shirt and do the same
for black
there it is now I'm going to go through
each of these and simply click on the
picture that's red notice that I'm
seeing it right here medium red medium
black so we're going to select this
picture this is category 5 technology TV
i'm your host Robbie Ferguson and if you
have any questions for us tonight what
we're doing is we're actually taking a
look at WooCommerce it's a plugin for
WordPress and with this plugin we're
able to create an incredible ecommerce
store with free tools it's absolutely
free all you need is WordPress from
wordpress.org you can download it and
install it follow those two tutorials
that we've already done on the show and
of course woocommerce as you found we
just install as a manu culver whoo this
is a plug-in that you can install now
we're going to pick up where we left off
in just a couple of moments time I'm
going to finish up with the final
products adding those pictures as you've
seen there and then we're going to pick
it up right after the news so over to
the newsroom Sasha door made us take it
away it's Tuesday October 21st 2014 and
here are the stories were covering this
week the BBC will be exposing articles
removed from google by the right to be
forgotten rule Smart Meters can be
hacked to reduce your utility bill
offline access to Internet content is
coming to areas of the world with no
internet access and a proof-of-concept
worm has demonstrated that an attacker
could take control of home dated storage
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
operation christmas child is one of the
great stories it's unfolding in our
lifetime we are only seeing just the
beginning of this project and these
children will change the world
listen here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom the BBC is to
its articles removed from Google under
the controversial right to be forgotten
rule the ruling allows people to ask
Google to remove some types of
information about them from its search
index but editorial policy had David
Jordan told a public meeting hosted by
google that the BBC felt some of its
articles had been wrongly hidden mr.
Jordan claims that the BBC had so far
been notified of 46 links to articles
that had been removed in the next few
weeks the BBC will begin publishing the
list of removed URLs it has been
notified about by Google mr. Jordan said
greater care should be given to the
public's right to remember many utility
companies are installing remote meters
to help customers monitor and manage
their power use and help them be more
energy-efficient have your videl is an
independent researcher who along with
Alberto elara has found flaws in the
smart meters he says we took them apart
to see how they work what he found has
raised some concerns at the utility
companies smart meters can be hacked to
underreport energy use this essentially
means with a little know-how and very
little scruples you could effectively
cut your electricity bill attackers
could use what the pair found to
underreport energy use or to get someone
else to pay their bills by using their
ID and messages sent back to the nodes
that log usage with more with more work
researchers claim they might be paused
it might be possible to find a way to
seek out meters and cut off the power
that they are supplying essentially the
warning is that poorly protected the
code the warning is that poorly
protected credentials inside the devices
could let attackers can take control of
the gadgets the utility company that
deployed the meters are now improving
the device's security to help protect
its network
can an entire library be put in your
pocket most people would say yes all you
need is a mobile phone with access to
the Internet but what about for the many
people in the world that lack Internet
connectivity the answer can still be yes
according to syed kiram who explained
the nature of his company Outernet at
Ted global the business aims to address
the fact that about two-thirds of the
world's population has no internet
access he told the BBC when you talk
about the internet you talk about two
main functions communication and
information access it's the
communication part that makes it so
expensive so Outernet focuses instead on
information the project aims to create a
core archive of the world's most
valuable knowledge called from websites
including wikipedia and project
gutenberg a collection of copyright free
ebooks this would be updated on roughly
a monthly basis it would also provide
more time sensitive content including
news bulletins and disaster alerts that
could be updated several times an hour
all this information would then be
broadcast via satellites and picked up
by equipment on the ground which in turn
creates Wi-Fi hotspots allowing the data
to be accessed by individual smartphones
and computers a small village in central
Africa for example mr. Kareem said one
hotspot could provide dozens of books
and other information two to three
hundred people living close by mr.
Kareem said the system was currently
capable of broadcasting 200 megabytes of
data per day but his intention is to
increase that to 100 gigabytes or more
he said we want to use as much existing
technology and repurpose it a bit so
that people buy as little stuff as
possible Mark Newman from the technology
research firm ovum believes the idea to
be an interesting one but expresses
concern over literacy issues he says
delivery by audio rather than text would
be something to look at but that would
use up more data while companies like
Facebook hope to bring the internet to
these areas mr. Kurien believes that
broadcasting data offline could be a
better way to bypass censorship and
distribute knowledge
we checked and his conviction is legit
Outernet even allows you to download the
entire archive directly from their
website Outernet dot is a malicious worm
that can roam the net seeking data
created by security researcher the
proof-of-concept worm was written to
illustrate how vulnerable these data
stores are to malicious attack the worm
can exploit the many bugs research
researcher Jacob holcombe found in
popular home data systems already he
said there was evidence cyber criminals
had noticed how easy it was to exploit
these data stores mr. Holcombe started
the work on the started to work on the
worm after carrying out a series of
tests on network attached storage nas
systems made by 10 separate
manufacturers many people connect to
these devices to give a home router to a
home router to give family members a
place to put important files such as
photos and films or to act as a back up
against other gadgets some home routers
can also connect to hard drives to turn
them into NASA type devices mr.
Holcomb's investigation revealed 30
separate undocumented vulnerabilities in
the NAS devices many of these if
exploited would give an attacker
complete control over a device letting
them under the data on it or use it in a
way to get at other devices in that home
network and spy on what people did
online most of the exploitable products
he found where in the web-based
interface typically used to administer
these devices for all your tech news
with a slight Linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha through made us thank you
sasha this is category 5 technology TV
and we're looking at setting up
WordPress as an art me an e-commerce
solution tonight and one of the things
that we're going to need for our
WordPress site is good reliable hosting
now we've got cheap hosting available
for you through cat5 dot TV / dreamhost
cat five dot TV / dreamhost use the
coupon code cat5 TV you're going to
spend only seventy dollars that's going
to give you one year of carbon neutral
linux-based hosting on Apache servers
it's going to give you one free domain
registration so if you want your own com
you've got it it's included within that
unlimited storage space for your website
you even get a 50 gigabyte backup
account so if you want to use your web
space to do your personal backups from
your home computer that's fine as well
they provide that host an unlimited
number of domains on your account at no
extra charge just the cost of the
registration of the domain itself so if
you want to have multiple websites
hosted on your hosting plan there's no
extra charge on that also unlimited
bandwidth and unlimited email accounts
available for you only seventy dollars a
year cat5 TV / dreamhost use the coupon
code cat5 TV can be perfect for your
wordpress blog ok so back to wordpress
this is amazing we've got I took the
time there to put all of the product
pictures in we're good to go all of my
variations are ready my price is 3599
now what's next I need to create or add
a product image so what that means is
that this is for a non variation so this
is just for this particular shirt itself
this is the one that is going to
represent it before the person has even
started checking out i'm going to say
hey maybe the red one looks best so i'm
going to set that one as my product
image that's going to be the default
that everyone's going to see scroll up
little ways product tags and categories
tags are great i would say things like
long sleeve fleece what is a tag well a
tag is so that if somebody is looking at
one fleece shirt and they think oh this
is great they can actually click on
fleece and it will show them all the
other flea shirts or if they're looking
for a long sleeve shirt they can easily
zoom in on all the long sleeve shirts
because I've created them as a tag think
of them as keywords they're also good
for search engines okay category well
I'm going to go add a new product
category and for this particular one
it's probably a unisex shirt but I could
say menswear or something like that but
let's
let's say menswear sure why not and then
i can create that category this is the
first time i've ever done it so i can't
select it from the list because it
doesn't exist yet next time around i can
just check it off brilliant you can
expand that if you like and you can do
parent categories and you know if I want
to do sweaters Oh sweaters and I can put
that under menswear now I've got men's
wear sweaters as category okay that's
great so I feel like I'm ready I've
created my product i've got my
attributes my variations for all the
different sizes and colors and all the
product pictures all ready to go i'm
gonna hit publish and now as soon as
that's done amazingly i'm i'm already
ready to go let's check out the website
its publishing now not sure should be
pretty quick to get in their letter shop
there we go shop up at the top right on
this particular template product is
saved there we go so my first product is
already in and i'm using a default
wordpress template we're going to look
at different themes on upcoming shows i
can click on that product i can see my
amazingly comfortable sweatshirt and
imagine that i've already basically
created the back end or the
functionality of an online store and
it's not an an unsophisticated one I
don't like this theme obviously the
default theme of WordPress doesn't quite
work if I click on the shirt I get to
see it bigger that's cool now watch what
happens here I'm going to select the
size as medium and I'm going to select
the color which we choose white look at
that automatically choose black that's
fancy that's pretty cool so that I use
the clothing is the example but it could
be anything it could be all the
different variations of your whatever it
is that you're selling and there you
have it it's nice and easy for the
end-users nice and easy for you to add
product or modify it so now add to cart
where does it go from there done what do
you want to do view your cart see so
everything is all created and ready to
go it's really really simple to get up
and running there are a couple of things
that you'll still need to do when you're
going to find all the basic settings
in your WooCommerce administration panel
Oh see go into settings and you're going
to find things such as payment options
payment processors taxation right so
you've got tax up here and you're going
to need to set taxes if you're going to
need to enable taxes and set up with the
tax rates for you or different states
and things are check out well what what
type of payment options do you want to
use so i would of course jump over to
paypal and i would enable it and I would
walk through the steps it gives you all
the steps which we're not doing tonight
but I want to show you where to find
this stuff gives you the steps on what
you need to do in order to get paypal up
and running and that's all there is to
it and then as soon as you've got paypal
up and going then you're able to
actually start selling the product
through your website you're going to get
notifications by email because your
setup is the administration the
administrator you'll see that emails can
go to you emails can go to the customers
there you go emails and you can set up
exactly what kind of information you
want to be receiving by email and you're
good to go so we commerce really makes
it simple for you it's a great starting
place on your WordPress blog if you've
already got a blog and you want to add
ecommerce perfect plugin if you haven't
got ecommerce yet and you want to create
an online store this is a great way to
do it and a nice easy way to get going
don't forget Kelsey any time that you
are going to be working with anything
that is drop in WordPress WooCommerce
any of those kinds of things you have to
be security conscious you've got to have
something like word fence installed in
your WordPress blog so that you are
reasonably safe keep a constant backup
of your blog of your online store that's
the database as well as the files
updraft plus makes it very very simple
for you in order to do that because it
creates those files and you can download
them to your computer and save them
offline and then if you ever have a hack
attack or something go wrong with your
your site pretty much safe you can
reupload it yeah and undo the what
happened and then
sit and figure out how how did they get
in and fix it yeah but it does happen so
make sure you're smart about that kind
of thing because we're not building
something from scratch we're building
something like that lickety-split here
we are on a live show that's one hour
long and we've built an e-commerce store
basically 20 minutes yeah just like that
it's pretty good how do you like it cool
so if you've got ideas if you think that
you would like to start selling let us
know how you're able to use WooCommerce
we'd love to hear from you this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show triple w category 5 TV my name is
Robbie Ferguson who else is oh you're
here too whoa it's not just me hey I'm
here to OSHA and I have the chat room on
my phone do wait did you read a little
bit there and I'm gonna I'm gonna
actually I'm gonna up out of my seat cuz
I can do this I I got so much room here
well I can tell you Robbie that
Tennessee Frank is looking for his
stickers oh yes I promised I would ask
yeah I'm wondering if they're in a box
here in the new studio somewhere they
are they are we are working on finding
everything excellent yes what do you see
in front of you Sasha I i see a
teleprompter oh I mean in the room along
your room along the wall I see the new
category 5 sign yeah any boxes some
boxes right am any moving boxes in
various states have open open but not
unpacked you see right I see that there
are shelves there's what's on the
shelves there is a little bit of plastic
wrap and an empty cellophane tape
dispenser okay all that to say sorry two
shelves the shelves are bare for any
delays with regards to prizes or orders
I apologize but I I know a lot of
everybody they understands I know that
and I appreciate your patience but I've
I've lost some things that I'm looking
around and I'm trying
find my way and that that's just the
inevitable nature of it I haven't
unpacked yet no we're working I'm
working on it because the first step was
get everything up and running and be on
the air that was very I'm still it's on
route I just just plugged in the Frankie
today so we had these you know the notes
that are important to us all that kind
of stuff so working working on it so
thank you thank you very much is that
our only viewer question Kelsey no
that's not our only hope we have more
viewer questions I'd like one from
Dominic sickles I think I'm saying that
right hey Dominic he was just wondering
what software used to make your video
intros he uses windows and he's running
a line X with a vm player vbox he was
editing for the people but he wants to
know what you use what do I use first of
all dominant can i call you pop but i'm
bob he's never heard that before what I
have neither oh just is his last name is
sickles which is terrible I guess it's
inevitable in one day he's gonna call
and pop uh Dominic thank you for the
question okay how do we do our intro I
believe what you're talking about is
that we're in outer space yeah you you
weren't there because you weren't on the
show yet we're gonna be redoing the
intro and you know what Dominic it's
going to be really cool because we are
going to be redoing the intro because
we're here we're on season eight we've
got new people Kelsey Jensen's here
we've got bailey jay thompson a couple
of people are still with the show but
not as actively involved in the show
right now that's due to we had we had
one co-host who gave birth to their
first child Oh which is awesome but
she's no not with us actively right now
that's Abigail Abigail page as you know
and we've got other people that are just
not necessarily as involved as they used
to be so we need to rebuild our redo our
show intro I'm looking forward to doing
that and Dominic
what I'm going to commit to do is we're
going to include how we do it on
backstage pass if you've got a roku
check out backstage pass in the channel
category 5 which is cat five dot TV /
roku channel are okay you now in the
meantime I'll tell you what I did I used
telestream Wirecast what you mean the
live software that we use to broadcast
the show why yes Dominic yes that's what
I said the very same why did I use that
because sasha it does really good live
chroma key yes the chroma key is awesome
i see my shirt i hear is a little sauce
oh that's not your no that's just the
fee that's because they're watching over
LTE that's fine you're watching this on
on demand afterwards in HD so you know
that it looks pretty good Wirecast does
live chroma key so what we did if your
call sachet I had the DSLR on a tripod
in my garage because back then we didn't
have a studio D we didn't have a
beautiful green screen we had a green
tarp huh right which I hung up by
masking tape from the door of the garage
set up some studio lights so at least we
had good lights remember this I remember
this it's coming back to me okay that
all of a sudden the garage was
transformed to a spaceship yes really I
mean time barely get oh very good so we
had the DSLR set up and what I did is I
did live output from my DSLR using nikon
hackers firmware as you remember from
the interview I was able to do that with
the D 5100 and pipe that into Wirecast
so then I set up the shot made it so
that it looked good and then turned off
the live output ok hit record on the
camera so that the camera would record
in full 1080p but here's the kicker I
had the camera on its other axis I
wasn't shooting horizontal I was
shooting vertical why did I do that
because people are standing up right yes
you have to get every
if I move really quickly I lose my head
oh but he's good right so what happens
here you can't see my legs you can it's
too nice try Adam I know you can um but
why did I shoot vertical because we've
got 1920 x 1080 pixels right so do i
want to have 1080 pixels height or do i
want to have 1920 pixels height right
almost twice the resolution if you set
your camera because we're all pretty
much vertical people so it shoots much
higher resolution horizontal you may
have an issue hot that i sought that to
the camera card then I took that card
out put it into the computer took the
file rotated it put it back into
Wirecast as a file not live and did the
same shot so chroma keyed the file
Wirecast doesn't know the difference
that thinks that that's a live shot
whatever it's a file and that's how I
was able to get the zune in effect
because as you can see it's ash I'm
going to throw back to you ok sasha is
there on a green screen with a
stationary camera and I can do this now
that's not where we're still working on
the positioning of things and you know
all that kind of stuff but so this is
probably a better shot better example I
can zoom in and out and it looks fairly
good it's fairly smooth because I've
been tweaking how that set up so it's
basically two shots with two different
positions of the camera so I slowed it
right down and then I clicked on the
second shot and it looks like it's
moving and really it's just a stationary
shot in a garage so we use telestream
Wirecast cam 5 TV / Wirecast to shoot
that and it's really just working with
what we got doing something really neat
and and it did a good job really good
job cuz it does fantastic keen it does
it does really good now that we've got
another we've got a good green screen
kit from cat5 TV / green that's gonna
help us well we're gonna be able to do a
lot more well thanks for the question
appreciate that that's cool
so the next question we have is from sim
sim EU I probably butchered that I am
very sorry about that uh he's refused to
try yeah we try so Houston he watched
episode 336 about logitech vs microsoft
I guess web cameras yeah he's built a
streaming windows pc with i7 3770 k with
three a ver media capture cards Wirecast
five okay so our capture cards even
though using webcams capture cards or
httm I ok so we're not using camcorders
no so his first question he read some
specs on the page for the law for the
logitech looks like c920 ok that's the
camera that we're using for her Sasha by
the way the says windows seven or eight
note windows seven today would be HD
through em mjpeg driver for h through H
dot 264 is TBD what does this mean to
someone doing broadcasting seven or
eight no one ok so this is ruth regard
see using those webcams yes how many
webcams uh he's looking at the microcell
autotech c 9 30 e but why do you have
the a ver media cards if you using a c 9
30 c920 it's the c920 right here it says
oh exit ok c 9 30 ok yeah it's just not
a slight upgrade on the c920 that's fine
but why do you have those after media
carts because they are HTM i right so
I'm not sure I understand the korlah the
connection between those two ok
basically regardless of the and I've
some people have said that some of these
cameras are not going to use cpu because
they have built in compression and all
that they still use cpu because they're
using the USB bus and USB uses cpu so it
can be pretty extensive so the more that
you use the more cpu use that you're
going to have on windows as far as the
the whether it be a motion jpeg or h.264
I mean everybody's going to say H dot
264 is the better way to
go you're gonna get better frame rates
but what does it mean for someone to in
broadcasting if you're using a webcam
it's going to be it's going to be not as
good of quality as a prosumer camera
plain and simple ok I see there's more
to the question yeah he's a lot of
questions one racing through Isis on the
same episode you also talked about high
cpu usage with USB 3.0 to point o
compared to hdmi even though he has hdmi
I was the King since USB cars are
cheaper with the easy plug-and-play
function if the money saved from USB
card was invested in a bigger CPU
example 39 3930k with the 3930k still
have cpu usage issues this is assuming
you would say so yeah right along the
same vein as what I'm saying it what's
gonna happen and not to turn the show
into a show about broadcasting that's
fine but sometimes that happens yeah I
mean you could with the money that you
save go that route but I'm going to tell
you hdmi with a prosumer camera is
always going to be better quality period
so can you do it with a better can you
save some money by going webcam and then
add add a better cpu sure you can but
what's the scenario how is how's your
studio setup we get away with it Adam
can you show the lights that are above
Sasha right now there's a light there
and we've got 5,500 k bulbs above her
and we've got lights in front of her
we've got lights all around us to
illuminate so that that webcam is able
to do a lot with that with that lighting
we kind of pull it off other thing about
webcams is as we found Sasha today even
you had to move your chair up because a
webcam does not have a distant setting
right because there may webcams are
built to be in your face therefore
skyping therefore making phone calls and
and chats online and doing the
occasional YouTube video so thinking
about that where's it meant to be you
know if this is if this is my webcam is
meant to be right there and I'm talking
into it so if you're shooting a room
if Adam were trying to shoot us with a
webcam it wouldn't work because we'd all
be fuzzy yeah we'd be blurry it won't
focus like that it's not it's not built
for that so there are some major two
disadvantages to using webcams but it
works if your close proximity you've got
excellent excellent lighting then you'll
be able to pull it off but you have to
have a good cpu for sure quickly next we
have two minutes the last question from
him yeah it's three parts to his
question uh-uh he'll Stalin dance talent
shows in the evenings nights for with
low light he stumbled upon your kiri for
new gear on the Wirecast forum oh cool
where someone suggested security cameras
I'd love that and they seem to be simple
but in bare but decent cameras
especially for low light I need some
recommendations of some security or
regular their 1080p HD camcorders for
low-light I'd like to spend 300 300
dollars on the camera but at least but
at least expensive for quality costs
more say 600 he doesn't mind teaming up
basically what's your input on this oh
okay interesting okay so we know the
webcams are at low light done you can't
use a webcam period don't even try it
your web your camcorder so the 300
budget you're not going to get good
quality plain and simple but who how
much quality do you need if you get a
1080p camera that does fairly well can
and make some good consumer vixia
cameras that are low end and they shoot
fairly well and then they do have good
low-light responsiveness for a cheap
camera but when you're spending 300
bucks you're getting what you're paying
for you're not going to get a good shot
but you've got those a ver media card so
you've got the capability of pulling in
a 1080p source you're not going to
actually be streaming at 1080p you're
going to clock it down to 720 or
something lower probably 720 is a good
place to be but any prosumer camera
that's got the ability to adjust here's
the key thing adjust the exposure is
going to make all the difference so walk
into a store where you can pick them up
yeah and take a look and sit and then
see okay how can i adjust the exposure
of this camera
and if you can do that then you can
bring up the virtual brightness of the
of the camera by you know opening the
iris or whatever you digitally and and
make it look fairly good in low-light be
able to compensate for that but a $300
camera I think that's kind of pushing it
I looking more toward the four or five
hundred dollar range for entry level but
it depends on what you're doing and how
good the quality has to be you're going
to get grain plain and simple in the
light with a cheap camera it's going to
be pixelated a little bit but it is what
it is right so if you can ever get into
spending more money then look more
toward the nine hundred to a thousand
dollar range with some really
entry-level prosumer cameras that would
be kind of the starting point from you
when it comes to low light you've got to
have good light or good camera all good
optics it's a toss-up 52 good light or
good optics all right well that's all
the time that we have tonight we're just
a couple moments over time but thank you
for being here with us tonight thanks
for sending in your questions I hope you
had fun nice to see everybody in the
chat room Kelsey always nice to have you
here Sasha don't forget to check out
sashes new show yes the category five
dot TV news room with sasha der made us
it's available on roku in category fine
technol
check it out also on youtube your linux
tech show calm and you just go there and
go to the director and RSS is one
through our website category five TV
that's all the time that we have for
this week next week we'll be back and
looking forward to seeing you then see
if i can get the TARDIS up me now and
then yes if I have the chance i will be
here looking at the TARDIS all it is
going to be awesome that basis is too
small to it is all kinds Kiki wonderful
week everybody don't get to check out
our website category 5 TV email your
questions to live at category five week
bye we hope you enjoyed the show
category five TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category five is a
production of quality digital solutions
and is licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
