everyone is Jeff from category-five just
want to wish you a very Merry Christmas
and a Happy New Year and as you take
this time to spend with family friends
co-workers whatever whatever it is
you're doing over the holidays make the
most of it let people know what they
mean to you how special they have made
you your year and just share some love
that's what this season is about it's
family friends getting together and
having a good time
have happy holidays take 5 ^ 42 hi this
is cheesy from category-five TV you may
remember me from the episode in the
summertime about organization ie the
married kundo method these days I'm part
of the artwork team that is a team of
one for the the newsroom you know those
images that pop up when people are doing
the news I hope you feel the love for
the holidays and have a fantastic memory
making goal achieving 2018 Cheers
it's mangofox 70 from the pixel shadow
and we just want to wish everyone a
Merry Christmas
I know we haven't posted in a while but
hopefully we'll gonna post some more
videos but Merry Christmas and happy
holiday season's greetings happy
holidays and Merry Christmas from new
every day
have a wonderful 2018 season we are
looking forward to spending some time
with you in the coming year
hi cat hi family I want to wish you all
a very very Merry Christmas and a Happy
New Year I cannot wait to see what 2018
brings hey guys how's it going - 10
rehearse wanna wish you a very Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Year
unfortunately I won't be on the show
over the winter because I'm gonna be up
in the Arctic working on my coop thought
I'll put in a good word with Santa Claus
for you guys Merry Christmas guys and
again Happy New Year see ya
hello I'm Beckett Ferguson bravi
Ferguson's wife and the executive
producer of the category five TVs
newsroom I just like to wish all of you
a very Merry Christmas
and I hope you'll all have a really
excellent year to come as we explore all
the new technologies the good the bad
and the ugly Merry Christmas everybody
on this week's show it was asked what do
you do as a family tradition and I
mentioned that we do Christmas ornaments
on the tree and I thought I would show
you a couple that are a little
meaningful so when when data died this
is the one that I got for my wife and
yes we both cried there he is sitting at
the Conn and crafted beautiful little
ornament when we discovered Doctor Who
[Music]
and incidentally Gary Webb is very
crafty you seen this one here back when
she was a host on category 5 technology
TV she created this one from a light
bulb for us and this year one final
ornament to show you this year I took
the family to Ripley's Aquarium in
Toronto you remember we stopped in and
saw he sat there went to the head office
and said hi and because we went to
Ripley's Aquarium this is the one that I
got for my wife this year a stingray is
they were just absolutely adorable so
that's kind of our family tradition just
wanted to wish you a very Merry
Christmas from all of us here at
category-five TV from myself personally
my family thank you so much for
supporting us and being a part of this
community and this larger family of
category-five and
hope that that your Christmas is one
where you get a chance to spend time
with the people that mean the most to
you and don't forget the reason for the
season right over there and wishing you
a very Merry Christmas now it's a very
busy time for all of us at this time of
year and one guy is even busier than me
so I'm going to step aside so that he
can speak yeah Merry Christmas
category-five viewers Oh miss miss is
coming soon I hope you're ready I'll be
in your house Christmas Eve make sure
you have lots of cookies for me Oh
