this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bonus I'm Jeff
lesson filling in for Sascha Rickman and
here are the stories coming up this week
according to research published in
Nature a machine learning can help
robots perform chemistry experiments
faster than human scientists researchers
have been exploring how algorithms can
predict the outcome of chemical
reactions for a while now but the
project goes one step further and
actually uses a real robot to carry out
some of the experiments it doesn't look
anything like what you'd imagine there's
no humanoid robot on wheels ipping
around a lab or mechanical arm swishing
beat beakers of colorful liquid rather
it's a system that contains a series of
pumps and reactors all attached to a
mass spectrometer a nuclear magnetic
resonance spectrometer and an infrared
spectrometer the pumps contain samples
of chemicals to be mixed the solution is
then fed into reactor flasks and sent to
all the different types of spectrometers
to be analyzed it's nothing too fancy
and most of the hard work is done by the
machine learning algorithms which are
behind the robot the system determines
if a chemical reaction has occurred or
not scoring it at a zero for nonreactive
or a 1 for reactive the machine studies
the information from the different
spectrometers to see if new molecules
have being forged the model was true was
trained on 72 reactive and nonreactive
mixtures from known chemical reactions
classified by human chemists a team of
researchers from the university of
glasgow built a neural network and
trained it on nearly 3,500 reactions
they flagged almost 600 to be held back
for validation and then tested it on
nearly 2,000 reactions it's pretty
accurate and can predict if a chemical
reaction will take place about 86
percent of the time according to the
simulations after this stage the robot
can then begin performing some of the
reactions chosen by the algorithm the
system saves time and energy by helping
the chemist discard pointless
experiments that probably wouldn't
result in anything useful it can also
give them hints to what reactions they
should explore to find new molecules for
drugs dyes
or new materials this is neat that's
cool I mean think of the time-saving
nature of something like that absolutely
and as you add more chemicals to the mix
I mean it was just 72 but if you expand
that say go 300 like exponential
increase on the amount of reactions you
could possibly have to do not have I
mean I I know not long ago I was reading
that what they found a new as a new
mineral or a new the scientists if I
don't know Jeff but their story is yours
no no I know but scientists have
discovered something new recently it's a
new like aliens something like that but
you know a story like this to have the
computer like sitting there doing the
work for you I mean you could be off
doing other research wallet yeah sure I
like the approach that it doesn't have
to create reactions in order to
understand whether or not a reaction
will occur right like if I take you know
if I'm artificial intelligence and I
know that mixing blue with green or blue
with yellow will create green then I
don't have to do it to know that correct
so if I've got a mix of chemicals I'm
just going to know that hey if I mix
these it will do this so then the
scientists don't have to waste their
time doing and it's with 86 percent
probability of being accurate at least
it allows them to skip over stuff that
would otherwise be time-consuming I
would imagine like if you're doing
research it's all for sure time to just
try things it makes me wonder though
from a standpoint of recreation because
that's one of the principles of of
scientific models is if you're going to
do something you need to be able to
recreate the results sure to see if a
couple of different you know research
facilities we're using the exact same
software you're starting it from Ground
Zero if the software would produce
different results as far as the
algorithms would go or if you'd still
get that same you know oh this will go
jackers will not because it says 86%
accurate so you know you there is some
variation that you could not have did
you see what happens yeah and you know
that's you know when you take that spin
on it you start to think oh well it's
not really that accurate
really hey if I got 86% on a test at
school I'd be but think about okay if I
have a thousand tests to run as a
scientist if I've got to do all this
stuff to have it come back and say well
don't bother with that one I'm pretty
sure that that won't result in anything
to have the artificial intelligence come
back and say that based on its own
findings right and it can work 24/7 it
can be running tests and mixing things
overnight so that when I come in in the
morning it can say uh you know what I
don't think there's gonna be a reaction
to that right so don't bother I can
start working on things that you know
we're gonna have a reaction or that I'm
not sure or that the AI is not quite
100% sure on right or maybe comes back
like Oh 17% chance that it's should or
might have a reaction like that's what
then that margin of error we'd better
try it exactly that's cool it's funny as
I was reading the article I was thinking
I can't see them featuring this on the
TV show Big Bang Theory yeah it's all
about you know spectrometers and stuff
when it comes to you know some of the
engineering stuff and the tests and it
be fun that's just a TV show I
understood this is reality Jeff I know
but this is really show ah good for you
thought starter for the for the writers
absolutely I'll let them know next time
I'm a prolific hacking group has struck
again this time stealing close to 1
million dollars from Russia's PIR bank
the heist occurred on July third about
five weeks after the sophisticated
hackers first gained access to the
bank's network by compromising a router
used by a regional branch the theft
which is conservatively estimated at
about nine hundred and ten thousand
dollars u.s. is the latest achievement
of a group who's being called the money
taker group named after a piece of
malware that they commonly use while
utilizing several sis admit to --ls
and custom malware one of the earlier
hacks of the Russian bank's internal
network was initiated by gaining access
to the home computer of one of its
system admins now first reported last
November that members of the hacker
group had conducted 20 successful
attacks
financial institutions and legal firms
in the US UK and Russia at that time and
a follow up it was reported that money
taker netted about 14 million dollars in
the hacks 16 of which were carried out
on us targets 5 on Russian banks and 1
on a banking software company in the UK
hmm this is scary
you'd like to think that banks are
secure you hope so but it was literally
one computer and is so ok they've
compromised a router and they've
compromised one of the admittance
computers that had remote access so then
I start to think ok so they're using
social engineering tactics like these
folks we think about hackers ok let's
just kind of think about a hacker for a
second and you think okay they're
sitting in a dark room they're on a
computer they're breaking into computers
they're hacking into computers they're
using code to break in but that wasn't
the case here no they're using social
engineering tactics which means ok Jeff
is an administrator on some big
corporate network ok let's just pretend
right role play I can roleplay
ok your name is Francesca my name is
Francesca and I work at that big
national bank she works at a big
national bank and while you're working
there you are you're overworked you're
tired you're working 15 hour days
sometimes 18-hour days yep and you're
beat and you're just like okay I want a
weekend off I'm gonna put remote desktop
on one of the computers at work then I'm
gonna go home and I'm gonna be able to
remote into work so that I can do my
work from home sounds great yep well now
social engineering tactics phone rings
and Francesca gets a call and says you
know we're calling from such-and-such
and somehow through social engineering
tactics they've tricked Francesca into
giving access to their that her computer
oh no I've been tricked exactly so now
while she's sleeping that night
presumably she sleeps yes she's a hard
worker she's very diligent but she has
to get rest 6 o'clock meeting and so
they get in there at 2 o'clock in the
morning when the computer is idle and
they see oh look
that there's a VPN or a remote desktop
protocol connection to work click on
that oh we're in oh it's a login for the
bank and boom boo-boom they're in and
suddenly through social engineering
tactus they've tricked or somehow hacked
in now the other side of malware well
now where is anything like it could be
remote access remote administration
software it can be remote administration
tools that are legitimately used by IT
personnel in order to administer
computers when I'm fixing computers at
halfway across the country I don't go
there
No I send them a file they open it and
I've got access so if you fall for
receiving that file from someone who is
not me
well you're done yep and if you've got
access to things like work now the other
side of it was this router now a router
that sits on your network so the I SPE
shows up and says oK we've got your new
internet router here you go we plug it
in and you're up and going you've got
Wi-Fi you've got access to the Internet
people don't think much of it and you'll
always be up oh the firmware is out of
date by years the passwords are possibly
set to default passwords and things like
that it's amazing how often that happens
it's scary I mean you think that it
doesn't but it really does yeah so
that's a whole other can of worms but
it's is it malware as in a hacker
sitting at a computer coding something
that gets into not necessarily it can be
them writing a code that goes out on the
Internet to all the IP addresses and
finds routers that contain a certain
signature right or websites that contain
a certain signature that are on internal
land right that are hosted on the same
network as the bank their bank of the
bank website what's sad about this story
though is that the hacker group used a
known malware program called money taker
and that's why the groups called money
taker sure so you would think if it's
known than any competent security
network at a bank or updating their all
of their software to watch for this but
but then if they block it so if they
blocked it Jeff wouldn't they just
wouldn't the attacker just say
like oh is it money taker it could be
remote desktop
it could be LogMeIn it could be any
number it could be VNC it could be SSH
it could be anything that in and of
themselves are benign right this router
in and of itself is benign but because
it had exploits in it they're able to
crack into it and use it because most
routers are you know you can now operate
it on the network level and access other
computers on the network open up ports
on the firewall to redirect to all the
computers so that you have remote
desktop access to them and blah blah
blah and it goes on and on
I am surprised we still get stories like
this though you would think with all the
various issues that we've had over the
years with hack attacks and all the kind
of stuff that you think humans would
wise up Jeff you would think but no
we're pretty dumb apparently not dumb
just they are we we've we like to fall
into a bubble where we where things are
benign like we think that our router is
benign yeah we think that our smart
connected devices are benign and then we
find out that the tracking watches have
been mapping military bases in the
Middle East like these kinds of things
you think they're benign but then they
can be used against us if we are not
ultra careful and if we don't understand
those technologies case in point
autonomous cars he's gonna go there
folks I'm gonna go there just when we
started to think autonomous vehicles
we're looking good
someone's developed a GPS spoofing
device that can send them driving
straight into oncoming traffic billions
of people and a growing number of
autonomous vehicles rely on mobile
navigation services from Google uber and
others to provide real-time driving
directions a new proof-of-concept attack
demonstrates how hackers could
inconspicuously steer a targeted
automobile to the wrong destination or
worse endanger passengers by sending
them down the wrong way on a one-way
road the attack starts with a two
hundred and twenty five dollar piece of
hardware that's planted in or underneath
the targeted vehicle that spoofs the
radio signals used by
GPS services it then uses algorithms to
plant a fake ghost route that mimics the
turn-by-turn navigation directions
contained in the original route now
depending on the hackers ultimate
motivations the attack could be used to
divert an emergency vehicle or a
specific passenger to an unintended
location or to follow an unsafe route
passengers responsible for the device
are thankfully not out to cause trouble
there from Virginia Tech which is
China's University of Electronic
Sciences and technology and Microsoft
and research they wanted to demonstrate
the vulnerabilities in our current GPS
driven infrastructure they warned the
threat becomes more realistic as car
makers are adding autopilot features so
that human drivers can be less involved
or completely disengaged the researchers
proposed several countermeasures the one
they say is the most promising in terms
of its effectiveness and cost is
computer vision techniques to cross
examine the physical world landmarks and
street signs with digital maps given the
widespread use of cameras and lidar this
protection could be put in place with
software level upgrades I like this idea
that they're able to get around it so
quickly and that the groups who have
found this exploit by using this really
cheap device are not using it for
malicious purposes I mean you see the
ones who have unveiled it yeah now is
you know are there other devices out
there sure it's a two hundred twenty
five dollar piece of equipment like
that's not hard to replicate sure so I
mean the fact that it's that simple to
do that's it is scary and it's what you
know in the story you know talked about
with emergency vehicles I'm thinking
that's a scary thought Jeff absolutely
and imagine the damage that you could
cause if you threw all of those on say
you know fire trucks in a city yeah you
know it's like oh we got to get to this
address because the building's burning
you're over here instead like just a
simple yeah and you like to you say and
again it goes back to us thinking that
things are benign and you'd say why
would anyone do that and then you hear
some of the things that are in the news
without getting into it and realize
are people out there that would do that
sure and why the question is why there
is no answer it's a rhetorical question
but there are people out there that
would do that kind of thing and so how
do we protect ourselves against that
kind of thing but by improving the
technologies and maybe maybe maybe maybe
just the the technology providers for
GPS satellites and things like that
we'll look at this and say oh dear we
need to make some changes we need to
implement some some changes and and with
autonomous vehicles like well if what
about the cars that don't get the patch
right or that don't use lidar in
addition to satellite imagery and
positioning and cameras yeah it's it's
it's unfortunate that this kind of stuff
becomes so prevalent the more we advance
our tech and I mean it makes sense like
as we advance more you're gonna have
more of these exploits but it's like
every time we make a leap forward
there's somebody who's out there to do
something potentially horrible yeah and
I like to have faith in the human race
slowly losing it there's some bad eggs
out there we're fortunate that all of
our viewers are wonderful people
absolutely and 100 or so you know we
can't relate to that mindset but again
it's back at hackers and what is the
motivation behind the hack yeah what is
the potential damage I mean it could
start with something benign and then you
know like it is right now and is it you
know somebody thinks hey this would be a
really great way to rob a company mm-hmm
by misleading all the cop cars or say
you know who knows what what could be
done but you know that's that's two
stories in a row of kind of hackers that
are just given a bad name to hackers but
not all hackers are bad there are some
good hackers out there no there aren't
yeah there are come on Jeff think just
give me one example just one well I've
got one so if you happen to think that
all hackers are bad think again as we
look at hardware
who has solved the issue of Amazon's
Alexa devices what if the user can't
speak or hear if voice of the future of
competed The Voice is the future of
computing what about those who cannot
speak or hear that's the question posed
by developer Abhishek Singh the creator
of an app that allows Amazon Alexa to
respond to sign language love this Wow
Singh's project uses a camera based
system to identify gestures and
interpret them as text and speech the
developer says that future smart home
devices should be designed to be
inclusive for deaf users the past few
years have seen a rise in popularity of
voice assistant runs voice assistants
run by Amazon Google and Apple in fact
the study by smart audio report suggests
that adit a adaptation of smart speakers
has exceeded that of smartphones and
tablets in the US but for the deaf
community a future where devices are
increasingly controlled by voice this
poses many problems now speech
recognition typically has trouble being
able to pick up the rhythms of deaf
users and a lack of hearing presents a
clear challenge to communication with
voice based assistants a Singh's project
offers one potential solution rigging
Amazon's Alexa to respond to the text to
American Sign Language the developer
trained an AI using machine learning
machine learning platform tensorflow
which involved repeatedly gesturing in
front of a webcam to teach the system
the basics of sign language once the
system was able to respond to his hand
movements he connected it to Google's
text-to-speech software to read the
corresponding words aloud the Amazon
echo reacts and it's low and it's local
its voice responses automatically
transcribed by the computer into text
which is read by the user as a solution
it is a workaround with the laptop as an
interpreter between the user and Alexa
but as Singh says there's no reason that
Amazon's show or any of the other camera
and screen based voice assistance
couldn't build this functionality right
in Amazon has taken the hint and has
announced that as of
de Moura Luxor users will have the
option to turn on captions for echo
devices with a screen Alexa captioning
has previously been available for us
owners of the echo show and echo spot
the company is now bringing the feature
to users in the UK as well as Germany
Japan India France Canada Australia and
New Zealand love finishing the news on a
good news story that's cool this is so
amazing okay I'll give you that a hacker
who is doing something for the good
absolutely there's more than just sing
but I love this and I love that he said
I'm just gonna deal with this myself
with a webcam tot it's eyeliner you know
like it's it's amazing so good but what
what I wonder is will they be able to
take the programming and adopt it to
save video feeds that have a sign
language interpreter you know how like
you can watch you know some oh I use
that to translate yes so you you know
maybe you can't watch something that
might be on TV but but it will translate
it for you yeah I seem to recall
Microsoft was trying to do something
like that but it wasn't very accurate
and I started to think about you know
how accurate is a system like sings for
example but then you start to think
about okay well the English language so
to translate a video for example that
has ASL in embedded into the video that
would be you'd have to the AI the
interpreter would have to know and
understand the language right that is
being presumably spoken yes
and that would be incredibly challenging
now you look at a device like a Alexa
device the even though it speaks the
language be it English or whatever
language you've got it set to the
commands are very rudimentary yes so
it's it's their preset it's like doctor
spate so it's like preset commands that
you are speaking to the device and that
it is speaking back and it's generally
pretty
pretty basic as far as language goes yes
absolutely Alexa what's the weather
sorry I didn't mean to set yours off but
those are the kinds of things and then
when if it responds by text captioning
then it can say whatever it wants but if
my signing and I can't sign so I can't
do it for you but if my signing were to
set it off with Alexa what's the weather
and then the google translator said that
aloud or the google text-to-speech set
that allowed then it would be quite
possible absolutely yeah for sure I like
that it's cool it's it's neat I like the
people do this stuff very much so good
on you hackers got the bank job yeah
those ones those ones are jerks those of
you making things more accessible we
love you that's rape up the good work
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category 5 dot TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Jeff
Weston filling in for Sasha Rick and I'm
Robbie Ferguson glad to have you here
I'm glad I could be here to interject a
few points and I thank you for being
here this week I hope you have fun with
us and we look forward to seeing you
again next week
I believe the whole crews here next week
are you here next week that's like I
hope so
Sasha's gonna be back from her her
vacation as well I'll be here and we've
got a great show planned for you so
we'll see you again next week
take care bye
[Music]
