I have a smartphone mm-hmm I have a
tablet mm-hmm
Becca has a smartphone mm-hmm the kids
have like a shared smartphone that they
use for games and creating stick pod
animations and things like that and we
are now at that point where okay we've
got wall warts all over the place all
over the place even to the point where
it gets frustrating because some of our
electrical outlets are switched so
someone will come in to the room and
turn off the light switch and my
daughter's my daughter's phone will stop
charging right like that's where we're
at so wouldn't it be nice if as you
think about you know these gifts that
you've gotten under the tree this year
and maybe you're just already at that
point where you've all got all different
devices and you need to be able to
charge them where it would be really
nice to have one docking station that
would charge everything oh that would be
so amazing I would actually have plugs
again what if I told you Jeff because
this is you know I have to sound like an
infomercial because that's what YouTube
tells me I am we've got one that slices
and dices No show me yeah I know right
Joby's has brought out the q7 and this
one there's there's the the infomercial
voice the q7 as we open the box now the
q7 is pretty outstanding Jeff it's got
Qualcomm quick charge 2.0 okay how many
is that six ports that's six ports okay
can I turn this into an unboxing I'm
gonna actually open this up for folks
okay first thing that I notice is this
squiggly thing which is in fact is that
the technical term
yeah the squiggly thing now keep in mind
folks because I've seen some of the
Amazon reviews that this is not the main
selling point of the device but it is a
pretty cool little stand that you can
stand up a couple of phones and maybe a
tablet just to keep okay it's just a
little bit more organized than having
them all laying out on the table right
okay now a couple of Amazon reviews are
saying oh well the standard is a little
bit flimsy not
selling point to stand though this is
the stand okay
comes with it it's a bonus it's worth 50
cents and it is what it is let's look at
the actual device what do you think
ready for this I'm ready okay I'm gonna
set this cheap little flimsy stand over
here which actually is pretty good but
it is what it is is not the selling
point here is the selling point my
friends this is a q7 from jeebies and
this device has what AC input we're
talking this is not like a USB hub this
is not sharing many many you know
scanners into your computer this is
specifically plug it in and start
charging your devices okay now you
already noticed Jeff that we've got six
ports now you'll notice the
discoloration of the top one yes is a a
10 watt port all the rest of them are 40
watt ports now the device itself the q7
will do up to 50 watts simultaneously so
what that means is if you plug in
several devices it's going to share the
wattage with many different devices so
keep in mind 10 watts this top port is
about what you get with like an iPad
charger yeah yeah okay 2 amps or so yep
so all of these are actually four times
the power as far as wattage goes and
they have what did I mention at the top
here quick charge what that means is
that in about 15 minutes time you're
gonna be able to charge your phone if
it's got that quick charge feature
you're gonna be able to charge your
phone and get about 8 hours battery life
with just a fifteen-minute for 10
minutes really yeah yeah it's awesome so
the other thing so you think okay well
I've got I've got a couple of old phones
and I've got a couple of new things I
got an iPad or a tablet or something my
iPad has quick charge my phone does not
what happens if I plug them all in
together now it has some safety features
maybe we can kind of just go over a
couple of those Jeff because I've listed
them out so safety features go okay oh
you're you're not gonna take it oh sorry
I thought you said I'm like hinting Jeff
come on help me out here man I even gave
you a printout
I was slightly distracted by the the
ticker feed on the news room not the
news roll down below was the first night
that we've ever been able to see you
chat room yeah yes I feel like this is a
like an infomercial or something where
attention is exactly like an infomercial
right YouTube right okay so what am I
talking about the PI killer the q7 from
juvies actually power a Raspberry Pi 3
protects against overcharging thank you
so if you've got overheating oh so it's
got you covered
got you covered and if you plug in
multiple different devices that are
drawing different amperage it will
actually automatically adjust the ports
as you plug them in right
instantaneously and you charge
everything all once now I know that
chibis does quality products yeah
they've got all their certification FCC
and all that correct
this is 100% certified and guaranteed
so we've got our OHS we've got Cee and
we've got FCC certification on this and
if you're unhappy with it they'll
actually give you your money back feel
that it's actually kind of surprising
that is solid yeah see as you're holding
it up there I'm looking at it going hmm
right on my nightstand and of course
anybody who cares about like waves when
you sleep and how it affects you they're
gonna be like electromagnetic stuff yeah
yeah what I've said they're going okay
there's my work phone my personal phone
my tablet my House of Marley headphones
yeah all in one fell swoop and my my
watch I'm thinking because I've got a
power bar plus all these cables oh this
would be so much like you're using a
bunch of wall works for that yeah Wow
yeah just cables everywhere at all
exactly the same setup I have a power
bar with all different chargers on them
and I'm like this will be amazing
and I see how clean that is yeah my
phone is a quick church so I mean that
speaks to me there you go me so imagine
yeah there you go that feature is there
I mean it is what it is it's a very
simple product from a promotional
standpoint you know what I can tell you
about it but it works it's great in the
box beyond that let's see we've got now
this is the american-style AC adapter of
course you can get the the UK different
adapter as well there you go almost
wraps for all it's even got some cable
like like wraps or whatever to kind of
keep everything nice and neat so they've
thought of it all I mean it's it is what
it is and it's fantastic no this is just
a six port charger it's yeah what about
a hub it's not oh it's not a battery it
does not do anything like that it is
strictly something that you would plug
in and it gives you power right yeah but
as I mentioned you could power a
Raspberry Pi or six of them with this oh
definitely five because we've got the
540 amp 40 watt 40 amp 40 40 watt ports
there blow it up it might be a fun
experiment let's see how many raspberry
PI's we can power with that that would
be kind of neat but see I'm right in my
head I'm starting to think like
multiplicity of picturing power bar with
all these plugged in there just devices
I'm gonna make a server farm to farm it
raspberry
[Music]
[Applause]
