[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight we're looking
at a program called off phonic check
them out like yeah auphonic like pod neo
phonics Oh a you phot and I see ya done
well done calm and okay so here's the
thing if you have ever thought about
podcasting if you're podcasting already
and if you're maybe you're thinking
what's podcasting so maybe we should
just back it up a little bit
okay so podcasting is like the new radio
if you will I mean that's well I say new
it's like it's as YouTube is to video
and to end Netflix is to TV podcasting
is to the old school radio show of you
know storytelling and and even news and
everything else but it's online you can
aggregate it which means to download or
listen to new episodes as they come out
Sasha what podcasts do you frequent nope
yes you know I am NOT a podcast person
I'm an audio well I'm an audiobook
person I'm surrounded by anti podcasters
it's not that I'm anti podcasts it's I
have am found one yet well that's part
of it but I I want to experience as many
books as possible because I can like I'm
always on the road right so I would I
would love to read but some audiobooks
is my thing I yeah I'm not gonna lie
yeah I have a brand new super amazing
computer at home what are you I would
have to say probably Josh and Chuck are
my go-to okay whenever they're you know
there's a new episode every few days
that's stuff you should know and and
what that podcast is is so I listen to
that just on my headphones from my phone
and it's every week just something they
want to teach you about so it could be
anything and so every week you've got
three new episodes or well two new
episodes and one from long ago cuz
they've been on the air for
like a thousand plus episodes so wonder
if they're the one that I listened to
about a month ago where they were they
did a investigation under whether your
Facebook actually listens to you or not
I did listen to one about a month
amantha doubt it because Josh and Chuck
usually don't get into technical things
okay it's not a tech podcast it's it's
very lame so familiar like just like low
facts okay stuff it's called stuff you
should know stuff you should know every
week but I have no clue you know you
know when you're spelling words like
weird and you're typing it into your
computer in that moment you're like is
the I before E except after C the I
before E except after C is not a real
rule no it's not weird I'm just saying
have you ever had those instances so
that's what just happened to me so just
something you listen to so if you are a
podcaster let's get into our feature now
yes so and and if you and this can be
you know if you if you're publishing
videos on YouTube
my son is is absolutely in love with
editing his own videos he's got a video
camera he's getting into that I got him
a microphone for Christmas so you know
all these kinds of things but when he
records sometimes the volume is really
loud sometimes the volumes quiet
sometimes he's clipping sometimes it's
it's too low and then he adds music and
you can't hear the voice over the music
and right so it becomes this kind of
crazy you know really difficult to edit
and really hard for him now
looking at a more professional
standpoint so looking at say category
five technology TV for example here we
have three microphones right Sascha's a
bit quieter than me
jeff has a booming commanding voice so
do ya so what happens if one of us is
really loud or you know sash is a little
quieter or Sasha laughs hysterically at
one of my jokes
so frequently yeah so in those instances
you need to use things like compressors
we have Hardware compressors we've got
an exciter which kind of makes this
a little nicer but one of the secrets in
our tool chest is called off ah phonic
and AH phonic now takes the the the
audio from our video and it does a lot
of magic to it I'm going to call it
magic because it really is as far as
what it can do so it has what's called
an intelligent leveler I'm just going to
kind of go through the specifications
here this is like just off of their
website off on accom just so you have an
idea what it does so it magically fixes
levels it magically removes things like
motor noise from the background because
like that so when the ladies do an
in-car dashcam episode of new every day
for example running it through off on it
cleans it up quite nicely so the
intelligence leveler makes sure that the
speakers and the music or of a good
level but it also makes sure that it's
broadcast quality so if it's too hot or
too loud it's gonna bring it down to a
proper level and it's gonna keep it
there throughout the entire now it's
audio only we use it for video because
video contains audio so you don't need
to understand how a compressor works
compressors are notoriously difficult
remember when we were in radio and you
don't always have to call the engineer
yes yes and in radio you know that's
something that we use to keep the levels
DJ's always sound better but the station
lives and dies by the compressor oh yeah
absolutely and a good compressor makes a
station sound good and a bad compressor
makes it sound horrible
so with this you don't need an engineer
you don't need to be an engineer you
don't even need to understand how
software how to do anything other than
click your mouse about three times
that's it
loudness normalisation is another
feature that specifically is what keeps
that peak limit at that broadcast level
so we do - 16 decibels which is podcast
and you know online audio so if you
watch last week's episode and then this
week's episode you'll notice that our
levels the volume is exactly the same
have you ever been watching cable TV and
the commercials start ask and it's
loud and you got it turned out worst
actually because the commercials are not
going through the broadcast compressor
oh so it's not the same levels yeah so
so with us from episode to episode
you're never gonna have to worry about
adjusting your your audio your volume
right and that's because of auphonic
it has audio restoration which removes
the hum and it does some filtering magic
that cleans up low frequencies gets rid
of that kind of low Rumble stuff that's
really annoying as you're listening on
headphones or if you have a subwoofer
there is a multitrack version indeed
that allows you to take multiple audio
sources and mix them together and it
will do magic across all of the
multitrack files so for example if if we
were recording our mics separately we
could actually in fact equalize at all
in a much more intuitive way but it does
great with just a stereo or mono track
as well right
but so that's two different versions
there's a multitrack and just a normal
like pump a WAV file into it and it'll
do it
it has they've been introducing on their
web version because you can do this
without software you can do it on the
website speech recognition which is very
very cool so what does that do it is it
just how does that work recognize the
speech it creates web the VTT file which
is a format that is basically closed
captions for web right so if you if you
do a podcast and you want closed
captions this is a way to do that it
also makes it so that the text that you
speak is able to be searched that's cool
yes
so love that now we're using similar
kind of technology here to create our
closed captions I'm using automatic
closed captioning and we actually have a
github repository where folks like
yourself can submit edits to our actual
captions so get on over to github comm
slash cat 5 TV slash well you'll find it
there going I can't go to my github page
and you'll see if you do a search in the
repository
just do a search for captions I think
it's called like cat five TVs - captions
or something like that all right
then it also does encoding so it'll save
them to FLAC files it works with
multiple different file formats now mp3
AAC mp4 whatever and you know so on and
so forth so it cleans this up right
here's the thing
Windows only ok no it's not Windows only
it's Windows and Mac only no Linux no
Linux it's just so when I said Windows
only I'm a Windows or Mac Windows or
Linux user I don't have a Mac so I don't
think too much on the Mac side of things
but it's Windows or Mac that's available
ok so tonight I'm gonna show you the
software but I'm also going to teach you
how to install it and make it work in
Linux yeah so we're gonna learn how a
phonic works how it does all this magic
what it does and we're also gonna learn
how to do how to make it work in Linux
so that said if you're doing this on Mac
or Windows you don't need to follow all
the steps to get it working on Linux
because you're not on Linux but I wanted
to show you because a lot of podcasters
are using free software like audacity on
on a gu24 example so here's an
opportunity for you to clean up your
audio now this is a commercial software
you can buy it outright and then you own
it and you get updates for all time
basically but also there is an online
version that you can just upload your
files to and you get two hours free per
month and it will call so yeah it's very
cool especially if you're a smaller you
know you're doing little little files
and shorter files now we do probably
about ten hours a week so yeah so it
wouldn't work for us but and another
reason that I don't use the online
version personally is because I found
that's how we first started using it I
found that exporting the audio from my
video and then uploading the audio to uh
phonic then waiting for it to encode
then downloading it back and then trans
maxing it back into my video was just a
pain yeah that's a lot yeah but if
you're a podcast and you've got an mp3
file throw it on there let it clean it
up
download it and put it on your website
you're done yeah HD video is a whole
other can of worms that's so honorable
too
let's get right into it I've got a
bare-bones install of a boon to
seventeen point ten so here we are it's
November of 2017 as we broadcast this so
this is the current version of Ubuntu
I'm going to jump into terminal and
there's a couple of prerequisites that
I'm gonna need to to do this and before
I do now I've already downloaded I'll
just let you know just in case we had
any internet dropouts or whatever I
already downloaded off on it but I'll
show you how you can get it if you head
on over to a phonic comm and then up at
the top right hand side once you're
logged in so create an account it's free
to do so
you'll see a button that says desktop
apps and when you go there just scroll
down to the one that you're looking for
so as I mentioned we've got the this
standard like single file batch
processor that's a phonic leveler and
then we've got a phonic multitrack now
tonight we're gonna look at the ofon ik
leveler but they're both going to
function fairly similarly but the
multitrack does require that you have
multiple files so this tells you all
about it go there check it out and then
download latest version so once you've
purchased it you can click on that and
then you've got two options Mac and
Windows so I'm actually going to
download the Windows version ok for my
Linux machine there quick question about
the abstract you said it requires more
than one track yes more than one file
more than one track ok alright so what
happens if you happen to have a single
file one day do you want it level er ok
but when you buy one license you're good
for both no they are two different
products alright that serve two
different purposes now that said you
could technically put your track into
the multi if you want the multi track
version you could hack around it by
creating a single file that is muted
right that's just quiet right and
because it's put it as the second track
and so be it right that's fine or you
could do left and right okay you could
separate the stereo tracks and turn them
into two tracks if you wanted to
so now I've actually so I've already
downloaded those so if I look in
downloads there they are I've got both
of them there so I can't run Windows
programs on Linux you know that so what
am I gonna do if I click on it and what
does it do
oh it opens it an archive manager and
then gives me an error so that's the
kind of thing that you're up against on
Linux in sasshi you and I had a little
talk about this using wine and even
VirtualBox or something like that to
virtualize wine allows you to install
and run Windows applications on Linux so
that's what we're going to use it's
basically it's a layer between Linux and
the Windows application that gives you
the capabilities of running Windows
programs so sudo su on aboon 2 is going
to let me become route and I simply need
to install so I go apt technically I
should do apt update ampersand ampersand
which says if this is successful then
apt install wine and there are two
different versions that I can go with so
if I do app search wine - let's see what
it gives me we've got wine development
and wine stable so right now on November
in November of 2017 stable is 2.0 0.2
and development is 2.18 so I actually
want the development version because it
has features that are not available in
the stable version because they haven't
made their way there yet so I'm gonna
get the latest and greatest it's not
considered stable it has some things
that have not passed like full testing
at this point but it works very very
well and we want those extra features so
I'm going to go apt update
ampersand ampersand apt install wine -
development and if you're having trouble
running some of your Windows programs it
may be because you're running the stable
version of wine because that is it's not
as far along and it's always growing
it's always getting better do you want
to install all this stuff
we're here these wood I'm doing its what
I said it could have used - - yes and
that would have done it for me so this
goes through now
Ubuntu and Linux Debian what they do is
they go out on the web and they just
grab the files and install the things
that you asked for so when I say I want
wine - development it is grabbing it off
the internet and that's what's happening
right here I don't have to find it on
the web I don't have to compile it I
don't have to remember the days when
Linux was complicated
i standed here enjoying a cup of joe
we're chatting it up and just watching
it download and get it stuff like that
it's just going away going away 100%
yeah how it's extracting there we go so
now it's installing extracting setting
up everything that we need in order to
run Windows programs on Linux and I mean
even as we've just been talking you can
see how quickly it accesses the files
download them install them like it's
it's not like it takes a long time no
this is no we're talking minutes here
all right I might get a couple steps
we're not gonna make you sit through all
of that though but this is again at the
top of the show I mentioned that we're a
live show so you get to see everything
as it happens so if our internet went
down right now that's happened it's
happened and that's why I downloaded a
phonic ahead of time just in case but
why and I wanted to show you the process
of actually installing that so with wine
so this is only applicable if you're
using Linux okay folks so if you're on
Windows and Mac don't worry about it
with wine now that's it I think you can
install wine on Mac yes you can so so
maybe you do want to listen up if you're
a Mac user and we need to talk about
that exploit that happened this week as
well yes but it allows you to run a lot
of Windows programs on Linux or Mac
presumably so it's not gonna run every
program and as I mentioned we're going
with the development version because it
runs more programs it's got more
features that allow more
grams to work so the stable version
maybe you would have trouble with a
phonic if you do make sure you install
the development version mm-hmm I've got
wine look at that done so now you say
okay now I can know I can click on it
right
well no still have an error and so this
is where people say and and I'm saying
I'm generalizing but I looked at forums
who were trying to figure out how can I
get off on it to work on on Linux and
people are saying it just doesn't work
and wine doesn't work when I install it
it doesn't do anything and and you know
it doesn't what am I supposed to do now
I installed it so let's do phase two
well learn a little bit of Linux
absolutely all right so right now yeah
we can't just double-click on it it's an
it's not we're not there yet so what I'm
gonna do instead I'm gonna go into my
downloads folder it's case sensitive on
Linux and Mac so those are my two
executive all files I can't run them
there yeck sees their windows files but
I have wine first of all I notice that I
am currently root okay
you must become non root in order to do
this because a non-word well I've
installed it as root right I need to be
my user because who's gonna use it root
right no I'm gonna use it so I need to
create my wine profile as Robby so I'm
just gonna type exit which takes me back
to the Robby user Who am I
Robby if it says Stanley I'm like what
so now that I am me and I'm I'm back out
of my downloads folder let's get back in
there there we go I'm gonna just simply
type wine yeah ah phonic leveller GUI
one win dot exe hit enter first thing it
does is it sets up wine see that the
line configuration is being updated so
it's not installing yet it's in fact
configurating wine configurating yes
again so I can do that cuz I own the
show so come on now
five Dictionary
cumin it's in the works it'll be on
Amazon by the end of the year what do
you notice look at that looks a little
Windows II it does mm-hmm I agree
Georg anybody asks I read that where are
you gonna install it now I don't have a
C Drive what are you talking about well
what wine did when I ran it just there
and it configurated itself very bit
watch this control L I'm only showing
you this just so that you see there's
wine and in the wine full go away to
drive suit made a drive see that
contains all your windows stuff it's
awesome so it's not a real drive it's
just a folder within your home folders
treat right so that's where it's gonna
actually put it so see is actually
saving in my home folder in a subfolder
of that so I'm just gonna hit install
and just see what happens look at that
go oh yeah
nice and quick just like you would
expect right completed what okay so
there's one more thing that I need to do
we're gonna be working with WAV files
wave uses a tool called lame and unlike
the name it is absolutely awesome so we
need to install that again Linux I need
to become rude again and apt I don't
need to update again because they
probably haven't released new versions
in the past five minutes install lame
well that was easy
boom alright so now I can click on to my
applications and what do I see well your
that auphonic
yeah so moment of truth here folks will
a phonic leveller run on Linux click it
oh it worked ok you have to activate it
I need to activate it cuz it is as I
said a commercial application right so
I'm gonna grab my password here so we'll
just conveniently change screens perfect
yeah
grab that password that's exciting you
like it yeah it makes it you know we
don't come so Nia what it does yet we
don't but we don't cover wine enough to
show just how to get access to some of
these programs for those who are purely
Linux users mm-hmm so it's great to even
show that little component something Oh
install that software mind-blown I'm
installing a Windows program and using a
Windows program on a free operating
system did I mention Linux is free hmm
okay so I've got my license there ready
to go I'm gonna hit login
BAM up and running how simple can the
interface be right so that's all there
is to it okay so we need an audio file
to work with here folks
so I'm gonna bring up audacity and we're
gonna pretend that we're gonna be
podcasting here pretend podcast oh yeah
we're just gonna pretend all right
what's our pretend podcast gonna be
about oh boy could be about anything and
let's make it about wine why no no the
one that lets you run Windows on yeah
most consider we use that should be
excited by audacity audacity right it's
funny that the Linux native program is
the one that's giving me grief there
there we just came up yeah okay so let's
start monitoring here okay I need to
turn on my microphone
I think it's muted no is well it is yeah
[Laughter]
yeah there's no level of sorry a phone
it can't help you with that
all right let's let's do this podcast
hey how's everybody doing oh you pulled
out rowdy radio oh I have no idea what
you're talking about
right so my radio days oh oh the radio
Robbie yeah yeah and I was on on the air
it was way back in the day yes back in
the old school radio back when you I
think my audition tape was like good
after
so that's just going into audacity we're
powering it directly and so Jeff just
made waves if you will Sasha can I hear
you say can you hear me with it I wonder
I don't know but here's the thing when
when you did a feature where you were
walking around with this bad boy the h4n
he needed auphonic to fix the levels
because you were talking like this and
then you'd hold it out you were three
feet away from the person you were
talking to which is why I went close so
you've got the job yeah exactly exactly
so let's just you know move this thing
around as if okay so hey here's Robbie
and Jeff hello and over here at Sasha I
can't really reach over because we're on
different case that's all I get oh yeah
exactly so the point we thought phonic
is is going to make the levels sound a
lot better so let's let's get a look at
what's gonna happen here so I'm just
gonna stop our recording all right and
we're gonna go file export audio I'm
just gonna slap that on my desktop and
we're gonna just call this test dot wave
that was a solid podcast I tuned in
every oh yeah absolutely that was
educational inspiring uplifting yeah
absolutely I think we deserve a
broadcasting that's we just got a webby
for that okay here we are in ionic now
at this point it's the same for Windows
Linux Mac so don't you worry this is
this is the same interface for you so if
you're on Windows you didn't need to do
all the wine stuff now we've got a file
here you saw it go in I'm gonna open it
it's on my desktop which is in home
Robbi desktop test dot wave it's grabbed
it so if i've got some low noise hum and
stuff like that i simply can turn on
noise and hum reduction easy-peasy it
has the adaptive leveler and the high
pass filter and I've set it to and I
said decibels - 16 decibels no loops and
then we've got all these you know it
shows you the standard - 16 is
pretty standard for podcasts okay so
there we go
files ready to go I'm gonna hit process
all files and that is all I have to do
oh that's it
that's it Oh see I I'm picturing when
you're talking about the software that
you're gonna see like the wave levels
and all that it's okay
ah phonic is is gonna fix the audio for
us ah all right now let's look at the
let's look at the wave table now so
bring that up into audacity
oh I closed out to acid that's why they
called it that I feel like we need the
jeopardy music here exactly so but that
worked and I mean it went through and
then that was quick and it's done well I
mean the podcast was only four hours
long all right one of the things that
you'll notice it gives you a little bit
of a report here I'm just gonna see if
we can see that behind here it also
detects things like if you've got music
playing and it will it will find the
points that are music and it will adjust
accordingly Wow look at that notice we
don't clip everything looks clean and
levels are positively beautiful and I
believe this is the section where I went
real close to the Michael jr. I see yeah
I think that was it you think it is
ready if so okay oh I don't know that we
can hear yeah I'm pretty sure that was
it so what we're gonna do
let's bring up the the other file as
well so the original so that you can see
the difference as far as wave table goes
so this is a visual representation of
the audio Wow
that's our original recording and how do
I ask over Anna phonic let's just do
this that's now okay so yeah that's
worth yeah and even where sasha was
speaking at near the end of the file
there yeah like you could really see the
difference so what I'm gonna do we can't
play this too if to ourselves right now
but what I'll do is I'm going to play
this for
so a moment of silence this is a clip
from the original recording now here is
the exact same clip run through a phonic
alright let's let's do this podcast hey
oh you pulled out rowdy radio can you
hear you point with a phonic is this
going to make the levels sound a lot
better so let's let's get a look at
gonna stop our recording and I love how
Jeff was like feigning like Oh
difference so if you're podcasting if
you're doing YouTube videos whatever
you're doing you need auphonic get it at
a phonic dot-com I'm not kidding
it took me a while to to do it to take
to get off on ik and say you know what
I'm gonna make this a part of my that's
so simple I used to use level later I
used to use all kinds of filters and try
to fix things up myself this does a
better job than any of the other tools
that I've ever used it's a one like just
a couple of clicks to just make your
audio sound absolutely stupendous so
there you have folks off phonic calm
