they say is part 5 of Sasha's gaming
computer built now Sasha couldn't be
here tonight because she's off getting
married yet which is what this thing is
all about so Jeff and I are gonna get
into the boxes we're gonna have a little
private time with you and these boxes of
gear and we're gonna get into it even
though Sasha's not here and she's gonna
be back next weekend we're gonna get
started on our build is the next or next
week two weeks yep pardon me
so you've got questions in the chat room
pertaining to to the build itself
yes user stuff yeah so strong chasers
actual will be building it yes just so
you know yeah we're just doing the
unboxing we can take things out of the
box it's true and look at them and
autumn
that's all we're allowed to do yep
that's right but storm chaser 3000 wants
to know he says if I wanted to get a
kingston SSD with 240 gig of storage
space how much would that cost because i
want to get an SSD for my new gnu/linux
laptop nice and the very simple answer
to that is go to our website check out
the shop we have them listed there and
it will you click the link you can check
out the SSDs and I believe the link
takes you right to em yeah but you know
what I would suggest you actually do
let's go to Kingston go to Kingston comm
that makes sense see this is this is the
neat thing you can shop around folks
figure it out first just like we did
here on the show with such as computer
build and then go back to our website
and use our links right to get there so
the way I would approach this and the
reason that we're tackling this during
part 5 of Sasha's computer build is it's
all related we're all learning how to
choose which hardware we're gonna go
with and we've picked and we're gonna
look at the HyperX savage we've got a 1
terabyte SSD to go into sashes I think
I've got the 250 yeah super fast so on
Kingston comm head on over there because
that's where you want to go to get you
know get information about the hard
drives and whatever it is that you want
to do so first and foremost find out do
you have em to support because m2 can be
a lot faster than traditional SSDs why
is that Jeff it bypasses the SATA bus it
bypasses the SATA bus that's what you
connect your SSD in to
not to say SSDs are not screaming fast
they are but m2 can be a lot faster four
times faster because you're not
bottlenecked by that bus it goes through
PCIe right so yes if your motherboard
supports it that's cool if it doesn't
support it you can buy one of these guys
they've got a PCI II card with an m2
built into it and they're screamin fast
man so for your case going to SSDs and
you can see those those back cards there
as well you can see the VM twos and
things like that what you're probably
going to be looking at is the consumer
line of products so you go into
Kingston's consumer line of SSDs and
check these out so let's see what we can
come up with so by doing this we're
gonna be able to compare specs on their
website because I know like the 240 gig
is screaming fast but if you up to I
think it's 460 or 480 it's a little
faster yes because the chips are more
condensed and you know there's more data
can can flow a little bit faster so you
look at this website and so here's the a
400 for example is it goes from 120 gig
to 480 gigs and it goes up to 500
megabytes per second Reed and 450 right
now the UV 400 are a little bit faster
and a little bit larger if you want to
go that way they go up to 550 megabytes
per second and 500 megabytes per second
- right that's important only if you
know if I'm working in video so I need
to be able to write a lot of data really
really fast if you're just gaming and
stuff then you might want to look at the
savage line but you know I'm just
looking at what's available on their
website you can you can kind of go
through so if I click on the a 400 for
example let's see what it tells us so
you're gonna find information about the
speed of the drive the capacity of the
drive and so on so you're basically
doing your pre-shopping right you're
deciding what it is that you want to do
now HyperX from kingston the is kind of
the gamer line so if you're gonna be
doing some gaming that's where you want
to be looking for those and you're gonna
be able to get something that's you know
the its consumer product it's fast it's
super fast
it's more bang for the buck but maybe
you know technically it's gonna be less
reliable I not that it's not reliable
it's enterprise stuff is meant to like
be run in computers in an office
environment versus a gaming rig that
maybe you turn off your computer at
night you know that's it's kind of like
that so let's let's see what I can find
here I see a link there for HyperX
gaming comm that takes me to their
HyperX line like I'm saying this may be
where you want to look so you you kind
of look through and see what what they
have so savage that's the one I wanted
to look at so again that's part of their
HyperX line so it's a Kingston Drive but
it's meant for gaming it's super super
fast for that kind of thing so what do
we got find out the specs you want you
want 240 gigs there it is cool stuff you
can find out what how it compares so
look at this
let's see speed 240 gigs we've got
that's that's how many reads and writes
are how fast I want to see like
megabytes a second that'll that'll be
really nice 240 gigs for 80 gigs ok so
up to 480 gigs is 223 megabytes per
second 960 gigs is 260 so it's a little
faster on that particular bandwidth test
that's not read and write speed let's
see if we have that listed here you kind
of want to oh there we go
data transfer 560 megabytes per second
read 530 megabytes right
that's not raizy that's that's crazy but
you see what happens here now we don't
see it as much with the savage line do
we because these are all meant to be
really really fast like 500 20 megabytes
read on the 240 and it's the same all
the way up to 960 so you can get away
with the 240 but those are the things
that I like to compare right why am i
paying more it's not just capacity a lot
of times especially with the enterprise
level drives that larger it is the
faster it is right in the savage line it
looks like they're very very similar as
far as speed goes so once you've decided
then you can go over to category 5 dot
TV and from there we're gonna go support
us and then shop with
our partners okay and from there find
the Amazon site that works well for you
so if it's amazon.com head on over there
now we know that we've already selected
Kingston HyperX savage 240 gigabyte
there we go so now we know okay I can
get this is the bundle kit which is
sweet comes with a little extra
peripherals if I just need the drive
itself I can go with just the drive by
itself so I'm gonna be looking at today
based on Amazon's pricing 130 bucks
what's done yeah so then you might say
hey how much is a 280 it's twice as big
is it twice the price so four oh the
they actually show them right here
that's handy so let's compare 240 gigs
480 gigs what did that do to the price
220 to 225 so it's a hundred bucks more
and you're getting twice as much
capacity so then gage that so that's the
way I would approach it figure out what
you want to buy first then head on over
to our website category five TV and use
our partner links and that supports the
show it's a cool way to do it
because you're not gonna pay any
differently than ordering it direct but
by doing that we get a commission on the
sale which is really a cool way to be
able to support category 5 TV sorry
thanks man all right are we ready to get
into it oh yeah check it out Jeff you
want to head on over here and like do
I'm gonna look whoa now I wanted this
shot so that you kind of get a sense for
what we've got here I know you can't see
us right now but who needs to see us
right now this is what we've got okay so
so far what has come in we've got a
savage HyperX drive from Kingston its
960 gigs that's like the terabyte SSD
super scream and fast super beautiful
love it we've got the keyboard mouse
we've got an m2 card we've got the
Kingston fury Ram you know you know I
don't even have to get into the
specifications because you've been
following the show and if you go over to
cap five dot TV slash CPU two zero one
seven you're going to know exactly what
we're getting into
here because the shopping list is right
there and you can check it out so over
here what else have we got
okay thermal paste yeah how cool is that
right the simplest thing in the world
but that's going to help us to put the
CPU fan on on there so what do we start
with Jeff look at all this stuff we've
got the CPU and i7 we've got a beautiful
motherboard I kind of want to get into
that you know what this is the one I've
been waiting to get into the mobo yeah
nice okay let's do it
I'm gonna move some of this stuff out of
the way could you just set that down for
me jack because and I want to weigh this
thing does it not feel heavier than
you're expecting actually yeah I was
surprised at the weight when I picked it
up that's what I said I was like this is
a lot heavier than I thought I brought
out the trusty scale specifically to
find out how much this thing weighs two
kilograms 252 grams so 2.30 kilograms
it's more than 2 kilos that's what it is
that's what the Taylor scale tells us
Jeff this feels heavier than my kids
when they were born you guys ready for
this
Jeff do you want the honors oh boy do I
ever oh man look at that
it's the Maximus what is it VIII I so
that's like eight yeah something like
that that's just beautiful beautiful it
is really really nice now we went with
one that has an m2 socket and what we're
doing is we're we're actually installing
a Kingston SATA m2 right so the the chip
itself is an m2 chip but it's also SATA
so it's not as fast as a like a PCIe m2
but it gets Sasha into the m2 market and
using m2 component on her motherboard so
that's actually gonna go right here okay
so the hard drive if you will for the
operating system is a chip that's gonna
go right there and it looks like this it
actually looks like a ram module and
that's gonna go right into the
motherboard okay that's gonna hold the
operating system oh that's beautiful
it's it's about the same speed as a
traditional si SATA SSD like about 500
megabytes per second right for read and
write but as I say it gets her into the
M
- it's got her on a motherboard that
supports it so you know if she ever
needs to upgrade she can get into some
screaming fast stuff because it gets her
off of the SATA bus this is using the m2
component of the motherboard so we've
got four dams four for RAM which we also
have the kingston fury ram which is
super fast gaming ram beautiful stuff
and we've got a couple of x1 headers for
PCIe and then we've got the x16 s as
well oh we've got three x ones that's
cool so you can see there we go so this
is where the processor goes the cpu not
sure if you're familiar with that
there's a bunch of little kind of
contacts underneath of here and if I
remove this you can kind of see so the
processor is gonna make contact with all
those little itty-bitty pins mmm and
that's going to give us that's going to
give her her processor the brains know
this motherboard also comes with the
start button which Sasha was asking
about you guys see that I can yes right
there yeah so I mean if you ever needed
to bypass the case for some reason I
guess we used to do that back in the day
man I'd be like putting this on display
real nice yeah those are like backup
switches and everything we've got a lot
of solid-state caps
see these capacitors they're really
high-end capacitors they're not going to
burst like the old-style caps we do have
some old-style
caps here but this is a you know a
decent motherboard you know that it's
going to run really well for them and
and treat them well I am so excited
that's cool that was an easy unboxing
cuz you just kind of opened the lid what
else do we have to have let's go with
the g-force alright let's get into
because we're gonna need to there you go
so you wanted to get in there okay so
this is the video card this is the video
card this is okay now we went with a
1070 as opposed to the 1060 it's a step
up it's it's more money but it's gonna
it's gonna do real well it's built for
VR
all right you get to open this no man
you do it together together one two
three oh okay
okay get her out there look so dorm
trooper nice oh okay
grounding myself there we go okay Robby
be grounded these things have gotten so
much bigger since I saw this is computer
this is not your average component Jeff
Oh Mike there you have it so look at
this we've got a DVI output and
four-note to DisplayPort and two HDMI
okay and this is full-sized HDMI so
she's going to be able to use
traditional HDMI cables no adapters
needed so two of those and to display
port and one DVI so we've got lots of
room for components is in that gorgeous
so there's the back we've got dual
silent fans and this again this is the
be a sous gtx 1070 Jeff have you got
some specs on the board you can share
with us as the or now we went with the
overclocked edition and I'll just let
you know now you can you can overclock
your your car to yourself if you want
but sash was not that computer savvy I
wanted to put something in that was
ready to go out of the box it's
overclocked it's super fast the the base
frequency is going to be higher right
that from the moment we plug it in right
no messing around it's already built the
way that we want it to be okay specs
eight gig gddr5 video memory nice you
talked about the display poor it's
Microsoft DirectX 12 opengl 4.5 opengl
is the one that we care about because
we're gonna be running linux on here
mm-hmm
what's it got GPU tweak - looking for
some other specs on here it's just the
generic stuff on the box there you go oh
is it more under here that's Russian I
can't read Russian alright next up what
else do we got
all right here
throw the Box away alright there we go
who needs it alright we've got the power
supply yeah
beaut that's a nice power supply we went
Corsair and this is this is beaut
because it is modular yes Jeff you've
been through this before
I have I have this one but in the 750
okay not the 850 so we went with a
little bit more power because we are
sticking some powerful components in
there like the video cards yeah and you
know you can never go wrong with too
much power if you have too little power
you're gonna have some damage to your
peripherals yes and so on and so forth
so what do we got here let's just get
into the box shall we you know what I
like about this series from Corsair is
that the cables are not hardwired into
the actual that's the modularity of it
Jeff I know that's what I love you know
what I love about it 10 year warranty
that ok yeah you know a company stands
by their product if they put a 10 year
warranty on the thing oh yeah let's get
it around the other way no sorry guys
this is what you see ok let's take a
look here took that off all right we got
a bag of goodies I'm gonna I'm gonna
show you the bag of goodies in just a
minute but grab that power supply right
over there Jeff oh it even comes with
its own bag Wow I'm gonna use it
that's right yeah that's it comes with a
free bag everybody you can use it to
like put things in go shopping
ok there's all your peripheral ports 850
watts now this is the thing about this
power supply completely modular so there
are no cables coming out of this power
supply unless you need them right that's
where this bag comes in which I and it
keeps the case so clean I love it there
you go now these are beautifully wound
cables as well so this is the the
motherboard power connector so obviously
you're gonna need that we've got tons
and tons of different things there's a
PCIe video card adapter we've got like
tons and tons of this stuff look at that
it's like Christmas morning
yeah just like it so there you go so
she's got all the cable she needs but
only going to use what she needs
right
have to clutter up your case the other
thing about clutter in your case so when
you're looking at a power supply you got
to think about how this is going to be
inside of your chassis the computer case
itself because airflow is going to keep
that thing cool and when you're dealing
with a gaming rig it's gonna be running
pretty hot if you don't have proper
cooling and part of it isn't just the
fan but also the airflow the ability for
air to get through and the more cables
that are in there the Messier it is the
worse it's gonna be this is just a
process or Jeff so I don't know how much
you can really see with this but note
that the i7 that we chose the 7700 K
it's Jeff proof box yeah it does not
include the processor fan right so there
you have it we're gonna leave it in the
plastic folks but this is the this is
the brains this is the chip that makes
the computer able to do all of the
things that a computer does now if I
recall correctly you were looking at
different chipsets yes that's why you
went with this one do you recall why
this chipset well we've been over it in
the series Jeff so if you watch back at
camp five dot TV slash CPU 2017 you're
really going to get a sense for you know
why did we choose the 7700 K versus
whatever else was there but essentially
this is good bang for the buck it's it's
tried-and-true the 7700 K has been
around for just long enough that it's
still new it's still current but we know
that it's good we know that it's stable
unlike the Rison processors from AMD
which I was also looking at we're seeing
all kinds of problems with those
especially on Linux so we wanted
rock-solid we wanted stability as well
as speed and game ability okay what do
you got here oh you're getting into the
into that before well before we even we
haven't even got to like processor fan
we've got I know right there's wait
these didn't show up on my place well
we've we've been we've all been working
together here dev that's right because
we people were helping out yeah so we've
got okay we got the solid-state hard
drive from Kingston this is the hyper x
960 gig I don't even know if we really
need to get into this but this is the I
believe that it's the kit that we
ordered
and so let's you've got the scissors
let's let's get into the box all right
so just so you know the you know a
slight difference between the Kingston
kit versus just the hard drive so the
hard drive is literally just this this
component right here versus the kit
which has and Jeff will show us so this
is your hard drive you nice beautiful
hard drive and is your mounting plate
that's great for if your case doesn't
support correct the 3.5 millimeter 22.5
pardon me I various things in here I
found fingers I love this tool I use it
all the time I Jeff I know it's just a
simple soda buy I actually have one on
the set it might always sits right
beside my computer absolutely they make
now this is my one my one so this is
just a tool that they include but this
it's a computer screwdriver that's right
it's really good quality so it's like
getting a freebie and the external case
so maybe you don't want to put the hard
drive actually in your computer you want
to use is say maybe a portable backup
drive or something they provide a case
you just throw the hard drive in and
it's got your cables for connecting
directly to your computer you know what
else that's good for is that for example
in this case this is just her data drive
right this is only data this is not
Sasha's main computer hard drive the
hard like the the operating system
because that's going to be an m2 this is
going to contain all our pictures or
family videos and all that kind of stuff
saved games all that so if it ever came
down to it if something ever went wrong
she could pull the hard drive out put it
in the external drive chassis and plug
it into USB and be able to access it on
any computer alright so there you have
it now we've got the Kingston HyperX
fury ram now we've gone a little mad but
that's ok
because we've got to 16-gig ddr4 sims
here I don't really need to open those
up but you can see that we've got a
heatsink built into the RAM module so
that's going to keep it cool it's going
to help it to perform better because
it's gonna keep it nice and cool which
is as I say one of the key things about
a gaming rig if you got to keep it cool
alright
then we've got the this is the CPU
cooler speaking of I'm gonna open that
up yeah guess we got a little sticker
there so this is the contact silent 12
also from Thermaltake which is the brand
that we went with for the chassis and I
really like their stuff especially when
it comes to chassis x' CPU coolers I use
their liquid cooling and my systems oh
yeah
look at the size of this thing its
massive Wow okay so what do we have this
is the the fan here so we go we're gonna
have to set all of this up for Sasha so
we're not gonna take that off of this
because we want to keep that very very
clean but this is the heatsink how do
you like that for keeping your system
cool I don't even think the rad in my
car is that big 20 millimeter fan which
is going to blow the wind over top of
the heatsink and out the other side and
that's gonna do a really nice job I
don't know what's in the box here we go
what we've got an adapter for okay for
mounting to a different different type
of CPU socket and then we've got the
power adapters and pegs and things like
that because it's compatible with
various different types of sockets right
so like Intel LGA 1366 1156 1155 1151
which is what we're doing
11:57 75 plus AMD's a.m. for FM 2 FM one
am3+ a.m. 3 a.m. 2 plus and AM - so you
pretty much install this thing in any
modern system how brilliant is that so
this is this is also a component that
you can find out more about by going to
cap 5 TV slash CPU 2017 and Jeff this
brings us
to the one that you want to see oh yeah
I want to see this the chassis from
Thermaltake now we went with the Versa
c22 black edition I was looking at the
snow edition but Sasha said you know
what Dave loves like you know he's gonna
love it if it was a black computer case
oh come on pull come on pull push here
let's do this let's do this oh come on
this is killing me this is ridiculous
ah there we go oh we got it our efforts
yes now watch for static shock yeah I
you know I am not afraid to admit that
the jealousy factor is going through the
roof right now
there's something satisfying about
that's how shock factor I said he's
peeling plastic I'm touching the metal
he's stalking me okay
let's cool the the shock factor just for
a moment okay I'm gonna get these these
chassis screws out here which are just
thumb screws so you don't need your
tools to get in there that is a slick
looking case oh boy okay I want to get
into the inside here so I can show you
what it looks like here help me out Jeff
there's a lot of thumb screws makes for
some exciting TV when I'm doing it all
by myself
yeah that's true almost like dead air
all right you all right let's do it oh
there we go
oh so this is like a plexi yeah this is
not even there's no metal on this that's
just a piece of plexi how do you like
that oh man that that is beautiful right
there you folks see that now this is a
cable management case as well so you'll
see these guys right I can hide
everything in such a way that the cables
are all going in behind and not even
visible at all what's like a nice I can
feed the cables if from the power supply
which is going to go right here up
through this hole right here which has
got a nice little grommet and then out
wherever it needs to be beautiful okay
nice we're not firing this up to date
folks oh I can't wait I can't wait to do
it but what I want to show you is now
there are LEDs built into this light
emitting diodes it's got really cool
light effects and one of the things Jeff
that we were concerned about is making
sure that the lighting effects did not
require software rights a lot of times
then if you're on Linux maybe it's a
Windows program maybe we're gonna run
into that kind of a problem so this one
this particular chassis has a built-in
controller module on the top here we've
got USB just like Sasha wanted right off
the top so there's a USB 3 port there
there's another one right here and
another one right here look at all so
we've got three four four USB ports
we've got headphone and microphone jacks
and we've got the controller for the
lighting which we're gonna get into you
know in time looks like this is it
young-shin
LED so I'll have a juncture it just
cycles through the different options
that's pretty sleek there we go there's
the front of it when it's to exactly
yeah I want to build this todai-ji you
know what I do - she'll forgive us sorry
I don't even know how to get into it how
would you get into this maybe you don't
get into it maybe you don't maybe they
just say you know what people don't use
optical drives anymore we're gonna find
out though I don't see any release
mechanisms for the front I think it's
just that is what it is although there
are I see two cavities here for five and
a quarter bays and I've got a three and
a half inch bay here I can see that from
the other side but there's so there has
to be a way to get into it Jeff is it
but we don't know it it's like my
computer yeah well we're gonna find it
those are what raid slots I think er
what's that on Michael yeah we found you
have some kind of some kind of crazy
things come on join me here Jeff sorry
I've got one more component to unbox you
can come around and what do we got is
that the keyboard Rose is it alright
this is the last thing folks for sashes
computer build and just want to quickly
say thank you to everyone who has
pitched in so far to make this happen
for Sasha she had a good budget to get
started and you know we decided let's
let's come together as a community and
really make this happen for and get some
of the better components so she's not
cheeping out on components just to to
meet a budget that's cool this is a
cheap keyboard and mouse and I really
like the look that's the solid button
that's that's nice I don't hear you
clicking it it's very quiet really nice
you can came into the middle of that
yells good - yeah it does it's kind of
nice nice yeah looks like it's got
double-a battery port on the bottom
there yep it's got a transmitter
receiver there we go and there you go
folks
2.4 gigahertz gaming keyboard completely
wireless looks great with the chassis
they're gonna be real happy with us yeah
I think I'm gonna have to go over and
play at their house for a bit I think so
oh my goodness I'm just a great bunch of
gear eh
so in the next few weeks we're going to
be building this into a gaming computer
for Sasha and Dave now they're off
getting married right now
and this is good well yeah this weekend
and then she's back she comes back
sometime next week and she'll be back
with us two weeks from today so we're
really hoping to be able to get into it
at that point please do go to cap five
dot TV slash CPU 2017 to learn more
about the build how we selected this
Hardware why we did how you can buy it
how much it costs and also how you can
support the build in such a way that its
it's like a it's a wedding gift for Dave
and Sasha
sorry no Sasha tour made us from the
studio here and it's our little way of
saying to her hey you know what we
really appreciate you and here's a
little something something to put toward
this build so I think it looks great
cool huzzah cleanup you great wait no
you think she's she's on the
organisation that's all right perfect
makes her happy sounds good to me it
makes me happy how many boxes did the
stuff come in that's the question coming
from soviet-era we must have had five or
six shipments anyways yeah pretty pretty
much every day for like a week maybe you
know what was something rolling in you
know it was kind of funny and a little
ironic and we say tongue-in-cheek like
hey yeah the thermal paste came this is
for the CPU so that you get a good
contact between the CPU and the fan tell
them it was like a six dollar product
for like seven dollars seven dollars
stupid nothing else had shipping cost it
was all bought on Amazon so it's free
shipping and the thing that frustrates
me is when it arrived it was like two
hours from my house no I could have gone
I just picked it up and slightly detour
from work and how did it feel that all
this hardware is coming to your house
you know we're not allowed to it was
painful oh I am NOT
I so when we decided with Sasha that it
was all gonna come to my house so that
Dave didn't see any of the stuff because
he has no clue I had to go home and tell
my wife look there's gonna be a ton of
stuff to live it to the house I didn't
buy it uh just so you know she's like
okay that's fine I told her what was
going on but every day if something
would arrive and was like possible and I
just it pained me to not be able to play
with it no right and for those who are
wondering because I had said originally
I said well why don't you just ship it
to our address here our studio - Sasha
and it turns out she can't do that from
Amazon because we're an Amazon partner
oh so you can't ship things to us okay
because we're the partner but it's just
like this roundabout way that Amazon
works and how it ended up going to you
and yeah to me
so which I was okay with yes I got to
work sit there just druaga lit oh yes
there was a lot you can't even watch the
video over and over again folks go to
cat v DV / cpu 2017 looking forward to
putting this thing together
[Music]
[Applause]
