hey all I'm just at Studio D as you can
see and now it's 7:30 in the morning on
Thursday I've been here since about 6:00
maybe about 5:45 in the morning because
we're getting some things set up here
for new every day and you can see the
state of the studio desk I've cracked
into some of our project kit and you
notice that one of the issues that we
have with new every day is that they can
only plug two microphones into their
camera this is what it looks like so
it's two inputs and they can plug in two
of these bad boys which then go to a
lapel mic and so what I've set up to do
is I've created a breakout box that
gives them four inputs and the way that
I've done that with you know the kit
that you see here is I've designed just
a passive circuit that is really really
basic but really kind of awesome at the
same time because it gets the job done
and nice and clean that's what it looks
like that's the break by the the actual
project box and I've left enough room
for up to four microphones and then we
can always expand if we need to but that
should help with the interviews because
when we have a lot of people being
interviewed or a couple of people of
being interviewed to share two
microphones really is tough that's what
it's gonna look like and when it's kind
of finished and screwed together so it's
coming along and I think that's gonna
really improve things on new every day
as far as when we have more than just
the two hosts on the show it's gonna
help with that so cool stuff and for
from here at the category five
technology TV studio it means I'm
getting more experience with my
soldering and with creating projects and
becoming a maker and the whole kit that
I've got here is a cat five dot TV slash
maker and it's an amazing kit you saw it
on category five technology TV on
episode number 498 just yesterday and I
love it it's absolutely awesome so we're
gonna show more of that on episode 499
so cool stuff hope you enjoy all the
shows that we bring you and some of the
you know times when I have to get up at
4 o'clock in the morning to come and get
started on projects like this in order
to make things better for you
all right take care enjoy your day see
ya
