here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
SpaceX and Tesla have deleted their
Facebook pages Intel has announced it's
discontinuing the Intel graphics update
tool for Linux watch reduce what you say
when using the lengths of soft products
the new company the company's new
service agreement says that it can
punish you for using offensive language
a gtx 1070 is the recommended card for
VR with the new HTC vive pro these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston jela you're building a brand
new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what does where
acting comes into play I don't know
you're supposed to act ok are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV slash
DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 TV slash dream host
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight Linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here are the top stories were following
this week
Facebook pages SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon
Musk has deleted the company's Facebook
pages joining some now former Facebook
users in their protest of the social
media Giants corporate behavior the move
comes a week after revelations that
Cambridge
analytic ah a British data firm that
contracted with the Donald Trump
presidential campaign retained private
data from 50 million Facebook users
despite claiming to have deleted it new
reports on Cambridge analytic aah has
spurred massive public outcry from users
and politicians with even CEO Mark
Zuckerberg calling it a breach of trust
at least two lawsuits have been filed as
a result according to the comments from
Zuckerberg this new hashtag delete
Facebook campaign does not appear to
have any substantive impact on the
platform's bottom line he told the New
York Times I don't think we've seen a
meaningful number of people act on that
but you know it's not good well you know
Mark Zuckerberg you know I don't know
really how not good it is to be honest I
mean I like for private data that
analytic I collected is it just my stuff
or is it public post and private things
and we're going back to the original
Facebook API 1.0 and with that API
companies like Cambridge analytical were
able to aggregate not only your personal
posts and your personal data your
contact information your your likes your
dislikes your private conversations your
your public conversations your photos
your videos everything but also if I
installed the app that was using their
software right on my profile mm-hmm and
gave that check box which was literally
just a approve to install back with
version 1.0 so
back then 2014 it didn't list all the
things that it was going to do and it
didn't allow you to opt out of giving
them my personal information and my home
phone number and all this didn't let you
opt out of those things it was just I
want to install an app I have to accept
so they would sell you know presumably
you know let's get my software into a
game and that game now gets installed on
all these people's Facebook platform
profiles and they've authorized me to
install because they want that game
right say that's the example here's the
thing with that version of the API from
Facebook they not only had access to my
profile as I mentioned but also the
profiles and personal private
confidential data private data of all of
my friends they don't have to authorize
it because I authorized it I've by
associating my proxy given permission
that they can now access my friends
profiles as well that's not okay not
okay and so that there was an uproar
back then in you know 2015 2016 in the
end version 2.0 came out and they said
you know we've heard your uproar we've
heard your cry for more privacy settings
and so we've launched version 2.0 of the
API and deprecated 1.0 okay little too
late the data was already collected
already aggregated and they didn't tell
us that and then if you read the fine
print yes it was there well yeah who
does that exactly how many people have
read the full Terms of Use every time it
changes so Mark Zuckerberg thinks that
it's bad it's like well it's like
totally not good it's like not good
you didn't say bad but it's like yeah
but still I support anybody that would
want it to leave their Facebook because
of this yes in I can understand that but
who uses Facebook and doesn't already
understand that their data is the the
product that is being sold
we're not the customers of Facebook we
are the product of Facebook true as
users
so that data so it's really my
responsibility as a Facebook user to
only post things that I don't mind 3rd
parties having access to but you know
what it's not even my things like to be
honest with you it's the fact that I
like if if I agree to something I create
havoc for my friends when they forward
to rice so that's a key like that's
absolutely you know I don't like that
because there are people who do their
best to be private and then if a friend
a here's some willy-nilly approver right
but here's the other side to that so
thinking back you know now things are
firmer now and they're gonna get even
firmer now that this has come to light
like they're really oh we've got to
change things but back then companies
would create profiles that look like
your friends right they grab so they'd
find a picture of your husband right and
maybe that's a little too close to home
but and they would friend you on
facebook right they find you know your
church directory and get all the
pictures and and create a directory of
okay now that okay here are some
connections right or company websites
and get connections and then friend you
so now I've friended you you are friends
with all the legitimate people and now
through this exploit in the API because
I'm your friend now I authorize pol√≠tica
to access my friends right because you
friended me you have vicariously and
completely unknowingly released all of
yours and your friends data how dirty
yeah Oh creepy mmm-hmm intel has
announced it is discontinuing the Intel
graphics update tool for Linux but it
may not be what you think the tool which
was known as Intel graphics installer
for Linux for a while was created in
2013 to give Linux users a reliable way
to upgrade their latest stable firmware
driver and other components for Intel
graphics chips owners of
your Intel Hardware often had to use the
tool in order to get the most from their
GPU when using Linux Ubuntu and fedora
we're the officially supported distros
the tool targeted but users of related
distributions including Linux Mint have
made use of it too at a glance headlines
like that make it sound as if Intel is
pulling support for Linux when in fact
it's quite the opposite now Intel's open
source technology group says the tool is
obsolete so why are they deprecating the
software that makes its it easy to
upgrade to the drivers well it's all
thanks to faster inclusion of newer
Intel graphics that support through
graph Intel's graphic support that is
directly within modern linux
distribution repositories there isn't a
need for a new release because of boon
217 point 10 and Fedora 27 both include
support for the latest Intel graphics
out of the box and it appears as though
both distros will be keeping pace with
the stack going forward so with no real
purpose the update tool is simply being
retired awesome yeah well it shows the
power of a repository in that now if
it's already pre set up on your distro
Linux so you don't have to install the
drivers manually if you will but as the
new versions come out they're gonna
automatically update as well right so
it's just being phased out it's just
it's not needed anymore that's great but
isn't it funny how the headlines will
say oh well Intel is pulling support for
Linux drivers right it's weird that's
the headline yeah let's look between the
lines here it's no longer needed folks
Linux has gotten to the point where we
don't need to figure out how to install
our drivers it just does it for us
happen I love that when I fire up a
Linux computer for the first time mm-hmm
and I connect my Wi-Fi it says oh you've
got a wireless printer would you like to
add it yep done would you like to print
a test page yep done didn't have to
install anything didn't have to touch
anything right just said yes no it's
just yeah install my printer sure yeah I
want my
graphics drivers yeah make it happen get
her done Linux is amazing and
incidentally when it does update I can
choose when to update right and I don't
have to reboot that's a huge thing
updating without needing to reboot is
pointing any fingers windows users
that's a big deal it's a time saver it
really is when you can control when the
updates happen and you don't have to be
offline for five hours while it happens
right if it's like an anniversary update
yeah what could I be referring to well
Oh Microsoft watch would you say while
using Microsoft products the company's
new service agreement says that it can
this will apply to microsoft services
such as xbox live skype onedrive and
others in a document summarizing the
upcoming changes which goes into effect
May 1st
Microsoft says in the Kodokan Conduct
section we've clarified that the use of
offensive language and fraudulent
activity is prohibited punishments can
include account suspensions and
microsoft booting you off of its
products this the software giant also
warns when you went investigating
alleged violations of these terms
Microsoft reserves the right to review
your content in order to resolve the
issue in other words the company can
search through your accounts for any
evidence of the violations so far
Microsoft hasn't publicly commented over
concerns that policy might be too
heavy-handed a ban on offensive language
will probably have the biggest impact
impact on Xbox Live where the gamers are
known to troll each other Microsoft
doesn't define what offensive language
is according to the new policy however
the company's code of conduct is
designed to prohibit a whole range of
problematic activities including spam
transmitting malware online harassment
child exploitation and anything illegal
the company's most severe punishments
are probably reserved for the worst
offenders speaking of companies are kind
of monitoring your data
right on in there have you ever used
Cortana and now they want to ban
swearing so it's a product feature they
don't even say what it is that offensive
language is now I'm not saying that I am
an offensive language user strongly by
any means okay but if you're a Windows
user or a Cortana user you're probably
an offensive language user okay okay so
we talked about updates there
can they just change what offensive
language is if they want to see your
stuff well I suppose right they already
have access to your stuff right but if
they want to just make it a legal door
to get through where they just they
already have a your Oh Windows 1000
right you accepted the terms of it right
at the terms and condition terms and
conditions which say clearly that they
are allowed to see all those things
everything that you are doing yeah
uh-huh
a key pretty sure we covered that before
yeah we did it's gross I've obviously
blocked it out because it's disgusting
anyway my wife and I is sometimes I mean
and I think a lot of folks have probably
checked out some of the VR videos and
and you know it's a lot of fun when you
see like some of the crazy stuff that
goes on in virtual chats and stuff and
people post them on YouTube and it's
probably not always kid-friendly and
it's not always appropriate but you know
it's good for a laugh sometimes when
it's not overly offensive so you know
are these kinds of things going to be an
issue I don't know I it's hard to say
because I think that they are just gonna
outline it clear as day
so that nobody can rebuttal it and then
implement it implement that power in
event that something needs to be
addressed like like who we we know
what's happened on YouTube lately and
and things that need to be addressed
white right it's saying these kinds of
things we have the power to combat
and then let's see what happens exactly
so I mean there's some really good
things that you can really like this
tool would be good to stop things like
cyberbullying it would be good I guess
you know child explore exploitation and
and things like that but I just feel
like it's so vague and just like yeah
that's my that's what I'm wondering is
it on purpose so that we've blanketed
this rule that's so vague but so firm
mm-hmm that we now have the power to
look through all your stuff if we
suspect that you have been doing these
things so then it comes into well what
if they're suspecting things like
terrorism plans or something like that
or an attack of some sort
you know kids talking in their VR chat
about you know I'm gonna do this or that
too so and so and so now all of a sudden
Microsoft has the power to boot you off
of all of its products and of course
they already have the power to report it
to the authorities that's part of Megos
10 as well right so it's actually very
powerful but when you think about it cuz
so many people it's so hard to fathom -
right like I've been bad and now I have
no Microsoft access to talk about Big
Brother this is mama oh you've been
swearing on Xbox Live you're banned for
a week right and that's the thing is
that a lifelong ban is it a is it a
conditional ban how do you unban
yourself after using offensive language
do you apologize how do you apologize
what you just switch to Linux it is hard
to get her yeah it's hard to get yeah
because Linux lets you swear it's hard
to get your head around because of the
fact that we're so conditioned by our
human thinking in that we think about
Microsoft monitoring what we say and do
and think in terms of humans monitoring
what we say and do but we have to
realize now we have AI and machine
learning these are new things that we've
not encountered in the
so suddenly these there's so much more
that can be done in such a small amount
of time right and connections that can
be made exactly
forgive technology but the teleprompter
that we use has just gone dead so
Sasha's going to be looking at our
laptop computer for the next and final
story because VR is so demanding
hardware makers have issued recommended
or VR ready guidelines to help customers
understand what kind of hardware they
need for a good VR experience for the
most part the VR industry's biggest
players have agreed on the key parts of
that recommended hardware with the
introduction of the new vive Pro HTC is
now suggesting more powerful gtx 1070 as
it's recommended spec for the vive pro
differing from gtx 1060 suggested for
use with other major headsets among
other improvements the vive pro brings a
screen with 78% more pixels than the
original vibe fourteen point forty by
sixteen hundred versus ten eighty by
twelve hundred per eye which means that
for the same scene a GPU powering the
vive pro will need to do a non-trivial
amount of extra work to draw all the
pixels at the 90 frames per second
target frame rates dropping below that
target can cause visual artifacts and
discomfort while HTC's official vive pro
page had initially listed the same
recommended GPU as the original vive the
gtx 1060 for use with the vive pro today
the company updated the page to
recommend and videos gtx 1070 quadrille
P 5000 or AMD's Radeon Vega 56 HEC tells
Road to VR that the change was based on
invidious testing while the GTX 970 or
equivalent is now part of the
recommended spec a new mini minimum spec
is listed which still includes the GTX
1060
additionally the vive pro's minimum spec
differs from the original Vives
recommended spec by requiring a us
be 3.0 port instead of a 2.0 and
dropping HDMI connectivity now requiring
DisplayPort 1.2 or newer the vive pro
minimum spec also no longer lists
windows 7 instead now showing windows
8.1 or Windows 10 it's not yet clear if
that means that the vive pro simply
won't work with windows 10 or if HTC
just advises against m27 a windows 7
story correct pardon
while steamvr 'the new auto resolution
function it means that steamvr content
should automatically adapt to the vive
pros increased rendering demand and
allow the GPU to maintain frame rate it
may come at the expense of reducing the
rendering resolution when the headset is
used in conjunction with a GTX 1060
class GPU the move from gtx 1062 1070 as
the headset recommended spec isn't a
small change for consumers as current
prices on the 1070 which is currently
$625 us are roughly twice as expensive
as the 1060 at 325 dollars this change
could be the start of a trend of
fragmentation among the VR ready and
recommended VR specs
which has been relatively consistent
among leading VR companies to date
though we do hope that HTC and others
will take steps to avoid customer
confusion just goes to show how Bitcoin
mining and Manero mining and turtle coin
mining has affected every market exactly
and if you're not catching my connection
there you just mentioned that the 1070
cards are six hundred and some odd
dollars plus USD now you built a cat 5
DB CPU 2017 you built a beautiful gaming
rig with a 1070 overclocked card with
eight gigs onboard right just in time
and it was like 549 Canadian right
Canadian so because people are buying up
all these cards because they're using
them to mine cryptocurrency the price is
going up and up enough
they're becoming more rare they're hard
to get at a good price
just in time I got that card yes yeah
and I am envious because I want to add
it to my mining rig right us so I'm okay
obviously for my VR headset like I'm oh
yes right get one exactly but the thing
is it's confusing right is there a way
that consumers would like how do they
know between recommended and woke a
woman like recommended versus minimum
right would be kind of the key point so
when you're looking at minimum system
requirements to do something you have to
imagine that the manufacturer says it'll
work it's not gonna be optimal okay
recommended means it's gonna be awesome
right right so if you've got a ten sixty
and they're saying that's the minimum
yes it will work you don't have to rush
out and buy a ten seventy right away but
you should know they're probably not
gonna get the right frame rates it's not
gonna be quite as good as it would be on
a 1080 on a ten seventy or ten eighty
right right so it's just you always feel
and I feel like this with smart phones
and that this is happening now with this
as well is there next going to be
something like should I already be just
chomping at the bit for the next thing
we don't get your headset first right
because right now the brand-new vive pro
is compatible your system is with a 1070
GTX is like the ideal system that's VR
and it's the best virtual reality
experience that you can get right now
right so you don't have to upgrade
anything it's ready I just get the
headset you just get the headset now if
you wait another two years obviously
your hardware is going to become the
minimum so yeah at this point okay so if
you buy it at the same level than adjust
ages at the same level like you're not
gonna be yeah yeah
ish yeah okay I got I have to get myself
a headset now you just gotta get the VR
headset I can do that start saving
christmas is coming how much is it there
like 800 bucks or something I think
Canadian I'm not too sure hmm well but
it it's necessary HTC vive Pro is
necessary yeah
the end the best comment ever get the
t-shirts
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category 5 TV news rooms
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
