it's Tuesday December 23rd 2014 and here
are the stories recovering this week
after this have compromised a German
steel mill a nuclear power plant in
South Korea is facing threats from
hackers calling themselves the anti
nuclear reactor group imagine losing a
majority of your followers on Instagram
that's what happened during what is
being deemed the Instagram rapture spare
parts are now be emailed to the
International Space Station and a
self-destructing smartphone has arrived
for spies these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere operation christmas
child is one
the great stories it's unfolding in our
lifetime we are only seeing just the
beginning of this project and these
children will change the world
Ashley dramatis appear at the top
stories from the category 5 TV newsroom
blast furnace at a German steel mill
suffered massive damage following a
cyberattack on the plants network
details of the incident emerged in the
annual report of the German federal
office for information security or BSI
in its report BSI said the attackers
were very skilled and used both targeted
emails and social engineering techniques
to infiltrate the plant in particular
said BSI the attackers used a spear
phishing campaign aimed at particular
individuals to trick people into opening
messages that sought and grabbed login
names and passwords the fishing helped
the hackers extract information they use
to gain access to the plants office
network and then its production systems
the BSI report said that once inside the
steel mills network the technical
capabilities of the attackers became
evident as they showed familiarity with
both conventional IT security systems
and the specialized software used to
oversee it administered the plant the
attack caused parts of the plant to fail
and it meant a blast furnace could not
be shut down normally the unscheduled
shutdown of the furnace is what caused
damage vs I did not name the company
operating the plant nor where the attack
took place in addition it said it did
not know who was behind the attacks nor
what motivated it that is an incredibly
scary idea Robbie it's actually makes me
wonder about all the security
researchers and professional you know
security gurus who have for years been
saying to the government's into nuclear
power management companies and steel
mills and you know big industries don't
have your machines connected to the
Internet hello so many pictures learn
from that one of the things that you got
to consider is that these machines these
CNC machines and big steel mill
production machine
games some of them were put into
production 50 years ago maybe maybe more
but certainly they're older than the
internet and they weren't built with
security in mind they were built with a
specific function so then all of a
sudden to connect them all together and
make them controllable from the outside
world it sounds like a convenience thing
but realistically those things weren't
built for security so isn't it to be
expected that if if you take those old
devices that you know you just can't do
that it's make them connected it's not
safe but furthermore it's scary to not
know who's behind the attack or the
motivation right it's just leads you
down a slippery slope of fear we're
hearing a lot about these threats of
hacker attacks tonight you mentioned
another story that's coming up as well
and these these threats of cyber warfare
we're really starting to see a lot of
that because where the technology has
surpassed what what is on our network if
I have old devices that are connected to
the same network that is internet
connected you can't upgrade those
devices you can't take an old CNC
machine and upgrade its firmware with
modern software just doesn't take it it
doesn't work they're still running XP
right you've got a problem and the false
sense of security means that it would be
easy to target individuals to open
messages and possibly get into the
system itself yeah old-school industries
to lead to people who maybe don't have a
security mindset maybe don't have the
training because they're working with
old-school devices old-school mindsets
mm-hmm now you alluded to this story on
Friday designs and manuals of plant
equipment owned by Korea hydro and
nuclear power company were put online by
an unknown individual or group using an
account named president of the anti
nuclear reactor group the hacker posted
blueprints of nuclear reactors on social
media a threat was made that unless
three reactors were closed by Christmas
people should stay away from them korea
korea hydro said the leaked data did not
undermine the safety of the reactors
Priya hydro and nuclear power company
the sole nuclear operator in Korea is
part of the state-run utility Korea
Electric Power Corporation in a
statement the operator said it would
conduct a series of large-scale drills
at four nuclear power plant complexes
yesterday and today authorities said in
a set of authority set of probe into the
hacking and leak of internet internal
documents had been launched boy so there
is seriously some very scary interesting
things happening in Korea as well so
let's hope that that doesn't become the
norm I don't know now here's an
Instagram news story photo sharing app
instagram has removed millions of
accounts believed to be posting spam
angering many legitimate users people
who lost a lot of followers followers
criticized the action dubbing it the
Instagram rapture like its parent
company Facebook Instagram routinely
removes accounts to limit spam and
prevent users buying followers to appear
more popular rapper eight rapper Akon
reportedly lost fifty six percent of his
followers in the cull the big losers
were Justin Bieber minus three million
five hundred thirty 8228 followers and
an online marketing specialist called
Wellington Campos which lost three
million two hundred eighty 4304
followers overnight one account Chirag
drag 78 lost 99% of his followers three
million six hundred and sixty thousand
four hundred and sixty before he himself
was deleted instagrams own accounts on
the site lost 18 million eight hundred
and eighty thousand two hundred and
eleven followers overnight Wow in the
rapture Ramana reminds me I mean we
think about them spam you know killing
spammer accounts and think well why are
they killing off these
counts are they people who have said
something bad or what is it yeah what is
spamming on Instagram or other social
media networks well fact is as you
alluded to they some of these famous
individuals in order to increase their
fame in fact purchase followers mm-hmm
so there's this entire industry
surrounding the ability to purchase
followers well what happens when a
company rises up and says we will sell
you 1 million followers where do they
get those followers from they've got a
staff a task force that sits there
creating bogus accounts to follow in
exchange for cash we know this is true
because of what happened on YouTube with
Lady Gaga who had been buying views for
her videos in order to increase their
popularity on youtube so you know if it
looks like my videos been viewed 10
million times it's obviously popular so
more people click on it its strategy and
marketing and dishonesty but that's what
happens on all of these social media
platforms so it's why some of the big
companies have an unbelievable amount of
followers if you actually look at the
list you realize oh there's a lot of
really fake looking accounts here and so
you know what's going on there all of
our followers are legit they're totally
legit they're honest legitimate
followers and so you know these these
poor artists who in order to increase
their fame on Instagram paid to buy a
whole bunch of followers while you can't
be too upset about that akon sorry guys
justin bieber they paid a lot of money I
guarantee you a lot of money oh my
goodness here's a great story that is
relevant to just an episode we did a
couple of weeks ago astronauts on the
International Space Station have used
their 3d printer to make a wrench from
instructions sent up in an email nice i
know it begins folks it begins it is the
first time Hardware has been emailed to
space
so was responding to a request by ISS
commander Barry Wilmore for a ratcheting
socket wrench previously if astronauts
requested a specific item they could
have waited months for it to be flown up
on one of the regular supply flight so
this is far more immediate mike chen
founder of made in space the company
behind the 3d printer said we had
overheard ISS commander Barry Wilmore
who goes by butch mention over the radio
that he needed one so we designed one in
CAD and sent it up to him faster than a
rocket ever could have if a 3d printer
can turn out something is useful as a
tool in space what else is possible
spare parts components even equipment
and that's just the beginning it really
is just the beginning Robbie because I
can only imagine Lee once you have the
materials up there to actually create
the printing it's very Jetsons like it's
really is a an amazing it's it's like
we're one step away from the Star Trek
replicator the ability to create things
from thin air well we saw the polio 3d
here on category 5 just a couple weeks
ago as Sasha said and how cool that you
can just build something like that but
to think that we're at the point and I
know that you know if you follow
technology it's it's no big deal yeah I
know but realistically think about where
we were 20 years ago versus the ability
to craft something on a computer screen
email at email to outer to it not outer
space but to space to an orbiting
satellite Space Station where a
cosmonaut is sitting there and gets that
email and replicates or creates the
device that you created back on earth
just five minutes prior and is holding
it in his hand that's where we've come
to it's amazing i love it that'll change
everybody's christmas gift lists you can
just start emailing people what you want
and have them printed that's a scary
thought but I am definitely definitely
interested in bootleg oh
lay and i'll just start printing out my
lego and save me some cash monies how
cool is that I heard the patent expired
or some crazy thing like that so might
be good to invest in a 3d printer hmm
and if you yeah if you get a polio then
everybody went I just wanted to make me
Earl Grey hot d/l grey hot that's that's
when we have truly arrived at the peak
of technological breakthroughs folks
this is great technological news here as
well Boeing and blackberry are working
together to make an ultra-secure phone
for us security staff which will allow
them to communicate securely and blow
itself up if it falls into the wrong
hands of course oh now we've gone from
the Jetsons to inspector gadget yeah
BlackBerry's CEO John Chen gave away
some details of the project when
presenting the company's earnings many
of the details of the project have been
kept secret but boeing provides some on
its site the phone called Boeing Black
has this condition crip Shin a
cryptographic engine and modular
hardware that allows it to be upgraded
and changed in use it uses android
rather than BlackBerry's own operating
system Google software is said to be
favored by the US government because
it's more secure Boeing which is better
known for making planes and weapons has
began offering the phone to potential
customers so there you have it this
message will self destruct in t-minus
for all your tech news with a slight
Linux bias visit the category 5 TV
newsrooms
newsroom category 5 TV for the category
5 TV news room I'm Sasha through my toes
