here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
remember when Apple's FaceTime stopped
working years ago turns out it was a
deliberate part of Apple's planned
obsolescence tactics well it just got
easier to run to boot seal on Windows 10
as virtual machine and surprise it's all
thanks to Microsoft Twitter has told an
undisclosed number of users that their
private messages may have been leaked to
third parties for more than a year
health officials who are looking at how
to apply blockchain technology to public
health issues consulted with Walmart on
improving improving food supply
traceability and they plan to use the
technology in the produce department
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Geoff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five TV news room covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here are the top stories for following
this week remember when Apple's face
time stopped working years ago turns out
that it was a deliberate part of Apple's
planned obsolescence tactics Apple is
accused of deliberately crippling
features for people who didn't upgrade
their iPhones and iOS in a class-action
lawsuit over its FaceTime video
conferencing software last week US
District Judge Lucy Koh allowed a
class-action lawsuit against the tech
giant to move forward after she rejected
Apple's argument that it can do whatever
it wants with people's iPhones because
users agree to its terms of conserving
agreements at the heart of the lawsuit
filed in California is a decision by
Apple to kill off FaceTime for those who
were not using the latest iPhone and
latest operating system software in
April 2014 they had led a digital
certificate expired prematurely which
broke the video conferencing service for
anyone using version 6 or lower of iOS
Apple claimed that at the time there was
a bug and users needed to upgrade to the
latest version iOS 7 to fix things but
internal documents suggest that Apple
knowingly broke FaceTime for tech
holdouts because it was costing it money
six months earlier the latest version of
its operating system iOS 7 had been
released and included a fundamental
change to the way FaceTime worked but
many iPhone 4 users were wary about iOS
7 because the resource-hungry upgrade
made their phones run very slowly so
they strut
they stuck with iOS 6 but then FaceTime
suddenly stopped working and when asked
about it April Apple told them to
upgrade to iOS 7 or buy the latest phone
the iPhone 5
now that Judge Koh has certified the
lawsuit this means that it can move
forward as a class-action lawsuit and
pull in others who have been affected
but there are a couple of limitations
first you have to live in California
judge ko rejected the attempt to make it
a national class-action lawsuit because
the law is under consideration very
widely across the United States and
second it can't be on a jailbroken phone
so if you live in California and got
frustrated when your iPhone 4 became
incredibly slow or were prevented from
using FaceTime because you didn't want
to upgrade to iOS 7 then you might be in
line for a payout if the lawyers win the
case of course this being Apple if it
does lose it will appeal the decision in
to the ends of the earth so don't expect
that money anytime soon your thoughts
planned obsolescence seems like thievery
to me it really does I don't like it one
little bit do you want to hear my
experience as an Apple user yes I'm not
an Apple user that's my experience as
the answer that's it ok if you are an
Apple user I would encourage you try the
alternative just test it just see give
yourself a week borrow a friend's phone
or something your SIM card in it and
give it a try because there is a certain
amount of freedom that comes from
Android for example that you don't get
with an Apple device now my experience
with Apple I know you wanted to tell the
story I went to Target which opened
stores here in Canada target target open
stores here in Canada and I went there
and they had an electronics department
and they had a sale uh-huh and I bought
an iPod touch you did I did yeah and
then and I hated it because I'm used to
the freedom of an Android device and
being able to drag on mp3 files and
iTunes is crap
and so I really felt confined with the
ipod touch yes they target pulled out of
Canada like a day later say the up and
moved out and I was stuck with this yeah
I figure out yeah I've got a couple
weeks to you know if I really do not I'm
not a I'm not the kind of guy who buy
something and return it but if I really
don't like it which I really didn't like
it I could have returned it they were
gone they up and moved out so I couldn't
do anything about it so I still have it
but it's useless now I fired it up
recently and I charged it up and this
was new like a few years ago and and
I've only used it once or twice and it's
I charged it up and I booted it up and I
thought okay well maybe I can use it for
something maybe I can pass it along with
the kids or something and I turned it on
for the first time in that many years
and it wouldn't let me install anything
anything it said my operating system was
out of date so I said okay well give me
the lady I said let's install the
operating system I said it'll give me
the update yeah this is not compatible
with your version of the iPod touch get
a new iPod touch get a new iPod touch I
okay how do you stand that let me just
rewind back in time when I was a new
co-host to category 5 I had a MacBook
and I had an iPhone oh yeah
I did okay and and I'm not into I'm not
trying to convert anyone to I just want
you to feel that like try it the reason
why I liked them is because they are
simple now the reason that I hates them
is because they are simple do you just
can't do anything you just like this
planned obsolescence thing to me it
hurts me but it also just reassures that
yeah of course it makes sense because
they want you to like it and use it it
all said and throw that out and buy a
new one and like it and use it and then
throw it but I understand that the Apple
using viewers are maybe not quite
understanding what you
saying because oh but I love my iPhone
right but I promise that if you try
something else and get out of that
mindset of that cycle I yeah I'm sure
you'd be like wow why did I ever waste
my money that's normal to you so it
became normal to me right I liked it
because I knew it yeah and then the new
oxygen is so similar to the old version
that you can you feel like a genius
right yeah because oh yeah I know how to
do that I know where that right even
though it's a brand-new phone and
sometimes with Android I don't feel like
a genius sure sometimes I don't have a
clue where things are right and the new
the newer versions but you know what
it's forcing me to learn and grow and I
don't need to ditch my phone but it's
not hard don't don't misinterpret what
she's saying it's not different
difficult I'm Sasha come on I understand
that challenge of oh well the icons are
not where they used to be in there I
need to reinstall the apps that you have
to double click a little bar instead of
long holding it right like how about
this I want mp3s I want music on my
phone yeah so I take a cable and I plug
it into my computer and I take all those
files that I ripped from CDs and I just
put them on the phone yeah and then I
unplug it and I push play the end the
end if I want to use wires on my
headphones I can plug them in right I
wouldn't super hate on any of the Apple
products with the exception of the fact
that this planned obsolescence thing I
think it's that's me
it's lawsuit worthy because it's
thievery I absolutely yeah yeah enough
about that
what so if you live in California then
get an and you haven't jailbroken your
iOS 4 device which what are you waiting
for you haven't I yeah iOS 5 I don't
know how you have that's the problem
yeah well why to you if you jailbroken
exactly that's not fair
so okay so don't jailbreak your phone if
the plan was to do it tomorrow just hang
tight you're about to come into some
money eventually
well it just got a whole lot easier to
run a butsu on Windows 10 is a virtual
machine and surprise it's all thanks to
Microsoft Windows 10 Pro users are now
able to spin up an enhanced ability
virtual machine directly from the
hyper-v click create tool the hyper-v
gallery of boon to image let's Windows
users get a full of butsu 18.04 desktop
session set up and running sooner with
fewer post install steps required to
make it usable the bootable hyper-v
image of a boon to 18.04 LTS comes with
xrdp pre-configured to support an
enhanced session mode out-of-the-box
enhance session mode in hyper-v is kind
of like guest tools in VirtualBox in
that once enabled you get better
integration between host and guest
including clipboard support dynamic
desktop resizing shared folders and
Drive redirection and seamless mouth
sharing an awful lot of abouttwo users
run a voodoo on Windows using virtual
machines Microsoft Microsoft is aware of
that that fact hence the creation of the
windows subsystem for a linux wsl aware
that many developers and IT admins on
Windows rely on virtual machines to run
Linux on Windows Microsoft decided to
roll its sleeves up and work with
upstream xrdp an implementation of
Microsoft's RDP protocol for Linux to
iron out the kinks and the result is
this news the ubuntu 18.04 hyper-v image
which is arguably more flexible than wsl
as it supports a full GUI session has
neat systems integration and of course
actually uses the Linux kernel microsoft
says with only three mouse clicks
users will be able to get an Ubuntu VM
running that offers clipboard
functionality drive redirection and much
more in short the addition of Ubuntu
18.04 to the hyper-v Gallery gives
developers and system admins stuck on
Windows 10 a faster way to install an
optimized version of a boon to 18 point
o4 using hyper lengthy hyperlink my
experience so far and if you watched
episode number
seventy-five of category five technology
TV this week is the installation process
goes very very well and I'm pleased that
they're making this effort but we
weren't able to get it up and going and
and use it yes it but I can see the
potential like it's it's almost there
maybe I've got to do some more work to
get it up and going maybe it's not quite
as easy
yeah but it's so close right and it
means that people who really do feel
like stuck on Windows 10 and there is
certain there are some situations where
you really work computers work computer
and as a developer myself I hate I
really would not want to be developing
on Windows like I want to be in a Linux
environment using Linux tools right so
this is great actually one of what Linus
would say he'd be cursing at them he
can't I don't know why he's so angry
right I think that this is a really
great opportunity for Windows users who
are interested in Linux yes to give it a
try it makes me think back to a product
called Ruby it was simply called Ruby
Ruby wub I sounds fun
which was like an Ubuntu implementation
on Windows as well but not a virtual
machine it was like it was a different
way of doing things but this is actually
running in a virtual machine on hyper-v
on Windows 10 so if you've got Windows
10 Pro you can install it absolutely
free and I think that's an advantage for
Microsoft yes
on Ubuntu if you want to install a
virtual machine of Windows you have to
have a Windows license on Windows if you
want to install a virtual machine of
Ubuntu it's free because boon to Linux
is absolutely free so there are some
huge advantages to that way of doing
things but it's also an opportunity for
you to try it out and get the feel of a
boon - and say you know do I need
Windows I know that's not their intent
because otherwise they wouldn't do it
it's a development environment but it
does give you the chance to give it a
try
that's free so what what do you have to
lose exactly like you might as well just
go ahead do it try it already there what
and see and see if you can get it up and
going better than I can
yeah because so far I haven't got it up
and going I'm gonna give it another try
this week and see if I can get it
working it should be easy are you gonna
try it at home
well like I would like I'd love to have
you report back next week here's the
only thing that worries me is I don't
know if I have my Windows 10 Pro like I
just don't I just don't know you know
how you can tell and I cheat but I click
on the Start menu and I type 64 - bit
okay and then it says tell if you're win
if your computer's is 32 or 64-bit
and then you just scroll down and it
shows you the version of Windows that
you're running right it'll say Windows
10 Pro or Windows 10 home if you have
Windows 10 Pro you can install hyper-v
by going to Windows Features and
software whatever I do a quick search
Windows Features turn Windows Features
on and off that's what I see there and
by going in there I can easily install
hyper-v if I haven't got it already
right I would like to give this a try
because I mean to tell you I'd love to
hear how it goes I I love Linux I have a
slight Linux bias and I only have
Windows for the gaming capabilities that
Windows has so if I can just yeah this
is a way that you can boot into Ubuntu
into Linux without replacing windows
exactly don't have to get windows off
you can still have it for all your games
because I did like I did think to myself
at the time when we were sadly saying
goodbye to Linux and getting windows on
our computer I did think can I do a boot
late I just don't know what a small SSD
because SSDs are traditionally a much
smaller drive as far as capacity goes
than a spinning Drive so this faster
just solve that there you go so rocket
this week let me know how it goes let's
see how it goes ok it goes we'll be
interested in that twitter has told an
third parties for more than
year the software bug which has since
been fixed involved direct messages
between users and businesses that offer
customer services via Twitter affected
users are being notified via message
that appeared when opening the app or
logging onto Twitter's website Twitter
says the issue has persisted since May
2017 the company had said that it
resolves the issue immediately upon
discovering it on September 10th of this
year after the bug had existed for
around 500 days Twitter said not all
direct messages which are supposed to be
private unlike normal tweets were at
risk just those between users and
companies such as an airline while
Twitter states that they do not have
evidence that the bug was exploited they
also expressed that they have no proof
that it has not so when I read this
story I think to myself what's Twitter
user and the history of all Twitter
users thanks ever that their messages
will ever be private
oh but Sascha what Facebook user goes
into facebook Messenger and posts their
phone number or their home address it's
crazy
mm-hmm yeah but I just blows my mind
that people would think like okay so
it's not it's not good that this bug
existed but it also is not good that
anybody would have put things into a
message even if it was supposed to be
private in Twitter like it just we're
such we're such a connected world though
and we you got an app where you're
communicating and these days a lot of
support is done through Twitter I can't
I will never pick up the phone and call
Rogers really have you ever sat on hold
with Rogers I don't have Twitter have
you sat on hold with Roger yes have you
so how did that feel well I pretty great
huh his own local cable provider
sidenote
okay so Rogers is kind of crummy for
being on hold but my banking hold lets
you choose which type of music you wanna
listen that's that's the evolution of
technology right there but backing up
okay the Rogers scenario okay I can't
sit through that so do you I don't have
it through that so I tweet to Rogers
help what do you say this is my social
insurance never here yeah absolutely
no and and this is where I do have some
respect for Rodgers in regards to their
support because they cleverly will not
ask for information on Twitter okay no
yeah so what what Rodgers does and this
is smart this is really clever if you
tweet to them yeah and say my Internet's
down or my phone is not working or so on
and and ironically if the internet is
down just using yeah there's so much
irony in this so anyways if there's a
problem you're sitting at Tim Hortons
here we are in Canada we got Rogers and
Tim Hortons those are the only two
companies because target has gone so I'm
tweeting to to Rogers helps and I say my
internet at home is down and they say
like whatever friend us or whatever it
is on follow us on Twitter and and DM us
direct messages so then I direct message
and say hi I need your help and they say
click on this link and it takes me to a
secure form on their website that asked
me for things like my account number my
phone number those kinds of things that
they just need to authenticate my
account is that the spot that's being
bugged
no they're never because they're not
asking for that information I'm going to
their secure website which I trust is
hopefully not exploited the same way
Twitter is so there but there are
companies that are maybe not as clever
as Rogers in that regard and I've never
had such respect for that feature as I
do now that this has happened right and
that Rogers has never asked me for my
personal information in Twitter they
authenticated me as a user with that
personal information through a secure
portal so I and then they've come back
to Twitter and said okay yep we got your
information we know who you are we've
offended cated your account how come
help I am so happy you're here coz I
have no experience in this I do all of
my authenticating over the phone I call
like I call say Rogers the other day
yeah and I had to authenticate who I was
and I just said to them right on the
phone after a little bit of a hold but I
like I just need to prove T Who I am
what do you want to know yeah so but I
I've always used phone contacts I've
never used I don't have Twitter I also
don't have facebook I also don't have
Instagram but this is a whole other
situation I have Twitter at Robby
Ferguson message me message me hello
follow me personal info message because
nothing in Twitter in my mind was ever
private anyway so it blows my mind that
you would think that it would be I think
if anything this is a wake-up call
anyways to say don't post your phone
number don't post your social insurance
number don't post your credit card
number don't put those kinds of things
in to third party services yeah okay so
if somebody is asking for it if it's the
airline and they say we need you to give
us your credit card number your deposit
on Twitter
yeah no thank you is there some kind of
third like form that we can use yeah
some some way to do this outside of that
third party service I just like this
Timmy seems so common sensical but only
because i just don't use it right so I
didn't in my mind I never assumed the a
private message in Twitter would ever be
private anyway it's the same way an
email is never private or you know you
know but some folks don't realize that
two people send me their credit card
number by email that is an email as
plain text that is as as easy for me to
read your email as it is for if I said
my credit card number to you right now
outlook what if we covered could the
viewers could the viewers yeah could the
viewers pick up on that credit card
number if I told you my credit card
number right now that's you know I know
that's email I sadly have to explain
that to a ridiculous amount of people
and when I am giving you this a is
giving you this advice folks you know
a bad situation so dear dear okay health
officials who are looking at how to
apply blockchain technology to public
improving food supply traceability and
they plan to use the technology in the
produce department meet after hundreds
of people in the u.s. became ill after
eating contaminated romaine lettuce
earlier this year not me not me
Walmart along with many other food
retailers and restaurants pulled the
potentially tainted products produce
from their shelves after regulators
issued a warning the company says the
outbreak could have been stemmed sooner
if there were a faster and easier way to
trace what people had eaten Walmart
thinks blockchain technology could be
the solution the big box company worked
for more than a year with IBM and 11
food companies to develop a blockchain
enabled food traceability Network now
Walmart and its subsidiary Sam's Club
will require their leafy greens
suppliers to use its blockchain
technology to implement real-time and
and traceability back to farms within a
year the company announced today the
company claims its blockchain technology
dramatically improves efficiency in an
early test Walmart's vice president of
food safety
Frankie Anna's brought in sliced mangoes
and asked his team to stop everything
that they were doing and traced that
product back to its origin on a farm the
spokesperson said it took them nearly
seven days as the methods of tracking
today are antiquated sometimes done with
pencil and paper but using the
blockchain that tracking process can be
done in two point two seconds looking
back at the romaine issue the stories
had to throw out all romaine because
there was no way to precisely identify
which romaine was from the region where
the contamination see the contaminated
less lettuce originated it not only
affected Walmart but all of the retail
and even restaurants all romaine had to
go the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention which has been working with
IBM on applying block chain solutions to
other public health issues consulted
with Walmart on improving traceability
to
public health officials investigate
foodborne disease outbreaks and find the
source of contaminated food Walmart said
the aim of the resulting blockchain
system is to help reduce the number of
people who fall ill during food
incidences incidents while at the same
time reducing losses for retailers and
suppliers during a recall the
spokesperson said the information about
Walmart's leafy greens will not be
immediately available to consumers but
it's in their roadmap I love it I love
it I love it for a couple of reasons I
have so many reasons to love this ok so
I'm new to blockchain so it kind of to
me it's like this like this shimmering
perfect orb of information that I can't
quite like pop into my brain so I'm kind
of new to it so I'm good it's like on
the IT Crowd how the internet was this
box to her the blockchain is this orb I
don't get it quite yet but what I do
understand in this situation for me as a
person who wants the environment to be
as great as it can be if you can reduce
waste for example to throwing out all
the romaine that's ever been produced in
that moment but all of the farmers and
all of the leaders of water and all of
the just that's a lot of ways and that's
insane so now take that one step further
and say ok they've lost all that that's
waste but now look at the consumers
opinions of that produce now ok so when
that happens
am I gonna rush out the moment romaine
lettuce is back on the shelf and buy up
some romaine I've probably lost a lot of
consumer confidence in the product not
knowing exactly how it was contaminated
in the plates and whether or not it will
be recontaminate and how long it is this
the contaminated lettuce
I'm not a pro so I may not buy it for a
while so now all of a sudden further
down the chain the farmer who has just
had all of their stuff pulled from the
shelf even though they had nothing to do
with it
their produce was clean theirs was a
perfect operation and yet their product
is gone and they've lost all of their
sales for the next three months because
nobody wants to buy that product
that can happen this can be sold now
yeah and how so the blockchain is like
this amazing encryption system that is
decentralized and when I say
decentralized the neat thing about it
all of these processes up until now yes
so when I as a farmer because they look
at me I am obviously a farmer if I as a
farmer pick my mangoes right and put
down on the ledger that okay I picked my
mangoes and I've shipped them to
such-and-such a company and then that
company takes it and warehouses it and
then that company then ships it out and
disperses it throughout the world
because it's an international thing well
each hop along that way everybody's
jotting down the notes whether they use
a computer or whatever but there's a
complete disconnect between them and
there's no way to trace them back or
it's very very difficult to trace them
back to their origin so now with the
blockchain as opposed to that
methodology everybody's using the entire
system to authenticate that produce so
as soon as I picked that mango it gets
assigned an ID which is entirely unique
so now I know that this ID this mango
was picked at this farm and as soon as I
take yeah at this time and the weather
was like this at that time in this
region as soon as I put it on the truck
it still got the same blockchain ID so
now everything it's got a history and
everything can be followed everything
can be followed right through to the end
and because the blockchain is
decentralized yes anyone can install it
anyone can take that orb and put it on
their system right so Walmart can take
the blockchain and have the blockchain
right every other company every little
farm can take the blockchain and have
the blockchain so if you find out that
one far
with a small amount of romaine has
distributed only one head of romaine to
all these places and people got sick
that's it you would know the rest of the
romaine was safe sure right yeah but how
sticker what is it I don't I'm so
confused
it would have to be a sticker or IBM has
been working on chips
Oh for example like you you look at like
member CDs do you remember CDs yeah when
you open the jewel case there's a little
bar of metal and that metal was
programmed by the computer so that if
someone walked out of the store and
tried to steal it it would set off a
buzzer so think about that kind of
technology it's a very small sticker
sure it could be something that goes
under the skin it could be these days
the technology's there so they can work
it into the blockchain can become a part
of the produce or the product yeah but
it's really good and so as you say if
they find contaminated produce so now
think about that scenario of romaine
lettuce
here's contaminated produce we can see
okay this originated this came on off of
this truck it came from that farm it was
handled by this farm worker and oh that
farm worker had this problem Rosy's or
something right let's just say a
scenario so that's what happened so oh
well that farm worker also handled all
of the oh well we can track it because
it's on the blockchain we can say oh we
have some of that in that store we have
oh they have it in that store over there
so pull just that one everything else is
fine leave it up and so no loss in
consumer confidence right I'm not
worried because I'm actually very
confident that they're keeping me safe
by pulling the very product that is
right the one that's infected and no
loss to our resources which is that's a
big thing but that's not my motivation I
want to know that my family's safe and I
want and and I do care about the farmer
and I want to know that I'm not losing
consumer confidence for no reason every
time there's an e coli outbreak it's
like I won't I don't feel confident to
buy the produce that is involved in I'm
not eating carrots for a couple months
you know it's it's just the way it is
that's my that's
our mindset so this does away with that
and what's neat about it is that we now
live in a time right now for the very
first time ever in the history of
humankind where this is possible that's
exciting
it is big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories this week thanks for watching
the category-five TV newsroom don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson thanks
everybody for being here with us tonight
or today depending on what time you're
watching and where you're watching from
we appreciate having you here it's been
a lot of fun it has been I think Jeff is
back next week yes and I know you will
be back and I look forward to seeing you
again get onto our website category 5
dot TV there's lots of great content
there and we look forward to seeing you
again
take care
[Music]
you
