here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsrooms the inventor of a
sophisticated compression technique
fights back as Google tries to patent
his work urban robots have been rolled
out in both Dubai and China a couple who
admitted to stealing more than 1.2
million dollars worth of goods from
Amazon has been sentenced to nearly 6
years in jail and a software bug meant
millions of Facebook users may have
unknowingly posted private information
to the public stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
Jeff Weston gentlemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website aren't you
you're terrible actor what the swear
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act
ok I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost this is
the category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias
i'm satiric van and here at the top
stories were following this week the
inventor of a sophisticated compression
technique is fighting back as Google
tries to patent his open-source work
when Jarek Duda invented an important
new compression technique called
asymmetric numeral systems or AMS a few
years ago he wanted to make sure it
would be available for anyone to use so
instead of seeking patents on the
technique he dedicated it to the public
domain since 2014 Facebook Apple and
Google have all created safe for
software based on dudas breakthrough but
now Google is seeking a patent that
would give it broad rights over the use
of ans for video compression and do
computer scientists in Poland isn't
happy about it google denies that it's
trying to patent dude his work a Google
spokesperson says that Duda came up with
a theoretical concept that isn't
directly patentable while Google's
lawyers are seeking to patent a specific
application of that theory that reflects
it additional work by Google's engineers
but Duda says that he suggested the
exact technique Google is trying to
patent in a 2014 email exchange with
Google engineers a view largely endorsed
by a preliminary ruling in February by
European Patent authorities the European
case isn't over though and Google is
also seeking a patent in the United
States so we are the legal guy like how
do you feel about this well I mean I
don't deal in patent law but in I mean
just on the surface of this this guy's
got a great case the fact that he the
idea with Google that he put out
software and then Google is using it
with some of their enhancements and
they're trying to patent the whole thing
imagine like you know I mean so you've
done NEMS yeah I was just thinking that
it would be like somebody going oh I
like the idea of nums but I want to do
nems with some flair to it and them's
already has Flair Jeff no I understand
that
and then they patent it and you're like
really yeah I don't know how the UK
rules work like the European rules as
far as patents go but on the as far as
court of public opinion I had 100% side
with this guy right he needs to win this
because of the the Microsoft buying
BitTorrent totally brings that to mind
so he needs to win that that so that
people who have contributed to github
can also fight if the Microsoft
situation tries to patent Microsoft
aggregating and I did make it right I
mean this would be a this is a different
scenario but it's it's not on
like the details of this right it's and
so I I hope that I hope he wins and I
hope that actually at the end of the day
I would love to see a settlement where
Google is able to use the software or
the the compression technology he gets
credit and he gets royalties off every
time it's used I like the way that way
right Google could do with it what they
want but he gets a kick of the money
that will continue to provide income for
him for now on the rest of his life that
to me would be a win-win scenario sugar
gets what they want and it's it supports
the whole premise of open source like
here we're paying into open source so
and you bit with NIMS you deal with open
source imagine if you went up in a legal
case up against Google I'd be done their
lawyers would bury you financially in
preliminary objections and all this kind
of stuff and no doubt that's what Google
is probably gonna do here yeah so I hope
he settles get some royalties out of it
gets his name on it and then off he goes
that would be a best-case scenario all
right thank you both divine and China
have rolled out urban robots it's a
terrifying vision of the future robot
police officer with dark eyes and no
discernible mouth that can identify
criminals and collect evidence the
Robocop complete with a police hat that
to give it that eerie uncanny valley
feel was shown off into by last June but
since then what has it done pal robot
robotics the company behind the robot
shed some light on its duties which
makes the robot seem more like a tourist
guide than a police officer this robot
joined the Dubai Police to help citizens
in an innovative and engaging way and it
is located now in tourist attractions
and shopping malls while describing the
robot as a means of citizens to contact
police the company points out its
current capabilities the robot can
provide useful information in multiple
languages thanks to its software and can
also guide people to requested points of
interest the robot is a part of a wider
move to make the region's police
services services smarter which will
include many more computer-controlled
unstaffed police stations
the Dubai government wants robot police
to make up 25% of the force by 2030 I
don't like this you don't like it I
don't like this
you know what guiding me here's what I
have to say about this I also don't like
it oh yeah I know when have you ever
agreed on anything just now that has to
do with robot and here's why now the
reasoning will be completely different
right I am Pro robot like all the way
but when do you need the police you need
the police in times of emergency and in
times of emergency what if there's a
power outage or what if there's a some
sort of crash technologically and if 25%
of the police force or perhaps more by
then is a fried robot or a buged robot
where do people go for help
they they don't have a person to help
them one robots can see in the dark so
power outages don't affect them okay
human police officers cannot see in the
dark that's true too robots are
omnipresent police officers are not they
can put robots everywhere yes they don't
get tired they don't take a salary they
don't need to eat they don't need to
take a smoke break or a pee break right
and they can then call on that police
officer the human police officer and
bring them to the scene should they be
required right so I do like the idea in
regular policing I don't like the idea
in like a tragic occurrence where all of
a sudden we actually need real help and
all we have is robots and what if they
are part of the problem that's like
saying no I I need a police officer but
all we have is mall cops no offense to
mall cops but similar kind of scenario
like I don't carry a gun I don't carry a
weapon of any sort I have no power I
have no jurisdiction beyond I can say
you're not allowed to leave them all but
if you choose to you can because I
really can't tackle you or anything like
that legally right
I mean this is really actually no
different than like the CCTV I think in
Canada it might be different in the
United States they're all carrying guns
I know that in in countries that have
like a lot of CCTVs like I'm thinking
like the UK has a lot well this is
similar to that in that it's probably
just a robot that's recording things it
probably gets fed back to hopefully a
person watch there we go what Big
Brother that's my issue oh you don't
like the privacy thing the Big Brother
effect that's what I don't like it
happen okay so first off I want to go
back to something that like the two of
you were just debating on robots being
able to save the day r2d2 mic drop okay
so but as far as sorry and now I want
them to look like our to do all the time
even in an emergency oh yeah exactly who
would ever do crime if there's a r2d2
walking around I know
rolling around let's be clear well he
doesn't walk you know there's the one
series I can't believe I just did that
no my issue here is privacy so it's one
thing to have a walking kind of humanoid
type directional map device that says go
here I mean you can just do a sign and
it'll do the same thing that you could
talk to it what I don't like about is
the fact that this will have
connectivity to the police station which
makes it sound like I'm going down you
know ought to be able to commit crimes
it's not the case but if you don't have
proper regulations and oversight on how
the data that is collected by that robot
is used and stored you could be Joe Blow
citizen on the street and there's the
potential that anything you do could
suddenly show up and burn you like maybe
it's sitting there helping somebody out
and you happen to jaywalk not a big deal
to jaywalk but if the visual the video
feat of it goes back to the police
station catches you on next thing you
know you got a ticket showing up at your
door by a robot delivery bot and then he
goes off to do his pizza when you get a
ticket for jaywalking I
realize this is kind of like a
far-fetched example but what kind of
dystopian universe do you live in Jeff
no this is the way this is the potential
we have to go look at these bad with
Facebook would it be is every if if you
drove past these robot Robocop's and
they could tell if you were texting and
driving that's perfect that's a
life-saving sure at the end of the day
let's be clear your phone can tell you
if you're texting and driving but you
have to at least officer catch you but
they could change the rule so that your
phone automatically tickets you wouldn't
that be cool now I'm like totally on
phones yeah I'm like it's got a GPS chip
if you're traveling more than 10
kilometers an hour and texting it should
set off an alarm
sure it should turn off its own screen
sure yeah but so but my whole issue with
this feed the privacy comes with it and
what I mean yippeee that Jeff what if
the robot rather than giving information
in a will yeah rather than giving
information to the police
was able to access the police database
and so now that robot is able to spot a
criminal that no human has been able to
track down like okay it's now tracking
every person's face already that has
stopped it Jeff but this that's my
concern I'm not saying we could stop it
I'm just saying that's my you I like all
of the things that are your concern my
concern is that we're gonna rely too
heavily on them and then they're gonna
fail us but one thing to have this as a
tool it's another thing when it becomes
abused and that's my concern is that it
has the potential to be abuse if there's
not proper regulatory oversight right
technology is a wonderful thing I like
robots I don't want them to go dealing
with grandma's recipes in the kitchen
but there needs to be proper regulatory
oversight before we lose all
individuality and having your own
freedom and privacy
your thumb but Jeff have the last word
on this one because we're moving to
another state a couple who admitted to
stealing more than 1.2 million dollars
worth of goods from Amazon has been
sentenced to nearly six years in jail
Aaron and Leah Finan had previously pled
guilty to charges of Prost postal fraud
and money laundering and we spoke about
them back on episode 525 last October
here's an updated warning to anyone who
thinks that they can scam Amazon the
couple exploited Amazon's customer
service policy by claiming electronics
that they ordered were damaged and
receiving replacements at no charge
prosecutors said that the sentence
should serve as a warning to others US
Attorney for the Southern District of
Indiana Josh Minkler said consumer fraud
is not only unjustly enriching the
perpetrator
it causes all of us to pay a higher
retail price
he then reminds people to those who seek
to exploit the convenience of online
shopping through fraud remember this
case you will be caught you will be
prosecuted and you will go to federal
prison for a long time and then we
presume he dropped his mic and walked
off the stage the couple used hundreds
of fake identities in to order gadgets
from Amazon then reported fake issues
with the devices that led to
replacements being sent out which they
sold on for profit and they were due to
be sentenced last November but it was
delayed after they were accused of
defrauding yet another Internet retailer
so whoops
yep don't do it yeah you know it yeah I
don't in any way condone their action
but I have been bothered by this because
it's a policy of Amazon what a not all
products have to be returned so we okay
our dog had you just expect people are
going to exploit that because nobody
you're making it too easy so I purchased
something off Amazon for our dog we're
trying a natural homeopathic remedy to
address a health issue and what I bought
I think it was about a sixty dollar
bottle of oil okay and Amazon sent the
wrong 100 but it came from the warehouse
just down the road in Mississauga like
it's an hour drive from my house but
when it showed up it was the wrong
device were not device but it was it was
the wrong product within the same
product line but the wrong one so I
contact them and said you sent me the
wrong one I can ship this back and they
said don't worry and the advice that
they gave me from the agent was just
pour it out we'll send you a new one I
was happy to put it back in the mail and
ship it to them because it's a $60 item
but Amazon they didn't care and I'm
thinking I I work not far from you I can
even drop it off at your wares right the
fact that that was their policy and that
was their response
the reason for that is just that they
would have to pay to get it picked up
brought back and then they would have to
pour it out right so they can't resell
right it still had that so you know that
you know that you it was wrapped in like
that plastic shrink wrap Frank
you could you see that it wasn't used
you could have tampered with that you
really could have I guess if you were a
bad person which you're not so you're
you're accusing Amazon I'm gonna take it
back to tylenol in the 1980s okay like
people tampering with packaging has
changed a lot of the rules and a company
like Amazon needs to make sure that
customers are satisfied and if you went
through a frustrating process to get the
right product you're never going to
return and sometimes Amazon and any good
business will will take the cost of
business as okay I need to the
customer's always right that's what you
hear right so if a customer is upset
about something and in my case I do
service so the worst case scenario is
I've done a lot of hours worth of work
and I build a customer and they don't
want to pay for it
customer's always right I can fight it
or I can
yeah keep them happy today so there's a
real fine line absolutely and I mean in
this case 100% they were wrong it was
fraud
yeah there's a part of the policy that
they exploited and I think if Amazon
just closed that loophole yeah Amazon
doesn't ask for picture evidence because
I used to have a firm case that that was
lifetime warranty I've changed phone
since so I don't have it but it ended up
with a defect on it and I called them
because it was lifetime warranty and
they said take a picture of it send it
to us and we'll send you a new one right
that makes sense right prove that it
doesn't work I can't even log into
Facebook because I write right but you
know what it really just it hurts
everybody to defraud the system like
that and you feel like you are not
stealing from anyone when you're
stealing I guess from the computer but
you are everybody pays higher prices
there there are real companies that put
their products to Amazon they're losing
out everybody yeah now they're gonna use
delivery robots so that if you tried
them I shoot you I think they shouldn't
shoot you in the face maybe with a
picture they should take a picture of
your name and send it back to the grid
we just looked all those stories how did
we do it how do we do it a software bug
meant millions of Facebook users had may
have unknowingly
I can't I don't have a clue unknowingly
posted private information to the public
the glitch sat on a user's post to be
shared to everyone even if a user had
previously chosen a more restricted
option such as friends of friends users
who may have been affected will be
notified on the site's newsfeed here's
what Aaron Egan Facebook's head of
privacy said to be clear this bug did
not impact anything people had posted
before and they could still choose their
audience just as they always have we'd
like to apologize for this mistake
the glitch was active between May 18th
and 22nd but it took the site until May
27th to switch posts back to private or
whatever the user had typically used
before the bug became apparent while
relatively minor compared to recent
issues facing the company the glitch is
another embarrassing slip-up for a firm
already under heavy fire over privacy
concerns that is troublesome because I
use those features just to make sure
that my public persona is separate from
my personal persona in communicating
with friends and family that you know
are in person so if I post things about
my kids or you know if they do a concert
and I'm putting pictures up of them at
their school those are things that I
wouldn't want to be publicly accessible
right right but yet I would post on
Facebook knowing that they are in the
public but at least I've got them set so
that only my mum can see them right
exactly and I mean if you work in any
sort of law enforcement field you'll
know that a lot of the employees will
have super secure profiles because they
don't want their you know clients to be
able to look them up so you could have a
four day window here where all of their
public information is out there and I
mean from a personal example I've
experienced this I used to be a crocks
officer working at a jail I had my site
locked down super tight and I didn't
realize that Facebook at the time I
don't know if they still do had a thing
where when they update the privacy
policy everything go back goes back to
public access and I had one of our
clients contact me after being released
and the message was you have a beautiful
family
and my client you mean prison inmate yes
somebody had served their time that did
not like me so that right there says off
red flags I'm going okay do I need to
talk about you know physical safety for
my family like police were involved in
everything but at least this made you
move to Barry and so then you cannot
change your name and that's right
yeah no it's not actually a redhead you
know I'm not actually here believer
telepresence but in a situation like
this where there's been a big screw-up
if you have somebody who's got a
lockdown profile one Hoss and this
information is out there you could have
a potential security breach oh yes it's
true
Nitz you have to just always remember
that if it's online it's likely not
private well that is true yeah
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman I'm Robbie
I'm Jeff it's been great having you here
this week folks don't forget to head on
over to patreon cat5 dot TV slash
patreon and see if you'd like to support
this broadcast on what we do we'd love
to have you as one of our patrons oh and
there are perks but there are perks yes
we'll see you next week have a good one
bye
[Music]
you
