welcome back to the next episode of new
everyday my name is Carrie and my name
is jen and on today's show we're going
to talk about just an ordinary day part
deux this is Canada it's a French
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda so on
today's show Carrie will be speaking in
French okay ha I'm just kidding
we wouldn't get very far okay welcome
back to our english episode and she
might be able to say in spanish to not
today all right okay so we're back we're
back today's an ordinary day today is an
ordinary day well so we think and so it
was very interesting as i was reading
over my facebook as i was waiting
because sometimes that's just what I do
a friend of mine posted some weeks you
just want to crawl back and hide every
day then I remember god is great and
there are so many great things to be
grateful for and someone responded you
read that to me oh I read that one to
you too so this is a totally different
friend but as I read them in that order
says boy I really needed this today so
glad I get a fresh start tomorrow
thanking god for his new mercies every
morning it's like we wake up and like ah
gonna be just you know we get
overwhelmed by what's coming throughout
the day and we forget to just give those
things to Lord and this is what we
talked a little bit about last week is
the fact that we need to to give our
days to the Lord and let him let him do
it like let him
work the miracle let him come let him
come in strength and might and power and
peace and joy and goodness instead of oh
it's just another ordinary day and we go
about it on our own strength with our
own eyes which we talked about a few
weeks before about we need God to give
us a new way to see so today we wanted
to dive into the Bible to look at some
passages well one in particular about
how is just an ordinary day Peter and
Jane Eyre John we're just going about an
ordinary day doing ordinary things
things that were a part of their regular
schedule and then God just ooh came in
and radically change someone's life and
it wasn't even that they did anything
amazing they were simply obedient so
let's read it all right xanax chapter 2
note 3 first one now Peter and John went
up together to the temple at the hour of
prayer the ninth hour and a certain man
lame from his mother's womb was carried
whom they laid daily at the gate of the
temple which is called beautiful to ask
for alms from those who entered the
temple who seeing Peter and John about
to go into the temple asked for arms and
fixing his eyes upon him with John Peter
said look at us so he gave them his
attention expecting to receive something
from them then Peter said silver and
gold I do not have but what I do have I
give you in the name of Jesus Christ of
Nazareth rise up and walk and he took
him by the right hand and lifted him up
and immediately his feet and ankle bones
received strength so he leaping up stood
and walked and entered the temple with
them walking leaping and praising God
and all the people saw him walking and
praising God then they knew that it was
he who sat begging alms at the beautiful
gate of the temple and they were filled
with Wonder and amazement at what had
happened to him
just an ordinary day that suddenly
became extraordinary for this man who
the man who was lame and we don't even
know the guys name yeah and I bet not
many people did mm-hmm I mean who stops
and asks about man it was lame and
begging for all Yeah right yeah how many
people walk past him every day how many
days did he wake up and knew that he'd
be carried and begging from people just
to survive every day of his life he's
been dependent on other people yeah from
birth he's fleeing and so for him this
is just another ordinary day yeah
ordinary day for him to get picked up
and put at the butyl gate of beautiful
or beautiful gate and just an ordinary
day for James for i am peter and john
peter and john because it says they went
to the temple at three o'clock the time
set each day for the afternoon prayer
service this is a parlor schedule yeah
so it's not even that they were thinking
oh yeah like we're gonna heal someone
today or remember that lame guy who
always sits there let's go yeah that
wasn't it at all lame guy was there
regular day and if interesting cuz first
ten says then they knew that it was he
who sat begging alms at the beautiful
gate of the temple so excuse p bless you
thank you he that was his usual spot yes
they're like oh yeah that's that guy
he's always there yeah so this was
ordinary for him and it was ordinary for
them for for peter and john just to go
and pray every day three o'clock that's
what they did so two very ordinary days
and yet God took the ordinary because
for some reason and this is the coolest
part it says every day he got carried to
the gate the man saw Peter and John
going to the temple and ask them for
money so that's what he normally would
have done and peter and john looked
straight at him and said look at us so
the lame man wasn't even look at them he
was asking for money like wasn't even
making
I contact not even expecting money
necessarily right because how often does
that you know we see that happen all the
time where there's homeless people and
we just walk past them and they're there
and they might even say you know money
you know do you have any money and
they're so used to being turned down
yeah that I'm sure it was quite rare
that someone would say I stop and have a
conversation with them but here it says
look at us and the man looked at them
thinking they were going to get so he
had an expectation in his head that he
was gonna receive something and isn't
that interesting but it was going to
receive money he never once thought that
today might be the day that he's gonna
get healed like that's his mind blowing
right ordinary day I'm going to get
money James or John I don't know why
John and Peter just simply say look at
us look at us and nobody liked about
that 10 it acknowledges the individual
yes they're not just like wham bam be
healed and some people were healed by
you know what touching the edge of
Jesus's cloak yeah or you know when what
are the disciples their shadow past them
and a shield yeah and God just does
those amazing things sometimes but they
acknowledge the one they stop for the
one yes I love that picture yeah then it
goes on to say that he was thinking they
were going to give him some money but
Peter said I don't have any silver or
gold but I do have something else I can
give you by the power of jesus christ
from Nazareth stand up and walk that's
bold but then he acts on his faith he's
like okay come on get up he takes him by
the right hand he's just like he
believes God did this yeah God healed
you so let's get up and walk yeah and it
wasn't I guess part of me says at what
moment did Peter believe to step out in
faith like we believe that Jesus
is healed and we also believe that we
don't it's not us who heals like I can't
go up okay you know by the power of
Jennifer I command that you are no
longer sick right right and it also has
to be according to God's timing as well
and so was Peter in his spirit being
stirred saying right look at this person
in the eye and to the power of jesus
healed him lay your hands on because he
did he reach down and he lifted him up
and he was and it says he had uh
immediately the man's feet and ankles
became strong and he jumped up and
started walking and leaping yeah you
know what's crazy Jen okay if you think
of it like a baby learning to crawl and
then walk it's a process and sometimes
they fall down mm-hmm but this guy has
never blocked hmm he didn't even have to
learn so there was more than just the
physical structural change that God did
in his legs he actually had to put in
the muscle memory in his mind so it's
also like hmm like a miracle in his
brain to make the connections just like
that to tell him to walk that is very
interesting kind of equilibrium would
have been all screwed up cuz ya'll
usually so used to sitting in laying and
I'll suddeniy standing his blood
pressure would have dropped if that
happened but God has healed him in so
many ways there you go I haven't thought
about it this way but it's very true
what do you think about it because it
says only he had been lame from bursary
right he never would have walked so it
wasn't you know we read it and were like
he jumped up and sort of like that was
nothing and yet no no no his legs did
not have any memory of walking his brain
had no idea how to process that and yet
there he was like jumped up he would
have not had the muscle yeah he probably
would have could like been contracted
yeah so when it says immediately the
man's ankles feet and ankles became
strong that mount like could you imagine
the Holy Spirit moving through those
muscles strengthening them right that
whole idea of of it
was the spirit who moved in him changing
his physical body to be able because
Peter and John in obedience because they
could have kept walking they could have
totally ignored that man and just oh
yeah he's the guy he's a guy that he's
always there but in that moment of
ordinary ordinary God stopped them yeah
and did the extraordinary look at me
yeah and the fact is you know they
didn't have any money to give that's
true too and often we think money is the
only thing if I give them money then
everything will be fine the thing is
they need to be healed we need to be
healed in our spirit like the ultimate
healing is God and so they offered a
much greater right money are silver and
gold i do not have but but i can give
you something else by the power of Jesus
Christ of Nazareth Nazareth Nazareth get
up and yeah and in so doing then gave
him the ability to work and make money
yes right because I we could walk and he
did go get a job right mm-hmm so many
things happen in his life that day yeah
Jenny wonder and and I have kind of
prayed this to some times where you know
you wake up and wonder or asking the
Holy Spirit to lead you and then
expecting when you encounter someone
who's sick or hurting or whatever that
all assume that you'll feel really led
mmm you feel really lad that there's
gonna be some kind of you know fireworks
or something that's going to let you
know okay I gotta pray for that person
right where you know well the one one
person i was listening to said if you
can find one person for whom jesus did
not die that's the person who you
shouldn't love and that's nobody right
everyone is included so i think like who
should you pray for well everybody
everyone who should you stop and love
well everybody so people are waiting so
often to be led into the extraordinary
instead of taking the ordinary date and
allowing god to make it extraordinary
right because we have this incredible
opportunity to be in relationship with
other people and I also think that that
takes place online like look at those
comments that you just read Jen right
where people like you can have a
relationship with people on social media
and be encouraging others and reaching
out to them yes and also receiving
encouragement from others and listen to
good teaching I think that you can have
that in person and also online right
where you're seeming ordinary post goes
and totally changes somebody else's life
yeah for good or for bad depending on
what your post is but you know as I read
those posts I was like okay because I
was really struggling this morning and
okay Lord where are you and then I
opened up the Bible that I read
something a verse that really encouraged
me and then I read those post and really
encouraged me to to once again all right
yep God is in control he's above all
this and so so it seems so innocent so
ordinary and yet when the Spirit is at
work the ordinary becomes extraordinary
extra ordinary yes Extra Ordinary and
then it says they saw the same man
walking and praising God and they were
amazed and they wondered how this could
happen and that actually opened as the
passage continues on it opens up for
Peter to speak to the people to say who
God is all about and I love what he says
if I can just read it quickly sure now
as the lame man who was healed held on
to Peter and John all the people ran
together to them in the porch which is
called Solomon's greatly amazed so when
Peter saw it he responded to the people
men of Israel why do you marvel at this
or why look so intently and at us as
though by our own power or godliness we
made this man walk hmm the gut okay I
just want to stop there
when peter says by our own power or
godliness her when jesus healed um the
man born blind or yeah and then the
blind man says when he's confronted by
the pharisees oh who did this oh you
know we we know that this Jesus is a
sinner right and he says we know that
God doesn't listen to sinner's he
listens to the godly and Peter is saying
you know it's not by our godliness it's
because Jesus has made him right before
God right that's the only reason that we
are righteous yes Jesus did it for him
and so he's then able to perform these
miracles yeah through Christ alright so
you know why are you looking so intently
at us as though by our own power or
godliness we made this man walk the God
of Abraham Isaac and Jacob the god of
our fathers glorified his servant Jesus
whom you delivered up and denied in the
presence of Pilate when he was determine
when he was determined to let him go but
you denied the Holy One and the just and
asked for a murder to be granted to you
and killed the Prince of life another
version says the author of life whom God
raised from the dead of which we are
witnesses and his name through faith in
his name has made this man strong whom
you see and know yes the faith which
comes through him was given him this
perfect soundness in the presence of you
all yet now brethren I know that you did
it in ignorance as did also your rulers
but those things which God foretold by
the mouth of all his prophets that
Christ would suffer he has thus
fulfilled repent therefore and be
converted that your sins may be blotted
out so that times of refreshing may come
from the presence of the Lord and that
he may send Jesus Christ who was
preached to you before whom heaven must
receive until the times of restoration
of all things which God has spoken by
the mouth of all his holy prophets since
the world began so they use that
opportunity to preach the good news
about Jesus and so when an ordinary
meets ordinary in the spear
moves and becomes the extraordinary it
is not oh look at me and what I did it's
no look at Jesus no wait and what he did
and so today we want to encourage you
that in the ordinariness event that you
would be open to the spirit that you
would hear him call your name and that
as Kerry said that you would love well
that you show grace and mercy well so
that God in what you would normally do
every day can be honored and glorified
and bless many that would come to the
kingdom because you're just given God
your ordinary day so let's pray all
right father thank you so much for today
thank you that you have taken our
ordinary lives and made it extraordinary
that you've taken our sin and given us
your righteousness that we're right
before you because of what Jesus did on
the cross thank you that your blood
covers our sin Jesus hmm that we can
have a relationship with you not only
that but that you sent your Holy Spirit
to live inside of us to see things
differently and so we just invite you
Holy Spirit to guide us and ask that you
would help us to see these opportunities
before us every day because you've made
us new today thank you for your love
think that we're accepted by you helps
to see these opportunities and make the
most of them that we might point many
people to Jesus the author of life I
pray father you would encourage the
people listening to this show now maybe
who have are just stuck in the monotony
of life they're stuck in what feels like
a dull marriage or what feels like a job
that is is not what they had intended to
be that suddenly they feel like a script
has been written for their lives that
that they had not thought would be in
place
but it's suddenly becoming with their
living but God you can transform that
Lord I think of a friend of mine who was
a waiter and every time he was wiping a
table he would pray for the next person
who would sit there just an ordinary
task but you opened many opportunities
for him to share with others about Jesus
and encourage them so help us make the
most of the opportunities before us we
love you and thank you in the name of
Jesus amen amen so we do want to thank
you for joining us today and if you have
a chance please go to our web page and
check out our partners and who very
graciously partner with us to make this
show available for you and so just
scroll through them and even as you're
doing that pray for them that they might
be a blessing to others when you go to
buy something online go through our
website around over to Amazon and do it
that way because the money that you pay
for whatever it is that you're buying
actually works its way back to us and
helps support the show and so we
encourage you today to go on check out
the many many partners and we just
encourage you to support us that way
mm-hmm and thanks so much to Robbie
Ferguson and category 5 TV for hosting
and we look forward to seeing you next
week on another episode of new every day
have an awesome week amen oh wow
astalavista there's a like I
you
