welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 556 do you remember
this Sasha yeah soldering joints that I
worked on last week Jeff you are
impressed right come on now well this
week we are we are kind of accumulating
a lot of the comments that have come in
since that feature we're gonna be
talking about this we're gonna see what
we can do to improve things around here
when we're doing our soldering
demonstrations we're gonna learn from
our community what we can do to do a
better job with our soldering so make
sure you stick around we'll be right
back this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recording is a trusted only the
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 dot TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
I'm Robby I'm Sasha
and I'm Jeff nice to have you here who
are you comment below send us an email
live at category 5 TV hey it's so nice
to have you here
category 5 shirts have started being
delivered so get yours cat5 dot TV slash
shirts and send us a picture of yourself
wearing your category 5 apparel and we
will give you your 15 seconds of fame
that's right how come do we even give
them that long how come I get like an
hour I wear a shirt and I get like an
hour of being on TV well I think it's
the shirt it's your dashing oh it's my
bald nerdiness we got to be number one
on Google you can win yes dad effect to
VR you will win it immediately if you do
get a shirt and post a picture is that
the secret that's the secret oh nice yes
now you know this how you know the
secret or you could just not get a shirt
and then being won't want not a winner
okay I don't even think that's an
official rule folks just so you know
there is no rule that you have to spend
money to win that's true no purchase
necessary necessary but here's how you
do win you email us at contest at
category 5 TV let us know who you are
where you are how you're watching and
also post pictures of yourself and shirt
now ok somebody put in a I am me
I am here and I wear this with that
count yeah random maybe maybe the jury's
out okay nobody's sure somebody's gonna
submit that now will it be you I hope so
hmm
all right so forgetting about that let's
get on to something a little bit more
amazing Google Play
I love the Google how is Google Play
more amazing than a category-5 because
let's be clear I'm talking about the
Google Play okay so now it's all of a
sudden awesome that's right that's right
so we are on Google Play
you can buy t-shirts yes you can play VR
so yesterday come on we've been on
Google Play for like three weeks now
Jeff this is old news but it's still
amazing news
okay it's amazing so all you got to do
is go to category 5 TV / subscribe oh
yes and right there you can get onto
Google Play but Google Play Music
podcasts only supports audio Jeff this
is a TV show what good is audio well you
can still listen to our sultry voices oh
and our sultry voices just happened to
be right smack down the middle tonight
yes just so you know we got some
messages that Daniel Wright messaged me
last week after the show and said hey
Robbie everyone's voice comes through
both left and right channels except
yours
your voice only comes through on the
right channel I'm always right no well
that's what I said on the show like that
was the theme and it just kind of flowed
with the audio panning so turns out we
have a dead pot on our mixing console
now thankfully we've got one two three
four five six channels perfect one
channel was free so tonight I have moved
off of channel 3 and onto channel 4 now
you hear me in the middle so we have two
more spare channels to go well
technically we don't Jeff because one of
them is for Skype interviews oh right
the other one is for like computer
reviews and stuff so in other pot goes
you're out then we need a new mixer yeah
we'll take over that's it yeah I'll just
I'll just go sit down
that's or you'll just hear me off to the
right channel go ahead guys I'm over
here every time we tell you
Abraham Kornfeld said I thought that
problem was me I started adjusting my
speaker for a few minutes Oh No
so imagine if you were listening on
google play music podcasts yes in stereo
in binaural audio and Sasha's right here
and Robbie's way over there
doing all the demonstrations from over
there that's how it went down so I think
we've got that lick tonight Jeff yes big
news from you you sir our new host on
every day are you serious you that's
where the one applicant and so we have
awarded it to see how you win we are you
just have to be the one applicant I sent
an email that said I am me Here I am and
this is what I'll do it and incidentally
he was wearing a category 5 shirt so
we're like we got to give him the show
every day for three seasons was hosted
by Jen and Carrie and they did a
fantastic job for three consecutive
years at the end of season 3 they said
to us we're done I think we're done I
think that's it and it's you know they
left on good terms and it was really
just a hey they've volunteered for three
solid years every single week that's a
huge commitment folks so kudos to them
give them a big thumbs up but now new
every day is hosted by Jeff Weston mm-hm
and Lawrence Cruz that's right Ellis a
little bit yes so um I have known
Lawrence 20 years really oh yes it's
been a very very long time we've known
each other just our paths kept
connecting is we you know separate and
go to the end and it's just one of those
things where when the opportunity
presented itself and I you know
contacted you and said I'd be willing to
do the show he was the first one that I
thought I would love to do this with we
have great chemistry we get along very
well and yeah so we we've sat down we've
done a few shows we've got a couple
interview in the can yeah on the air
you've seen one so that's right yeah so
so we've had a couple interviews in
place just kind of brainstorming the sky
is the limit and we want to take the
content to the next level like cool
we've got some really really great ideas
I can't wait to to explore well it's
it's exciting to have you branching out
into and another one of our shows so
category five TV network of course here
we are on category five technology TV
then our faith broadcast is called new
every day and it has just started its
fourth season with Jeff Weston and
Laurence Cruz and we've got a couple
other shows that we're working on and of
course your newsroom feature is a very
own show which gets edited out every
single week and is aired every Tuesday
night on kvv B channel 33 in the high
desert of California how cool is that so
hello to you watching in Southern
California nice to have you here and
certainly on Sasha's show as well cool
I've been locked out of Facebook Jeff
you quit Facebook Facebook oh yeah I'm
just working hard on Facebook and they
locked me out why because my faith isn't
recognizable enough what apparently I
they told me I need to upload a photo of
myself now so it actually logged me out
and it says I got a upload a photo of
myself we've been through this with some
of our viewers as well Wow talking about
how Facebook is trying to step things up
in the privacy and security and and you
know in that department so here I am
this is my work account so here I am
working away on customer Facebook
profiles and things like that which I do
pretty much every week and you're logged
out can't login and apparently my faith
is that of the bald nerd so you know it
can't be me and they won't let me login
but okay that's something so long with
that yeah yeah I mean every time every
time they said I need to upload a
picture of my face I mooned the camera
that's how that's how I felt inside
that's what I wanted to do but Wow
so did you actually it no no no I've
uploaded every single picture that I
have of myself and it doesn't recognize
it doesn't let me login so that is what
we're up against folks Wow the email
that it sent me when it logged me out is
from a no reply at Facebook mail calm so
I can't even reply and say look I've
been trying I've been trying I've been
trying and I can't get in I can't get
back into my account we've already had
the discussion that they've started
really stepping things up as far as
their app security and privacy goes that
you know they're like hundreds of apps
have been removed from Facebook apps
because they felt that they were not
approved for accessing the Facebook API
right
in light of Cambridge analytic on and so
on so my app one of my apps was one of
those that got lost and I can't get in
to go through the approval process is
there no way to put a support ticket in
no I'd of the app oh maybe see I've
contacted them within the developer
central and went through the process and
it said okay you need to do this this
and this three things you need to add a
channel icon you need to do this and
that and put a privacy statement on your
website that kind of stuff so I went
through another party company to legally
create a privacy policy for the app and
put that online out of it and this was
around the time that I got locked out of
Facebook so that's where I'm at how does
it feel that big pause yeah I don't know
whether I'm like can you be angry at
something that is non exists it they're
like they're looking at everything in a
from a blanket perspective yeah because
they've been going through everything
since this whole kerfuffle right so I'm
no longer Robbie Ferguson the app
developer I'm a number right and I'm not
approved so now I'm locked out what do
you think the chances are that because
you have
you know been locked out yeah this is a
social experiment on Facebook sparking
so to see that just to see my nasty
tweets about Facebook
well no but to see how much you use it
once you get in compared to when you
were out it's kind of like withholding
the cookie from you so that suddenly
they give you the view think base
Facebook is in the game of dangling
cookies in front of poor app developers
I don't know I'm just that seems odd for
a such a sophisticated system that knows
everything about you in 57 different
57,000 different categories that they
can't seem to recognize your face it's
not like you've got some weird face has
your face but you don't know has that's
the quote of the night it's not like you
have some weird face your face have been
like your face pic like you're in the
image of your face could it have been
stolen like oh like my face is on the
internet somebody else claimed your face
and then your block that of the rest
what so like the identity theft poor
Arnold can never get a Facebook account
like come on how does that where it is
ironic that your face has locked you out
of Facebook yeah anyway have you ever
been through it with Facebook or any
other social profile website comment
below send us an email let us know what
kind of hassles you've had to go through
to redeem your account because that's
what I'm up against right now with the
book faced new book face oh we just
think of all the free time you've got
now exactly none I'm spending way too
much time on support damage control with
the customer and trying to figure out
how to get in so that I can so I can get
this thing fixed for them Wow that's
what I'm up against you just send them
some sort of legal notice that you're
gonna sue them for all the lost revenue
I don't ain't nobody got time for dad
come on send it to where the no at I'm
speaking the time let's take a
commercial break
Jeff yes what's your line what when we
yeah
nevermind we're gonna be back in just a
moment's time when we come back we're
gonna be hearing from our viewers about
the soldering job that Robbie did
meek weights fit your own okay yeah it's
so good for a limited time get your
hands on limited-edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight we are going
back this is kind of like a continuation
of last week's episode where they were
talking about this amazing amazing
soldering job the Robin did so it
actually described it worked by some
kind of television miracle it worked
yes Jeff do you remember way back on
episode number 431 when you recommended
that I buy battery power battery powered
soldering iron yes do you remember that
I do I just want to say for the record
it sucks let's be clear that is not the
one I had oh let's be clear don't one's
not the same it's not exactly the same
model it's a battery powered soldering
iron mine's great though is it great
what is it great for it's great for
little at-home projects little ant home
projects okay yeah like I will fix
lightbulbs you know you can just replace
them right no how do you fix lightbulbs
when um like you build a new filament
out of solder no like I like to tinker
so like with Christmas bulbs you know
how there's the wires that come in yeah
sometimes they'll break and I just don't
feel like all right you know buying a
new one or whatever so you put them back
together
no just heat them up put them together
and they work great all right I'll put
together some of the kids toys that
break where they've got little metal
elements stuff like that so
so last week Jeff I built this board
here and I did a smashingly good job oh
my Quasimodo man maybe we should pay
attention to the five volt it looks
pretty good hey that looks better yeah
that looks pretty yeah
that looks pretty good and I was using
this wireless thing and I really don't
like it and I said to the viewers I
really don't like it so I know I'm
blaming my tools right mm-hmm but I put
new batteries in it for the sake of the
demonstration and still didn't really
heat up very well wasn't really working
did you use it though poorly I am an
amateur okay and I am an admitted
amateur right you're learning quick heat
up pretty quick I'd say like 40 seconds
mine is like a five-second heat up oh
you and your showing fine but like I
would never start using it the five
seconds I let it heat up and then I keep
the iron working with then I throw the
solder in okay lots of advice came in
after last week's show of culture we
tackle this sashes yes you've got your
list of comments that came in first of
all I'm gonna start with circuit man's
comment yeah circuit man says it's okay
for me to do that because they get
longer and angrier as the comments gohan
know everybody thank you so much for
your kindness that was very kind this
week circuit man says awesome show and
Robbie your soldering is better than
mine it's good start yay for someone
named circuit man I figure that you were
probably in the know so I appreciate
that very much
right Robert Putnam said that soldering
iron is fine but your soldering
technique is backward why the wipe the
hot tip off with the cloth so there's
minimal solder left ideally the tip will
be shiny use the clean tip to heat
whatever you're soldering and feed this
solder onto that piece not the soldering
tip right what's happening with your
method is that the solder is oxidizing
and preventing any flow to the piece
okay all right that makes sense so I did
a poor job by touching the solder to the
hot tip and then touching the tip to the
yes don't do it okay okay next up from
Eiger wold firewalled flux is magic pen
SMD or paste through-hole okay also well
I've seen I've seen flux right sorry -
did I girl won't say something else also
said yeah you need some desoldering -
tools okay - Kaza first comment is about
the flux so the solder that I bought
has 2% flex so I am a novice I'm not
using solder I'm not using flux in
addition to the solder but I'm using one
with a rosin core right so is that is
that gonna help me out is that gonna
work
now I understand though from from just
doing a little bit of research since our
feature last week that by touching it to
the tip first it's hot and I'm actually
burning off the the the flux before I
get to the board right so I'm kind of
counter printer acting the effects of
having a flux core right but the solder
itself has built in flux now if you had
a flux capacitor you can go back and
tell yourself not to make that mistakes
that's true in the flux core it says 2%
on this a/c 128 D says it's not 2% it
actually said what does it say there
says flux 2% 2% diameter 0.6 and a bunch
of numbers that I don't know what they
mean
next up from Agarwal as well sorry what
was that yeah just that you need some D
soldering tools DD soldering tools
okay I'm gonna we're gonna come back to
that one okay okay d soldering is like
I've got boxes of circuit boards and
motherboards that are dead that I want
to be able to desolder so remove some of
the components so that I can then reuse
them so it's like getting free stuff
from a waste base right right I get some
resistors get some capacitors loads of
capacitors lots of headers things like
that see 128 D says 63 slash 37 solder
which has 37% flux 37% wow that's a lot
of flux that's like axis watch Wow okay
I didn't even know such a thing existed
well now you do hmm okay and knowing is
half the battle what I know better you
do better all right learnin here tonight
to merge man personally I would never
use a battery-powered soldering iron
okay there is too much risk of a cold
solder joint earth cold solder joints
and flaky connection not that we
encountered any of that not that we
encountered any of that during our
feature this is the battery drains and
if you do a lot of soldering good
finding the bad joints right as Robert
Putnam stated the technique is to heat
the joints and touch the solder to the
underside of the iron well in place on
the joints okay the solder should flow
nicely on into the connection be careful
too much solder and it will flow out the
other side of the board and you have a
glob of solder that can cause a short if
the solder balls up instead of flowing
the joint isn't hot enough so do you
think that that's all it is is that I'm
just not I'm not heating up the joint
first like if I actually if I bring this
up for you so let's get a look here so
let's get a look at one of my terrible
joints and get so I'm going to get out
the same wireless soldering iron I'm
just gonna take 45 seconds so lean it no
I haven't cleaned it I've got I've got
this wire thing but now it was mentioned
there that we need to get like a sponge
or something to to actually clean it off
now I've got this like wire cleaner that
I've seen people use and I thought hey
that's cool dollar store sells those so
hey that works right and it does work
but it's not a wet sponge right so if I
heat this up is it going to make a
difference let's get some of my 2% flex
solder and let's see how this goes all
right so I'm going to heat that right up
first let's use this one because this
one looks like I didn't get any solder
on there whatsoever p1 so what they're
saying is heat that up right and let
these let's get some heat in there then
you let the the coin into the heated
area so you don't heat it let's
straighten out my solder there and let
it draw it in
okay mmm oh there's the flux oh yeah oh
okay
Wow oh you did it what a diff me that
looks really good Thank You Sasha what a
change from your attitude last well then
so I hate to be Captain Obvious what
does the battery powered unit work does
it work yes yeah and I put new batteries
in it for the sake of the demonstration
rest last week absolutely okay it does
like I had it turned on so I feel fit I
feel vindicated okay viewers thank you
so much this is part of what I love
about category-five TV versus other
webcast other TV shows us that we're
very we try to be very interactive and
this is an opportunity for you to to
teach us and in so we're kind of
bringing that about and bringing it back
to the viewers as well so hopefully this
is a good learning experience for all of
us
that's true next up so Shaun White any
channel of this says amazing five five
five episode episode five five five last
week nice work
amazing tech tips love the micro tech I
smell espionage tactics nope that is
flux it says well done after 555
episodes still by far the best tech show
out there and a lot keep up the amazing
work Wow thanks Shaun so even when you
have a horrible soldering job still the
best thing was amazing and p1 was great
yes so just now that you've got the
solder working imagine how more amazing
five five six is gonna be Oh five five
six we've already shown you right how
good five five six is right JME was five
five five a coincidence I am about where
Robby is with this stuff and soon you'll
find out the five five five is a
somewhat special number in beginning
intermediate electronics
I did not know that the timing circuit
555 no that was entirely unintentional
last week just ya know we we've been
doing this show for every single week
for 555 weeks
so specifically so that Robbie could do
a miserable soldering job with a
miserable tool that's what we been
working toward like everything led up to
that moment no we didn't in we didn't
intend now that wasn't a plan well we
just needed a baseline soldering job
from you so that we can gauge so that
now we can see on episode 1055 how far
Robbie is count exactly and and it would
be a robot in my place yeah in the show
yeah next up V to Vito Jojo C are some
comments on your soldering to make some
improvements okay so here we go once
again showing how the community comes
together and is directing us and giving
us feedback that is going to improve our
soldering job yes so number one use
lead-based solder unless you want it to
fail okay your solder and iron can also
work at lower temperatures with
lead-based solder okay that's
interesting I didn't know that the
reason there's a couple of reasons that
I switched from LED now here in Canada I
cannot get I can't get approval to sell
devices that I create if they contain
lead solder right so I decided to change
to let free because I do intend to
eventually get to the point where I'm
good enough that hey some of the things
that I'm building can be sellable right
we're not there yet
don't worry I'm not selling anything
earlier when C 28d said 6337
yeah that's the tin-lead ratio so that
wouldn't work okay if I if you're gonna
be okay so that's that's one of the
reasons yes for more views but if you're
gonna resell it you can't use that
but for hole right you should be fine
okay so there's two other reasons I
don't have good ventilation that's
reason number two so I don't want to be
breathing it in I don't want to feel
like the Mad Hatter rate hobby but I
don't I don't really need cancer right
now and so I'll learn with lead-free
I'm happy with that good call third
reason kind of stems from that but also
my kids I really want my kids to
participate and so part of it is getting
their hands on the sod or getting in
there and we're using lead-free solder
so that I don't feel worried that my my
10 year old is putting his fingers in
his mouth after soldering something with
a let let course right so there's a
couple of things there so absolutely
sure LED lead-based solder may be better
for some uses especially in you know
professional soldering jobs but I think
for me I'm gonna stick with the
lead-free so we just got to make it work
right okay number two yeah point number
two you don't add the solder to the tip
until you've heated up what you're
soldering then and only then you have
the solder thank you okay so uh yeah
Marsh man commented on that as well so
that's excellent point and we proved
tonight that that is a very good comment
right number three if you put the solder
on the tip you need to clean it off just
like that except everything that you did
you need to undo Robbie I heard you
saying thinking that yes so the longer
the solder is on the tip of your iron
the more flux you destroy just what I
was saying yes and I probably it was in
my head because of v2 Josey ours comment
right having read it earlier mm-hmm very
interesting and good point that I'm
actually burning off the flux yes which
is going to cause issues with my solder
joint absolutely and I understand that
so that's cool and then keeping in line
with that who flux is your friend
it helps solder the helps the solder to
connect to your components he says as a
bonus tip but I'm bomb please watch my
solder and where you make an attempt to
put it on please what please watch some
better people solder before he make an
attempt that's soldering on TV hey come
on now
come on okay so let's back up and talk a
little bit about what category-five
represents and and first before I get
into that I want to tell you and
everyone viewing never let someone tell
you don't show what you are learning
don't write no never be afraid
to fail never be afraid to show that I'm
not good at this I'm learning and the
reason I say that is because I think if
we all need to achieve this excellence
before we're willing to share it with
the world
then the category-five wouldn't exist
I'm proud of you oh this is really
that's a really great message just right
across the whole globe it's what
category-five represents like we started
with a webcam and we stepping-stone dour
way up
yeah and we're looking at stepping
stones tonight and and along that line
never ever feel that way you need to be
able to fail and you need to be able to
do it in the public eye and it's okay
it's okay to have friends that love it
and it is absolutely and it's cool to
learn and I love this show because I can
I can learn with you and we can learn
together and and I appreciate your
comments and we're we're learning
together I get a pretty good solder
joint there yeah yeah and how many times
have we done episodes where you're
programming something oh and it fails
yeah it just here goes horribly wrong
but that's part of what makes this show
great is because some of those shows are
the greatest shows to learn from shows
you watching you go oh my goodness I've
made the same mistake real - well yeah
and there are a lot of great shows yeah
we're not just CG we're there a lot of
great shows on YouTube and on the on
television that they figure everything
out beforehand and they do it when it's
perfect
yes and so then I as the layperson feel
like I I'm not at that level I can't
achieve this I can't try this yeah let's
start here and let's work our way up
together you know to be honest it wasn't
pretty but it worked it worked like you
did it I did it I did it don't team yeah
all right thank you for the comment I
appreciate that
so c128 d yes first has said recently in
the chatroom that you need to use
separate flux paste if you're using
lead-free okay so it's not important so
let me get this straight
even though I have a 2%
flux core in my solder so I thought oh
well it has flux built-in so I don't
need to buy flex are you telling me I
need to go out and buy flux paste so
that I can add that to my solder joints
before I heat them up that is that the
idea right c128 is he is here with us
live we'll move on with yours right
shouldn't come back to your response to
that question okay so see 128 D also
says Robbie you don't need to spend a
lot of money to get a decent soldering
iron all you need is one that plugs into
a wall outlet and runs off of AC current
and if the Weller line would work out
quite well for your needs and are
reasonably priced just select one that
is between 20 and 40 watts Amazon
carries them for about 15 to 20 dollars
fifteen to thirty dollars u.s. mhm not
sure what that isn't Canadian rupees and
they do an excellent job welder Weller
so I can't say this father-daughter
solders an element
one of our biggest fans is gonna say
it's solder no it's solder it's solder
yeah I just always gonna try and say so
Weller soldering station station
normally started about $100 u.s. ok
getting one of the regular irons now and
having it as a backup when you can
afford the soldering station wouldn't be
a waste of money either yeah the iron is
more portable and less of a hassle for a
quick and dirty repair for a quick and
dirty repair than the station is but the
main thing is that just about any AC
powered soldering iron will be better
than a battery-powered toy be sure to
use 60-37 solder it's better for
electrical work than 60/40 okay see 120
ad you set it without saying at stepping
stones right because in my mind I'm
thinking I need a soldering station I
need the I need the at least the entry
level of the best right right bang on my
friend this is what it's about is
finding that stepping stone so cheap
battery power doesn't really do a very
good job the batteries don't last long
but the batteries don't last long enough
for doing a good size project no so
that's why it's good for small things
for like a quick like two joints yes and
you're done now I love what c128 D point
it out here that you can get away with
just a standard soldering iron which is
a big step up from this little guy but
not going to cost me the amount of a my
dream station so I can make my way up to
that soldering station right but right
now I can get started with something a
little less very cool and I did know and
I did you do first let's look at David
fear okay David fear says get one of
these and points us to a link to a $70
OLED programmable a soldering iron okay
on banggood very cool but still $70
mm-hm
so I may as well look at the hundred
dollar soldering station at that point
it's starting to get a little bit close
to the price and recommends as well that
we look at 63 37 or 6040 leaded solder
going back to my comments so based on
largely what c128 Dee said about being
able to start with something cheap and
work your way up and then still use that
old one as just for the little drink the
tinkering here and there told it works
and then based on reading what David
fear sent and saying hey yeah we can do
that I got on Amazon and you can head on
over to cat5 dot TV slash solder kit and
it arrived already
so obviously available on prime and I
picked one of these up let's see and it
is way microscopic compared to what I
was expecting I was expecting from the
picture but this was gonna be like a
full-size toolbox right that's it's like
I'm a mini like a mini cool yeah okay
let's get this out of the way so that I
can show you folks this so this was the
next step from this this cost me $30 now
I'll tell you see 120 80 you mentioned
like the 16 dollar Weller's and things
like that I got on Amazon I started
looking around and the cheapest that we
could get here in Canada was $22
Canadian and it was not brand name and
it was just a cheap soldering iron right
so why I went with this kit it's only
eight dollars more it came with the box
it came with extra tips and it came with
some extra essentials so let's get in
here and this is going to also take us
back to our Wald's comment about having
solder D soldering tools right okay
let's get in here so into the box boom
first and foremost a solder sucker oh
there you go is that for excess solder
oh that's fun it also pinches your face
is that for excess like this is for
removing solder so you can heat up the
solder and then suck it okay God so that
you can remove chips and things and
reuse or fix when you mess things up so
that if if you ask me that's worth
probably the extra eight dollars anyway
it came with a whole bunch of solder now
what is this lead-free solder wire
perfect this is 2.0 flux 20 20 gauge no
eight zero point eight millimeter versus
my zero point six that I have here right
so similar to what I have but it's got a
lot yeah 20 grams I guess that is okay
so it's got this itty bitty tiny tool
box the pal cute is that all right it's
got a box with in there what do we have
and remember this was only $30 so okay
what do you expect for $30 it's got a
little stand that is basically just a
cheap little tray right with a couple of
nuts that hey you you can hold your
soldering iron oh yeah and it's got a
sponge that you can wet to clean it so I
didn't have one of these now I do so
that's cool but it's not as nice of a
holder as my helping hands so I'll
probably just end up using my helping
hands anyways but if you don't already
have helping hands that's something
anyway it's in my box kind of thing okay
what else have we got we've got a couple
of couple of tweezers
these are anti-static and I like that
the tweezers that I have have become
magnetic so I needed new one really yeah
so it's a pain because I'm working with
little itty bitty resistors and they're
magnetized to the songs which I'm really
really hard
then we've got the soldering iron
obviously but a couple of extra things
that came in the kit it's got D
soldering wire that's cool
soldering desoldering wire I can put
this on all those bad joints that I made
right and I can remote I can touch this
to it and heat it up and it will suck in
the solder absorb it and then I take it
away and the solder is off of the joint
no yeah so I need this when I correct
the soldering joints yes I've created
okay then I've got my soldering tool
here you go now what is what really
excited me about this and Dave fear
pointed it out on the one for $70 let's
actually bring this up through the
magnifier the through the microscope so
that you can see what I'm seeing here it
has a temperature gauge and it goes from
22 part me from 200 C all the way up to
450 and it's just a dial so for a cheap
little thing that's pretty good look at
what else we've got it does go up to 60
watts so it's a pretty you know it's
gonna heat up pretty quickly yeah
apparently should do a pretty good job
we'll see we'll see I mean we're gonna
be checking it out on future
demonstrations and seeing how it works
so but then it also came with one two
three four five two extra tips so we've
got some extra tips there that came with
this and each one is a little bit
different for different jobs I expect
that as I grow and learn how each one
works then that's going to be cool so if
I remove this I can see there's my tip
so you just and then it's got a ceramic
core so the ceramic core apparently I'm
learning is very quick to heat up yes
and so that's a good thing
I have a hair straightener that's
similar oh yeah that's good I like that
it has the adjustable temperature mm-hmm
and it does have also an inline power
switch which was an added bonus because
you normally have to unplug one of these
kinds rights soldering irons so it's a
good start I think this is a great
little yeah 30 bucks yeah and it's
available in our shop now cat5 TV slash
solder kit now I've been able to get
obviously it's available here in
as you see it here it's also available
in the United States as you see it here
in the UK they don't have exactly the
same kit but I found one that's very
similar and it's only 14 pounds so you
can check that out and it even has a
couple of extra things in the UK but I
obviously can't test it because it's a
little bit different but it looks like
about the same thing and it is what it
is it's a cheap soldering iron but it's
better than what I have and it's going
to get me started exactly and I like
that it came with all this extra stuff
that I'm going to need anyways for my
projects and just a cheap little case
which appeases might need to have
organization because otherwise
everything just sits in a cardboard box
is it a quick cool solder iron as well
well I haven't plugged it in yet but I
don't expect so no okay I didn't read
anything about it being anything yes
yeah it is quick to heat up yeah which
is good yeah but I can put it in my my
helping hands turn off the power switch
which I guess is gonna help anyways
because being able to turn off the power
switch and turn it back on and it's got
quick heating then should work pretty
well but we will find out on a future
episode how much better that works then
my my old battery-powered soldering
irons so you don't want to miss some of
the features that we've got coming up
and do check out that Kit Kat 5 TV slash
solder kit now I know it is just a cheap
kit it's gonna get you started it's
going to improve our game it's gonna
help me to do a little bit better when
it comes to soldering and some of the
things that we're learning here on
category 5 technology TV is really
helpful as well if you've got comments
you want to share with us comment below
or head over to our YouTube channel on
our website category 5 TV if you're
watching on cable TV there are so many
different ways that you can interact
with us we'd love to hear from you and
love to find out what what we could do
better but we're gonna head over to the
newsroom now Sascha Rickman how are you
I am great thank you here are the
stories we're covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom malware has been
found hiding
inside software in the aboon to snap
store after 33 years notepad finally
displays text files properly Facebook is
launching its own blockchain division as
part of a broader recognition
reorganization of its executive lineup
and Nintendo is bringing back its
outrageously popular $60 NES classic
edition console next month these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play I don't
know where I think you're supposed to
act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost
this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman in
here the top stories were following this
week oh but wait you don't have your
glasses on this week no I switched to
contacts which the contacts yeah how's
that going for you well it's gonna be a
bit of a tricky little learning curve I
think should we bring the teleprompter
and maybe bring it in bring it in
I it's not bad I just saw some of the
words I cannot read actually ask me like
can you see this line you see that line
yeah that's good turns out I should have
had the teleprompter with me so I could
there you go oh wait that's not gonna
work all right malware has been found
hiding inside software in the bun -
snaps tore a pair of seemingly normal
apps hosted by the canonical backed app
hub were discovered to contain a
cryptocurrency miner disguised as the
systemd daemon the affected apps also
shipped in init scripts to auto load the
malicious code on boot and allow it to
run in the background on affected
systems canonical says it has removed
all applications from the author pending
further investigation since learning of
the flavia a github issue on the weekend
because the snap store doesn't provide
public public facing install numbers for
apps it holds it's unclear how many UNIX
Leonard Linux users have been affected
by this minor issue although it's worth
noting that both apps were only updated
uploaded in late April regardless of the
exact figure it's a given that many
users will now be asking how this was
allowed first place
pardon me mmm how was it possible for
malware to find its way into the snap
store and onto users systems the code in
question was first found by github user
tower der in an app purporting to be a
version of the popular 2048 game curious
as to why the app
at a system startup script they checked
they checked it out and saw that it was
for a cryptocurrency miner tool the user
then checked another app uploaded to the
snap store by the same developer and
guess what
they also found it contain the same bike
coin miner script linked to the same
email address this situation marks the
first major security issue in the snappy
packaging system but although unwelcome
this particular fail is not necessarily
as frightening as it sounds at first nor
is it necessarily a fault with the
snappy format all apps uploaded in the
snap store undergo automatic testing to
ensure that they would they work and
install correctly for users on multiple
linux distros snap apps are not checked
the line by line for anything suspicious
or out of the ordinary
however therefore however therefore I'm
under the current framework there was
simply no way to detect or prevent this
malware from being bundled up with an
app and made available on the stop store
any theoretical pre detection would have
been hard to do given that both of the
affected apps were updated uploaded as
propriety proprietary software their
code was not available to check the
crypto currency miners in this instant
can be considered malware because they
weren't mentioned in the store
description and the the used cysts then
they used system resources without
permission or user knowledge for a task
that wasn't authorized that said the
mining scripts themselves don't seem to
do anything malicious to the system
itself for example they don't harvest
data inject code or hijack hijack
browsers it is possible that the app
author in question wasn't being
intentionally malicious given the lack
of effort to disguise the malware and
the inclusion of a hardcore email
address mentioning a Ferrari they may
have been attempting to draw attention
to a hole in the snap
craft vetting oh pardon me and if so it
worked oh this is gonna be fun so to be
fair wholly to be fair you try reading
the news on national television with no
eyes I am blind you made it through okay
but thinking of the story yes if
somebody is going to be downloading apps
what kind of things that should they be
looking for to make sure that this kind
of situation hasn't happened like how
would you know yeah I think what it
boils down to is just recognizing that
this is not an issue with the Ubuntu
system or the ecosystem it's not an
issue with downloading from you know
it's not it's not them it's not their
problem it's not anything to do with the
boom to only that it shows that we need
to be more careful as users so for
example and I'll just kind of break this
down for you so github is a very popular
place to get software because coders can
upload their open source software and
distribute it there and they can even
distribute binary closed source stuff
and it's there on on github
well if I install it and it has malware
in it then I am kinda to blame because
I've trusted the source it's not that
I've trusted github it's that I've
trusted the coder who's distributing it
right so similarly in an app store I'm
trusting the developer so do I know this
developer is it an official release is
it a release from the people who are
actually developing this software or is
it a third party so we have to be
careful and we look at things like GIMP
2.9 is a two point nine that has come
out yeah two point nine and so when we
go to gimp.org for example this is GNU
image manipulation program a Photoshop
alternative so when we go to their
website gimp.org we know that we are
dealing with the developers right the
folks who have built this software so we
can trust that if we then if we go to a
third part
store app store not necessarily buying
it it's free but if we go to a
third-party website and download it from
there what's to say they haven't
injected something into it because we
the user are downloading it from an
untrusted source right in Linux it's a
bit difficult so your question you know
how do we know if we're well we just
have to be careful and be mindful that
if we are downloading from third-party
sources we need to kind of vet them a
little bit right are these trustworthy
sources are they related to the official
distribution I do a lot of software
development I do NEMS Linux for example
and I have you know I am officially a
part of the Nagios exchange I'm endorsed
by Nagios enterprises and so there's a
certain level of yeah I'm nothing to do
with Nagios but I am kind of you know
I'm official if you will as a
third-party you just have to vet that
and say hey okay got that I can trust
but maybe not the next one it's really
tough and I guess with you know it boils
down to doing what this person has done
and said oh I found out that the
software had this malicious code so I'm
going to report it right that's what it
comes down to do you think that perhaps
that that person who had had released
this maybe actually was illustrating the
the loophole like but they could have
been also just you tapping into a free
resource that would have allowed them to
mind some cryptocurrency right I mean
there is nothing and I think what the
story points to is that there is nothing
wrong with mining cryptocurrency there's
nothing wrong with cryptocurrency mining
what is a problem here what classifies
this as malware is the fact that it went
in to systems who entirely did not opt
in for crypto mining they opted in for a
game yes right that's where it's
malicious it's not the mining process
and it's not a boon to its that there's
this mining code in something that it's
not supposed to be in right thanks
that's a big topic that could be a show
that I can show absolutely
after 33 years notepad finally displays
text files properly no pad has been
around for as long as Windows originally
shipping with Windows 1.0 way back in
1985 however it's taken Microsoft 33
years to fix one of notepads most
annoying problems it can't display all
text files correctly while that may
sound ridiculous it has been a
frustration for anyone attempting to
open a text file in notepad that was
created on a unix linux or mac OS system
the text output is garbled and it's all
because of the line endings as Microsoft
explains on its developer blog until now
notebook supported text documents
containing open notepad Parden supported
text documents containing three types of
line ending characters they're all
window they're all windows end of line
characters carriage return and line feed
if the text document uses those the
output in notepad will be perfectly
formatted text documents created in Unix
Linux or Mac OS use different line
ending characters when you try and open
them in notepad you see a garbled mess
of text since all of the line breaks are
missing the later the latest Windows 10
Insider build contains the latest the
updated version of notepad complete with
additional line ending support the
status bar will even show you which
endings the line the file uses cool it
spent time yeah yeah like 33 years yeah
had one job I have to install Adam on
every Windows system just so I can open
files it's very annoying that there's
been this software that really is
useless for so long right and yet we
still open our files manually Riyad the
carriage return
yeah oh my goodness it's such a simple
fix really when you think I'm yeah maybe
there's a lot of back-end changes
they've had to make because the way the
system networks no this is just
Microsoft being cocky and saying oh
everyone will conform to us right you
know how they they were with Internet
Explorer and then finally realized okay
well this is not going our way
so we'll drop that now okay notepad is
finally to put a I mean to say 33 years
across 33 years is a lot let's put a
perspective on this I'm 34 pretty much
my entire existence they've been
ignoring this problem okay how much has
technology changed since I was a baby
yeah and they're just getting around to
this now like Microsoft okay so okay so
does this mean that if I'm at if I'm at
a computer and I'm opening a word
document but I'm using like Libre Office
can I open it and oh wait no pad no no
no pad is for like are you familiar with
dot txt files so they are strictly text
and not just dot txt like they can be
dot SH files for example would be
another another one that I'd try to open
a JavaScript file anything yeah anything
that is just plain text there's no
formatting it's just there's no bolds
there's no underlines it's just plain
text usually scripts or readme files to
explain how things work and stuff like
that okay but it's been useless up until
now completely evidently yeah so it's
about time finally Windows 10 is
stepping into 1987
Facebook is launching its own block
chain division as part of a broader
recognition of its executive lineup
reorganization of its executive I was
waiting for it I was waiting for the
eyes to click in it's okay it's good
this is how long have you been with
contacts this is day two this is date
okay so what's hasn't changed them
that's the problem
okay here's here's the problem of having
so I can describe it to you so that you
understand what's happening if I don't
blink which I can't be blinking
constantly while reading the
teleprompter it's like they haze right
over and that I can't see through them I
need to like blink them clear but then
then it's the words we want you to like
stand here misting I'm having problems
just seeing just blurriness okay so so
where are we at okay we're it so let's
just they're talking about is launching
a blockchain division and they're
reorganizing their executive line
alright so the move comes four months
after CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a
Facebook post that he wanted the company
to go deeper and study the positive and
negative aspects of cryptocurrency
the company is saying little about its
blockchain division for now but we do
know that David Marcus who was serving
as the vice president of messaging
products and overseeing facebook
Messenger will be running the blockchain
group interestingly he is also the
former CEO of PayPal with a longtime
interest in Payment Systems he also
currently serves on the board of Bitcoin
exchange coinbase instagrams current
vice presidents of products Kevin will
will be leaving that role to join
Facebook's blockchain team the two
positions are the only ones announced so
far for the team and come amid a lot of
other employee reshuffling interesting
huge so Facebook cryptocurrency
or a cryptocurrency payment platform
right that's what we need we need to be
able to buy category-five shirts by
turtle coin and you know and so on and
so forth that's what's going to take
cryptocurrency to the next level of
being a viable currency is being able to
transact I agree my my hesitation though
is Facebook really they control enough
of the world and they've just shown that
they completely
screwed up not releasing our data if
they have some sort of a back-end to a
blockchain technology that is tied into
your entire profile and everything like
the linkage and the marketing that can
come out of this is now insurmountable
to say well by the way so we've
determined that this age group who like
to do these things that pretend to text
to get out of awkward situations are
most likely to be the ones to buy into
this Bitcoin or this coin and to do it
at this rate and they're more likely to
be miners since they're therefore we're
going to target like really really I
don't even want to go there though Jeff
like we can get into conspiracy theories
and it's just I am a fan of spreading
the wealth as you are I think Facebook
is getting to the point of having dare I
say it too much social power so they
need to pull a Google and instead of
having everything under this massive
company have site how these have
individual little companies that exist
and make mistakes with and go the way of
coca-cola who's got a bazillion brands
underneath it yeah at least doing it
that way it doesn't seem as conglomerate
we're gonna own you this way it's like
it's your Facebook coin with your
Facebook account and by the way yeah
have you got your Facebook paper like
they have that nice sure it's coming ah
so social I just don't want that posting
on my wall I didn't see at first how the
two would be connected really but I not
the toilet paper the fate like Facebook
and blockchain right but I guess it is
with I guess well there could be so and
but think about this if you want to be
concerned about your privacy what if
they're using the blockchain to encrypt
and protect right right just just to for
authentication and things like that I
like the idea of having someone other
than PayPal right now I'm fair enough
I'm quite fed up with PayPal they pull I
don't know if you guys know this and if
you're in America you probably don't
care maybe you do because you love us
but PayPal pulled out all of their
debit cards from Canada so really yeah
so about two months ago so if you if
you're in Canada and you carry a PayPal
debit card to give you access to your
funds that are in your PayPal account
you've just lost access to it if you
live in Canada so so I'm not happy with
them whatsoever at this point so I'd
love to see someone else rise up that
can give me a way to transact especially
if they can provide me a way to transact
without having to wait three days to
withdraw money to my Canadian bank
account right and convert currencies I
have to convert from u.s. dollars to
Canadian dollars to put it in my account
and I lose a few points on the
transaction like it's stupid so I'd like
to see something else yeah just step one
Nintendo is bringing back its
edition edition console next month the
console was intended as a limited time
offering it went on sale in late 2016
and was discontinued in April 2017
between the low price and the heavy draw
of Nintendo nostalgia the NES classic
edition was a major hit as a result it
was nearly impossible to find
and now Nintendo says it's bringing back
the console Nintendo tweeted on Sunday
night
hashtag NES classic Edition will return
to stores on June 29th they also said
this system and the hashtag NES classic
Edition system are expected to be
available through to the end of the year
it's great news for anyone who missed
out on the chance to buy the NES classic
edition during its brief window of
availability the only other way to buy
one at this point is to go through
third-party resellers like eBay where
prices are often triple or more of than
the original $60 cost of the console the
same 30 at classic NES games that
shipped with the first run of the NES
classic Edition will ship on the new
production run as well so we saw this
coming this is smart for Nintendo of
supply and demand complete control but
they are the Masters of this I mean
every time Nintendo has come out with a
new console I mean look I win the week
came out mm-hmm they're like hey we've
got the Wii and people were spending
$3,000 ah stupid console on eBay because
they had to get the we yeah right
Nintendo is amazing at this they go how
many people need this a billion
let's make five they put the other you
know billion in a warehouse somewhere
and then go all right they've waited
long enough
throw it out there and people that jump
out I mean it's it's a great marketing
system right but in the meantime it's
dirty games yeah 30 retro games
Raspberry Pi can get you so much more
right yeah need I remind you I just
haha how many games on that does this
look like an NES classic to you it does
does it I mean come on now with HDMI
output because that's a Raspberry Pi 3
B+ and that has like three thousand
games on it right I'm not saying this is
legal
I'm just saying it's awesome so it's not
officially endorsed by by Nintendo but
it works just waiting for the lights to
turn off but if you've got all the like
if you have the freeware roms because
some of them you can get everywhere I I
refer to abandoned where and I and I
realized the chatroom will now erupt and
say a van and where is not actually a
thing but it's like it's software that
is so old that it's just not sellable
right thanks I mean you can find some of
them on like archive.org sure yeah so I
mean if you find them there and you get
them as a ROM like who cares yeah so
that's my home brew
well NES classic how do you like that
and and we taught how to do that on
category 5 technology TV didn't waste so
we certainly did while ago retropie
there was a game you couldn't figure out
what it was
sascha realized it's smoky smoky tuned
in to episode 555
that episode was amazing and if you want
to see how far games have come Jeff from
that era to like because this also has
an Atari 2600 on it right from that area
all the way up to the HTC vive yeah
right unbelievable yes big thanks this
week - Roy W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slate Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman Thank You Sasha I'm Robbie
Ferguson
I'm Jeff Weston it's been so great
having you here this week I hope that
you have had a lot of fun please
remember we love and we thrive off of
your communication and get on to our
website category 5 TV find all the
different ways that you can communicate
with us there are links to our YouTube
channel maybe you're already watching on
YouTube and you can give us that thumbs
up that subscribe and even comment below
we greatly appreciate that we may just
quote you on the air so say nice things
always say nice things have a wonderful
week everybody
you
