hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on stay
show were in part two of shattering
lowliness so stay tuned
[Music]
hey everyone thank you for tuning back
into new everyday so glad that you've
tuned in last week we talked about
shattering loneliness and Jen can you
just give a quick recap of what we
talked about yes I can
we talked how this concept of soulmates
yes has risen up out of what Plato I had
written about in a play and how
basically human beings had been divided
and so men and women looked their entire
life for someone that one person to
complete them and how so often people
struggle with finding that right person
that person who's going to complete them
and yet does the way the gospel is set
up is for us to actually find our
completeness in meeting Jesus right we
talked about James 4:8 last week that
said draw near to me and I will draw
near to you like there's this idea of
when we actually seek out God he will
come and meet with us yeah and it's only
when we find that completeness through
Jesus Christ
do we feel whole and what's interesting
is Blaise Pascal talked about how we
have this God shaped spot in our heart
that only he can fill through the power
of Jesus Christ yeah so so that's where
we stopped last week was basically
setting up this idea of there seems to
be in our culture this desire to find
that right person yeah and yet we are I
want to say looking for love in all the
wrong places so many things so many
songs talk about finding that one and
you complete me and and and I just
listened to a Backstreet Boys song so it
was on Facebook and it's like as long as
you love me right like it's like doesn't
matter who you are what you've done as
long as you love me and I'm like wait a
sec what does that even mean exactly
yeah and so I have been thinking a lot
about the concept of loneliness and it's
different than being alone
per se right because you can be in a
room full of people and be alone and you
can be married and you can be alone and
so often we put too much expectation on
other people to fulfill our need of
companionship yes if I could just find
that right person if I could just have
that conversation and I think people if
they want to show that kind of Rick
resilience or self-reliance and you
don't need someone else yes then you can
kind of see how they fill it with other
things
yes it's busyness with activities yes
for busyness with work so that that
hunger and that desire for being in
communion with someone else in a
meaningful way yeah doesn't kind of show
its face right and it's interesting
because those things always seem to fade
right like it says the that song you
know turn your eyes upon Jesus look full
in his wonderful face and the things of
Earth will grow strangely dim in the
light of his glory and grace but the
things of this earth they they fall
apart because they're material and you
know there's always a bigger boat
there's always a better car like I just
took my car in to get serviced and I'm
replacing the transmission again because
it just doesn't last yeah like things
aren't made to last and yet Jesus said
you know in the beginning was the word
and the Word was with God and the Word
was God he was with God in the beginning
and it says from everlasting to
everlasting he is God so here forever
there's no ending to this and so we our
culture struggles so much with filling
that void of companionship and we look
over it in all the wrong places when
really we need to be looking to the Word
of God hmm and to fill that with Jesus
yes I heard one preacher say that Jesus
is the perpetual novelty you don't need
to be looking from place to place
because the relationship you experience
with him is so rich yes and and so
diverse even from the way one person
experiences him to the way another
person experiences him and yet there's
like this communion that there's family
yeah so we kind of alluded to the fact
that part of the reason people are
seeking this companionship or the
soulmate is to have someone else who
knows them yes who really can say yeah I
know it no one knows me like my
boyfriend or no one knows me like my
spouse yes and yet God says that he
knows us and we can you know him and and
I like the verse that says you know what
we're when we were in heaven with God
then we'll have an understanding of him
and we will know him even as were fully
known yeah first Corinthians 13 yeah and
I agree like there's this desire to be
known as an individual as an individual
and yet we are great and God fulfills
that need in community because he says
that he looked at us and he said it's
not good for man to be alone so there's
this idea of companionship and that
comes from the idea of true of the
Trinity like the fact that it's Father
Son and Holy Spirit and even though it's
one God there are three essence and and
they the way they function is almost
like a dance right so they just so they
have this really cool relationship that
we don't get so we're not even going to
try to even go there
but the relationship that they have come
completes fulfills sort of let's the
other one leave and then let's say it's
a dance it's a dance and so here we are
and we look at he looks at Adam and he's
like whoa there's only one of you there
needs to be two right it is not good for
man to be alone and so I love the fact
that David catches a glimpse of this
King David in Psalm 139 and and and this
goes back to that idea of anyone can
experience loneliness whether you're
rich or poor whether you're single or
married whether you are employed or not
employed like you can have the best job
in the world but still feel alone yeah
and so here's King David music
he's a king and like the girls said you
know but before him dancing saying Saul
has killed his thousands but David he's
like he's like this crazy war like
they're very successful man of war but
also had like wealth and he had a
massive family yeah lots of wives lots
of wives probably probably not a good
idea not a good idea to meet your alone
need just finding a new wife that is not
the answer
no but here he is in Psalm 139 so I I'm
reading from NIV and I'm gonna be
reading from this is the New Living
Translation and so here he is in Psalm
139 and just pouring out this idea of I
want to say like he catches the essence
of the fact that God understands
loneliness and this is in my opinion the
answer to those times when we're really
just struggling do you see me do you
know me do you even understand what I'm
going through like are you there and
then you need to zoom into 139 so we're
actually gonna break it up into about
three different portions because we just
want to mmm
dive right in so I'm gonna start reading
from Psalm 139 it says O Lord you have
searched me and you know me you know
when I sit and when I rise you perceive
my thoughts from afar you discern my
going out and my lying down you are
familiar with all of my ways before a
word is on my tongue you know it
completely Oh Lord you have me in behind
him before you have laid your hand upon
me such knowledge is too wonderful for
me too lofty
for me to attain so I think I'll just
I'll stop there for now
hmm because there's so many I want to
say so many God verbs in there right you
have searched me you know me you know
familiar with all my ways you know it
completely all of the words on my tongue
you Hemi in you have laid your hand upon
me like there's this idea
david has not done anything to be before
the Lord like this is all about
acknowledging he's saying what's true
yes you know what's interesting is the
fact that he touches on the different
aspects of what makes us human
mm-hmm and the different ways that we
experience life and relationship as a
human so you've examined my heart and
you know everything about me you've
searched me and you still know me you
know when I sit down or when I stand up
when I go out or when I rest at home so
like our physical interactions yep right
you know my thoughts from afar off so
our mental self yeah that we often say
no one knows how I think or feel yeah
your heart and your mind
yeah and it's now my version says you
perceive my thoughts from afar and I
read one commentator who said you know
even though God is in heaven he knows
our thoughts here and I was like but
he's very present so that doesn't even
make sense
then I read another commentator who said
that when when it says you perceive my
thoughts from afar
it's like before they are even complete
yeah they're finished form yeah he knows
them yes because he's you know what I'm
going to say so your words are a thought
before they come out
yes before a word is on my tongue you
know it completely Oh Lord I know so
then that's our other way of expressing
it and knowing each other is verbally
right yes yes
and that word discerning what do you
have at the beginning of verse 3 you if
you have discerned you see me when I
travel and when I rest at home
okay what's interesting about this word
discerning is we often talk about in
Christian circles of you have the gift
of discernment yet right and discernment
is knowing right from wrong okay so when
I read that it's like oh you discern my
going out in my lying down like you know
what is right and wrong right the things
I do right the things I do wrong in my
going out and my lying down like that
was and what I thought about that I was
like oh
like he knows what I have done all day
long the good and the bad and stuff I'd
rather not talk about right exactly and
it says he discerns it so he knows like
he knows the stuff that I've done the
good and the bad and the ugly and yet it
says and then you are familiar with all
my ways and it's interesting because
familiarity means you just know what
somebody's going to do and it's like
Carrie and I have shared the space now
for four five years and so she knows
sometimes the things I will do not that
I've said them but she know from
spending time with you yes yeah and not
that anything has taken place but she'll
she'll be able to say okay I know
general do this distance and I can do
the same thing for Carrie I can almost
like say oh she's gonna do this and then
this and then this and not that she's
even gotten out of bed yet but because
when you get to know people you're just
you are familiar yes with their ways
yeah and so that phrase has actually
challenged me to pray dear Lord Jesus I
know that you are familiar with my ways
I know you know what I'm going to do if
my ways will lead me in ungodly paths
today yes would you stop that because
you know like you know before our word
is on my tongue
you know what completely you know my
thoughts from afar so if you are
discerning my ways if you are familiar
with my ways could you please put a Holy
Spirit check in my spirit there's a
space for intervention yes yes and so
you can actually get up first thing in
the morning and you can pray this prayer
Lord you know me so well would you lead
me not into temptation
yeah like would your spirit actually
come and just guide and direct me you
know away from my familiar ways that are
leading me to sin right or if you
stumble with with your words before a
word saw my tongue you know what
completely Oh Lord mm-hmm and then you
could pray also the other scripture that
says set a guard over my mouth that I
might not sin against you yes yes
think about yes right after these
messages will be right Geoff Weston
Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what are you right
you're terrible actor what this we're
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name so your own com dice to put
that amazing website that you've been
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a WordPress site
fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost
just don't put that on the papers on
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
hey everyone welcome back thank you for
staying tuned to new every day just
wanted to say thank you to our partners
go on to our web site new every day TV
check out our partners page and all of
the people and organizations the
companies that make this possible by
donating to the category five umbrella
yes and they make new every day possible
and thank you too Robbie Ferguson who
also edits and produces this show and
we're so grateful that you've tuned in
and we're so grateful to talk about
scripture and how it's real and Gen
we're talking about how God knows us
yeah he's omniscient or all-knowing yes
and the whole theme for these next few
shows is the fact that God alone
shatters alone
yeah and so the fact that you you
mentioned the passage from first
Corinthians 13 but we will be fully
known yeah and we want to be known and
so because God is omniscient all-knowing
there's something so special about being
known because why I think there's a
caring like someone cares enough about
okay yeah I want to want to know me yeah
but they've put the time and effort into
because you can't know someone unless
you've spent time with them yeah right
it's like like I said in the last show
when you came home last week I knew that
you needed food for the next day because
there wasn't anything in the fridge so I
knew that and I knew that if there
wasn't that you would be tempted to go
and spend all my money on food that
isn't necessary now good anyways but
it's that knowing it's and wow do you
feel special well that's known that's
what I think it is - it's a value
statement yes I want to spend time with
you Jen because I value your friendship
yes I want to know you and I want to
know what makes you happy I want to know
you know what makes you sad yeah and
truly know it just because you're
valuable yes and I agree so when you
apply that to God it's like God knows me
desires to knows me to know me and knows
all about me because I am valuable yeah
it's not when when somebody says to the
Lord like do you know Kerry do you know
Jen the answer is like yes let me tell
you about them yeah right and so there's
nothing that is hidden from him like he
he knows us completely completely which
is so I'm believable and and it's kind
of interesting how and I think maybe
this is a little bit of influence from
like Eastern thought and like meditation
and how we're supposed to be very
introspective and to know yourself and
right seventies or is the movement you
need to go and find yourself right
but what is the what's the value in that
and how much more meaningful is it for
the Lord to know you and for you to
acknowledge that you can't know
everything about yourself yes
you know verse six says well verse five
says you go before me and follow me you
place your hand of blessing on my head
such knowledge is too wonderful for me
too great for me to understand yeah
we're never gonna know ourselves so
completely as the Lord knows us yes and
it says in verse five you hem me in
which I always imagine a sewing machine
Oh making a video around us no having us
in behind and before you have laid your
hand upon me so when you get the picture
you have me in yep behind and before and
you have laid your hand on on me and and
the image here is a besieged city and so
when you think of a besieged city that
means they are hemmed in behind and
before there is no way out and that is
how close God is but then we're also
covered so I want to say there's no like
there's no place where we are not
covered by the Lord because this is you
hem me in behind before you have put
your hand of blessing upon me and what
is so like precious about that statement
because I spend a lot of time last week
thinking about this statement of you hem
me in behind and before that means you
have gone before me your coming behind
me you are walking beside me and you're
covering me from whatever my god like
just his his knowing of what I'm doing
and he is fully present right in that
and it's a loving knowing yes it's not
like oh I know that oh I saw that you
know yeah it's a loving knowing and it
says that the love of God His perfect
love casts out fear yeah knowing that
he's behind it before it's not like oh
your dad's coming home carry you better
pull up your socks so it's your dad's
there yeah he loves you
yeah and so when we say you know such
knowledge is too wonderful for me to
lofty for me to attain it doesn't matter
how much I study it doesn't matter how
much I meditate and pray on the Word of
God it doesn't matter how many godly
conversations I have I will never know
as much as God knows about myself and
about other people and I just sort of
sit back and go wow wow like you really
do care like you really do you really do
know me and I was sharing with Kerry we
had a prayer time at the church and it
was in that time of setting aside that
the Lord actually spoke to me things
that I didn't even realize were there
right and I was like wow God you you
care about me that much that when I
choose to set that time aside you really
are willing to meet with me and and to
show me those things that I'm struggling
with because you know them and you know
where those things will lead if I
continue to walk in them and so I I just
praise God this morning that when we
talk about shattering loneliness and how
it's caught up with this idea of being
known like God knows us completely
hmm I think we better just stop there
Jenn because we could just keep going
and going and maybe I'll just pray for
us and then we're gonna continue this
conversation next week okay
father thank you so much that you have
made us and know us you know every hair
on her head it's all numbered you know
every single day that's coming and every
word that's on our tongue even before it
gets there thank you that you know that
the thoughts of our heart and and you
protect us before and behind and have
laid your hand upon us we don't even
fully understand what that means Lord
but I pray God that you'd help us to
understand that you'd help us to worship
you as the one who knows everything I
thank you that you love and care for us
and I pray for the listeners or the
viewers God who maybe feel like nobody
knows me no one knows what I'm going
through no one can relate
God you know them and I pray that you
would impress upon their heart the fact
that you love them and you care about
them we thank you and we love in Jesus
well thank you for tuning in to episode
2 of shattering loneliness and we're
going to pick up this conversation next
week same time same place so come on
back see you then bye
you
