hello everyone and welcome to new every
day my name is Kari and my name is Jen
and on today's show we are in part four
of your welcome so come on in this is
new every day with Jen wagger edit carry
web
[Music]
hi everyone welcome back to new every
day thanks for tuning in thanks for
staying with us through our chapter ten
and now we're into Acts chapter 11 if
you've missed the previous episodes you
can go onto our website new every day TV
and you can find the previous episode so
you can forget brought right up to speed
with what's happened between Peter and
Cornelius in Acts chapter 10 to change
the course of the world so that the
gospel was open to non-jewish people yes
yes so we're gonna just jump right in
reading at chapter 11 Acts the Apostles
and the brothers wrote Judea heard that
the Gentiles also had received the Word
of God so when Peter came up to
Jerusalem the circumcised believers
criticized him and said you went into
the house of uncircumcised men and ate
with them Peter began and explained
everything into them precisely as it
happened I was in the city of Joppa
praying and in a trance I saw a vision I
saw something like a large sheet being
let down from heaven by its four corners
and it came down to where I was I looked
into it and saw four-footed animals of
the saw four-footed animals of the earth
wild beasts reptiles and birds of the
air and I heard a voice telling me get
up Peter kill and eat I replied surely
not Lord nothing impure or unclean has
entered ever entered my mouth the voice
spoke from heaven a second time
do not call anything impure that God has
made clean this happened three times and
then it was pulled back up to heaven
again right then three men who had been
sent me from Caesarea stopped at the
house where I was staying the spirit
told me to have no hesitation about
going with them
these six brothers also went along with
me and we entered the man's house he
told us how he had seen an angel appear
in his house and say send to Joppa for
Simon who was called Peter he will bring
you a message through which you and your
household will be saved as I began to
speak the Holy Spirit came to them as he
had come on us at the beginning then I
remembered that the Lord had said John
baptized with water but you will be
baptized with the Holy Spirit so
God gave him the same gift as he gave us
who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ
who was I to think that I could oppose
God when they heard this they had no
further objections and praised God
saying so then God has granted even the
Gentiles repentance unto life that's a
good synopsis that Peter provided to
help them understand and bring them up
to speed
yes you know sometimes in the church Jen
like I have if I heard about an
experience of another believer that I
personally have not experienced it's
easy for me just to like be like like
that is that's weird like are you sure
that's from God but then like as I can I
can think of a couple of speakers who I
totally would have written off as a
little too out there but you know maybe
the five or six years ago now I've taken
the time to listen them and listen to
them and hear them explain their
experiences with God and prayer and
praying for people and my heart is open
to it but it took them explaining it
like Peter just did for me to truly
appreciate him praise God that there's
more to this gospel and living in this
kingdom than I ever realized yeah and I
was Peter who had to explained his
experience right so so often I guess as
I was reading it when God says something
to you and you just think well why
aren't they getting it well no we have
to explain it to people sometimes like
what God has said to us what God is
calling us to and yeah and like when we
talk about sharing with others and
getting people on board
it takes time like people need to hear
the story like they have to work it
because like you said there were stuff
going on in your own heart Yeah right
and you had to think about it and think
it through and and you know what is the
Word of God saying and okay this is your
experience how does it match up with the
Word of God well actually I can see how
it would match up with the Word of God
and we can also say well God doesn't
speak to me like that so
what makes you think you're so special
that you heard this one especially when
this particular rule has been so like
ingrained into them like what were you
doing at uncircumcised people's houses
like all the way throughout the Old
Testament like David in order to get the
the hand of the daughter of Saul had to
go and circumcise you know those
Philistines right and then in the story
of Tamar or Dinah with Israel's only
daughter right and they said well no
your whole your whole little town has to
be circumcised in order to have our
sister as a wife right now they clear
applauding but they are plotting but it
is a it was a big deal in the Jewish
faith like you just you don't associate
with these people because they're not
part of unclean in there they're not a
part of us and that's because that's
what circumcision meant it was you are
now a part of our faith because you're
circumcised yeah and so eat that no but
later on Paul talks about like it's not
actually physical circumcision of the
flesh flesh it's circumcision of the
heart that God removes removes the old
and gives us a new way of living yes
and yeah it's truly remarkable and if
you were saying how like God works in
people's hearts beforehand and draws
them to like seek after him
yes different way and be open and
thinking about Cornelius as I was
thinking about him this morning I
thought about where Jesus says in
Matthew chapter 7 where he says it's
Matthew chapter 7 verse 7 keep on asking
and you will receive what you ask for
keep on seeking and you will find keep
on knocking and the door will be open
for you for everyone who asks receives
and everyone who seeks finds and to
everyone who knocks the door will be
open yeah I think about him
asking like he's seeking God and then he
actually physically in goes and knocks
on Peters door through other people and
he receives mm-hmm and I just as we
stopped for a break here think about how
you have asked God for more of him or a
better understanding of the gospel yes
how have you sought him in the daily
mm-hmm and then how are you knocking are
you knocking by you know listening to
Christian programming are you knocking
by going and speaking to other people
who have experienced him maybe just give
that a thought when we take a break
we'll be right back
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey thanks
for staying with us on new every day go
to our website noon every day TV check
out our partners page you can see the
organizations and businesses who make
this show possible and if you would like
to make a donation through patreon you
can go to our website you know radio TV
and check out how to do that so Jen
where'd we leave I well here we are
Pierre is explaining to the church in
Jerusalem what just went down and the
fact that you know God is accepting now
of Gentiles he's welcoming Gentiles and
it made it very obvious that they
received because they received the Holy
Spirit and and he goes on to say how
it's it's no longer it's you don't have
to worry about them being Gentiles and
being separated from them you've got to
tell them - about Jesus so because
before when with the persecution of Saul
they right dispersed but they went to
tell other Jewish pockets in throughout
the world or the Stephen
yes personal names the stoning a state
stephen through the persecution of paul
yeah well solve is behind that and so
the the people went to other jewish
groups that were in other areas right
they weren't going to gentiles they're
going to other jewish groups yeah so now
Paul is saying no no no it's not just
about going to other Jewish groups
everybody it's for everyone you have to
talk to everyone at though
who Jesus is and I was just saying to
Kerry during the break isn't it
interesting because I was reading the
little commentary on the side here and
and it says that the lesson of chapter
10 34 and 35 which is let me read it to
you 34 35
I now realize how true it is that God
does not show favoritism but accepts men
from every nation who fear Him and do
what is right right that is the key if
you want to know what it means to serve
God you fear Him and you do it as right
through the power of Jesus who has room
for giving you over your sins
so the hen and then verse 1118 which
says and when they heard this they had
no further objections and praised God
Gentiles repentance unto life now what
it says is this lesson was not easily
learned even by Peter who received the
lesson because collations 2:11 so that's
in the go eat popcorn session section
Galatians Ephesians Philippians
Colossians but go eat popcorn go you
popcorn yeah 2:11 that is so good
theater section of the Bible here we go
so this is 2:11 when Peter came to
Antioch I opposed him to his face
because he was clearly in the wrong
before certain men came from James he
used to eat with the Gentiles when Elias
yeah but when they arrived he began to
draw back and separate himself from the
Gentiles because he was afraid of those
who belong to the circumcision group the
other Jews joined him in his hypocrisy
so that by their hypocrisy even Barnabas
was led astray when I saw that they were
not acting in line with the truth the
gospel I said to Peter in front of them
off you were a Jew yet you live like a
Gentile and not like a Jew how is it
then that you forced Gentiles to follow
Jewish customs and so it's like Peter
who had received the message he was the
message receiver you know he's still
stumbled a bit because he was afraid of
man
he was afraid of what other people are
gonna think about him he chose pressure
uh yeah chose fear man instead of fear
God and so you know you might have made
a friend with someone at work that you
normally wouldn't make a friend with and
then somebody comes along and says oh
why are you hanging out with that which
is so high school I know
yeah but happens okay like I was shocked
like I've been in the workforce for a
while now yes but being shocked by like
working with other women
that's really how it goes down and they
really say that like what are you doing
at them and God is and like but and
that's why Paul is like what's wrong
with you like they're you're not
supposed to be doing this in fact you're
the one that told us that we aren't
supposed to be doing this but Peter
bowed to fear and so it's like oh Lord
search my heart can Vic my heart
squeeze my heart help like almost make
it so I can't breathe when that happens
like sort of like that that suffocation
feeling comes over the Holy Spirit it's
just gripping you so tight that you're
like okay this is wrong this is wrong
father forgive me I need to spend time
with this person yeah I don't care who
says you know whatever what you know
whether from there from a different
socio-economic you know station in life
or they're from a different different
whatever yeah whatever
if God has called you like he did to
Peter yeah then he wants you to be with
that person and if you have to do the
ask three times thing then ask three
times but when you get the third time
then you got to do it I think I'd do it
and then you got to walk it out hi there
my name is Robbie
I'm the director producer of new every
day I work behind the scenes each week
to do my best to ensure the show arrives
to you looking and sounding as good as
can be well this week we had an issue
where the camera ran up a space which
we've promptly addressed but
unfortunately it means the show got cut
a little short because we were so close
to the end we decided to publish the
show even though it is ever so slightly
truncated so as the technical brains
behind the show I'm response
not only for the production itself but
for making sure Kerry and Jen have what
they need to make the show possible
that's everything from lighting and
microphones a camera and a tripod and
occasionally a windshield mount for when
they're on the road if there's one thing
that has shown itself to be true in the
technical department anyways this week
it's that an upgrade to our camera would
make a world of difference not only to
Kerry and Jen as they present the show
but also to you the viewers who would
benefit from an upgrade as the video
quality improves so we've borrowed a new
camera from one of our partners vnh
photo video in support of new every day
they've loaned us a beautiful new camera
to use over the next several weeks and
beginning next week you'll see how it
looks and sounds here's a preview hello
and thank you so much for tuning in
again to new everyday we are talking
about life hacks Jen and last week we
touched on communication skills and the
value of actually listening to people at
the end of the loan period will be given
the opportunity to buy the camera if we
like now it's not always clear how
category 5 TV relates to new every day
so I'd like to take this opportunity to
explain a bit about how things work
around here
category 5 TV was founded in 2007 and
has been going strong since that time
we've built up the network over the
years and had begun looking for a
dedicated and talented team to put
together a weekly faith program as a
Christian myself it means a lot to me to
be able to use the talents God has given
me and the platform I've been blessed
with to provide viewers like you a
weekly program to uplift and enlighten
and encourage a closer walk with God so
new everyday was born back in 2015 and
has been going strong ever since
category 5 TV funds and furnishes new
every day and makes sure that they have
everything they need to provide their
weekly ministry but that said category 5
TV itself is a viewer supported network
and we're still all volunteers including
myself and viewer contributions help us
to grow and provide this free content
week after week so when Jen and Kerry
talk about supporting new every day on
patreon but the patreon page shows a
bunch of tech program
a seemingly unrelated community it's
important for you to realize that we're
all the same family and category five TV
is here to fund new every day so your
support of category five TV directly
impacts new every day as well as the
other programs we offer now I'm not
asking for money I just wanted you to
know how we're all connected if you
notice the difference in quality over
the next few weeks and want to support
the purchase of a new camera for new
every day please by all means become a
patron of category five but either way
we'd love to hear from you and know how
you are enjoying the program and all
that we're trying to do with new every
day you can email me directly if you
like contact at category five dot TV
we'd love to hear from you and I'll of
course be sure to share your comments
questions and prayer requests with Jen
and Kerry I'm happy to answer any
questions you may have as well thank you
for watching new every day we're excited
about what God is going to be doing with
the show in 2018 we pray continue
blessings on you and those you hold dear
Happy New Year from the entire team both
on camera and behind the scenes at new
every day and category-five TV
catch a new episode of new everyday
every Friday morning at new every day
dot TV
we're also on Kodi Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
