hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Jen and this is my friend Jane and we
are talking about money matters so stay
tuned we'll be right back
[Music]
and welcome back to me everyday I'm
Statia my friend Jane is here and she
was here with us last week talking about
finances and we ended the last week's
show with well if the way of getting out
of debt is making a budget mm-hmm how do
we make a budget so how does one if it's
if I've never made a budget before right
how do I go about starting right that's
a great question so if you've never
budgeted before I'll tell you what I did
when I had to learn to budget and yes I
did have to learn to budget and no I was
not 19 when I learned how to budget so
were you already in the financial I was
I have been in the financial industry
for probably 25 years and you'd never
budgeted correct I don't feel quite for
that and I had not been doing finances
God's Way okay either so let's just you
know clarify that so God had to do a
huge work in me to get me where I am
today and I'm still a work in progress
okay so I still falter I still have
situations that I don't give over to God
with my money and I have a tendency of
calling up mine and not his so I am
still a work in progress so but so it's
never too late to start but it is never
too late to start budgeting out so what
I did is because I'm a visual person I
actually got a little small notebook and
for one month I recorded every penny I
spent so I didn't make any changes in
that first month I did exactly what I'd
been doing I wanted to first determine
where my money was going and the only
way to do that is to keep track of it so
it's a pain to do but it's crucial to do
it because you will see a pattern
developing and you will see where it is
that your money is going and then you
will be in a better position to
determine what changes need to be made
in your life so so you're not talking
about just bills no you
are talking about like the 50 cents that
your child asks you to go get like some
penny candy everything okay record every
penny if your paycheck is five hundred
$3.75 and it's all gone then you have to
account for five hundred $3.75 okay okay
so keep oh yes so keep track is the
first thing and then the second thing is
if you're married you had please please
please do this together and agree on it
together and then together sit down and
determine where the patterns are and
then agree together what are some
initial steps that you can take to make
changes so look at patterns so for
example are you each stopping at Tim
Hortons in the morning on your way to
work are you because you were running
late did you grab a coffee and a bagel
for example and that was your breakfast
so you know look for those kinds of
patterns and then determine what changes
you can make in your spending habits and
then that really is what a budget is is
writing out where your money goes and
then make changes to that because either
one of two things has to happen
you either have more money coming in or
you have to eliminate what goes out to
have a balanced book
so either you somebody needs to get a
second job or a third job or you need to
eliminate some things out of your
spending and you have to decide as a
family what that's going to look like so
because as I was listening change that
it was so important that if you're
married that the husband and wife are on
the same page with this you are one one
and so I'm going to guess that very
often people will come in to you mm-hmm
with the thought what's coming and
saying how do we get out of debt so we
can you know with the comma yes or maybe
with the hope that it is a period yes
but they have two very different mindset
yes
have either two very different mindsets
or I will here it is very common to hear
my wife is the spender or yeah my
husband
so which right there says they are not
on the same page because they are
blaming one another instead of saying we
like honestly folks if you're married it
is our debt these are the changes we are
going to make is a much different
attitude towards making changes it's not
just an attitude about the debt but it's
also about that attitude of willingness
to make changes to that right because
it's so easy to blame that other person
and vice versa right because usually
what you do to someone they will do back
to you so if you blame your spouse well
you are always spending the money and if
they can easily take back yeah but you
never give me any money to us right n
that's right where you put me in charge
of the finances or whatever right hold
this so the blame game just becomes like
ping right on just going back and forth
and back and forth right so it's so
important that if if you together or one
of you says there's an issue here with
our spending with our debt load then you
both have to agree in order to really
move forward in this right you get some
sort of handle on it and move forward
right now the ideal would be that
because often it it actually is one
usually who has a greater difficulty
with it than the other but if that one
isn't honest with their spouse in
already early in their relationship it
ought not to be at a point when you're
you know in financial difficulty it
ought to be already early in your
relationship that we talk about money
before we get married
that would be like what we should be
doing is talking about money before we
get married
talking about how we're going to manage
and who's going to look after it and am
I good with money
having that open and honest conversation
with one another about you know Jen I'm
not good with money
so it would be better if you just gave
me an allowance and then that's all I
got Andrea you looked after our money
that really helpful I'm well I get a
handle on this right right
so I'm going to pause for a commercial
break and I the question I want you to
ask or even mall around your head is
what is like what is your attitude
towards money like are you a spender are
you a like have you blamed someone else
for saying well I spend this money
because so really what is your attitude
towards money and getting out of debt
and this whole idea of budgeting because
when Jane mentioned you know write
everything down I'm just like take all
the fun out of everything so think about
that for a few minutes and we'll be back
right after this commercial break
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
alright
you're a terrible actor what does where
acting comes into play oh I don't know
what Isaac you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own calm
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cap 5 GB flash
DreamHost
still out of a paper sorry just
don't do it but hey
it's a great deal folks sto you're going
to find five dollars and change per
month put a cap v dot T V / dreamhost hi
and welcome back to new every day
thank you so much for tuning in if you
are interested in helping out with the
financing of this show and helping it
move forward every week then we
encourage you to visit our website at
new every day dot TV so please check us
out there and see how you can help
financially support us a we - men help
you so we ended off right before we went
to the commercial break asking some more
personal questions like what is my
attitude towards that am i offender do I
blame other people or what is my hedgy
towards you know keeping track of
everything so I just I was saying to
Jane okay I've kept track of everything
and I give it to you now what now what
we do is at this point all I've done is
kept track that's right okay so you've
kept track so the first thing that we
would do together is we would figure out
what are some of those discretionary
spending that we can eliminate from your
spending so for example for many of us
to enjoy our Tim Hortons coffee it might
be the number of times we stop at Tim
Hortons for example or are we stopping
for an extra large Tim Hortons and do we
need to make that a small or a medium
Tim Hortons instead right so Tim Hortons
is a coffee place randa if you're tuning
in in in the states then it'd be like
you're Dunkin Donuts or abroad might be
any number of coffee comedy places but
you have a drive-through mo Hortons
coffee place that literally it's on
every single corner so we don't say
we're going to stop for coffee we say
we're going to stop for Tim Horton
that's right so mm-hmm yes yes so when I
did my own budget about stopping for
coffee was one of my things and so what
I did is I determined after I had worked
through my budget what was a reasonable
sum of money that I would allow myself
for coffee and I actually put that on
hard on a because here in Canada you can
buy it Tim Hortons card and you load
some money on it and that was it so when
it was gone it was gone so if I chose to
stop every day then that meant after
three days I wasn't going to have coffee
okay right so I'm just like so something
like that can work but that's just one
example of what could work so that to me
is a discretionary spending because many
of us if not all of us would have a
coffeemaker at home and a good thermal
mug you can make your own coffee at home
and obviously eliminate the bulk of your
your cost for stopping for a coffee and
for many people it's not just a coffee
that they're stopping for they're
stopping for a coffee and a muffin or
coffee and a bagel because they didn't
they love work for work too late and
didn't have time for breakfast at home
so preparing in advance and having the
right food in the house so that you're
you know bringing your own grabbing a
banana off the table doesn't take any
more time than going through Tim Hortons
and it's a lot healthier for you all
right
things like that so this whole idea
about getting out of debt I think part
of it is it's going to take a time
commitment and forethought like you said
you go to the grocery store and you
actually think ahead mm-hmm or you make
meals the night by ahead or you don't go
to bag so late right in the morning you
can get so it really does come down to
you have to plan planning you you have
to plan yes and you so planning is is
key and and again it's I can't stress
enough that if you are a married couple
you have to both be on the same page it
will not work if only one of you is
committed to getting out of debt and you
cannot compare yourself to everyone
around you this is between you and God
and what God is calling you to do so
make those changes and live out the way
he's calling you to and ask him to walk
beside you which he is anyway but just
ask them to help you along the way as
you're working through and so
discretionary spending in one mm-hmm and
the other is that whole idea of what do
I really need okay so many of us I
believe many of us here in North America
particularly struggle with calling
something a need that is actually a want
so for example I need cable is not
really in need we do not need cable TV
or satellite we don't know that up
service we don't need internet either
no we don't need internet either okay
I'm just saying we don't need it there
are options and and I would argue that
those of you who are parents who say yes
my children need internet because of the
school projects if we as parents took
time to take those our kids to the
library we could actually accomplish
those school projects at the library and
the library has free internet
so I'll just argue that right back at
you because it's so easy to say but I
need the TV like I need the satellite I
need the cable I need the internet well
I also need my air conditioning set at
65 versus like opening the windows
mm-hmm okay and we also need two jobs we
both need to work because we have to pay
the mortgage okay for what size house is
it that we're living in Oh getting close
to home like because well don't you need
a room for yourself in a room for each
of your kids and then when you have
somebody come over you need a room for
them and then we need an office this is
so easily you need at least four
bedrooms do you know how many times she
said need specific needs me yeah yes
mm-hmm
you're saying none of those were needs
mm-hmm choices it is choices okay
yes friends of mine chose when they
first got married to live in a smaller
house mm-hmm so their daughters shared
in rooms and because family time and
paying off the mortgage was more
important than everybody having their
own space that they could retreat to
mm-hmm so for them it was like no family
is important for us so the smaller house
is really all we need Co so often at
least in North America it's like you
start off in a small apartment it's like
okay we have kids and it just gets
bigger and bigger and then you have to
downsize anyway mm-hmm
but most of the time I think you're
right it's like what do we need mm-hmm
and so we figured out what the
discretionary stuff is and what the
needs are right so and the reason I
mention that is really because as I had
said previously the in order to get to a
balanced budget one of two things has to
happen you either have to have more
money coming in or you have to eliminate
some of what's going out that's it so if
you if getting a second job at this
point is not an option or having more
money come in is not an option then you
have to find ways to eliminate from what
you're spending so to me you look for
those things that are immediate and
obvious so you know eating out is an
immediate and obvious thing that you can
eliminate stopping and an internet and
and cable would be another immediate and
obvious one that we might have to
eliminate from our budget okay I'm just
saying and perhaps if you are a two-car
family perhaps you may need to look at
going down to one vehicle and seeing
what that might look like
I always smile because in our previous
conversation with Jane Kerry was a part
of it yes and she said to me she's like
you know what I loved with our
conversations Jane she said you know
it's cheaper by a snowsuit than it is to
buy a car then Jane doesn't own a car
she actually walks everywhere she goes
and it is cheaper it's a snow suit and
you can be healthy and it's been really
interesting to watch how God has
provided for you in many really cool
ways because and it sounds weird
surrender my need for a car to God so I
can be financially free that sounds like
craziness because I know when I left my
previous job I said to them like I know
like I know I said to the Lord God I
live in Canada mm-hmm I need a place to
say so I need a warm place over my head
because we have cold winters and I need
food to eat because I'm human and I need
a car because my house is in the middle
of nowhere so I need a car so the
thought of surrendering a car when
because you live by yourself so it's not
as if you're like okay I'm going to
borrow you know your car today it's like
hmm now in all fairness that's
absolutely true I I do not own a car
currently I do have my driver's license
though and I do really enjoy driving and
I would love someday to be able to own a
car but it just not right now God has
said no right now and so it's no right
now but I live and work within a
distance of one another that it makes it
such that I'm able to walk and it's been
pretty interesting for me just that
journey of surrendering that because I
did have my own car I am a very
independent person and so surrending
that to God was actually quite a journey
for me to be able to to give that up
hmm yeah and give that over so I should
say we're going to pause right there
whenever we get together saying we're
pushing pause but it's not about that
mess we're going to pause right there
could she have said something rude
be cool the whole idea of surrendering
that to God and there's something about
when our finances need to get in order
it comes with surrendering to God first
so we're going to give you another week
to think about this to think about okay
what about budgeting and what are my
discretionary things that I'm spending
that I shouldn't be or what are my
thinking my needs are but they're not
really needs their wants and I want you
to sort of percolate on that throughout
the coming week and just say God okay
where am i fine answer that this week
and so we're going to pray and then
we'll find out so Heavenly Father I
thank you so much for Jane and this
conversation and this whole idea of what
our needs and what our wants and and how
does how does that contribute to my my
debt load in in finances and so father I
ask for our viewers this week that you
would encourage them to be honest with
you to let you sort through some of
their finances and purchases and and
Lord since you wanted to be financially
free so we are released to do the things
you've called here so we ask you minute
for house pray this is amazing
so thank you so much for tuning in this
week you look forward to seeing you back
here again next week have a great
