hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is jen and on
today's show we're going to be talking
about a series of unfortunate events on
Jen and James African adventure so stay
tuned
[Music]
turn
welcome back to new every day so glad
that you've tuned in we have a very
special guest with us this is Jane wrote
Jane is a friend of ours and a member of
our church family so welcome Jane thanks
so much for coming on the show thanks
for having me so Jen I'm going to let
you jump in you guys went on a very
exciting African adventure and you want
to just kind of introduced to our
viewers kind of where you went and and
why so our church is has an association
with the Free Methodist Church in Ghana
which is a country in Africa and since
taking on the role of the lead pastor at
our church I thought it would be really
important that I actually go over and
see what the mission is like and you
know how we can fit in basically I was
thinking of myself like one of the spies
at the end of numbers she's always fun
to be a CIA but basically going into
surveying land I going in checking out
the people like what is it that we're
doing and how how would we see ourselves
moving forward with this mission all
right and so when the opportunity came
up for me to go I returning to Jane
going hey you want a good a goner and
what a Dane say sure what it was like
that just like that were you like i got
to go think about it sure so what means
it is so quickly um because i had been
once before in 2011 and i had just said
to God at that time if the opportunity
goes again I'd love to go again and so
then when Jem said hey I'd like to go
and what do you think sure yeah so again
and I think we actually determined that
if we probably would get all along well
because we had spent one day together
yeah so Owen Jane good let me guess and
that's right it's to put basically that
in car for 10 ish or 10 hours of
straight driving yes was
near where we live this man to an island
and there's a coastal drive where you
can go up to tobermory and across
manitoulin island across the parry sound
and down yeah the whole thing I know I
love doing this and I kind of the same
love doing this to now I'm so happy for
you does thought of that and everybody
venturing but she does not like the
prospect of being in a car just for the
sake of the dry she would rather get out
and all the wonderful people whereas I'm
like tick tick tick tick I need to apply
my butt but we mark a negative but how
many people we have Congress team I
anyways um after that you're like hey we
could probably do this like we traveled
very well together and did you both kind
of think that like you owes me like that
yeah which was really strange because
I'm like how did we even think that that
what if we have to share a room don't we
have to share our bed like what is that
basically how like I just said hey you
want to go she said yes and a gentleman
from our church goes over every year
because with the way our government is
set up our national government in Canada
with our relationship with the church
over there somebody from our side has to
go over there and basically audit the
books to make the money that we send
over is accounted for interesting to
send the money over they the Canadian
government needs to know where the money
is going so that we're not you know
sponsored by the languor and yeah making
it a shelter for something yeah yes so
so because he was going be said hey we
would like to join you and he said sure
no problem okay interesting and so you
know everything was set up and about two
weeks beforehand he's like so pastor
Chen do you have your yellow fever shot
and I'm like oh yeah yeah I think hard
and I'm like does it under a different
name oh nice maybe in a flattened mr.
Ford she went with us is a very
intelligent man you looked at my cardie
said nope estrogen your yellow fever
shop is not like don't worry I'll get it
looked after so then one day I get this
panic text from Jen hey do you know any
travel clinics in the area cuz I need my
shot and so as it worked out I called
around to all the travel clinics and I
was able to get an appointment for like
the next more effort yeah the next
morning to go to this travel clinic
which is about two hours an hour and a
half away from us so I get there I'm
driving down the road and the world is
like clothes off with fire trucks one
like isn't this intercept you like the
last time I was down this road there
sparked so I forgot a car I paid for
parking I walk around and the flower
minister me and so I walked up and I'm
about to go in the building and they're
like ah you can't flow in the building
you probably stepped over the tape what
line can't go in to do a better while it
was like I'm the past terminaste and you
said I thought there's been a fire here
and so if I roll em has been pulled and
so we've had to go cheese on them look
you've got to be joking look I'm going
to Donna like next week or into I need
to get this shot he's like when's your
appointment like 330 and it was like
quarter past three and like you gotta be
joking Wow so anyways long story short
they ended up booking me in for an
appointment following day I'd say right
in Toronto and I got my yellow fever
shot got my passport and everything back
to show you're not telling the passport
story oh well I thought my pastor was
perfectly fine well it was for the most
part except for it had to be good for
six months up to see when he come back
not five and so if mr. Ford being as
great as he is
online and he filled it in for me and
bring it it off and handed it to me and
says pastor Chen just fill in these
other areas and I was like thank you
very much and what a pound I oh he takes
very good care of all the details that I
overlooked so anyways Jane was being
very gracious because she didn't say
anything about it like differ okay I'm
sighs I'm thinking that that we got it
all sent away and we got it back like
what five days before you left five days
yes ample time well it's been on day
four that's right yeah because something
else happened two days that's ready my
goodness this for you tag in jeans yes I
say contain and I say that's probably a
good idea we'll be right back with more
a series of unfortunate events in Africa
thank you Jeff Weston gentlemen you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know where r think
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cap five gb flash
dreamhost still ahead of a papers on it
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV / dreamhost
welcome back to new every day thank you
so much for staying tuned we also want
to thank our partners and if you go to
our website new everyday TV and click on
our partners page you can see all of the
amazing organizations and business who
have businesses who have partnered with
us to make this show possible we also
want to thank you the viewers who
basically tuned in we're so grateful and
jen and i always say we really enjoyed
doing this because we learned so much
through conversation and in sharing with
you and then getting feedback from you
whether it's on our facebook page or on
the website so thank you so much and
thank you James for coming to hang it
with us today and so we are talking
about the unfortunate series of
unfortunate events leading up to your
African adventure we havin again Liana
he hadn't gone the plane of stuff
happening that seems to be like setting
roadblocks to you guys getting there so
what happened in your case so we were
scheduled to leave on Tuesday februari
the seventh Sunday februari the fifth I
passed out in church during prayer at
the front of the church and was taken by
ambulance to the hospital and there was
some type of anomaly that was determined
and they kept using these words we want
to make sure you didn't have a heart
event so I'm like I don't know what
you're talking about what is the heart
event which apparently may be a nice way
of saying like a little heart attack or
a precursor to a heart attack
anyways so I was in the hospital for 24
hours and in that time I was it so I
just want to say I felt so loved by my
church family it was it was if i can say
it was a blessing to me because my
church family just loved on me very very
well and I had I was just like okay
large I don't really know what's going
on but whatever it is I'm just I'm just
going with it whatever is going on I'm
going with it so the cardiologist on
Monday morning came and said great news
I can get those tests in for you
tomorrow and I said um actually that's
not good news because I'm supposed to be
getting on a plane tomorrow to Ghana and
he's like ghana ghana oh good i said
west africa oh oh okay well let me get
on the phone call oh that's kind yes so
anyways are they ran the tests on monday
and that doesn't happen no no no and and
I was given clearance so I was released
from the hospital Monday afternoon and
yeah it it was it was just interesting
it was just really interesting it was
like I was everything was outside of my
control so I like to lead a very orderly
controlled life and I had you know
everything planned out what I was going
to do on sunday what I was going to do
on monday because i had laundry i still
needed to get done and then I had to go
to work on Monday and then I had to pack
and I had all these things in my mind it
was ordered ago and all of it was taken
from me and it was an interesting
experience but but it was it was great
because I was like okay God like
whatever I'm just all right whatever
goes in the suitcase goes in the
suitcase I don't even care
go and what was interesting one of the
members of our church who is also a
nurse SAT with you during that time with
the doctor and she was listening for
some key words about community can Jane
go to Africa with this heart event
mm-hmm and now I'm thinking like oh my
goodness insurance and voided and all
and stuff and so she SAT there listening
to what the doctor had to say and she
can pray Lord make it very clear yeah
yeah and so the doctor I believe said
enjoy your trip to Ghana and so like are
going holy got excited about that that
okay like yep the doctor said that
because her husband's actually doctor
and they're very cautious I'm told what
they can say to their patients right so
she knew what to listen for us the been
so when he said enjoy your trip to Ghana
she was like yes like yeah yeah well I
was like woohoo cited and you know
what's crazy is like when all these
speed bumps come up it's so easy to then
just like okay I'm getting in the
driver's seat and i'm going to start
rearranging all of these things to make
things happen and work and sometimes
that's not even feasible nor is it
necessarily trusting great God's going
to work it out right well cuz it doesn't
end there right now okay well we get on
the plane the plane is delayed for two
hours because there's a massive ice
storm then he had to come out with these
giants like Star Wars looking apparatus
and blast like the ice the wings I've
never seen this before I've never seen
that for our whole thing so spent two
hours it's a measure waiting like are we
even that are we even going to make our
flights and play because we we flew to
Belgium and then we had we were supposed
to have three hour layover oh but you
were already two hours away yeah yeah
that's not very big cushion no pain like
slice in the gah are
common right not like we're all in
Florida now so we get there and
literally we stepped off the plane we
walked to the gate and they're already
lining up yes so we had to go from one
terminal in Belgium from one terminal to
another terminal so where you runnin
like home alone no no we were not
running like home alone but we did not
have time for starbucks no we passed a
starbucks really know when our
throughout almost yes we got into those
different build that goes to africa and
there was hardly anything matter nothing
anyway hey it's not even plantain chips
no no we did have a Snickers bar ok and
slap Snickers bar that's ready very good
and so we get on the plane no problem we
get there meet superintendent Ahmed who
is looks after the Ghana mission okay so
methodist there and he's like no problem
we'll meet tomorrow morning eight
o'clock mm-hmm they're like okay we'll
be ready to go tomorrow morning eight
o'clock and so we get there and we get
in the car and he's like well there's a
slight air conditioning problem and I
will not drive to the north which is
about a 10 hour drive 10 hours yeah and
it gets hotter in a car north yes and
the temporal temperature was already
like 30 35 yes there's he'll go outside
yeah yeah I'm not paranoid yeah it was
it was hot this one says there's no way
I'm driving to the north and once we
have air conditioned so we're just
thought for a moment so you can get a
fixed while we waited for an hour and a
half mmhmm yeah and we watch chicken
soup of all this open-air restaurant and
today I'm car chickens and goats and
cars oh yeah and put a bill appoint you
you've made it you're in Gone yes so he
comes over to us we said it will become
more comfortable for you if we take you
back to the hood stuff so we went back
to the hotel and finally he me says
for not leaving today we'll have to
leave tomorrow morning is on to get a
different vehicle and work it's just
very interesting when we started
thinking through the series of
unfortunate events because you can start
to think well am I not
to be here waking me the passport yell
tears out my issue hahaha out of bed
right the ice storm delay can't plan
those things you weren't like k i'm
going to get up there and i think
because that goat you don't you just
don't plan these things you're right and
it's like okay like am I supposed to be
going and yet I did not want to have a
glitch in my spirit to say no I don't
want you to go hmm and it sometimes I
think we can get sidetracked when we
feel God has called us to do something
with all these unfortunate events happen
and we can think well maybe I just
shouldn't go but okay so what's the
difference in that where you know how
people say well they look for a sign
like what's the difference between that
and and your friend who is with you in
the hospital looking for a definitive
sign that it was okay for you to go do
you know what I mean like if people if
you if people are judging events whether
good or bad to kind of ascertain God's
will and them being there how how do you
know definitively whether you're in the
right spot or not and I'm kind of asking
because this question has come up before
right like what are you what are your
thoughts on man I think you should have
affirmation from more than one person
like I think if you are relying on your
own perception of whether this
unfortunate event is simply that an
unfortunate event whether there whether
it's you know spiritual warfare or
whether it's just an unfortunate event
or whether it is God trying to stop you
from going I believe that you will have
more there will be it will be reinforced
by other people so to me knowing that a
friend was praying specifically for
clear a clear indication for clearance
that was that was the prayer she needed
answered I was just saying Lord whatever
like I wasn't even saying Lord make it
clear to me do you want me to go I was
just like Lord well however this works
out whatever whether I get to go where I
don't get to go my life is yours so
whatever you want I'm okay
and so I was just trying to ride the
wave really so I don't think I wasn't
really looking for an answer I just
thought you know what I uncomfortable
like there was no sense in my spirit
that God was saying Jane I don't want
you to go it was more I just need you to
trust me I thought I really got the
sense I had to like those controlled
events that i want was talking about I
just needed to let those go and this was
a way for God to get my attention and to
totally change the trajectory of what I
was going to do in those two days and
he's like no I have a different plan for
you and I've you've gotta trust that my
plan is best hmm so no you are not going
to go to work on Monday you are not
going to finish off all those client
files you're just gonna rest all right
let me let me let me kind of toss this
one in there do you feel that God
orchestrates unfortunate event for our
benefit or is it the enemy of our soul
who puts that stumbling block in there
that's a great question so we've already
had our commercial break I can't even
pause to let you think about no way man
actually don't we tell them what we're
talking about next week mmm-hmm so on
that note we're actually going to say
pause we're going to pray and we're
going to think about we're gonna let you
think about that for a whole week
actually does God orchestrate a
unfortunate event or is it the enemy of
our soul that is setting up roadblocks
so do some research talk to your friends
pray about it ask the Lord for some help
ask your pastor and so let's pray and
then sign of pluronic dear Lord we thank
you so much for this time together we
thank you that you are sovereign since
that you are aware of all things and a
series of unfortunate events does not
hinder you and so father God we ask that
as we take a cause for the next seven
days that were God you would speak to
our spirits as we think about whether or
not they are from you are from the enemy
Lord would you speak that and teach us
how to listen to your voice so that we
will not get sidetracked by a series of
unfortunate events how does to grow and
our trusted you as you spoke too soon we
asked if you're slowly impressive come
on thank you so much for tuning in and
we kind of leave you with a little bit
of a cliffhanger there but we hope that
you'll tune in next week as we talk
about the resolution to this question so
stay tuned tune in again next week same
time same Channel new everyday TV thanks
cheers
you
