for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 2 64 of
category 5 technology TV Tuesday October
the 9 2012 nice to see ya brings
everyone hey Hilary hey there how are
you doing hi fantastic for you hey I'm
doing pretty good you know we got
through the busiest kind of couple weeks
of category 5 history yes you know the
the 5th anniversary the launch of season
6 and all the stuff that's been going on
here at the studio with the changes that
you can see our viewers can't yet see
someday you will it's looking pretty
good I'm beyond the camera I'm feeling
it mmm what's here oh well just keeping
it real you know nothing i wish i had
some crazy story to report but wow I
don't you gonna make these things up
before the show you know next I love
well it's something better my crazy
story today i saw i was driving home
after work and there was a lady who was
driving and she was seriously grooving
to the music she was like like this i'm
like dude you're driving and she's like
so into this and then I realized she's
actually cranking her window with all of
her might as like oh ok now I understand
that's pretty funny actually it was at
the time yes hey good to see everybody
in the chatroom pires rock is joining us
for the first time a little while live
great to see you nice to have you here
mmm JP hey a gamoto dennis kelly ayotte
lots of people from whole gang back in
town yeah and if you're not in the chat
room you're watching live please do join
us if you're watching this after the
fact even come to chat room some of us
certainly hang out throughout the week
be nice to see you wats always going on
the chat room and it's also cool in a
chat room because we often do special
prizes and fun and jokes and things like
that
you don't get the full effect of the
jokes that we type in the chat room
folks if you don't join the chance to
hear that's what I have to say about
that yep and upward hey what are we got
coming up tonight lots coming up in the
world of technology news hmm for
instance Samsung is expecting record
profits coming up in the next little bit
for them I wonder why world of warcraft
cities have been massacred by hackers 0
sony's water-resistant xperia tablet is
being pulled from store shelves for not
being water-resistant hmm that's no good
weird and lastly the barcode had its
60th birthday on Sunday stick around
these stories are coming up later in the
show so we're going to be tonight we're
going to be looking at traveling back in
time we're actually going to do it i was
talking to Hillary about how this was
going to take place in the show we're
not talking post-production we're not
talking about any kind of camera tricks
or anything like that we're talking
about tapping into your computer's audio
buffer to be able to record from past
events Hillary walked in and we had the
conversation and said well I don't
really understand what you're talking
about I said well okay well imagine you
just walked in the door and we had this
conversation and then I decided whom I
should really record that I hit record
and it actually starts recording in the
past so that everything that we had said
is not lost we're going to learn how to
do that on our Linux computer tonight
sounds good to me for all you super
spies out there stick around also we've
got to we've got some prizes to give
away to our local viewers as well yeah
you were at the fifth anniversary show a
lot of fun there and we gave out ballots
they look something like like this bad
boy and get yours out tonight if you're
from barrier surrounding area you were
at the anniversary show and you've got
one of those ballots make sure you have
it out we're going to be calling out
numbers tonight we've got some great
stuff from thermaltake to give away
tonight very excited about that I also
want to remind you that you can send
your postcards to us we love to receive
those Hillary how can they send their
postcards get a pen and old fashioned
postcard and this is what you write
category 5 technology TV p.o.box 29
009 Barrie Ontario which of course is in
Canada l 4 and 7 w 7 love absolutely
love to receive your viewer postcards
it's a lot of fun for us to be able to
kind of pinpoint where viewers are
watching from and and it's kind of like
an old-school way of communicating with
you huh so if you if you don't have the
ability to send a postcard do send us an
email live at category 5 TV and you can
also visit our mobile site m dot at five
dot TV if you'd like to check us out on
your mobile device that's where you go m
dot cat5 TV or scan that QR code alright
sounds good to me we're gonna take a
real quick break Hillary after this
we're going to start with your viewer
questions if you have one force and
haven't sent it in get in the chat room
its category five on freenode and of
course you can also just get there
directly for our site on the interact
menu at category five TV so we will be
right back with your viewer questions
after this at eco alkalines we believe
you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines com this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Hillary Rumble
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the international association of
internet broadcasters thanks Hilary we
mentioned that we've got prizes for you
if you're from the berry area you were
at our fifth anniversary what do we have
here tonight bulky dude oh I see some
cool stuff Hillary's going to have to
hold them on yeah what do you got what
do you got and you've got our tickets
ready for you here we go okay prize
number one
whoa this is not just a water two point
oh this is a water to point Oh extreme
edition from thermaltake now you
remember the water two point O is a
self-contained non refilled like you'd
never have to refill this yes water
cooling system liquid cooling system for
your computer easy to install and this
is the extreme edition so this gives you
the ultimate solution for your computer
yes we're gonna get one of those away
and this bad boy from LA done this is
the leyden gaming mousepad also from
thermaltake but this is their eSports
line okay we're talking a little bit
about how cool this is because you think
about mouse pads and you always think
the traditional kind of small little
square but if you're gaming you're
always falling off of the edge or
whatever you got to lift up your mouse
and move it over yes this one has a much
larger surface area not only that but it
increases the resolution of your mouse
because it is such a good material
specifically designed to increase your
gaming speed ah so that is the late on
mouse pad we got to give one of these
away I say we give away the mouse pad
first sure and then we are gonna come
back with this after viewer questions as
well la la all right oh the suspense
mashaykhina right if you are from the
berry area of you were at our fifth
anniversary show you got one of these
tickets make sure you pull that out now
this is for the late on mouse pad i
wonder if i can open this up and show
the viewers the difference here I'm
fishing for a good way here we go here
we go okay standard mouse pad there it
is ladan ooh look at the difference
substantially larger substantially
larger thinner very nice material you
can see that it's actually the
particular material is for
high-resolution gaming look at that
hmmmm what do we got all right I'm
nervous I want to pick a good win not
that I know anybody who came to the show
and not that I want to win it's
completely random okay the winning
number is
eight six five six seven six if this is
your number and you are in the chat room
please let us know that you are there
you can also give us a call throughout
the wink 2545 cat5 TV they never go back
into the box and with the way they came
out there we go I got it good as new
it's in the box give us a call
throughout the week at our cat phone
line at the bottom of our website also
you can pop us an email live at category
5 TV if that's your number 8 6 5 6 7 64
a laden mouse pad from thermaltake
esports very very cool very very very
cool I'd say we've got more stuff to
give away tonight we've got that water
cooler system for your computer so don't
go anywhere keep those tickets handy all
right it's one prize per ticket so keep
that in mind beauty all right okay well
I got Rip rare and go here with some of
your questions fantastic take a roll
along okay this comes to us from JP hey
JP saying i was using mint cinnamon but
after doing some oh sorry after doing
some some people said it works while
others said it wasn't compatible so i
went to using ubuntu 12.04 it works but
I'm not a big fan of unity what distro
that you like best um what's oh sorry
what destroyed you like best for non
unity story of my life man trying all
the different distros that are out there
and then you know it's no I got to go
back to boone to I mean they've got
excellent support it's a good operating
system you got to admit it's a great
distribution but there are those of us
who just are not big on the unity
interface now for me personally I really
I fell in love with Zorin OS I mean
Albert are in the chat rooms and the
same thing zorn as a good one to use and
Chris Reich mentioning Debbie and I'm
going to talk about that for a second as
well but looking at Zorin OS if you're
looking for a desktop distribution that
is really clean out of the box that's
going to be the one right now that I
think that I can feel really confident
about about
ending i'm going to go to their website
zoran dash OS calm the it's just so
clean I mean they've kind of gone back
to the roots of desktop linux where it's
just meant to be really really sleek
solid hmm rock solid it's based on a
boon to so you know it's you know it's
got that at its core so what you're
looking for and a boon to those you know
stable updates because some would
complain that some will complain that
Ubuntu has kind of out-of-date
repositories but the fact is they're
very very particular about making sure
everything's stable so if you're using
this just the stable installation the
regular installation you pretty much I
wouldn't want a guaranteed but your tech
you know you're kind of guaranteed that
it's going to work quite well on most
hardware so Zorin OS takes that a boon
to core which is based on debian adds
more to it creates more of a
user-friendly desktop without unity
they've also crew created a system that
allows you to make it actually look like
specific operating systems for example
if you're a real windows fan windows 7
say you can actually skin Zorin OS to
look very very similar to windows seven
I mean I'm talking everything from the
positioning of the menu at the bottom to
the way that yeah the system itself
feels as you're using emily very very
similar so you're again stepping away
from unity there and you know how cool
is that there's also if you purchase now
some people will say well Linux I don't
want to have to pay for linux that's
fine there's a free version of Zorin OS
and it's got that but you can pitch in
well you know just give give a little
bit to the the software by purchasing
the software you can buy premium license
of Zorn OS Zorin OS ultimate and it's 15
euros plus three dollars shipping if you
want a disk or if you want to just
download it it's 10 euro so it's it's
basically I look at it as you're
donating to a really cool project and
you're getting some bonus features so
with the with the ultimate edition so
you go to get it get it up at the top
and then premium and you'll see the
ultimate edition over here right you can
purchase it as a download 32 or 64 bit
for 10 euros so think of it as it and
they even say on the button it's a
donation so you're donating to a really
great project that gives you the ability
also to scan it as mac OS 10 so it looks
very very similar let's see if I can
find a screenshot and it's not to mimic
let's not let's not get this wrong it's
not to necessarily mimic particular
operating systems okay what we're
actually doing here is we're creating a
platform there they're distributing a
platform that makes it easy for people
to get into linux because if i've been
using windows 7 for the past couple
years and that's what i'm used to to
migrate all of a sudden to unity is like
whoa and then I'm gonna say well I don't
like it I don't like the change it's too
severe Zorin OS gives us a chance to try
something that is more familiar helps us
kind of ease our way into Linux so now
oh well I'm not getting popups anymore
i'm not getting viruses oh i
accidentally clicked on that email from
my brother that he forwarded that had a
virus in it but it didn't do anything
that's the kind of experience you can
experiment expand system which is Zorin
OS so they're like i say there's a free
version there okay so on the website get
it free and you can actually download
either 32 or 64 bit of Zorn OS six all
right give it a try well we ran out of
it yeah talking about debian there was
mentioned in the chat room about Debbie
in there Chris Reich saying well that's
a good one as well Debbie and I would
say now take the next step okay so now
we've chosen Zorin OS as kind of the
entry level for linux so if i'm coming
from windows and i want to try it or if
i'm fairly new to linux or if I just
don't want to get my hands too dirty I
just want something that works and it
looks good it's functional it's got lots
of free software for it and it works out
of the box Zorin OS is the thing if on
the other hand you're a bit of a power
user you love Linux you know your way
around it enough to to know how to fix a
broken package to use apt-get
to you know do that kind of stuff to add
a repository if you know how to do those
things you might be more interested in
the customization of Debian because keep
in mind lubuntu is based on debian zorn
OS is based on a boon to so basically
what happens is debian is the base and
then they've customized it and now here
to boone two and then they've customized
that and now it's Zorin OS so you're
getting debian at its core and then
you're getting all these customizations
so if you feel confident that you want
to do the customizations to really make
it your own operating system start with
debian debian is a great place to be if
you're if you're a bit of a power user
that's what i use at the office so i use
debian squeeze which is the stable
addition and then i've added compiz and
you know the various things gnome
desktop so just like gnome 2.3 like just
an old version of Nome to make it feel
the way i want my linux to feel so so it
really depends on where you're at
alright cool thanks very much for the
questions Daniel Canada let us yeah
please do let us know very very
interested to know that you're trying
out different distributions and we'd
love to know what you find we're here to
help you too that's what the show is all
about right total asian sweet alright
moving onward and upward got me another
question here coming to us from to red
line can I just say in the chat room if
people are well I didn't I didn't that's
not my number we have more prizes to
give away ok so don't go anywhere stay
with us here ok sorry I dude it's ok
let's help people to nip that one in the
black people love the prizes they want
the prizes I love the prizes I love
giving you stuff folks he does yeah she
give her gifts from the heart and now
he's gonna give from the mind his
information there's all this pop there
ok want to be great if it's one of those
ones that I'm like I have no idea oh wow
now that she's let it up like that ok
sorry I've never even heard of it don't
know all right all right fast forward or
rewind I don't know which to redline
2x saying i donated a pc and installed
chemo for my son's daycare i removed all
the menu bars time etc from the desktop
how do i restore them when i need to
install new software for them hmmm
interesting question okay so you've set
up a bit of a kimmo kind of kiosk so the
kids can play on it and yeah they're not
affecting the actual system I'm gonna
there's a couple of ways you can do this
now of course you can launch a terminal
window ctrl alt T I think irken yeah I
think so I don't have hot keys on mine
is a ctrl alt T control shift T ctrl alt
T if you bring up a terminal and you
know the application name you can type
it in or you can type in nautilus it'll
bring up a like a nautilus window so
that you can browse and go to the
program and double click on the
executive all what I do though here's
here's my preferred method I love
setting up different sessions for
different different users and using the
different session managers so in your
case there I'll give you a usage case
example my kids use chemo on my wife's
computer but my wife of course doesn't
want to use kimmel she's using she's
actually using unity and she's using it
for all of her regular computer usage so
when the kids want to login she actually
does a switch session like a switch user
on that computer right so for me for
example I can click up here and I can
choose you know I can change where is it
on on this one there we go I just got a
couple of pretend accounts here so if I
wanted to switch to test your guy I
would click on it so in our case we have
a session called kids and the kids
session has the chemo session set to the
default but my wife session has unity
set to the default so in that way she's
able to swap back and forth and she's
able to make changes to the system for
example installing applications using
synaptic package manager she could do
that from her user account then she goes
back into Kim oh and and then uses I
suppose you just launched terminal use
not
and then with Nautilus you're able to
drag icons over to the kimmel menu for
example and do that kind of thing so
that's one way if you have known
installed you could try alt f2 and type
in Nome dash panel and that will load
your gnome panel so many different ways
you could do it depending on the way
that you set it up I like using multiple
sessions and then that way you've got
kind of an administrator account and
then the kids account is completely
separate and that way that they
literally cannot break anything or at
least you've got an administrator
account that you can use to create you
know to destroy that account and
recreate a new one so that it can be
kind of reverted so I hope that helps
really do good info hmm that was nice of
you to donate your computer very good
kids yeah that's a good way to do it i
think linux that's another great thing
about linux is it can breathe new life
and older systems as well so and
something like chemo makes it easy for
kids to use my kids love it they don't
they don't necessarily know the word
Linux yet but they know Kim oh just kind
of funny but Kim OH was basically just a
desktop it's a session so on Linux it
you can change the way each user's
account looks by using different
sessions whether it be known KDE kimmo
which i think is xfce based and you can
install them side by side right so it's
your never limited to a particular
layout on your entire computer it's on a
per-user basis smart yeah cool they love
it good idea I just noticed any question
in the chat room and I should while
we're in the chat room agra moto just
make oh i'll just mention that kimmo for
those who are curious about it now is
felt q i M oh yes all right let's see if
I have a hot link to it just because
some people are asking what its gonna
like what is that
yes not like ki at all q i M oh so the
the website is kim 0 for the number for
kids com q IMO for the number 4 k IDs
com that'll get you there in version 3
is out so it's a it's a the latest and
greatest version of Kim oh so check that
out okay sorry okay come back to the
chatroom question in the chat room
you're from come ohm Haida crew and
everybody you're awesome thank you to do
you see any chance of making the show
live work with Nash on debian wheezy
here i'm able to watch an archive on
youtube sorry how do you mean I'm not
sure I make the show live work with Nash
you mean like to be able to play it in
multimedia player rather than through a
web browser window is that what you mean
chem ohm is that it if you're talking
about streaming to your multimedia
player then that unfortunately is
outside of what we're able to do right
now hmm we're just kind of watching
frustrating yeah not Felicia it's a
media player anyways right so I am not
familiar with the player itself i'm not
sure what would be involved in making it
work it supports flash right so it would
depend on whether it supports particular
methods that we use I mean we're
streaming through justin.tv and ustream
TV live and then the show goes out
through our syndication networks through
our RSS feeds all over the world as m4v
files at you know in the HD front
there's mp4 files for the SD files mp3
Oh Albert are saying and that you mean
Nash instead of using flash so I'll have
to do some testing on that come home I
if you could simply pop me an email live
at category 5 TV if you could and and
source me with a little bit more
information I of course it wasn't I
wasn't aware that that you were having
any trouble using an open source
alternative I'd like to make that work
but again we're we're limited during the
live broadcast to what is provided by
justin TV and ustream TV these are
providers that allow us to stream the
video through their servers now if we
had for example if somebody were to
provide a third party server that we
could push a flash feed to or any other
kind of feed I mean it could be WMV it
could be it could be AG for you know we
could do like an odd forb hog the aura
or something like that if we had a
server to push it through then yeah we
could open it up and and make some
changes but right now we're limited to
those particular servers so sorry about
that XBMC you're going to only be able
to watch on the syndicated after the
fact through our RSS feeds and things
like that because it's going to play
back the m4v files yeah so many
different technologies to try to be
compatible with a and and we do our
absolute best to make the show
accessible for you if there are ways the
you know of that we could do a better
job than please extend that information
to us because I'm you know I I as the
programmer who makes this kind of work I
I really want to be able to do those
things for you I just need to know that
it's going to be reliable it's going to
be faithfully there we've been doing
this for you no more than five years now
and and in its consistencies is a very
very important thing to what we do so
now do we have any other questions
before we move on to our next prize draw
of the evening I just saw a quick
question well maybe a quick question we
chat room pop up saying is there an easy
way to install crashplan on Debbie
crashplan let me take a look at what
that is what is that what is crashed
what is crashplan the backup software
free trial for Windows Linux Mac I'm
going to click on Linux here download
for linux what is it it's a tar.gz file
kind of looks like it has info automated
backup then it has an installed SH file
that what you mean wait okay so from
feedback I've downloaded it I've copied
it to my hard drive now I'm right
clicking on installed SH going
permissions make sure it's set to allow
executing file as program let's run open
this like that will run and doesn't do
anything so let's run it in the terminal
so I've gone to terminal now I extracted
that to CD / TMP / I think I have a
capital R yet crashplan install to an LS
and you'll see that there's installed SH
so you go dot slash installed at SH it's
going to want to probably run as root
press ENTER to continue with
installation but I'm not gonna run it as
root just now and there it is warning me
and not installing as root while it is
recommended to install as root it is not
required know the difference if you
install something like this not as root
then only the running user is going to
be able to access this software you run
it as root it's going to be available to
the whole system so I want is that as
far as you've gotten did you get that
far so basically what i've done is i've
gone to terminal it looks like they've
provided a really nice installed on SH
file you just have to run it so again
the way to do that is to go to the
folder where you've extracted it which
you know when you open the file in Linux
that you've downloaded it's going to
have all these files just extract them
to your temp folder or wherever on your
desktop doesn't matter
and then just dot slash installed sh and
then hit enter okay if you would like it
to be system wide do it this way sudo
for super user do dot slash installed SH
that's going to run it as root or super
user hmm if you're on debian use su for
the same effect and then go through the
install process never heard of it never
used it but that's how you apparently
install it yeah get to know okay we just
did that quick time took like two
seconds we do our best around here point
you in the right directions that's from
guest 76 179 let us know where you're
from where you're watching from and also
maybe jot can help you to give yourself
assigned yourself a nickname in the chat
room there as well if you don't mind
John okay do we do we do this yes Oh
fans of the show looky here it's a water
2 point 0 extreme Gobert come on Barry
and surrounding areas i have to say that
because i know that there were many
viewers from outside of town as well
therapy but if you were at our fifth
anniversary show you've got your ticket
yeah all right get it out this is a
water-cooling system you can install it
yourself it it is self-contained you
never have to fill it you don't have to
worry about leaks it will give you the
ultimate cooling in your computer system
it's got a double sized radiator this is
twice as big as the one you saw Hillary
and I install in our system there's a
lot of tickets in here yeah what are you
go for a good one oh come on just shake
it up you're gonna make them think that
you're like it looks like you're late
ray Manning how could I possibly rig it
is just numbers isn't it it's literally
just literally mean nothing okay 865 703
there you have it folks 65 70 3 if
that's your number you can give us a
call to 545 cat5 TV or pop us an email
live at category 5 TV we'll hook you up
thank you very much to our sponsor
tonight thermaltake usa.com do check
them out we have more thermaltake
products to give away over the next
couple of weeks as well so do not throw
away your tickets no all of you folks
who have those make sure you hold on to
them if you didn't win tonight you might
win again next week so don't lose that
ticket make sure you tuned in here at
category 5 over the next few weeks at
least you're going to fall in love with
us you're going to put up with us or
whatever is going to take and we want
you to be here so thanks for joining us
tonight if you're new here we'd love to
hear from you and sorry to those of you
in the chat room we're like oh that's
not my number I wanted the liquid
cooling system oh dear yeah I just
swallowed a or made myself choked whoops
congratulations to our winners tonight
again live at category 5 TV let us know
that you are a winner we need your
ticket though don't throw it away if you
think you won we need to see that it's
actually proof because anybody could be
your preferred John no you weren't even
there flying like you said you would I
know he said that he he we said that he
we wanted him to fly over and he did
said he did fly over and they just flew
over too far over what unbelievable all
right he'll take her away okie dokie
here the top stories from the category 5
TV news room Samsung Electronics has
estimated record profits profits in the
three months to September led by strong
sales
smart phone the South Korean company
said it expects operating profits of
equivalent to about 7.3 billion dollars
nearly double last year's figure hackers
have massacred all the virtual
characters in some of online adventure
game of the World of Warcraft or major
cities they appear to have created a
character able to destroy those of other
players and those controlled by the game
Olivia grace contributing editor of wow
insider explained about the hack they
discovered a method to roll a level one
character which ran to the major cities
we don't know how exactly they did it
but somehow they were able to kill every
single players character in that city
and every single computer-controlled
character and they were already and they
were doing this repeatedly game creator
blizzard Activision has appealed for
information but added this exploit has
already been hot fixed so it should not
be repeatable that doesn't sound very
sick very sure it shouldn't be they
might happen yet shouldn't happen again
but if it does we said shouldn't sorry
it's crazy oh boy sony has halted sales
of Xperia its new Android tablet after
discovering that the device may not be
water resistant as advertised the Xperia
tablet was unveiled in August 2012 in
Berlin it has been marketed as a splash
proof tablet it has been on sale for
just under a month and about a hundred
thousand have been shipped Sony said the
company says it will repair any damage
devices and a spokesperson said a
manufacturing flaw was to blame I'll say
good human ok here's your new waterproof
tablet oh by the way just kidding yeah
not really huh huh you actually put
water on it it's a computer dude wow
that's bad eh that's that's really bad i
mean i would think that any think that's
like almost like marketing mishaps 101
totally like test the product submerge
it
splashing turns out it was it turns out
just basically the little bit of spittle
as you're talking while you're using it
yeah but if it gets any bit of water on
it sick ouch ouch lastly sunday marks
the 60th anniversary of the bar code
interesting fact though that the
familiar black and white bar code didn't
make its first appearance in an American
shop until nineteen seventy-four because
the laser technology used to read them
did not exist the barcode patent was
filed in the US on october 7th 1952
happy birthday bar code you can get the
full stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash whose
contributions from our fabulous
community of viewers if you have a story
you think's worthy of honor mention send
us an email at newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 2tb newsroom I'm
Hillary Rumble thanks Hilary tonight
show is brought to you in part by
quarter II electric the official
electrical company of category 5
technology TV find out their contact
info on your screen or visit quarter
electric com also get your free trial of
netflix account five dot TV / netflix
that will give you a free one month
trial and that helps support the show as
well cap five TV / netflix suite ready
to go back in time i love time travel
time travel is amazing how many how many
time travel fans are in the chat room
right now in the house who's in the
house we love nostalgia so why wouldn't
we love being able to go back in time in
fact make sense Hillary there's
something very very important that we
have to do in order to conduct this
segment right ready is that we gotta
fire up a flux capacitor oh there it is
let's go yes let's go Mike okay so what
would happen if somebody walked into
your office your studio your computer
area or you just have your laptop
running
and you're like oh this was an amazing
conversation I really wish I got that oh
your joke was hilarious Robbie I wish
that I had that one on tape or the kids
say something darling those kids the
kids always say the funniest things
follow me on Twitter Robbie Ferguson on
Twitter you'll see some of the funny
things that my kids say today's was
daddy why do we have to go to school
grandma said it's Thanksgiving every day
that's the kind of gold nuggets that is
probably you just want to get on tape
totally but it always happens it's like
the Kodak moment right the that moment
where you snap the picture and oh you
just missed it yeah oh if only I had my
camera ready well if only I had your
recorder ready and could actually go
back in time what's neat about your
computer system is that it has buffers
anything that happens is happening and
it's being buffered and and it's in
memory somewhere and all you have to do
is tap into it now tonight we're going
to actually tap into that in a manner of
speaking and be able to press record now
to record something that happened
previously hmm that missed conversation
cool let's record it from a minute ago
from five minutes ago from ten minutes
ago crazy eh it's hard to wrap your
brain around this a little bit yeah it's
it's kind of just my spin on the thing
really what we're going to be doing is
just being able to record stuff that
already happened cool how cool I think
of all the different applications here I
think the kids are a great example
certainly in business and maybe a good
opportunity for you to use this do you
know maybe it's a security mechanism
maybe it's just you know sometimes you
need to be able to capture something
that's being said I think about you know
Eric comes in here sometimes with his
guitar and he'll be messing around and
playing a lick so oh that was awesome
okay do it again so I can record it
don't really remember what I did there
yeah I'll try it again and it's not the
same and I'll do the same thing where
you know I'm you know I'm singing away
or something right in the song and and
oh I wish I could remember that lyric
that I just did hit record and it
actually records from five minutes ago
hmm what weird okay you ready for this
we are going to install a program called
time machine how fitting this isn't Mac
backups people this is an audio
recording application to use the jack
sound system okay cool so yeah you guys
in the chat room love yous okay what
we're gonna do is we're going to install
this software it's called Jack time
machine you got to do it on Linux go
into synaptic package manager okay in
there just do a quick search for time
machine and you'll see there it is Jack
audio recorder for spontaneous elbow
blah records 10 seconds of audio it says
we can actually go back further okay so
we're going to mark that for
installation I don't have jack installed
that's kind of like a virtual rack
system for my computer I'm going to
allow that to install so we've marked
that hit apply that's actually going to
go and install everything that we need
to use our brand-new time machine you
think of any other applications here I
keep thinking of this Jonas Brother song
time machine and flux okay well check
this out it's asking if we want
real-time priorities say no to that
otherwise it's going to have to install
as root for one thing and then you're
not going to be able to use the software
unless you run it as root so just say no
you probably have a powerful enough
computer that you don't need to check
that box off anyways okay sorry Jonas
Brothers I don't know anything i love
this brother oh that's just what I
that's what I was thinking of
applications that I just keep thinking
of the Jonas per song about time travel
cool the flux capacitor yeah maybe they
used a time machine software to record
that song they're like jamming in the
studio and all of a sudden they're like
well that was sweet quick use time
machine to go back in time audibly I
think you're right do you think that
could have happened that way it's
entirely possible okay change is applied
that's it that gets installed it's ready
to go how easy was that yeah so what
I'll do now I'm going to actually show
you what we need to do next its
installed in our Linux system I love
that about linux we can get everything
installed like that okay and it
installed all the dependencies so as was
going here applications sound &amp; video
you now see a couple of new things zoom
in just a little bit for you okay so we
have Jack time machine that's the actual
software which if I run it now it's not
going to work okay because we need to
actually activate the jack sound system
so there's another program that's been
added to my menu here called Q Jack CTL
it might be called Jack audio connection
kit or Jack controller on your computer
just run that and that's going to load
this thing that looks like a virtual
kind of audio rack this is actually
actually going to give us something to
connect the time machine to okay so jack
is going to act as kind of the buffer so
that it's monitoring everything that's
going through your sound card or
whatever through the microphone okay so
let's see what happens here I'll go like
this there we go okay so we're gonna
start the jack audio connection kit just
by clicking on start because we did not
install that real-time stuff it's going
to work started if you get an error
there it means you installed it in real
time and you need to probably either
change that or run this a super user
which I don't recommend okay so now that
it's started I can actually open the
time machine and it looks just like that
wow it's like a flux capacitor that's
exactly what it is which we just happen
to have right there I'm glad you're able
to get that out of storage in time it's
good thing well I actually was a little
bit behind schedule and so I actually
found it 20 minutes from now I'm back
and got it just before the show good it
worked out it worked so there it is okay
everything's running but there is no
audio going to the time machine right
now because the way Jack works is as I
said it's kind of like a virtual audio
rack it's like the old
patch panel where you can take a cable
patch it in to the output and patch it
into the input so what we're going to do
is we're going to click on connect this
is really really cool stuff folks
connect okay so we see our running
software over here that we can use for
the inputs the time machine is there and
our system so first thing I want to do
with I can have that up on the screen or
whatever i'm just going to bring out my
sound preferences for alsa go to input
and just make sure that my internal
sound card is selected and my microphone
is selected if it was set to my quick
cam for example is going to be using the
wrong microphone I don't want to do that
I want to actually use the input on my
sound card so over here I'm going to
choose which capture it is if one other
the other doesn't work you can add both
or you can add just one of the other and
change it mm so I've selected capture
two because I happen to know that's what
it is and now over here i'm gonna select
time machine okay so here's my input
capture two which is my microphone
here's my output it goes to time machine
now to demonstrate that visually let's
hit connecting or you'll see the the
virtual audio cable that's going to be
connected between those two devices here
we go connect there you go so now as I
speak you see now time machine is in
fact receiving audio yes because of that
virtual audio cable that i created from
my sound card which is alsa based ok
over through a virtual audio cable up to
my time machine and now time machine is
ready to go I can close this window
minimize everything else and just let it
go mmm yeah so how neat is that right
mm-hmm so if I hit record it's actually
recording from the past but what's
happened here is because its default out
of the box it's actually recording to a
64 bit wav file that's the file oh okay
so if you don't want to work with W 64
files which I would prefer to work with
waves I'm going to close that I'm going
to actually close time machine and let's
right click on our menu and go edit
menus here we're going to get a little
bit more advanced with time machine by
changing the command line options i'm
going to go to sound and video here all
we're doing is we're editing the menu
item in Nome
or you know if you're using a different
if you're not using home if using KDE or
whatever just edit what we want to edit
Jack time machine go properties okay so
it's just loading it by default
defaulter 10 seconds recording save to
64 bit wav file so we're going to change
that we're going to go dash F for file
type and we're going to call it wave no
dot okay hmm dash T for time let's go 60
secs s ecs okay so now i'm going to
close that so what I've done is I've now
changed my default when i load time
machine there it is I now have to
reconnect Jack to the time machine
mm-hmm okay there we go check check
check all right it's working so we let's
see yeah it's definitely working yes I
see the microphone going so we actually
we literally have to wait a minimum of
60 seconds because it's actually going
back in time 60 seconds and if I start
recording now it was before I loaded it
and that buffer doesn't exist sir
bizarre her so let's think of something
intelligent to say right now something
intelligent to say or funny witty
charming debonair well Eric comes in and
he starts playing his guitar and it's a
really cool lick but I didn't hit record
until now and I get the whole thing cool
what other examples can you think of in
the chat room I like the idea of you
know just even even phone calls or
something or yeah maybe I'm talking to
somebody and I come up with something
really great you know which doesn't
happen often and so I don't want to lose
that okay you don't want to lose those
moments folks I know one okay in my own
life I am like constantly trying to
enter and win radio contest okay then
they're like be color number 7 and then
they say the phone number but it's like
10 inches long and you're like oh so you
just turn up your radio what's the phone
number and then I does a great example
yeah oh I caught the tail end of this
song and the DJ was so quick to say that
was
de beber and I missed it and I don't I
didn't know if it was justin beaver or
who it was so you know how do I tap into
that information i hit my timeline my
time machine oh you can leave this thing
running all the time yeah and then just
call on it when you need it and there
you have it you've got your very own
real audio time machine should we see
what actually happens yeah let's test
this bad boy out I'm a little bit
nervous because I've never traveled
through time before at least not audibly
true yes hmm so now okay so we've said
something incredibly witty oh I need to
push record okay so I'm literally just
pushing record now and now it's actually
saving a file from the computer to my
computer I've saved it as a WAV file
because I remember I said that yes so
now I'm done recording that I'm gonna
hit stop now we only talked for about
what 5-10 seconds they're over top of it
right so now if I bring up the file and
let's actually open that up in audacity
okay just to get a look at what it looks
like and you'll see that's that file is
in fact much longer than just your then
what we are seconds in one minute and 15
second right so it actually literally
went back in time can we play it to hear
ourselves see what happens here so gonna
play or it may will it confuse itself
because we're in real time watching
reverse time online yes right it's very
confusing stuff kind of crazy
kind of wild the audio data is there
maybe if I just point to it see if why
do see it it doesn't exist it does let's
see here
but my playback devices of all things
that's okay yeah let's see let's see
it's definitely definitely there and I
hope it recorded something about my love
for the Jonas Brothers so that way they
know that I said it right so there's
audio proof of the past what I'm going
to actually do I'm going to throw that
file over to the server here and I'll
push play elsewhere just so that we can
actually hear it Dennis Kelly is
wondering does this take up a lot of
room on your computer no I mean it's a
WAV file that was 12 Meg's well you
wouldn't to do it on NS SSD most likely
oh that's good I see something I hear
something in the distance it's a distant
memory but I know it's there it is
certainly real well I hear it I hear
myself weird that's just so bizarre
there it is yeah sorry
okay I know you can't really hear that
there cuz I'm just actually playing it
out of speakers and unfortunately I
don't have like a loop back from the
yeah we usually say and that's
unfortunate that that I did run a cable
and unfortunately didn't pick up audio
there but that file goes back as far as
a minute before I pushed record hmm so
how neat is that though I'm and you can
actually capture something that happened
a couple minutes ago and now I said at
the 60 seconds right you can set it to
10 minutes if you want it creepy hmm
neat stuff that is very very cool the
power of your computer right when you
when you just monkey with some stuff and
get a couple of tools working together
your computer is always thinking always
moving and breathing see it listen to
everything we just said and we didn't
even know it well it was too late and
see we've been talking like that and now
i can hit record and now everything that
we set up to that point there it is it
was already recording in in memory i
mean wasn't actually recording was right
no it was just it's just floating around
in the memory the buffers of your
computer and now all of a sudden I've
hit record and so it said okay grab the
last minute and then append everything
that happens after that and here we go
see ya that is a bizarre abstract
concept if you think about it I think
it's great give it a try it's called
time machine it's available in synaptic
package manager you've got to be running
Linux to do it don't forget if you're
not getting any audio you've got to
connect that sound system okay and find
your input as I said if you're if you're
not sure which input add them both so
you can run to virtual audio cables
you're good to go just stick a
microphone on into the mic jack of your
computer and and that's going to do
everything you needed to do cool fun
stuff that is very fun actually quite
fun the power of the flux capacitor
folks who knew amazing amazing this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online triple w category five dot TV I'm
Robbie Ferguson I'm Hillary rumble if
you new here love to hear from you I
just pop us an email if you like live at
category five dot TV and we'd love to
hear where you're from
how you heard of us and what you're
doing here what you're what you're
enjoying about the show in particular
I'd like to say hi to everybody was
watching on YouTube tonight also those
who are following us on on Twitter and
Facebook even now we're seeing more
people joining us on both of those
social media platform certainly twitter
is booming these days on my own profile
Robbie Ferguson and it's such a pleasure
to have everybody joining us as part of
the show also a Twitter account setup
you see just below Hilary their category
5 TV and Hilary Rumble 2 l's on Twitter
as well and you can follow all of us do
check out our BIOS on our website
category five dot TV you'll find us
under the team and about us and there
you'll be able to find all our social
media links and encourage you to follow
all of us because we have riveting
things to say we do like all those fun
things that I say about the funny things
that my kids say if you don't want all
the personal stuff because I mean
obviously I'm meeting as myself and and
it seems you know we're having a lot of
fun on Twitter and there's a lot of
communication going back and forth and I
love that but if you just want the
notifications when category 5 is going
live you want to know when the files are
uploaded you want to know what the
latest tech news is just follow category
5 TV that's the official you know the
corporate category 5 v Lana Twitter
accounts so but follow them all and
you'll you'll really get to know those
of us here at category 5 TV we love
doing this for you and hanging out with
you getting to know you our viewers it's
nice to see you know people that were
you know there are people who disappear
for a while and then come back to us you
know whatever they're getting you know
busy summer or whatever and here they
are they're back and and nice to see
them I know Dave may do was trying to
join us again tonight as well not sure
that I saw him in the chat room but I do
hope that you're here Dave and and if
not just know that we're thinking of you
and we
they have fun talking to Dave on Twitter
as well toby is joining us in the chat
room i'm not sure if i said hi yet to
Albert R I believe I may have but also
just everybody who's joining us there
garbey Carly also joining us it's so
nice to have you joining us as well a
fairly new viewer to the show and we
love having you here thanks for joining
us who else we've got d hand-chosen also
joining us again tonight good guy a
couple of guests JimBob media is joining
us Joe to max which i should say Joe no
offense on the Justin Bieber common it
was just for fun it was for kicks I
Kowalski said YK nice to see ya math man
47 Maxwell 6307 and Hall 119 loads of
people joining us in the chat room nice
to see you napa polar bear rapper pires
rock rd Blair nice to see everybody the
whole gang yeah the boys are back in
town the gang is back in town so
anything big going on this week I'm
going to think of any amusing anecdotes
or any exciting highlights in my life
I'll come back to that was that what was
that we saw before the show and it made
us groan oh you're uh it was like a
honey yes it was a Pawnee he came to us
from a new friend on facebook and and
i'm not sure if you were aware if you
were what if you're watching Twitter you
know that i was speaking at ignite bury
this past friday loads of fun and then
such a privilege to be a part of that
you can read all about it on my blog
it's bald nerd calm how fitting I met
Linda LaForge there who by the way her
real name is LaForge and she understood
the reference so you gotta love her
already she posted that at any given
time the urge to single lion sleeps
tonight is just a whim away a whim away
a whim away a whim away
get it and that made us grown I liked it
but it made me laugh a little bit inside
as well so thanks for that you can you
get us on facebook on Twitter anywhere
you are socially active and also pop
your email to us for questions that are
beyond the 140 characters live at
category 5 TV and send your postcards
for those of you who are old school like
to keep it real lovers even those we do
it's cool it's tangible the Internet's
great digital postcards very cool but
they're spun something special about a
tangible yeah I ecards just don't do it
for us oh yeah the dancing penguins are
cute but so you just want a picture of
the Penguins from the local zoo with
your name signed in ink cursive people
don't know how to do cursor know what
else I like yeah I don't know how to do
any of that stuff I load this answer of
fun I mean that's yeah um my signature
is actually a font at etf you know it's
just that's the one that I think it was
called kids he sloppy handwriting that's
better um oh I totally forget what I was
gonna say but it's the end of the show
so it doesn't really know oh we made it
through an hour Kochi that's alright so
worked out pretty well I say I hope you
had a fun time hope you enjoyed yourself
and we're again back next week we've got
another one of those thermaltake late on
mousepads to get away seriously I mean
I've never been excited about a mousepad
until this moment it's bigger bad you
saw the difference in size right if
you're a gamer you know that that's
awesome even if you're a graphic
designer think about the advantages of
having a great big mouse pad fantastic
stuff I've also got a pair of headphones
from thermaltake really high-end
excellent headphones to give away we've
got a couple of magic jacks with one
year of full long distance for Canada
and that stage to give away lots of
stuff to give away over the next couple
of weeks so hold onto those ballots all
of you folks who are at our fifth
anniversary show and for those of you
who weren't there who don't have a
ballot and they're saying why don't we
get any prezzies don't worry their stuff
to come for you as well but but we
really love
getting to know some of our local
viewers right now really you know it's
it's fun to be able to go shake hands
with with the locals and and and let you
know that here we are we're broadcasting
from Barrie Ontario Canada and that's
your hometown so we want to be a part of
it and we want you to be a part of what
we do here at the show mm-hmm so thanks
everybody been a blast being here Hilary
you'd a bomb Oh get out of town thanks
buddy my flesh you have fun tonight
always a good time here and telling you
all right see you next next week
everybody don't forget we've got Abigail
Smith is going to be joining us for the
first time in couple of weeks next week
we've got crystal wells nice and the day
before Halloween you guessed it we've
got the halloween special as well so you
know who knows what's gonna happen there
I'll let that you don't know but I can't
give you any hints either you just know
you gotta tune in and there will be
prizes so alrighty sounds good to me how
great weekend buddy hi guys
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada you see you next
time thanks for tuning in
