welcome to episode number 322 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the 19th of November 2015 great to see
ya I'm Robby Ferguson and I'm Hilary
Rumble comin atcha with some hot topics
in the news China still has the world's
fastest supercomputer it's true twitter
is bringing its emergency alert services
to users in the united kingdom yahoo has
announced they will encrypt all user
information moving between their data
centers and lastly Eugene Kaspersky has
confirmed virus infections on the
international space station Windows
machines
stick around cozy stories are coming up
later in our show and to be fair
Kaspersky is a very difficult names of
pronounce it space will get before later
Kaspersky that's what we will learn
tonight folks how to say Kaspersky ok
tonight we are gonna learn to create a
waiting room worthy music playing system
that you can access from any web browser
within your land also we've got those
eco alkaline batteries we're giving away
tonight if you've got your ballot in yes
be ready to win if you didn't why use
your life you want free stuff right so
stick around it's gonna be a awesome
show don't go anywhere
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
hilary rumble
Krishna wells
Eric kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
at eco alkaline z' we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkaline
zuv the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium Eco outlines provide performance
that rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkaline
difference eco alkaline comm
broadcasting since 2007 category 5
technology TV has grown year after year
faithfully bringing viewers hundreds of
one-hour episodes focused on helping
with their tech questions assisting with
the migration to linux and other open
source alternatives presenting new and
interesting tech products and providing
insightful interviews and demonstrations
all this is provided free of charge we
are now in our seventh season and it's
time to improve the viewing experience
make the show look and sound great we
continue our focus on fun educational
broadcasting stand with us as we build a
brand new studio for category-five
technology TV bringing category-five TV
to the world with better visuals full
1080p video and a permanent sound
isolated studio we have big dreams and
we want you to be a part of them please
support category-five technology TV
visit cat5 TV slash studio to be a part
of our crowdfunding campaign for a
limited time with contributor perks
brought to you in part by category five
technology TV back to nature compostable
garbage bags eco alkaline
environmentally responsible batteries
free play human powered devices net talk
duo - with free calls to the USA and
Canada and no monthly phone bill and the
Android powered Rico Magic mini PC we
thank you for your support please visit
cat5 dot TV slash studio today
this is category five technology TV and
I'm Robbie Ferguson welcoming you to our
show and as you just saw our little spot
for our recent fundraising efforts I
just want to thank everyone who has
contributed thus far to make our big
studio change and development a
possibility we are slowly getting there
but we still do need more support that
is true but we certainly really really
really applaud and thank you for those
who have already helped us out with that
we've actually had 56 contributions so
far yeah we do greatly thank you for
your support we're a long ways off from
our goal we've got 11 days to go and
there are a lot of us there's a lot of
people watching and there are some great
perks we've mentioned it before but
we've got some net talk 202's these give
you free long-distance calling in Canada
in the US or you can get two of them if
you want send one overseas and then
you've got free calling overseas to your
friend to family members left loved ones
etc that can be you know yours with a
small contribution to category five
technology TV
we've got eco alkaline eco responsible
batteries that we're giving away there
as well free playing human powered
devices flashlights that you crank up
you never have to put batteries in them
ever how great is that great so those
are just perks that sponsors provide in
order to thank you for your contribution
to category five technology TV
so as you contribute you'll receive
something as thanks and return as well
if you so desire
of course you can also contribute
without having to receive something in
exchange but but that's all there too so
cat5 dot TV slash studio we thank you
thank you very very very much
well I'm going to show you our mobile QR
code there it is and
at five dot TV make sure you scan that
code and you can visit our mobile
website with your mobile device even
your tablet you can watch live you can
listen live you can watch on-demand
video of past episodes of category 5
technology TV it's all there don't miss
it
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and you can check that out
cat 5 TV / TPN and we are also a member
of the international association of
internet broadcasters and for more info
on that you can check that out a cat 5
TV slash ai ai ai v I got the acronym
arrow yeah I a I be there you go there
are links on our website as well
category 5 dot TV as our website want to
show you something exciting guess what
what you have a season of category 5
that's available for you on demand and I
know that it's you know we're it's
getting all that season 4 but season 4
in its entirety is available for you
absolutely free through our website
category 5 TV so if you joined us
recently and you haven't caught all
Christmas episode with a Christmas baby
so there it is season 4 is available for
you like we're going back to 2010 we've
been doing this since 20 2007 and so
what we've been working on is getting
those back episodes all the old episodes
up and running for you so that on-demand
you can watch them there are you know I
it's it's clear that they're older
episodes 3 4 years old but there are
still some really great topics there for
example in season 4 we had the web
development series where we actually
taught you a little bit of PHP a little
bit of graphic design all those things
still ring true sure some of the
software's been updated and there are
new versions we're not on PHP 4 we're on
version 5.4 but the ideas the concepts
are still there there
right on our website category five
bringing back the memories I'm already
working on yeah it seen Christie there
huh thinking about the weather now
snowing the other day speaking of old
friends yes greetings in our chat room
tonight I just happen to notice that
black Hein is joining us tonight back
fraid to see him who knows where you
been but we've missed you oh you've been
how you been how you doing nice to see
you thank you for joining us again and
actually we do have some new registered
viewers this is true and I would just
like to give a little
something-something of a shout-out to
all tack hey old hack another guy that's
been around for a while
are you just registering now what up
with that oh dude yeah bet you've been
away for a while though it's nice to
have you joining us back thanks for
coming back to us see ya also who do we
have
Timothy Keeley hey Timothy Godman Godman
and sounds powerful
like Lucas and Minaj Sarah yeah I'm
probably botched like that one right
Minaj Minaj
okay scenario 2-0 sir oh yeah is that
are we close I don't know it's a
competition right now Minaj who has the
best literacy skills in the realm who's
closest it got down to points already so
embarrassed but regardless we are so
glad to have you as an official register
viewer and what are the perks of being a
registered view are well Ravi you tell
them well let's start with tonight's
draw what do you say okay now I only
have I know that this is just these are
two little boxes oh and it's all that I
have to display to you it's just kind of
what I can fit on my desk but if I rip
into one of these when they've got
wonderful tape on it of course they do
packed in there what is it about eco
outlines now first of all if you're in
Canada these are now available at Best
Buy Future Shop okay go get
there's a lot of batteries in this box
yeah so you know well it looks like a
box these there's a lot of these okay so
this is kind of you know this is one box
of this is the double-a batteries so
we're gonna send you a box of that we're
gonna send you a box of 24 triple-a
we're gonna send you what else do we
have 9 volt C D yep all these batteries
ready to give them away I said it at the
top of the show did you get your ballot
in it's not a creative way to open it
now I'll never be able to get it for the
Eco outlines folks are you ready so
exciting we gave you a chance couple of
weeks ago and last week to get your
ballots in to us we've accumulated your
ballots we've loaded them into draw BOTS
draw BOTS do your thing
it's time to find out who gets these eco
alpha lions batteries here we go Bob kay
54 and Albuquerque turkey and Dennis
Kelly Dave empty genk tux Tech it's
gonna get really fast but I won't be
able to keep up Greg and James blah blah
jave like 50 I've lost it bill seven
seven seven come on so good luck
everyone
so many possibilities for more
information on eco alkaline so if you
want to learn about what makes these
things so special go to cat5 dot TV
slash eco basically it boils down to
this they are excellent back ok they are
powerful batteries that are long-lasting
they compete
with the big boys we'll just say that
they are available in retail stores you
can pick them up in Canada at Best Buy
and the Future Shop - very big retailers
here for electronics and all that kind
of stuff that you need batteries for but
these are carbon neutral environmentally
friendly they are they contain 0%
cadmium lead or mercury you've seen them
on the show before things are speeding
up here this is for a great big box then
we're gonna send you of eco outlines
from cat5 TV slash eco that's EC oh and
the winner is
see and Frank aka see Frank
congratulations I suppose we are sending
those batteries all the way down to
Tennessee would appear that way it would
appear that way
Tennessee Frank thanks for joining us on
the show thanks for casting your ballot
thanks for being a part of the community
and congratulations on your big win
tonight not gonna have to buy batteries
for a while that's for sure yes you're
set for quite a bit and make sure you
report back to us
Tennessee Frank let the community know
what you think of your eco alkaline zhh
once you put them in your devices these
things are great I mean their batteries
right do you expect your batteries to
work well to last and here you get
batteries that are also environmentally
conscious and that's something that
matters to us here of course it does
okay so if you didn't win tonight and
you're in Canada once again get on over
to the Future Shop get on over to Best
Buy pick up a few packs for yourself
they are competitively priced against
their competitors and I just said
competitors twice in a whole sentence
they are competitively priced
I guess batteries that are that they
surpass the quality of and these ones
are carbon neutral check them out right
cat5 DV / eco yay for Tennessee Frank
joining us in the chat room tonight
congratulations
woohoo I wanted something alright that
is fabulous
and it's cool because people are
watching all over the world true and not
just in our chat room but we connect
with people through if you believe this
or not
through the snail mail and I mean this
and this is not I almost cried when I
saw this literally standing there in the
post office thank you so much for
sending this in but this must have been
sent to us before everything happened
and you know this comes to us actually
yes
showing littell volcano and Taggart a in
the Philippines so this must have
happened yes before all the devastation
and everything that's going on over
there but I'll read to you what it says
hi category 5 if you've watched key
roar music video this was one of the
backgrounds in the music video okay hope
you can visit the Philippines one day
good luck to your show god bless from
melody klar thanks melody no we
appreciate that so much we would love
having you watching the show and sending
in a postcard to us seriously though I
mean your country has been through so
much and end so it did affect me to
receive that and I appreciate it so much
and we'll always remember that we have a
number of viewers in the Philippines and
some in South Philippines as well I
understand if the postcard is from
around your area you're probably north
of of most of the the hard-hitting bits
of the storm but there's what the
Philippines looks like on our viewer
location map right now and so we're
thinking about you and your country and
we and we do pray for you and we
appreciate you sending that that card in
thank you how cool to receive postcards
from all over the world and this is our
viewer location map and isn't it
astounding to realize that folks here
you're a part of this huge thing here in
category 5 technology TV and when we
appeal to you with you know we do have
some needs right now with our studio
build and and really what we're saying
is you look at all these people that are
a part of this and it's not about Hilary
and I and the rest of the crew and it's
really about all of these people
everybody that is represented by a pin
on this map right now and so we just you
know we appreciate everybody and thank
you for sending in your postcards we
love them we do we also love learning
about things what are we gonna learn
today Robbie are you ready for it
tonight I wanted to show you something
kind of interesting because I've been
just well I had the thought we here at
home have a lot of mp3 files I have CDs
upon it well you can see my desk over
here
I literally have CDs that are you know
and and some over here right now
Christmas season is starting up and my
wife shows up with a big bag of
Christmas CDs oh yeah from the Christmas
bin you know
that's now unpacked and so it ends up on
my desk and can you rip these because we
don't have a CD player anymore
yeah I guess not it so well what do you
do we're not gonna pop a CD into the
what she sometimes does is put it in the
DVD player oh yeah and play it on the TV
that makes which sounds terrible
really the TV does not have high
fidelity we rip it so we have a server
with a folder that has a lot of music
and I got to thinking why don't we
centralize this why don't we make it so
that we can push play and it will just
play throughout the house we use
magicJack and net talk duo's within the
house I've got an assortment of those so
I don't actually use the phone lines so
hey why don't I disconnect the phone
lines at the base and turn them into
speaker wire I can turn every phone jack
into my in my house into a port that I
can plug in speakers don't have to run
it in cable think of this that's just
the crazy thoughts that I think when I
was supposed to be sleeping at 3 a.m.
but it's you know an interesting thought
so tonight we're gonna look at the
technology behind actually building the
software end of making this happen using
Linux free open-source tools so I
actually well and you know first of all
welcome to everybody who's in the
chatroom it's nice to see I hope you
enjoy yourself Hilary if anyone posts
any questions about the this process
then don't interrupt me so hey ping the
Hillary and and I'll be happy to be
interrupted by you okay first and
foremost the technology behind all this
yeah everything that I do that is even
remotely awesome is Linux true there it
is I love Linux it lets me do crazy
things like spherical wow that's that's
it that's cool but Linux is a powerful
operating system it's got a lot of cool
features and we're gonna use this
tonight for our server environment we're
gonna build a music server first of all
disclaimer what you want to do is you
want to build this on a dedicated piece
of hardware don't do this
on your main computer because we're
gonna be taking over your soundcard and
turning it into an audio player okay
you're not gonna be able to use your
sound anymore so you want to build a
system get an old computer it doesn't
have to be powerful it's just playing
music right yeah old old old something
that's garbage
really and put a little hard drive in it
cuz you're gonna maybe map a network
share in order to store the music unless
you want to put a raid array on it and
do it that way but here's the disclaimer
don't do this on your main system you
will lose access to your sound card
mm-hmm okay okay now you know okay we're
gonna look at something called MPD it is
the music player daemon and I could do
this all for the GUI through synaptic
package manager but we're gonna do some
Linux tinkerin tonight and have a lot of
fun with it we're gonna do everything in
the terminal how do you like that folks
okay I'm using point linux and go sudo
apt-get update and enter my password and
that's going to allow me to update
apt-get the repositories now I believe
that the packages that we're looking for
in the universe repository I think I
already have that active but just be
mindful that you may need to activate
the universe repository which you can do
by editing your apt sources dot list
file or simply use your GUI but again
okay we're not using to you why are we
right hello right okay sudo nano or VI
if you really want to use the terminal
et Cie apt sources tab to finish an off
sources dot list there it is so just see
what is in here well I don't see
universe so let's see if I have MPD and
we'll see it may it may come from one of
the main repositories now the version of
Pointe Linux that I'm running is based
on Debian seven so this is exactly the
same as if I were to be using Debian
seven I'm going to give you the website
address of the software we're gonna be
using before I go any further just so
that you have a brief idea as to what it
is that we're doing it is is simply
music PD dot org music player daemon so
you can read about it you'll see that
the version here is 0.18 point four
which was just released
November 13th like a couple days ago
last week so the version that's going to
be available in your repository through
apt through synaptic package manager' is
probably going to be 0.16 in and current
debian build unless you're running
unstable in which case you'll probably
have the latest 0.18 we're okay with the
fact that we're gonna be running 0.16
because it has everything that we need
to get going and as we upgrade we're
gonna get the new packages we don't need
to go through building the packages and
all that so we might as well just go for
it okay so sudo apt-get there's a couple
of different things that we need I'm
going to do things in steps so that you
can understand and follow along what it
is that we're doing so MPD is the daemon
MPC is the the controller so I'm
actually going to make sure I typed in
my command sudo apt-get install MPD MPC
and the MPC is the basically the front
end for the terminal so after this
operation yeah we're gonna wow 735
kilobytes Wow do we have enough space
yeah you don't need a lot of space for
this so when I mentioned that you could
use a dedicated system it could be
something old and why not a Raspberry Pi
you know why not some low power 25 30
$40 piece of hardware that you can
permanently install this on deploy this
and stick it in a closet somewhere and
run it into an old amp and run speakers
all through your house and I'm using the
house example because this is what I'm
doing it for but of course this would
work fantastically well for a business
you know this would work well in your
waiting room of a medical practice or it
could be used for a school if you want
to play music over the PA on lunchtime
you know or before and after school
great it could also be used for on-hold
music if you want to be able to stream
music from your system that you have
control over or even just to be able to
listen to online radio in such a way
that it plays out through all of your
all of your speakers so that's already
done installing you'll see that it's
good to go
MPD failed to load database failed to
open database because it doesn't exist
yet I have never created a database okay
now that I've got that installed we're
gonna go sudo for Super User do and
we're gonna edit so we're gonna go nano
because we're using terminal tonight you
could use pluma if you're on point Linux
and another pluma using like a mate
system or you could use G edit whatever
you want we're gonna use Nano it's a
text editor and the file that we're
gonna edit is MPD Kampf in the e.t.c
folder you see that is now created this
is the configuration file for the music
player daenam and there are really only
two things that are set by default that
we want to change here tonight and you
can get into the configuration and
really customize this thing to your
heart's desire but tonight we're gonna
make it really really simple first and
foremost I have a music folder on my
computer if I go home and I go music
you'll see oh look there's a Christmas
album which I have all the rights to
because it's my band that works YouTube
so if they come at because they are
vicious right now with okay if I play
music it's gonna I'm gonna get sued so
yeah alright we're gonna use my band get
call and it's said calm royalty-free
open what do they call it public domain
this is great for that it's easy to find
a publisher music okay so I've got music
there great that's my home my music
folder I could pop as much music in
there as I want remember that I'm
looking at this from the computer that
I'm gonna use as a dedicated server so
you may not have a music folder wherever
you want to put your music it could be a
Samba share which means it could be a
folder on a network server or another
computer on your network that you have
shared CIFS you could map it using FS
tab and I'm throwing out a bunch of
stuff but if you don't know what I'm
talking about and you want to do it you
can go on to our website category 5 TV
use the search feature over on the right
hand side and search for FS tab fstab
space CIFS or FS tab samba but CIFS is
the current version so
that will tell you how to do it so it's
if you want to use a server somewhere
else so we've got our music folder here
it's in slash home slash Robi slash
music with a capital M so I could copy
that to my clipboard and paste it into
but know we're using terminal tonight so
I'm gonna go music directory C that's
right there on my screen Nano is nice
because you can pretty much edit just
like the old dass edit command it's not
like VI where you gotta learn the
keyboard shortcuts in by the mug it's a
little bit easier than that okay so
music directory is slash home slash Ravi
lowercase music uppercase no trailing
slash and we're good to go
next up we need to configure our audio
device and we're gonna use pulse audio
in this case we're using a current
system this is again point linux and so
we need to scroll down to our audio
config you see there are a few things
that you can configure if you want keep
going keep going I suppose I could do a
ctrl W which is search in Nano which may
be advantageous to do yeah let's do it
okay ctrl W is search we're gonna go
Audio underscore config I thought so oh
no audio output did I say config I'm
thinking and talking at the same time
there we go
audio output you'll see that it is
defaulting to alsa comment out every
line there you go
it's just a hash okay and then scroll
down until you see the sample for pulse
audio
httpd you notice that this can support
things like being able to stream a live
HTTP stream that's kinda nice there's
pulse
okay so uncomment the first line for
audio output uncomment the type is pulse
and the name my pulse output I'm not
gonna set up a remote server and I'm not
gonna set up a sync because I don't have
I don't have either of those things and
we don't need to get into that you can
read the man pages if you want to learn
about that and then don't forget see
that thing that my cursor is on right
now that is the trailing brace so that
closes audio output see that that one
opens it this one closes it so do not
forget to uncomment that closing brace
okay so once that's done in Nano our
command our cursor our command key or
whatever is ctrl o to write out and hit
enter and we're good to go
so now that I've saved that file hit
ctrl X if you got an error while saving
you likely forgot to add sudo when you
type nano because if I try to edit that
file without sudo and try to write it
it'll say error writing permission
denied because I'm not root so I have to
use sudo in order to edit anything
within the e.t.c folder alright so now
that MPD is configured we want to
probably stop pulseaudio let's give it
at stop pulseaudio and MPD first of all
eats the /et see slash and knit dot d /m
peace no probably MPD pardon me stop it
is stopped okay now we want to kill all
dash nine and I'm gonna kill pulse audio
so now I've killed my sound system and
now let's start the MPD daemon again and
see if it took
failed permission denied pseudo oh yeah
there we go there we go all right notice
when I get a permission denied that is
because I'm executing something that
requires to be run as a daemon this is a
daemon this is not an application that's
something that is running in the
background it's opening up a port 6,600
my computer to stream audio okay so I
have to have some way of it has to be
able to access the things that it needs
to be able to access so I can start
using MPC immediately which is
interesting I can start going okay MPC
play MPC is the control mechanism right
but if I try to play it's not gonna play
anything because there's nothing there
to play I haven't added anything to the
playlist so I can go MPC add and give it
a web fee is stream or a let's say an
mp3 file or something like that we're
gonna learn better ways to do things but
let's look at a web stream just as the
exam will go to shoutcast dot-com
because we love it because it is giving
us a huge assortment of radio stations
that are available absolutely free
online so what could we what can we go
with let's say something is reliable
chicken country from one ain't won at FM
it's not available that way let's try
just searching for it just go to the
country genre notice how it's sort of by
genre at show cats.com so it's really
really okay one eight one kicking
country we're just gonna use that as the
example I'm not gonna play it long
YouTube there we go stopped you didn't
even know that that was Brad Paisley
just saying YouTube don't even try it
okay
so now that I've brought up the station
I can push play and of course
immediately push stop right there is a
button over here on the right hand side
that brings up a new player window so
click that that's gonna launch up this
little window here now I can close
shoutcast I'm done because I've got my
station so what am I doing here well
I've got a player what does a player
need in order to operate a player has a
stream that is streaming live to it so
that's what we want access to so I'm
going to view source
which in all modern browsers is control
you and that gives us this bunch of junk
its HTML output with some JavaScript so
I'm gonna hit ctrl F which is the
universal find key and it brings up this
dialog at the bottom here for fine and
I'm gonna type in dot pls that is a
playlist file for shoutcast so once I've
done that you'll see it has found this
tune in - station pls ID equals blah
blah blah and place status equals zero
so the only thing we want to forget
about is this don't touch that what we
want is we want everything before that
lose the ampersand as well so we get the
whole number and the whole URL including
the HTTP so we've got that okay notice
I'm not using the G the terminal here
but I will be how about that copy that
to your clipboard which is right click
and copy or control C is the hotkey now
let's go back to our terminal and you
can't add that because that is a pls
file that's a playlist it's not the
actual feed I'm gonna go into my temp
folder I'm gonna go W get - capital o -
output a file and we will just call this
pls and then paste in the link that we
just copied so I just downloaded the
playlist file to a file called pls so
now I can go nan-oh pls and you'll see
all this stuff alright so you'll see
that they actually have many many
different servers running this station
we can copy any one of these but we only
want the location of the server so
that's HTTP colon slash slash and then
the IP and then the port ok so once I've
got that I can copy it to my clipboard
exit and now I can go MPC that's the
controller add and then paste in the URL
now what I've actually effectively done
mostly gave me no output but what I've
done there is I've actually added taken
country from 181 dot F M to MPD ok all
through the terminal
strictly for demonstration don't worry
this is gonna get a little bit less
complex in just a few minutes but I want
you to understand the the concepts
behind yeah what is happening here MPD
is a daemon it operates in the
background like a service so we're
controlling that and we're giving it
something to work with we've added that
stream
so now MPC Play
MPC stop just like that so now we have
our MPD we have it set up for pulseaudio
we've got it set up to use our system
we've got a feed from streaming radio at
shoutcast comm in there and we can push
play we can push stop it sounds great
yes now of course we can plug in as many
speakers as we want and we're good to go
well do we stop there now I want to make
it so that the wife can use it valid
points because she is not gonna go and
ssh into a little black box in the
server room and type MP c space ad okay
let's find the show co stream no you're
not gonna do that but once you've done
it once it can be stored in the database
remember the database and then you never
have to do it again you can just click
on it and it will play don't hit that I
like that so we need a front-end let's
use PHP as our front-end so that it can
be accessed through any web browser sudo
apt-get install PHP 5 that's going to
give us PHP 5 along with the needed
Apache 2 ok and what PHP is is it's
basically a programming language and
interpreter for that language and we'll
be able to actually use PHP to interact
and communicate with MPD gives us a
front-end that we can access through a
web browser anywhere on our network ok I
see sounds good to me
just gonna take a moment to install that
that's PHP that's yeah it's a web server
so you're actually turning your computer
system into a web server if you've ever
wanted to build websites and be able to
pardon me test them locally this is the
way that you would do that too because
as soon as that's done and it's almost
done here we go I'll actually be able to
connect there we go ok now watch I can
bring up my web browser and I'm gonna go
localhost
and you'll see it works well what is it
works yeah what watch this CD slash bar
w w LS there's an index.html file in
slash var slash W W cat index dot HTML
to output it what does it say it works
so what we're actually seeing there is
the HTML file sitting in VAR slash W W
so if we do anything to that file it
will of course it will affect the web hi
there P
output that oh error writing we already
learned about that didn't we dude right
okay just for the sake of understanding
this hello there so what we have now is
effectively a running web server on our
computer okay so now we have the power
Hillary to control through a web server
and you know we can interact with our
computer because we have a running web
server on our computer a server so what
we need now is a tool that runs on a PHP
Apache server to interact with MPD so
the one that I'm gonna look at tonight
only because it's kind of like a meta
pack and what that means is it's an
assortment of tools that have been
culminated together into a reasonably
effective package and you can play
around with all the different things
that are available through that website
that I gave you
music PD org but we're using one that
just has a few different options built
into it so that you can choose what one
is your favorite and then go from there
so I'm gonna go over to a website that
I've created for you just to keep things
simple this one has a great big long
name so I've made it really easy MPD for
MPD PHP enter and you'll see it goes all
the way to PHP M pre-loaded I'm getting
this from github instead of their
official site because the official site
does not support PHP 5.4 which is going
to be a problem because PHP 5.4 it
introduces the deprecation of
the import request variables function so
as they bring out new versions of PHP
you need to have tools that are
compatible that's why I'm sending you
over to github because somebody has
forked it and they have made it work
with PHP 5.4 and beyond okay so from
here we're over on the right-hand side
download zip okay it's that easy we're
gonna grab it we're gonna open it with
our kyv manager and once we've got that
file shouldn't take long
I don't think it's big yeah okay PHP
reloaded master let's just throw that on
my desktop okay show the files there it
is so it's all that stuff okay so you
can read the install if you need to but
we're gonna really quickly show you how
to do this so we're in var /ww and so
what we need to do is we need to sudo CP
because we have to be super user because
we haven't really configured our Apache
server to work with proper user
permissions and stuff keep that in mind
please that we are not building a web
server here we're building an internal
server that's I'm asking is behind a
firewall okay we are not considering
permission permissions and security as a
big thing because we are protected in
our internal land through our firewall
if you're doing this for a web server
please don't use these instructions
because we're not we're basically
running everything as root and we're not
we're this is not good practice when it
comes to running a web server okay
that's not what we're doing
so sudo CP slash home slash Robi slash
desktop slash and what was it PHP m.p
reloaded - master wowzers dot now
there's one thing that's the destination
is the dot current folder one thing I
need to add to that is - our for
recursive alright
and hit enter and what we've effectively
done is copied that folder to our web
accessible folder perfect so if I copy
that name because
it's awfully long or I could I suppose I
could move it to rename it move PHP to
okay we'll call this controller there
that looks a little bit nicer controller
okay so now localhost / controller is
going to tell me permission denied let's
see what's going on there man
yeah let's take a look LS LS - al route
controller okay LS oh look at that
our permissions are set that the group
cannot access it so chmod - R don't
forget we need sudo in this particular
instance chmod - R we're going to change
the permissions 755 controller enter now
if I do a LS - al you'll see my
permissions will allow execution of the
application from within that folder so
now if i refresh there we go
that looks a little bit better and
you'll see if I click on PHP MP plus I
have that one kicking country stream
that I had previously added using the
command line because what is this this
is a front end for MPD so I'm now
controlling it from a GUI now
interestingly enough now that I've got a
cool GUI there's something really
awesome that I can do with it remember
what I did when I configured this thing
I pointed the audio directory to my
music folder yes music yeah they're my
personal music it's my personal music
repository so up here at the top I can
point to the refresh and it pops out
this menu I can go update dB mm-hmm and
let's see what happens nothing right
well now click on music browser ok
clicking on music browser we should see
a music folder well let's see did we get
it not yet okay let's what I'm gonna do
I'm gonna click on switch web client at
the bottom and bring up a few of the
different tools there's music DB update
it's not getting it okay so what is
causing this let's take a look so we
know everything is running we know that
it's working right so let's read it our
configuration files that love to be able
to show you this yeah sudo nano sorry
there we go home Robbie music did I I'm
sure I typed that right it's there take
Basia yes I'm just gonna see here folks
what could be causing that I'm gonna try
removing the apostrophe I don't think
that's the case but I just want to rule
it out just in case the strange folder
name is is a problem yeah I doubt it
hey you never know but this is live and
that's some no that's not what it is
that's not a problem
good thing we're sorting this out so
that way we know I hope so well we've
got the player up and running anyways
which is cool it's cool
no directories found it tells me this is
so wild yeah come on Robby be awesome
today
Robby you're always awesome no sometimes
I make a mistake somewhere along the way
cuz I'm too busy talking it is tricky to
talk and type at the same time I must
declare where's my DB update not working
let's restart MPD just to see et Cie
init dot d / MPD restart I need to be
super user and update yeah all right so
when in doubt restart did you notice
that unlike some other operating systems
that we know of we have to restart you
have to reboot and you gotta sit there
yeah live TV no all I did was slash etc'
slash init D slash MPD that's the daemon
restart done okay so I restarted the
daemon now that my configuration files
are in place you'll notice that tis the
season the CD is there so I click on it
whoa there's the songs well what do you
want to do well let's say year 1
let's okay so let's add oh holy night
cuz it's a classic so you notice that my
playlist over here now has oh holy night
ok so now if I go back to whatever I can
I can push play right yours truly but
what I like I'll see notice what I'm
doing here I'm switching between
different interfaces this is the
application we've installed PHP MP
reloaded yes
which gives me access to all these
different things
I like to switch between them because
each one has their benefits and good
things for playback I like this one this
is the PHP MP plus so with this one I
can use the play list at the bottom here
just like a music player from any
computer in the house and they will play
cool just let can you can you control it
can I skip over to the good part see I
can play it for more than 30 seconds
because it's me
it's me so enjoy that's cool
there it is that's your music player for
your for your handy for your you know
your waiting room
here comes wait for the beat to drop
see that coming
now in an impromptu dance party so if
anybody recognizes the orchestration
behind that produced by my buddy Toby
Emerson Oh so just so you know all right
so that there you have it that's that's
it beautiful there we go MPD MPC install
runs great on a Raspberry Pi I think
that I need to pick up a Raspberry Pi
just to build something like this yeah I
like it a lot
thanks everybody that was cool very well
done and you've figured it out along the
way you got it
people what to do if they have wildly
named albums or what have you guys come
on okay I'll put a link to the CD in the
show notes fine this is the best day
ever all right I would love to answer a
couple of your questions if we have time
we do have news stories though and I
know I talked and talked and I love
doing all these things it's so annoying
come on sorry you never know what will
happen on the show least I gave away a
prize to Tennessee Frank so he's happy
yeah oh yeah maybe somebody watching
right now it's like oh now I got
something to do with my music collection
this is awesome okay it is awesome all
right what do you got for us hell okay
here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom
a supercomputer built by the Chinese
government has retained its place at the
top of the list of the world's most
powerful systems Cayenne he too can
operate at 33.86 petaflops the
equivalent of thirty three thousand
eight hundred and sixty three trillion
calculations per second okay we're out
my head around that this is according to
a test called the Linpack benchmark
there was only one change near the top
of the leaderboard Switzerland
noop is deigned with six point two seven
petaflop s-- made sixth place in the top
500 list
insane insane moving on twitter is
launching its emergency alert service to
users in the UK this system sends
messages from organizations including
the police forces and the Environment
Agency during emergencies to those who
have signed up for the service users
receive the alert as a text message and
it also appears in a Twitter timeline
with an orange bell symbol the service
was developed after the Chinese are
sorry the Japanese tsunami in 2011 when
Twitter was widely used to find out
information now what happens though if a
hacker compromises such a system which I
would assume is gone it could happen I
really yeah that's what the hackers are
thinking that I guarantee you turds the
night you can quote me on that lots of
things alright Yahoo Yahoo was announced
it will encrypt all user information
that moves between its data centers by
the end of March 2014 wait a minute
they're not already doing this go the
internet provider said it had taken this
step after allegations the US government
had secretly a set access sorry
users data without the company's
knowledge in October the Washington Post
obtained documents from former National
Security Agency contractor Edward
Snowden they alleged the agency had
broken into the main communication links
that connect Yahoo's data centers in a
statement released on the company's
tumblr town
on Monday chief executive Marissa Mayer
said I want to reiterate what we have
said in the past yahoo has never given
access to our data centers to the NSA or
any other government agency ever Wow can
I just touch on this yes just to kind of
resolve this whole thing okay Wow
we do a TV show and even I encrypt the
data when I'm transferring it to our
servers we have servers all around the
world to be able to accommodate our
viewers it's encrypted transmission it's
Creative Commons publicly accessible I
know and we encrypt it and they're not
encrypting your use the user data
between data centers that's crazy
so crazy Hillary freaking yeah you go
stand over there and I and with
everybody watching I'm gonna I'm gonna
just yell out to you my credit card now
okay okay
and we'll just see if anyone else picks
up on it and if they do I will just say
that I have never given them my credit
card number that's what it's akin to I
mean yeah who is transmitting this stuff
openly and then oh well we've never
given it to the NSA come on really we'd
better move on to the next story before
I get agitated yeah Wow no seriously I
know it's insane it's ridiculous and
they're talking like this is a good
thing
oh we're gonna encrypt now wait a sec
where you been I have an account and you
haven't been encrypting it excuse me I
know ridiculous yeah yeah whoo yeah no
sorry ahead of the cusp
oh dear we go kaspersky is frisky you go
Kaspersky Lab and renown security expert
Eugene Kaspersky has revealed that the
International Space Station was infected
by a USB stick carried into space by a
Russian astronaut infecting systems on
the space station he did not elaborate
on the impact of the infection or how it
affected operations of the International
Space Station you
the scene from gravity where the ISS
explodes kaspersky did say he had been
told from time to time that there were
virus epidemics on the station according
to Kaspersky the infections occurred on
laptops used by scientists who use
Microsoft Windows as their main platform
and carried USB sticks into space when
visiting the ISS in May of this year the
United Space Alliance the group which
oversees the operation of the ISS moved
all systems entirely to Linux in order
to make them more stable and reliable
that's a quote that's fantastic that's a
quotable there are new stories check out
more at category 5 dot TV slash newsroom
we actually post the full stories with
the links to their source articles yeah
so if you want to read more about
anything that we mentioned in the news
room that's where you want to go
category 5 DB slash true newsroom
totally totally true
well we've got time for probably one
quick question and I apologize if you
send in your question I didn't get to it
tonight I really intended to I didn't
realize that showing you how to build
something awesome was gonna take so long
but don't forget we have our Google Plus
hangout immediately following the show
we've got to just kind of wrap up our
files and then about 15 minutes after
8:15 our time and in Eastern time we
will actually be hosting a Google Plus
hangout so if you've got your webcam get
it ready right now get your microphone
plugged in and and be ready for our
Google+ hangout so you can actually chat
with Hillary and I about anything food
literature culture yeah yeah do you want
to rant we will be here so stick around
for that but before we hit that let's
just try to get one question here we go
alright this is coming up to a live
coming to us from kack kack kack very
chaotic basically I'll just summarize a
co-worker got her laptop stolen oh and
had her work and home L email accounts
on it all the all the things are
password protected but they're nervous
about how many things that they had on
there
that would require a password so he
lists work emails Wi-Fi passwords home
email password Wi-Fi password at home
unfortunately the Thunderbird address
book is gone with names addresses email
phone but she never let the web browser
store passwords yeah but you still typed
them in I don't know
boy oh boy that's a bad situation isn't
it and it makes you think yeah well if
someone stole your laptop what do you
lose of course you lose stuff but also
what do they now have access to so okay
what about online banking is she using
online banking well it it doesn't
indicate that but home you never let
your browser memorize it so that's it
only happens once right I mean okay
first of all you you can you can look at
browser history you can look at the
browser stored passwords in any computer
you can actually reveal the password in
plain text so if there were any in
Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer
whatever easy to find the things that
you need to be concerned about yes
you're right
Wi-Fi okay because if this person who
stole the laptop is clever and sees oh
well okay they work at VMO so I'll you
know use the VMO Wi-Fi and be able to
access the you know the business now
yeah then oh well the manager over there
actually has a network share on their
computer there's one on the server and
it's open to the laptop and it's got all
of these the confidential customer data
mm-hmm so at the workplace and that the
at home you yeah I know it's painful but
you got to talk to the boss and say we
need to change our Wi-Fi password no
questions asked has to be done we need
to change the Wi-Fi password at home
that's gonna lock down the ability to
access the networks from outside what
else have you done in your computer
though does it have personally
identifying stuff do you have pictures
that have been imported from your iPod
or iPhone because those contain
geolocation data so if I take a picture
with my iPod
and then I save it to my computer and
then somebody looks at that photo they
can actually look at okay well where was
this photo taken pops a pin in the map
and it shows me exactly where that photo
was taken so that's all fine and good if
you want to figure that out for yourself
but when someone obtains a copy you know
a copy of that file now they know you
know whatever
what were your pictures you know if kids
do you have pictures of your kids don't
mean to scare you but it really is a
scary thing that it they they can look
at that geolocation data and find out
where this picture was taken a lot of
pictures taken at home a lot of pictures
taken at your favorite places
so that's scary stuff what else
III think it really just boils down it
sounds like you know what you're doing
it preventative measures are the really
important thing I would have you know if
in hindsight if if you could go back in
time I would say get a copy of ESET
Smart Security I'm talking version six
version seven preferably because it came
with ESET anti-theft so if someone
steals your laptop you can actually show
them down or you can track it by
geolocation much like the locate my
iPhone you can actually track it down
you can actually activate the webcam and
see who it is that's sitting typing at
your computer trying to hack that's so
creepy it's but it's good this is your
computer I don't care about creeping out
the guy who stole my laptop and
unfortunately there's really nothing
else you do but change every password
that you can think of and and you didn't
save any in the browser but it's still
possible that they're there somewhere
who knows do you have any files in the
computer or anywhere that have any
personal data it's a scary thing and and
even just looking at your internet
history where have you been can it be
used to figure out things like passwords
is email on the okay home email past you
have email on your computer you had
thunderbird you said because you lost
your contacts and you obviously didn't
have a backup that's unfortunate and
that you know goes without saying we
need to have good backups
email can be used to obtain passwords
for sites yes so user stole your laptop
sits down says ok where they been
oh there's their banking they didn't
save the password so I can't get in oh
there's Twitter I can't get in Facebook
oh I can't get in well uh I've got
Thunderbird go to Facebook forgot
password send it to me emails them the
password or the link to change the
password now because they've changed the
password you are locked at a Facebook
you are locked out of your online
banking you're locked out of Twitter
whatever these services they now have
access to your account all of your
friends they might even pretend to be
you for a while and you can't do
anything about it you can tell mom and
your family and say hey if anyone
messages you from my Facebook account
don't listen to them but what about your
other four hundred friends on Facebook
because we all have four hundred friends
it's just an approximation changes
everything everything sorry that's all
the time that we have on that note hope
you had fun and I look forward to
chatting with you after the show we've
got that Google+ hangout all you have to
do is get over to cat5 dot TV /g +
you're not gonna see the link right away
because we've got to wrap up our files
and get them uploading to the server for
tonight's show but once we have got that
initiated we will be joining you in the
Google Plus hangout at cat5 dot TV / G+
so that's all the time we have Hilary
always a pleasure to have you here for a
while you're wearing that shirt I
absolutely must do this the last time I
can wear green last time for a while
let's get that down
that's a shirt like that thanks for
watching everyone I'll see you again
soon okay see ya we hope you enjoyed the
show category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every Tuesday at 7
p.m. Eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category-five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 Canada
we'll see you next time
thanks for tuning in
