hello and welcome back to new every day
my name is kerry and jen is away again
this week she's actually doing camp
ministry in central Canada and we have
Carmen then s in back with us this week
to talk more about mental illness and
Jesus and how the Lord fits into that
whole picture so stay tuned it's coming
up
got mad skills now our new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from Linda
calm through our special link at cat
five dot TV / Linda learn software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning will give you this chance
to try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
welcome back to our 20th episode of new
everyday I can't believe it's already
been 20 episodes thanks so much for
those who are those of you who have been
faithfully tuning in it's just been such
a wonderful experience I feel like I
learned something new every time I do a
show and I know that Jen says the same
and I sure have learned a lot from you
Carmen so thanks so much for coming back
for having me it was awesome to hear
your story and what God's doing last
week Carmen shared about her story
struggling with mental illness in
particular obsessive-compulsive disorder
and how God brought her through that and
she also sought professional help and
he's brought her to where she is today
and she's such a wonderful person I wish
she could meet her in person she saw
some lovely so so so Karmin I was just
sharing with her that having her here
and I just thought of this before we
came on God answered my prayer in having
her come here because i work in
emergency department as a nurse and we
often deal with or try to provide care
for people struggling with mental
illness and they're often at their wit's
end or they just have a new onset of
some symptoms like you're describing and
they just you know their world is
falling apart and we do certainly try
our very best to provide them with
professional help and medication and get
them started on the track for some maybe
some counseling and therapy but what is
so apparent is the absence of the hope
of Christ and Parma maybe you can just
share more more about that about how the
Lord met you I maybe you can just share
about what the counselor said to you
well I had a non-christian psychologist
for a number of years i think it was
four years and there came a point where
she was moving her practice elsewhere
and i would
longer to be her her clients and as she
was leaving she said you know that she
didn't believe it like she didn't
believe in Jesus but wow that this God
stuff sure had worked for me she said
that to you you and your yeah yeah she
says that psychologist yeah a
non-christian um but she had seen the
difference that it had made in in my
life and in the treatment that she was
seen yeah so that was great and I just I
was crying out to God this here's how
God answered my prayer and even you
saying that do that professional I was
saying god I want to see how you help
people with mental illness because it's
not something that I can necessarily go
and help put a cast on or you know do
sepia hard water but we need God's
intervention I was just so cool that she
the psychologist recognized that in your
life and Jesus said I've come that you
might have life and life to the full and
and I one of the verses we were talking
about earlier was for I have not given
you a spirit of fear but of power of
love and a sound mind and how has God
used scripture in your life to help you
with that Carmen well um I say scripture
has been like a real part of the glue
holding my life together when it was
really falling apart my mum was a lady
of the word absolutely and she would
always be telling me versus to comfort
me when I was struggling one she would
often bring up his Isaiah 41 10 do not
be afraid frame with you do not be
terrified for I am your God I will
strengthen you I will help you I will
uphold you with my right
just right hand so fear terror God
addresses those things like there's so
many do not be afraid in the bible
scripture is loaded with them and
therefore there for a reason because God
knew that we need them especially when
you're dealing with mental illness on
that he's so scary it's something that
God can and does and wants to comfort us
in yeah and he does he definitely does
um he he might not take it away from you
um magically not magically um but might
not heal you right away of that oh yeah
he might not like I definitely would
have taken that you struggle with that
like questioning why you're experiencing
that yeah I did my mom she would say
Carmen what you're going through right
now reminds me of job and God didn't
tell job all the reasons why her but God
used it and he used it powerfully anyone
suffering going through job they can
just totally feel like they have a
resounding bored with Jobe because his
life sucked at that point some many
points it sucked yeah you didn't know
why no you didn't know why we have the
prologue of God and Satan talking and
don't didn't have that right he just had
all of a sudden kids are dead he's
covered in sores and he's lost
everything like he doesn't know why but
he's in Scripture and so are his God so
are his questionings of why God was
doing this and that it
one thing that I've learned is asking
why isn't always the best question to
ask God as to he probably won't tell you
at the Detroit you're asking him why but
he can show you how you can use what
you've gone through to help other people
for me it's given me a lot of sympathy
yeah towards people who are sick with
we're struggling with anxiety and you
must see that in some of the clients
that you help in your jaw absolutely
yeah absolutely and it really gives
people a safe place that they might feel
awkward if if you didn't have that
safety about you that you your that gets
okay I know exactly what you're going to
most likely you weren't as you're not as
bad as I have being so yeah God can
definitely use that it's so strip
blessing even just being on this I hope
someone I believe that God is using this
to comfort or and encourage someone out
there that really needs who's struggling
with maybe depression or anxiety or what
have you to show that you know you're
not alone that God hasn't abandoned you
even if it totally feels like it because
faith is not a feeling faith is a choice
and God is not a feeling God as a
reality right yeah yeah it's a it's a
good you talk about having a safe place
to talk about it and we sure want to
provide that even on our Facebook page
if you can just search new every day and
i'll post some discussion questions and
maybe if you want to post your
experience and we invite you to carmen
to comment on there if you like just to
create a space where we can talk about
these issues I think it's really good
now that being said Carmen what advice
do you have for other Christians or
you know church families how to support
people with mental is or even maybe if
you a family member is well what you how
can we best support them situation
situation it changes it it would depend
on how severe the situation is to be
honest if someone is a danger to
themselves or to other people I would
definitely get help right away that you
you can't do with that on your own you
can't i would say for people who are
struggling with things the like a very
irrational thoughts or depression it is
very very helpful not to try to fix the
problem all the time like in your truck
its people try to be helpful and try to
give solutions and that is a good thing
but often when people need when they're
in these dark places is someone just to
listen and someone just to be there like
jobs friends before they open their
mouths just to be there and to be
pressed sympathize hmm and not to
abandon them not let them feel like
they're abandoned like you might not be
able to change a situation or fix
whatever's going on in their minds but
you can be there for them and tell them
the gods there for them as well and that
I think is a very very powerful thing
obviously yes medication if if that's
what the doctor says you that is going
to help you take it there's no shame in
that you're not going to happy as a more
to eat wearing glasses at you need
glasses like you look great in glasses
I'm boy is it a great world with them on
but people can sometimes be ashamed of
taking medication sure um and I went
through that series a part of that to
where I was like oh yeah you just didn't
want to because we know like it
out kind of like I'm broken it's like I
need to take medication because I'm
broken and he kind of came to a point
where it's like you know what this is
something that God has given me so I can
live a full life so I can have a chance
to to to not stay in this place right
like there were there was a point in in
my life where my parents were afraid if
I never be able to have a job like I
might not ever be able to get married
and i presently have both of those
things thank you yay God but is that
something that God's going to use to
help you get out of there take it like
I'm asking that's someone I would
definitely that's that's one Avenue that
God can use to help ya um a very very
some situation situation I would say
also in the church just to be candid and
if you have a safe place or a people
that you trust they're just be candid
about it and like you're not going to
get any help if you hide it like in in
college I was going through a hard time
and I knew I was going through a hard
time mentally and I asked a friend hey
can you make sure that I go down and eat
meals cuz that's what I would do I would
just not eat if I was in a bad place
yeah so she would knock on my door and
say hey don't forget to eat want to come
down to the dining hall with me and she
would do that and that was a very loving
understanding thing that she would do
that she if she did she was happy to do
it but she wouldn't have done it she
didn't know that I needed it so you had
to reach out there a little bit yeah
yeah and just be honest with that and if
you can find people like that that you
can just say hey can you call me if to
make sure that I'm not sleeping all day
with blinds down
yeah because that's something that is if
you're going through a rough time is
often when people gravitate to I'm just
going to sleep in a dark cave and it
docked and doesn't work right it's often
like the worst thing for you but maybe
you should have a friend call up and say
hey have you eaten today have you gotten
out of bed today and that takes some
courage for someone to reach out and
actually say I need you to do this for
me and what I take away from that Carmen
is I want to be the type of friend and
like sister to someone like in the
church family that they know that they
can come to me an asset and I'm not
going to judge them for it I say okay if
that's what you need I want to be Christ
to you I want to be his hands and feet
and just love so well and maybe we need
to be praying that God shows us how to
love other people well in specific ways
like you're saying yeah and I know maybe
it's a send a card like your friend did
for you yeah it was very helpful and
obviously got a lead you in that yeah um
yeah it's it's amazing what God can lead
you to lift your open town and it's a
beautiful thing when people when your
help then you can help other people
there's a verse is probably not perfect
in my mind right now but we comfort
others with the comfort that we have
received from Christ so we are comforted
we come for other people with the
comfort that Christ is given to us and
sometimes that's through other people
themselves yeah that's true it's often
where you're like Jesus help me please
and often a friend will come yeah God
often uses other people or your phone
rings and that someone is calling just
to say hey how are you doing and it's a
real how are you doing mmm not just to
tell me you're fine yeah I really don't
want to listen yeah so also true God
often uses other people and just to
recognize that and I thank God for that
um that's so true yeah so God took you
through that you're in your teen years
and then through college and then you
can bring it bring us up to speed with
where you are now so you met Joel how
does that happen and then if you can
tell us a little bit about you know the
start of your marriage and what God did
there for you well I met Joel at a youth
group we were both too old really to be
hanging out of hair he was 20 I was 19
thank you um I'd actually been sent home
from college early for Christmas because
I haven't been sick a bit mentally but
that's another story anyway good things
can come out of this so you met him I
met my husband and it was uh it was just
like hey how are you doing and we we
were set up by a lovely lady that we
both knew and she knew that we both
wanted a godly spouse yeah she was like
hey and I know it you didn't hit off
right away I went back to college in
alberta and ontario oh wow sweden eat
each other for like a year and yeah
pretty much lost contact we met again
and i had recently broken up with
someone that's another story but we met
again a young adults group are you
graduated from youth group yeah
graduating to user group and so I was
there and he realized that I was single
again and over the course of a little
while he said just to always be there
like we would go out for McDonald's
after after the young IELTS group and
he'd be sitting right next to me always
some reason anyway um we started to date
or court what have you mm-hmm dating
with the purpose of marriage if whatever
you want to call it okay
and I obviously had to be honest with
him about my mental illness and now how
did he receive that he had he had
experience with anyone who struggled
with that he had really he'd had someone
very close to him that who had had
something she the same thing that I had
had Wow and he had had to he had to deal
with that for very four years so he had
had when I told him that I struggle with
OCD with anxiety he knew exactly what I
was talking about Wow and he was like oh
okay I know exactly what you're talking
about that's annoying that was that was
one thing that really made me think that
this might actually be my husband
because I had always thought okay one
I'm there's not too many Christian guys
around so slim pickings your Christian
guy is no disc to you it was just in my
mind how I was thinking too I need a guy
that's going to be able to deal with and
accept me yes and my specific struggles
and they're not always easy to deal with
so I was like yeah probably not gonna
happen him go me a single missionary
somewhere whatever okay who cares that
was my 19 year old plan okay um but he
he could relate any absolutely adapting
so he was accepting and we decided okay
we will move forward and we did and we
were very supportive he was very
supportive of me and a good very calm
personality mm-hmm if you struggle with
anxiety or irrational thoughts it's very
nice to have a calm person around you
who accepts you and can just kind of
talk you down while accepting you yeah
it's very logical people if they're not
careful can come across cold and that
can make you feel rejected if you're
struggling with these things but my
husband he's very long
jacoba is also very warm he's also very
gentle and accepting yeah that was just
a perfect mixture I'm so good so so did
you get any gun gauge to got engaged
okay and well verbally you were like we
should yeah we wrote donor lists of what
we wanted a spouse we were like yeah
okay check that this works let me get
married we had there was no ring
involved yet but we were like yeah we're
getting married and two weeks after we
decided that Joel called me up for
facebook me and he said hey the doctor
found a baseball sized lump in my lung
and they're going to screen it because
it might be cancer and well I was like
no way Yeah right people always think
it's cancer cuz you'll freak out blah
blah blah um and it turned out that it
was it was a stage 2 Hodgkin's lymphoma
pressing into his lung Wow and wrapping
around his heart wow so and he's he was
what 20 he was 20 22 22 time 2023 sorry
and you were not yet married we were not
yet married we were not even officially
engaged yet we were just starting to
plan our way her parents that was so
like what do you guys do even gay
anyway so um okay that was like november
first that we did we found out he had a
lump and then two weeks later he started
chemotherapy just two weeks later it was
amazingly fast like the doctor came to
his house that evening that he/she the
scan and found the lump did a house call
i know i'm even know that still happened
rarely do that like that that was
absolutely fantastic and she showed him
the chest x-ray right and it was like
yeah there's a reason you're short of
breath
okay because he had been having
breathing issues and he was very
lethargic and was falling asleep all the
time and they just thought he was out of
shape and he kept going back being like
no there's something wrong and they
found in a chest x-ray so yeah that was
scary it was there's something surreal
about cancer something very surreal
about it especially when you're 22 and
20 years old you're like are you kidding
me i'm just about to start this new life
together and then boom is lagging drops
yeah it was very sad but I honestly
somehow God supported us through that
that we weren't it wasn't as bad as it
could have been like we I don't think I
went through much anxiety at all cuz we
knew that God was there and we knew that
he was supporting us and it was just we
had a few rough spots but overall it was
God just really supported us through the
people in our church and through like in
what way can I people of your church
there were people that you know we're
always asking always praying um there
was people of you will that had cancer
it's amazing how many people that you
know have had cancer but you don't know
about it really yeah so they were saying
hey I I had cancer in my lung too and
was like really no way ah so was that
encouraging to see hey you know it's not
a death sentence like it wasn't like the
ends like cancer is survivable so he
started chemotherapy and people were
very still very encouraging and
supportive but it still was quite
stressful sure did was he quite sick
with that yeah he got it was kind of
like he slowly drained the life out of
him it was it was a very sad thing to
see but so hard for you to watch that it
is especially since
and when you love someone you hate to
see them sick but God supported us
through it and we decided you know we're
still going to plan a wedding we're
still gonna get married he proposed to
me with his hair falling out but it was
still good he didn't lose his hair I'm
so happy just got really thin hahaha I
mean it came back curly and it's so cute
now oh it was it so good and it is
really like I was like I lucked out he's
the cutest Harris up it's nice anyway I
love you Joel um we said I proposed to
you proposed to me and we decided we
weren't sure how the key how the how to
plan a wedding like he wasn't able to
work he had to take a year off from
school Wow I was working but we weren't
sure even where we were going to live
because we I wasn't with my parents he
was living with my with his parents
right you weren't going to live in
either their basements cuz that's just
not a thing we want to swallow you
wanted your own space yeah absolutely
okay so we continued on we were like
okay you know what if God doesn't want
this wedding to happen this year then it
won't hmm well just we it came to a
point where we had to make a decision
and we just decided we're going for it
Wow because we weren't sure it could
have been his chemo is kimo might have
been extended okay depending on the
results and hell yeah I responded to it
yeah he could have been too sick mmm he
might even got another round of chemo
heaven forbid but we decided we go for
it anyway and he finished his treatment
three months before the wedding Wow
so that was interesting he had
chemotherapy and radiation and we
decided you know what we're just going
to do this wedding make is if we can't
afford something we're not going to have
it and we just want to be married good
perspective yeah and it was amazing like
how God provided for us to have a
beautiful wedding even though we had no
money the photographer that we had was a
Christian and she heard our story and
after meeting with us once she said I
want to give you this photography for
free wedding pictures yeah the wedding
pictures Wow which was like that's so
expensive and wonderful I know we were
like are you kidding me wow that's
amazing um the ladies at my church were
like we were planning on doing a potluck
and they were like don't do a potluck
it'll be horrible horrible organizing it
so they actually put on a reception
dinner for us they bought the beans in
bulk and things like that um so we were
able to do that we had one of him his
parents friends let us use their cottage
for our honeymoon cuz we were like we're
not gonna probably I do a honeymooner we
were able to have one and I got a
secondhand dress that was had never been
worn before it was just me a lady
ordered it from overseas and she didn't
like it and little did she know middle
did you know she was buying it for me
from God from God so it was like I think
I paid two hundred dollars towards my
mom paid two hundred dollars and it was
just like it was not a say yes to the
dress eighteen thousand fifteen it was
it was beautiful you never know that I
got it super super cheap amazing um so
you have beautiful wedding out of a
bloody wound and then you found a place
to stay yeah like three months before
the wedding we were like praying God we
need a place to stay and we were both to
go for this other place
and my mom was like Carmen she look on
kijiji again and she saw your brother's
add her wanting a Christian tenancy Jake
have you seen this and like no that
wasn't there yesterday we went there and
looked at the place and we're like yeah
this is amazing and so I moved in two
months before the wedding yeah and yeah
it was great because we didn't know we
were gonna live or there were so many
things that were like we'll get there
when we get there and you just about to
we were like take care of the details
for you and he absolutely did it was
like fainting man now when things happen
and we're like oh my goodness what's
gonna happen it's like well God's gotten
us this far he's probably not going to
drop the ball now so and you know along
those lines you you mentioned to me
earlier that when you get it when
someone close to you get to cancer
diagnosis your world shifts yeah you
still know that God cares for you but
your world still shifts and so how did
God did your out of your perspective
change you use the words that God
focuses you what did you mean by that I
would say that you stop taking things
for granted so much okay um like you
stop it kind of reminds you of your own
mortality sure and you focus more on
okay life's not forever like this is
this isn't forever so it really focuses
you I think on things that are important
and it changes your priorities I think
some people can react very negatively to
a cancer diagnosis and that does happen
but I think the better way to do it is
to take it yes it sucks but take it and
just take God through it Oh God will
take you through it and he'll change you
through it and right now you know you
can relate
people differently you see people
differently especially the people who
have had cancer or who have experienced
it because you can relate to them in a
way that a lot of people can so that's
what I'd say the shift is yeah
especially when you're young you feel
like you're in a live forever and it's
like no you can get cancer at 22 you get
a bit of a reality check absolutely a
reality check so now I see my husband
and I'm like I don't take him for
granite hmm because I'm like I could
have lost you before we were even
married so it's really a blessing to be
married to him Wow yeah thank you so
much yeah are our time on this earth is
just a blink of an eye absolutely
compared to eternity you know on if you
were to stretch out eternity you just be
a little blip that would keep getting
smaller and smaller in light of the life
that it's going to come after this with
grace but I feel when you're going
through those things it's it's right in
your face eh yeah but absolutely my
eternity is a long time man life isn't
life isn't but God promises to be there
absolutely even through the blood lead
into the blip whatever the blip entails
mm-hmm Wow yeah we're doing good he's
doing well these kids are free yeah he
just had his
he's been cat he's finished treatment
for over a year so he just had his last
appointment at about last week and six
months from now they'll go back so
things are still good so thank you God
yeah thank God but in my mind it's that
chapters closed yeah I figure I feed him
and I'll take good care of him and he'll
stay with me for a while hopefully and
are you good cook yes okay well that's
good and he's a good eater Oh perfect
awesome thank you so much for sharing
that Carmen you're walking is so good to
hear what God's done how he's met you
through different trials and good things
and some perceivably bad things but man
each struggle I just see you know you
have received Christ in your life and
now when you go through a struggle and
get squeezed its Christ that comes out
of you it's another opportunity for you
to manifest who he is and even you and
sharing this it's just like and you're
saying like God is awesome despite what
you've gone through you know that's
awesome so cool yeah so thank you so
much for tuning in again and and for
those who have been listening faithfully
or watching faithfully we want to thank
you so much and thank you to our
partners we've got some new partners
actually who have joined us you can go
to our website new everyday TV and click
on our partners link you can go to
family christian stores actually it's
online christian bookstore you can also
purchase lots of different christian
resources there so go to our website we
encourage you to use our website to go
to access our partners links also kapoor
sky is an anti-virus and internet
security and you can get a free 30-day
trial so go to the link on our website
and get a free 30-day trial for
antivirus software compliments of copper
sky
so and also thank you to category 5 TV
and the Bobby Ferguson our director and
producer who makes this show what it is
and makes the Bible verses pop up
magically and does all that fun stuff so
thanks so much so we hope you tune in
next week we've got another exciting
episode coming up fandom hope you have
an awesome think
you
