welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight we are taking
a look at a really cool device from air
turn it's called the stomp six cool just
the box I've actually got the pedal as
well so essentially you may want
something like this as a controller for
your guitar effects or something like
that right you kind of recognize that do
you guys see that
that's kind of the heart this device you
can stomp sticks from air turn and what
it is is in fact a Bluetooth keyboard
with six keys oh okay so we're gonna
talk a little bit about what that means
for us but essentially I mean if you're
a musician this is fantastic you've got
an iPad or an Android tablet you put
your sheet music up on the screen and
then you can flip the pages with your
foot right so you've you're jamming and
you've got the sheet music on the screen
for a beautiful also you can pick up
like a quarter inch input for your phone
plug your guitar into your phone and
then out into an amp or pair of
headphones and then use a stomp six as
the controller because it's bluetooth
right where your phone so now it becomes
a guitar effects pedal on the cheap like
they're not expensive that is cool but
because it's a bluetooth keyboard what
else can we do we can connect it to a
computer
and then there is no limit to what we
can do we can program if we want to do
some makin we can connect this to a
Raspberry Pi and make it do all sorts of
cool stuff right basically it is a fully
wireless Bluetooth controller that we
can tell the software what we want it to
do because it's just six different keys
on a keyboard okay first of all the
first thing that we need to do is we
just need to fire it up just holding the
power button you're gonna see a little
light flash and then over here on my
Windows system now I've got Windows 10
in our broadcast computer so this is
gonna be really interesting tonight
Sasha because we're actually going to
bring up our screen which is gonna cause
a rift in the space-time continuum
because we're broadcasting live I'm
going to bring up our screen on your
screen so that you can see the
configuration steps that I take so
there's us Oh some nails there I'm way
below okay so one second delay on
thumbnails so let's get a look at what
Windows says to us so I've got this
thing powered on let's go Bluetooth and
other settings there we go so you see
the air turn there is connected
brilliant so it's really easy I mean
it's just a Bluetooth device but it
connects just like that so now if I
bring up something like notepad and all
I'm gonna do let's see if can you see me
in the thumbnail there I'm just gonna
hold up the keyboard and just push the
first key basically the first petal and
what that's done is its output the
number three so this first petal is
basically just the number three on a
keyboard right now Telestream Wirecast
is the software that you saw there on
your screen and that's what it looks
like to us here in the studio other than
we've got some crazy stuff happening in
the preview window because we're kind of
causing a bit of a loop but that is
broadcast software it's perfect for
webcasters like ourselves television
shows sports casting it's got everything
for sports casters including the ability
to put scores up on the screen in real
time it's got I mean it's perfect for
churches that want to broadcast their
services every Sunday great businesses
or town halls city halls that want to
broadcast meetings it's a great piece of
software to turn a computer into a
broadcast suite but it's sometimes tough
Sasha to have somebody always operating
that did you see all the buttons and
stuff that I have no I've got such
screen controller here as well so when I
touch things that's moving around that
way
but you don't always have someone to do
that so having a foot switch like the
stomp 6 from air turn is gonna make
things a lot simpler but the question
becomes how do I now turn this Bluetooth
keyboard if you will this Bluetooth foot
switch which is powered by a single
9-volt battery right how do I make it
work with Telestream Wirecast that's
what I'm going to show you tonight
folks let's see so let's head back over
to notepad and you'll see that 3 is the
first button when I press the button so
that means that I'm actually in mode 2
and I know this from the manual so if I
press the second button
it's a semicolon if I press the third
button it's a P the fourth button is a
capital R and then a space and then the
last one is actually control Z so this
tells me that mode 2 now I've chosen
mode 2 as the best option for this
particular use case you can change the
mode there are 4 different modes and it
changes what the keys output ok you can
set it mode 1 where this is page off
page down and so on so there are
different things that you can do with it
with the 4 different modes
I think mode 2 works really well for
Telestream Wirecast because of the fact
that we have all standard keys from a
keyboard but then number 6 which we use
as our programming key is a control key
so unfortunately that key is not
compatible with Telestream Wirecast
that's because it's the undo key so now
what we end up with is 1 2 3 4 5
controlling Telestream Wirecast and then
control Z which is undo so it's a quick
foot flip to undo whatever it is that
you have done right typing and you need
to undo it real quick there you go so
jumping back here let's get a look so
we've got this thing connected in mode 2
and really really simple to change folks
you've got the manual if you pick one of
these up you get one a cap 5 TV slash
air turn but all you do is you just hold
in button number 6 with your foot or
your finger and then it starts flashing
and the flashes you count them one two
three four boom you're in mode 4 if you
let go that's right one two let go now
you're in mode two could not get easier
oh it's so simple alright and the manual
shows you what the key sequences are for
each of those and we know it from
bringing up notepad as well so let's get
a look at Telestream Wirecast so first
of all I need to tell Telestream
Wirecast hey how do I communicate with
this particular device it's really
simple because as I mentioned Telestream
Wirecast works with keyboard hotkeys so
in this case I can click on add and I
can call this stomp 6 button
one and then over here in the right hand
side now all I do can you see me in the
thumbnail I'm just gonna push button one
done and it entered a three okay now I'm
going to set that to global so that it
doesn't have to have Telestream Wirecast
as the foreground application in order
to switch okay
that's handy you may want to turn that
off if you are commonly switching over
to Facebook and things like that well
broadcasting because as soon as you hit
three boom your shot changes now I'm
going to add another button and I'm
gonna call this one
stomp six button two and then I push
button two on my stomp six and it put a
semicolon make it global then I add the
next one
stomp six button three you're getting
the idea right oh yeah three there we go
it's a capital P now all I do is I exit
out of that and I now I've only done the
first three buttons because we are just
doing a demonstration you get the idea
you can have multiple devices set to
different modes and then you can have
one two three four five as some switches
then you can have another stop six set
it to a different mode I have one two
three four five six or whatever you want
to do and program them independently of
one another so that you've got multiple
devices controlling different camera
shots okay so over here at Telestream
Wirecast now that it knows how to
communicate with this device I'm gonna
simply right click on my shot and go
keyboard shortcut and assign it to any
one of the keys that I set
so button number three okay is now going
to be this shot our main shot now if I
look at you there on the green screen
and I right click and go let's make you
button number two now watch what happens
so button number three we're already on
that shot now if I push button number
two guess what happens
push number three again see super button
to button three I'm just pushing it off
my finger but here's the idea here is
with the stop six you put that on the
floor it's out of the vision of your
viewers and it's something really really
easy in order to switch between shots I
like to use like a P touch labeling
system to
also put you know Sasha shot main shot
shot that kind of stuff put it right on
there and of course it's reusable for
from task to task right now that I've
set it up with Telestream Wirecast it's
not just a Telestream Wirecast
controller I can now take it to my jam
and start using my phone as a guitar
effects pedal as well
very slowly makes it seem like there's a
whole crew it really does
write super super easy to set up and
there you have it that's how you do it
on Telestream Wirecast
and that again is a suite of software
that turns a computer into a broadcast
system and it is available at cat 5 TV
slash Wirecast check them out it's a
great suite of software it's what we use
here at category 5 TV but I love
absolutely love adding the air turn
devices to the mix because it gives me a
way to switch shots really easily really
seamlessly and usually you probably
don't even know that it's happening
because I can just flip a switch with my
foot right how cool is that
check them out a game cat 5 dot TV slash
air turn
[Music]
you
[Applause]
