welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 527 it's nice to
have you here my name is Robbie and
Sasha's over here with me we are going
to have a lot of fun tonight because we
are celebrating kind of you know that's
the Halloween week special and we always
do a little something but this time
we're doing something a little bit
different thanks to the folks over at
stage 9 what we are doing is actually
taking a virtual reality tour of the
Starship Enterprise from Star Trek The
Next Generation that's NCC 1701 D you
want to stick around we're gonna
actually take sashes gaming rig for a
spin the first time it's ever run a game
we're going to be cranking things up
with epic mode graphics and we're gonna
see how she performs as we tour the
Starship Enterprise that is awesome and
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsroom a botnet of unknown intent
has been discovered and is spreading at
a frightening rate Google's Project loon
has brought some internet and cellular
service to hurricane devastated Puerto
Rico Samsung hopes to succeed where
other vendors have failed they want to
bring the full desktop experience full
desktop linux experience to smartphones
ian's do you have ultimate player or
bullets on your Mac you may need to wipe
everything and reinstall Mac OS because
a nasty bit of malware came with the
popular software and is giving hackers
full access to absolutely everything
including your iCloud account stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drive by Kingston technology
revive your computer with improved
performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TB streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku cody and
other HLS video players local show times
visit category 5 TV category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash TPN
and the international association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 TV slash iai
be
welcome to the show everyone this is
category 5 technology TV so nice to see
you and first of all want to say hello
to everyone who's new here this week of
course we are kinda in Halloween mode
being that it's Halloween week so
welcome to the to the holodeck we're
gonna get into that in just a couple of
minutes time nice to have you joining us
we had a discussion a couple of weeks
ago about Star Trek it was actually Star
Trek discovery versus the orville and we
keep coming back to this because it's
been a hot topic on YouTube
of course oh boy a lot of angry Trekkies
out there I'll tell you what but one
particular comment really stood out to
me do you see that one there Sasha yes
from Razzie 1312 that's the one yes
simply put imagine if the characters in
Oroville and discovery were substituted
with the characters from any of the Star
Trek series which one fits more hmm see
so when you're thinking hey is discovery
like Star Trek it's pretty neat you
think about Captain Picard on the Orval
it just works mm-hmm on the discovery
not so much what are your thoughts get
on to our YouTube channel
Linux tech show.com that's gonna
actually reroute you to the channel and
you're gonna be able to find that just
by clicking on videos and you can get
your two cents cents in our season 10
bit torrent file is up yeah it's
completely all loaded now so you can
watch it 100% right through you just
like a hundred and two gigabytes of
category-five TV with behind this behind
the scenes and extras and things like
that so head on over to torrent dot
category-five TV it is a
legal way not an illegal but a legal way
to download the entire season of
category-five technology TV absolutely
free we provide that to you as one of
the ways that you can that you can catch
the show keeping all right yes do this I
am I want to take a tour of the Starship
Enterprise I've been looking forward to
this since I was just a wee lad he's
seriously yeah I said it before I grew
up on NCC 1701 D and I can't wait for
the opportunity to walk through and
actually get a look at the at the
enterprise excited stick around we're
gonna be right back whether you shop on
think geek gearbest B&amp;H photo video
ebay or amazon or even if you want a
free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching welcome back to
category five technology TV it's great
to have you here on the Starship
Enterprise here we are in the holodeck
as you can see and it is time for part
10 sasha builds a gaming pc oh this is
it this is the main unveiling well we
are actually gonna game yes stage - 9 .
co uk check it out these folks are
working really really hard to recreate
the Starship Enterprise
NCC 1701 D from the next generation now
so much effort has gone into this it's
using Unreal Engine 4 and it's literally
a tour of the Starship Enterprise now
we're using tonight we're on Linux and
we're using a pre-alpha release so that
means it's not even alpha yet it's not
even ready for primetime
they're probably going to encounter some
glitches we're probably going to
encounter weird things that are going to
be fixed but it is it's so nice that
they're releasing versions that we can
give a try to first of all it works on
Linux Mac and Windows cool if you're a
Linux fan like us please get on over to
stage 9 co uk make sure you reach out to
Rob there and let them know that you are
a big supporter of stage 9 on Linux
because we really want to see them
always bringing out versions for Linux I
know they're going to do it but they
need to know of course that there is a
Linux gaming community as well and we
want to see how this goes so it's it's a
game that we're going to run on the
gaming computer rights but it's not
quite a game yet like we're not
interacting with people we're touring
the Starship Enterprise this is awesome
you folks ready get into the chat room
category 5 on freenode let us know where
you'd like us to go now this is what
they endeavor to do is eventually this
is going to be stage 9 is going to be a
full tour of the enterprise that you can
walk through that is true to the
blueprints that is true to attention to
detail based on episodes of the show so
when you walk in the rooms you know
decor is what you would expect it to be
so this is a really really exciting
project folks and before we get into it
we do need to say that it is a fan
project it's provided absolutely free
it's not endorsed by CBS Viacom or
paramount and all of the trademarks to
do with Star Trek are of course property
of the copyright holders so this and the
project itself are provided absolutely
free and both the project stage 9 and
this broadcast our fan productions that
are provided with no monetary
compensation ok ready yes let's spin the
camera around and hop into the holodeck
so here we are are you ready to take the
tour chatroom tell us where you want us
to go first of all we're gonna head on
up to the main bridge
let's see if we can find our way here
now of course we're walking down a
corridor on NCC 1701 D jr. once this
wants us to go to rands quarters Rams
quarters yeah that's an option now here
is now we're in a turbo left and the way
that it is working at this point is
they've got designations set up on kind
of a computer type screen because it
needs to make sense for us to be able to
find where we're going so up on deck 1
we've got the main bridge let's head on
up there we want to see all the detail
that's gone into that and off we go
we're there Oh anyone else feel that
this is like my boy a boyhood fantasies
right here what does that tell you about
me all right let's get a little bit of a
walk around looking out here oh we've
got some destruction out there what have
we got look at that folks
just beautiful attention to detail
this is incredible alright I'm going to
show you before we really get into kind
of gameplay and touring the enterprise
let's look at some of the options that
we have here so first of all we're on
the gaming rig that has been built on
the course of 10 episodes so let's look
at low quality setting so this is low up
pardon me I didn't hit okay that is not
a weakness there we go so that's our low
quality setting which is still pretty
fantastic but if you've got a poor fret
a frame rate you might you might need
that now of course sasha this is the
gaming rig that you've built we're gonna
try epic we're also going at full 1920
by 1080 resolution we've got everything
just cranked absolutely full I've turned
down the motion blur just a little bit
because I didn't want you to get dizzy
and I've turned up the gamma just for
the sake of your tvs because it makes it
a little easier to see things like the
Stars so now that I've done that now of
course there are some other things I can
turn on NPCs so if you want to see some
some folks on the bridge and throughout
the enterprise you can actually turn
them on they are not presently
interactive but they are kind of cool
but they can sometimes get in the way so
we're going to turn those guys off and
let's restart and take this right - what
you're going to see when you first
connect to stage 9 here we are in the
turbolift outside of the main bridge and
you'll see that when you restart it
actually resets a couple of the settings
I'm going to turn off MPC's we're going
to turn on animated L cars which
apparently has a performance hit because
of the way that it's done right now but
it performs well on your system sash
very cool
all right so let's head on over here
we're gonna see what what was out there
originally before I did a little bit of
plan before the show look at that that's
Deep Space nine folks so we know where
we are that must be beige or that's what
I was gonna say where's the wormhole
okay so let's head up up here so you get
some of the interactivity that you would
from a game we can oh dear do I do it do
it do I do it no it should never happen
who is the Joker who made it so that the
only thing you can blow up is ds9
come on should have been a Ferengi
Cruiser out there or something Romulans
alright let's take a tour folks the
captain's ready room here using
look at that so you're watching category
five technology TV and tonight we are
actually taking a tour of NCC 1701 D
this is the enterprise from Star Trek
The Next Generation and it is powered by
stage 9 and you can get it it's a free
download at stage 9 dot coat UK there's
the captain's fish not yet animated it
looks like but cool again great
attention to detail
looks just like the show it's such an
incredible job on this alright folks
let's see where the turbolift can take
us all right so we've got deck 2 is the
starboard bow with data's quarters warps
quarters cargo elevator escape pods and
a crew lounge
we've got deck 6 min ship is the
transporter rooms the science lab deck 7
is the stern with the Arboretum deck 8
is the battle bridge then we've got
stellar cartography on deck 9 Captain
Picard's quarters on deck
8
the computer core look at all these a
six-day shuttle they - and the brake and
the cell store and the cell control
which is the warp engine control going
to give us some of you their main
engineering ten-forward in holodecks
we've already been to the holodecks you
know what I would love to see main
engineering that's somewhere that the
majority and data spent a lot of time
and just love so let's see what we can
find here now you'll see these force
fields throughout stage 9 and that
simply means that they haven't completed
that area yet so you can't go there just
cool nice way to do it and the corridors
just look absolutely incredible geology
lab and here we are ladies and gentlemen
main engineering of the Starship
Enterprise
it's stunning
Wow you can hear it's incredible
no one else got goosebumps
it's rarely we get a chance to do this
kind of thing on category five
technology TV but being our Halloween
special hey that felt right there's
another turbolift over here now when a
door doesn't open it means that it's not
part of the network or it hasn't been
completed yet so you find the doors that
have been completed and eventually this
project is going to have an entire
representation of the Starship
where would you like to go let's go to
the sick bay alright let's check it out
on deck 12
hey Kat how much of your day today did
you spend to her and around me more like
plugging in cables and making sure
things were going to work okay so it
looks like the only way we can go is
forward right now this again is true to
the blueprints of the enterprise so if
you really focused on episodes of Star
Trek The Next Generation you're really
going to have a sense that wow they've
they've turned the the set into an
actual interactive environment just
amazing
so here we are in sickbay folks let's
head on over to Beverly's office here we
are I think we can sit down if we
right-click yes there we go no way
Unreal Engine 4 beautiful can't go down
there here we go
feeling I'm gonna have the weirdest
dreams tonight the best dream for two
next let's check out now I'm very
interested in the Arboretum and stellar
cartography okay let's head on over to
the Arboretum which would be kind of
like a garden on the ship which would be
pretty cool a nice place to go read a
book or something
here we are beautiful artificial
sunlight now I'm looking at this and I'm
wondering what kind of settings were
currently oh you weren't in at all my
goodness
folks if you thought it was incredible
before now it's epic no it is truly epic
Wow
holy cow I want to like go back and
start over
this is just gorgeous I was like that's
beautiful anyways but look at that oh
wow it's very one of the things that
they do need to implement is like saving
of settings I think would be quite
helpful let's you know what can I head
back to main engineering just to see
what that looks like
Oh certainly loud cuz that's kind of a
big deal
all right you'll learn your way around
okay now we've got all was that a lens
flare ha Wow
Sasha I thought this was impressive a
few moments ago when we were here now
look at this so if you've got the
horsepower folks we've got lighting
effects and blooms and things like that
see that just awesome Wow
all right let's let's take the tour keep
going
make sure you in the chat room Sasha and
I are watching as best we can to see
where you'd like us to go what what
you'd like us to do next let's go over
to stellar cartography and see what
things look like over there I'm just
mesmerized by this it's incredible I
feel like I've been here like it's a
deja vu feeling having watched so many
episodes of Star Trek The Next
Generation so it kind of feels like this
is like living the the the fantasy or
the dream of what Star Trek has created
so we've got to find the right door
because only the doors that are in
active rooms are going to actually let
us in don't fall off
this looks like from generations cool
that looks like a bit of a work in
progress
absolutely beautiful though look at the
textures there this looks awesome all
right now where's the turbolift there is
an emergency transport feature so if you
get lost you can actually use emergency
transport or if you get outside and you
know up the enterprise and you can't
find your way back in through a glitch
or through jumping out a shuttle bay
door something like that
speaking of shuttle bay do we wanna
check it out yes let's and we're off
see how the door opened but didn't open
that's that's like one of those kind of
pre-alpha glitches so you just back up
and go go back again
Oh a brig nice if you can lower the
forcefield or not I don't know how
interactive things are just yet it's
more just for the tour of it than
anything awesome
looks like a shuttlebay to me no way oh
oh you cannot go back it's active yeah
get out of my way
being a nuclear waste whatever it is
okay let's see what we can do open
I think those forcefield generators are
there
oh now I'm wishing I didn't blow up ds9
cuz we'd go and explore it
oh sorry bad advice not bad advice shoot
it it's fine yeah yeah alright let's see
if we can actually operate a
shuttlecraft
we open can you open it must be away
I'm right-clicking and left clicking on
the pad open the dad will do it
oh something tall oh yeah you did
it sweet I think once the NPC model is
part of my person it might be a little
bit easier to to see things like where
my hand is actually pointed because I'm
kind of just aiming into space and
hoping that I'm clicking on the right
spot there we go all right let's take it
for a drive
Oh
okay
how do we maneuver
w is not going
oh there it is okay w after I pressed
space
house itself
see if we can get a view of
Oh I've got like a rearview mirror
anything
there it is very cool
are we still in epic mode system failure
just want to be absolutely sure there it
is folks the Starship Enterprise
as per stage nine so we're taking off
from a shuttle bay in a shuttle and and
it's true to where the shuttle bay would
be located there's the bridge up at the
top there nice
get on over to stage - 9 co uk if you'd
like to check it out
let's see if we can find the shuttlebay
entrance again
can I dock it
[Laughter]
coming in a little fast there lieutenant
Robby
oh nice good job thanks thanks
Butte Oh
okay now how do i oh there we go right
click to stand up
you open the door now we're stuck in
here forever forever can always just
press restart if you're stuck
and it can sometimes happen
or you can try the emergency transporter
which is in game in your game menu which
is accessed by the Escape key however
sometimes oh it worked beautifully look
at that sometimes the emergency
transporter will take you and place you
somewhere you don't want to be in a
corridor where there's no escape things
like that and we've got time for one
more location so chat room tell Sasha
where you'd like us to go let's see here
let's go to 10-4 where does it end or
not what's being said yes linden
ten-forward
all right Linda here we go
that looks like an interest to
ten-forward if I ever did see one oh no
way
this is the bar this should be actually
a really cool bar I'll tell you
ten-forward is a really cool bar let's
see if I can so if we're in ten-forward
we've got to pull a Ryker nice pulling a
Ryker there you have it folks at stage 9
from stage - 9 dot koa dot uk' check it
out it's a free download super super
cool Sasha you need to tell me of all
the places on NCC 1701 D where would you
like to do the news from oh can I go to
the Arboretum Arboretum Arboretum well
thank you they're awesome we'll be right
back after this
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host welcome back this is category
five technology TV and we are looking
for the arboretum on the Starship
Enterprise this is stage nine and you
can find it at stage - nine dot co uk
it's a free download if you want to
check it out if you want to take a tour
for yourself of the enterprise in the
meantime there's our shot we're gonna be
min Sacha Rickman for the magic of TV we
are in the news room in the news
Arboretum that's right
this is where I want to be every week
now hmm alright here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
five TV newsroom a botnet of unknown
intent has been discovered and is
spreading at a frightening rate Google's
Project loon has brought Internet and
cellular service to hurricane devastated
Puerto Rico Samsung hopes to succeed
where other vendors have failed they
want to bring the full Desktop Linux
experience to smartphones
and do you have Altima player or full ex
on your Mac you might need to wipe
of a nasty bit of malware that came with
their popular software and it's giving
hackers full access to absolutely
everything including your iCloud account
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat5 dot TV
slash Linda learned software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning we'll give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot t v-- slash linda this
is the category five dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias I'm Sacha
Rickman and here are the top stories
were following this week as we speak
miscreants are assembling a massive army
of hacked Internet of Things devices and
at a much faster rate than previous
botnets this new cyber militia of
compromised gadgets dubbed IOT
underscore Reaper or reaper by experts
at qihoo 360 net lab can be instructed
by its masters to attack websites and
kik services offline the botnets foot
soldiers mainly press-ganged Internet
connected cameras home routers and
similar gear are located in more than a
million organizations globally claim
security biz checkpoints on Thursday at
first it was assumed the malware the
malware that was infected gizmo that
infected gizmos to form this latest army
was a variant of the mirai botnet that
took over hundreds of thousands of
Internet connected equipment in 2016
however security researchers now think
it's actually another family of
malicious software there's no word yet
on what exactly the botnet will be used
for either the Reaper malware is
spreading globally by
exploiting various vulnerabilities and
embedded devices such as CVE - 2017 - 80
- 25 to steal and use the user and use
the usernames and passwords of the
gadgets web-based control panels
ultimately to commandeer them for
example one of the botnets drones a
hacked camera running a go ahead
embedded web server on TCP port 81 had a
system dot ini file that had changed to
include a net cat command that opened a
reverse shell a backdoor in other words
this gave the Reaper masters the command
line to the device once the botnets
malware was on the computer it then
attempted to infect other equipment on
the Internet
any subsequently hacked device would
also cruise up and down the information
superhighway in search of a more of more
of vulnerable gizmos to hijack right now
check to make sure you're not exposing a
vulnerable device to the Internet apply
patches if you can look out for
suspicious behavior in your network and
take a gadget offline if it's infected
Wow okay so my thought is okay what's
the endgame in this is this like leading
to something where everything will be in
line and then we'll see a major attack
once everything is kind of are you
asking me to create a conspiracy theory
right or like or is it just like an
experiment where like perhaps it's very
benign maybe it's just like let's see
what we can do we've spoken on the show
previously about malicious software as a
form of warfare and we tend to we tend
to not quite grasp that as warfare to us
is war right so to think that there
would be cyber warfare it's it's really
really hard to get our head or heads
around so when you talk about an
infection of this scale so these are
these are internet connected devices so
home routers and cameras and things like
that that have internet connectivity
like everything
has internet yeah you know lately does
yeah the internet if the devices are
exploited now you've got thousands
potentially millions of devices that
create you've heard the term botnet
mm-hm
so let's you know when we hear botnet we
think okay well it's some kind of virus
or some kind of malware well it's not
exactly like that think about a
supercomputer no what is a supercomputer
it's basically thousands of individual
computers connected together and created
to be one supercomputer so there's the
power of thousands of other computers
all connected together to give the power
of one supercomputer okay so with the
internet of things being compromised in
this particular manner now all of these
modems and all of these cameras and all
of these devices that are Internet
connected we've heard about in the news
previously even pop machines and
colleges are internet connected so that
they can update things and change things
right remotely and they were compromised
as well in a in a different attack so
now they become part of the botnet part
of the supercomputer so why does a
malicious person or group of people
create a supercomputer it's to be able
to process astronomical amounts of data
at unfathomable rates right so in
legitimate business that's done by
creating supercomputers creating
in-house botnets in a manner of speaking
by creating legitimate supercomputers
that's what Google has that's what
Amazon has that's what Facebook has
they've got supercomputers so this is
not a legitimate means of doing it this
is a malicious way of somebody who knows
who
creating a supercomputer is it to find a
cure for cancer probably not it's not
like a college experiment perhaps not
likely oh I mean it could be with that
particular college student when they
hand in their thesis is going to jail so
it's not a wise thing I've heard of
stories like that where someone thinks
they're gonna figure out something in
security and they end up
going to jail so that's that that is
pretty unlikely so the only way to
protect yourself is to take your device
is offline
and keep them offline not necessarily
now these particular kinds of exploits
happen because of backdoors in the
systems in particular things like
leaving the password default like one
one one one like every password as well
when your internet service provider
shows up and installs your internet at
your new house they give you a modem and
they say here's the password for the
Wi-Fi and you put it in your phone now
you've got internet and it works so
you're happy well what you're not
realizing is that that device you you're
using the default password the service
provider has that password other people
have that password and that password is
quite easily compromised as well so
that's one particular instance of a
device that has a default password now
you think about the Internet of Things
you've got a toaster that is internet
connected for some crazy reason right
because this exists yes a fridge makes
sense I mean you can put your shopping
list on the fridge and you can and it's
internet connected my toothbrush talks
to my phone there you go yeah
so these internet connected devices do
you ever think to change the password on
your fridge thinking someone's going to
compromised it right we don't really
clue into that until now somebody
through the internet has gotten in
through the default passwords and things
like that right sometimes changes the
password so you no longer have access
and that then you're you're part of this
botnet which is quite potentially to be
used for cyber warfare which is a bad
thing Wow yeah thank you change your
password change your passwords change
your passwords and if you if you think
you've been compromised you may have to
wipe the device and start over with a
fresh firmware that's that's just the
nature of it mm-hmm
wow thank you all right
mobile phone data services have been
boosted in blacked out areas of
hurricane hit Puerto Rico by balloons
that were provided by Google's parent
company alphabet Project loon devices
beam signals between each other and two
users on the ground this extends
communication networks in places where
infrastructure
scarce or has been damaged the balloons
will allow residents with LTE phones to
send and receive text messages and
access the web however much of the
country is still without electricity and
more than a quarter of the population
lacks safe drinking water
Alistair Westgarth head of Project loon
said this is the first time we've used
our new machine learning powered
algorithms to keep balloons clustered
over Puerto Rico so we're still learning
how to best do this as we get more
familiar with the constantly shifting
winds in this region we hope to keep the
balloons over areas where connectivity
is needed for as long as possible so
these balloons are powered by an AI
right a manner of speaking yeah so you
think about a hot air balloon it can
only go up or down right you go up or
down in order to control its horizontal
movement as well because you can follow
wind drifts and things like that so by
monitoring the air flow by monitoring
conditions the artificial intelligence
if you will it's machine learning is
essentially what it is oh okay it's it's
pretty simple as far as the algorithms
themselves go but it learns from its own
mistakes so if it goes up when it should
have gone down it's gonna go oh maybe
next time I'll go down when I think I
should go up and and so it learns and it
evolves and it becomes smarter in a
great way of pretty cool stuff so to
have stayed over now their first test
flight at alphabet or X was a little
while ago and stayed up for three months
a little over three months Wow
without men controlling it right without
a person controlling it so it's pretty
cool nice now what's what does the LTE
mean like if your phone didn't have LTE
that's just the grade of the services
okay fast Internet is that LTE on your
phone okay so if you if you have
anything less so basically in a in a
war-torn place or in a devastated by
hurricane place like Puerto Rico you'd
be looking at high-speed
internet on your phone like we're
talking 25 megabits per second on your
phone in a place like that provided by a
balloon that's perfect you can let
people know where you are and that
you're safe very cool my wife made an
interesting point if I may yes because I
always thought oh well that's great they
can let people overseas know if they've
got family and stuff and that could made
the comment that I never really clicked
for me but they can now communicate with
one another
well the infrastructure is there now to
communicate with people in the same town
and be able to reach out and say you
know how you doing or you know do you
need me to bring you anything there
whatever else I mean phones are the main
way to communicate so well then you've
got now you've got email texting phone
everything on LTE very cool speaking of
phones Samsung wants to bring the full
power of desktop Linux to its
smartphones yeah the mobile giant
announced this week that the Linux on
galaxy project will give smartphones the
capability to run Linux based
distributions on mobile devices so if
you dream of using the smartphone in
your pocket as a desktop Linux PC you'll
be pleased to know that Samsung clearly
shares the same dream Linux on galaxy
will based on the information currently
available be distributed as an app it
will be able to run multiple operating
systems likely including a boon to Linux
distros run on the exact same Linux
kernel that Android uses and with no
virtualization or emulation involved
performance theoretically should be
excellent but the true power will be
unlocked when used with the Samsung Dex
desktop dock accessory this allows
compatible phones to connect to an
external display a mouse and keyboard
and other peripherals the Samsung Galaxy
s8 phone already allows users to use
Android apps with a larger screen with a
desktop style Android UI when docks
docked with the de X but while Android
is is great as a smartphone and tablet
OS it's not so hot as a desktop one
Samsung Samsung says its users want the
convenience of their mobile devices but
also sometimes need the tried-and-true
computing environment especially when it
comes to interacting with productivity
tools and entertainment contents that
are best viewed on a larger monitor
Linux on galaxy is still in the early
stages of development there's no word on
which devices the initiative plans to
support so I wouldn't suggest rushing
out to buy something Samsung branded
just yet
Motorola Microsoft and canonical all
tried and failed to bring convergence to
the masses can the smartphone giant
Samsung succeed where others have failed
let us know what you think in the
comments Wow now why is convergence
failed if it's failed with all of the
other platforms why would Samsung go
ahead and pick it up yeah why would they
start making something that has already
failed by everyone else so you know I
don't have an exact answer to that I can
speculate a little bit you think about
iPhones right and you think about
Android mm-hm and Google and these are
all familiar household names mm-hmm
there's a couple of different things
about them first of all they've got an
app store that is billed chock full of
stuff so you're not going to just switch
phone providers to switch phone os's to
a phone that doesn't have all the apps
that you usually use mm-hm
it just doesn't make any sense to you I
know with me when I got blackberry it
didn't make any sense because they
disconnected the Facebook app there was
no Skype it just was useless to me right
so so that's kind of the same kind of
scenario I would expect the App Store
would be a big thing but also iPhone
Android Google Samsung LG these are all
names that when you hear them you think
they're good phones right I know these
names even if you don't really know
these names you know these names so if
boon to canonical comes out with Ubuntu
phone and it's some obscure manufacturer
that nobody has ever heard of right
we're not really gonna jump on the
bandwagon and it's so it's such a shame
because they may be fantastic phones who
knows but they need the name named
Samsung on the other hand is one of
those names that may be able to pull
this off just based on their name alone
right it may be enough to dig them out
of the dirt yeah they've had a rough
time of late so this would be a really
good way for them to get it good they
can do it without blowing up your
docking station so to be clear they
command just quickly because we're we're
running low on time take your phone plug
it into the monitor now your monitor
lights up with the phone display and
you've got your keyboard and mouse and
it becomes a computer but it's got Linux
on it so it's not a phone OS so you're
not feeling like you know that the ones
you know where you've got to swipe like
a tablet connected to it screen it just
doesn't make any sense yeah it turns
into a desktop operating system sort of
reminds me of like that Nintendo switch
ideology a little bit right it switches
to the big screen and then it's yeah
seamlessly mm-hmm Wow
all right so it's going to be an
unpleasant week for some Mac users who
are facing a complete system wipe and
reinstall after hackers stashed malware
in legitimate applications altima
software which makes the popular L media
player and download manager has
confessed the latest version of these
two apps came with an unwelcome extra
the rather horrid OS X dot proton
malware the botnet which was injected
into downloads of the applications was
spotted by security shop ESET which
alerted L media a subsequent
investigation revealed miscreants had
got into the developer servers implanted
the malware into the download files and
then let the company infect its users as
they fetched the software proton is a
remote-control Trojan designed
specifically for Mac systems it opens a
backdoor granting route level command
line access to commandeer the computer
and conceal passwords encryption and VPN
keys as well as crypto currencies from
infected systems
that's Bitcoin it can even gain access
to victims iCloud account regardless of
whether two-factor authentication is
used or not ISA warns that a total
system OS reinstalled is the only
guaranteed way to totally rate
your system of this malware Wow so how
would you know if you've been infected
that's a good question now there is a
lot of information out there for Mac
users so you know there are particular
files that this trojan leaves behind on
your hard drive so it makes it fairly
obvious that you're infected by finding
these files okay off the top of my head
I don't know what those files are but
you'll find those if you go to any
Security Bulletin about this
malwarebytes is a fantastic source and
in fact malwarebytes for Mac will not
only detect but remove residual residue
of this Trojan oh I think he said is
right though that because this thing has
root level access that means it is the
Super User on your Mac even malwarebytes
can't guarantee that it has removed
everything that's happened because it's
a backdoor so the hackers may have
already remoted into your computer and
done other things that malwarebytes
would have no way to know whether or not
it so you would be best just to assume
that you're infected no no find out if
you are by checking for those files or
okay easy peasy way of install
malwarebytes for mac and run a scan okay
if it detects the malware then we know
that hey we've got a probably just to be
safe you can remove it but because of
the nature of this one you have no way
to know whether or not they've put other
things in there right that's the tough
thing here so that's why you set says a
system wipe is the only way to know that
you are clean from this one that's
brutal
that is horrible Mac users tend to think
that they're safe of course they do yes
oh well big thanks this week - Roy W
Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm
sascha Rickman thanks Ashley this is
category five technology TV let's beam
back to the holodeck there just like
that awesome
yeah wasn't that fun that was amazing
you're gaming computer even in epic mode
is sick as the kiddos say I love it so
I'm gonna pack this thing up and take it
home with me now nope this one is for
Dave so Dave you are in the audience
awesome yes dave is right behind the
camera thank you so much this is both a
wedding gift and a birthday gift and
it's not just for me but it's from all
of category five so we've had it's from
all of category five so we've had all of
the viewers from Everett just helping
pick the parts of the computer Robby
guiding me through building it we've had
countless I was like don't do that no
now now that this is over you can watch
the entire series you can like us on
Facebook a game Dave yeah so it's a
sweet gaming rig let's go over a little
bit of the hardware here just so you
know what you're getting the CPU is a
seventh gen Intel Core desktop i7 7700 K
it's overclocked it's 4.5 gigahertz it
is sweet the motherboard is in a soos
Republic of gamers Maximus 8 that's the
hero and it is also sweet it's a gaming
motherboard the cooling system is like a
thermal take contact silent 12 nice and
quiet the RAM this is beautiful Kingston
HyperX fury gaming ram not only that but
32 gigabytes of it the system can take
up to 64 but we put 32 in there so to be
dual-channel
it'll be as fast as can be and it gives
you the chance that if you ever need
more than that which I know you're never
going to need you can go that route
we've got an MDOT two solid state drive
which is a chip on the motherboard the
sash installed it's got the operating
system which is
Linux game gaming OS of Linux it's
awesome it's very cool it's based on
Ubuntu and it works great so that is a
Kingston Kingston digital 240 gig SSD
now m2 6 gigabits per second sweet
little thing and that's got your OS but
we knew that you'd have like family
photos videos things like that that
you're gonna need to be able to store on
here and an m2 at 240 gigs is gonna fill
up pretty quick so we stuck a terabyte
Kingston Drive in there as well it's an
SSD it's the HyperX savage so that means
it's super fast is ready for gaming it
is screaming for you the GPU this is a
killer unit that's the graphics
processing unit we are ready it's got
several HDMI as well as DisplayPort VR
output and a DVI so it's ready for
headsets if you ever want to get into VR
gaming things like that in the meantime
it'll hook up to your big TV as well
that's the gtx 1070 overclocked edition
and that's ready for 4k right out of the
box then we've got the power supply is a
dreamy corsair rmx 850 X it's an 850
watt power supply fully modular so the
cables are nice and hidden you don't
have you don't see any extra cables
there the chassis is this beautiful
Thermaltake versus c22 black edition the
lights up you can change the colors
whatever you want to do then keyboard
mouse we've got a wireless gaming
keyboard and mouse that's pretty sweet
then we've got that's it that's yeah I
mean we don't need to mention arctic
silver that's got the little paste stuff
yeah yeah and we glued a thing on a
thing so the one final thing we need to
know what you're gonna plug this into
when you take it home so like do you
have a power bar or something like that
yes yeah it's um it's like a surge
protector password bargaining like our
bar thing like it when you bought it you
didn't really know what you were looking
for it just had enough outlets to plug
your TV oh yeah yeah okay so that's why
category 5 and viewers of category 5
will come together to get you a cyber
power CP 1000 a VR UPS so this is a
battery backup that you can hook up your
new computer to and also you can plug
your contuine as well
this has five battery backup ports and
nine surge protected ports it's
guaranteed that it will protect your
data your fire your hardware I should
say from lightning and surge protection
and it's got the LCD it's got auto
shutdown software all the the works and
I got you one that was nice and small
even though it's a thousand volt amps
it's small so it can fit behind your TV
cabinet and things like that so folks
your donations your contributions to
their kind of wedding gift fund for this
project also went toward this so that's
the thousand volt ampere cyber power-ups
with a VR so that's automated voltage
regulations so that means if the power
Browns out it will also protect you
nice you still watch TV when the power
is out gay nice
I want to absolutely personally thank
each and every one of you for your kind
words your support your advice your
donations your time thank you it was fun
so much it was a blast it was a scary
blast but it was a blast and Sasha built
this thing with her own hands so just so
you know and watch the video to see that
if you haven't seen the series yet
you're wondering what are we on about
this sweet gaming rig that we played on
tonight is a beautiful gaming computer
Sasha built it it's her first computer
build and I just kind of oversaw things
to help make sure that things went in
correctly and the right way around and
stuff like that you can find out more
about it you can see the entire series
and find our shopping list at cat5 dot
TV slash cpu 2017 it's all there folks
so I hope you enjoy the gaming rig have
fun hope you enjoyed the show folks and
we'll see you now
Wednesday night take care
