all right I'm gonna jump over to our
single board computer unboxing zone here
and here is a box that says hoe drive
and so some of you know kind of by
looking on the Odroid forums what is
about to occur this ladies and gentlemen
is a box containing a no droid n to the
brand-new board from heart colonel the
Odroid n2 is a new generation single
board computer that's more powerful more
stable more faster more faster faster er
somebody correct me more work it's more
faster than the n1 it's more faster than
anything that I think Oh droid has
brought out just yet ok so this board
has the ARM Cortex a 73 CPU cluster it
also has a dual core cortex a53 cluster
with a new generation mal eg 52 GPU so
it's super powerful 6 cores what have I
got in the Box I'm getting right in here
I really want to just dive right in I've
got a USB Wi-Fi dongle I've got a 16
gigabyte emmc storage card and I'm gonna
just kind of set that aside is that
cruel of me is that cruel oh I can't
wait to get into this it's got 1.8
gigahertz without thermal throttling
think about that for a second on a
single board computer Oh what is this ah
we've got the us adapter they were kind
enough to think of the fact that I am
here in Canada because I'll get y'all
betcha
yeah the power adapter here is gonna
need that guy let's see here
so what do we have as far as power goes
let's put that all right
come on get on there
somehow someway ladies and gentlemen
this bad boy is gonna clip on here and
give me power I guarantee you that is
the case but it makes a really bad TV to
actually demonstrate it for the first
time so you want me to do that that's
gonna plug into this it's gonna allow me
to plug that into my wall this is a 12
volt mm and milli ampere mm amp yeah
right to amp
there we go this is the chassis we've
seen something similar to this on the
Odroid hc1 wait a minute this looks
really tiny for an end to I've seen the
pictures on their website and it looks
huge
can it really be that small this is
rhetorical it's just - because I'm
excited this is a lot smaller than I was
expecting
oh look at that there you have it
ladies and gentlemen I'm just gonna
bring that up to the camera just so you
can get a quick little glimpse at the
Odroid n - what do we notice first of
all these are blue 4 USB 3.0 full-sized
ports that is perfect
we've got HDMI 4k 60 out we've got
Gigabit Ethernet we've got the barrel
adapter input are you ready for this
this is kind of exciting for those of us
who have a lot of bricks laying around
this will take seven point five volt
this will take I think it's like up to
20 volts this will take a like a wide
range of adapters 12 volt to amp is the
recommended voltage and amperage but
whatever you plug into this is probably
gonna power it as long as it's 7.5 volts
plus but if you plug in a 9 volt adapter
if you plug in a 15 volt adapter it's
going to power this board and it's safe
to do so
it will automatically down or up step as
needed we've got 40 pin GPIO for the
purists and the developers we have GPIO
here we've got I see infrared so if we
want to use this as a infrared receiver
for say a set-top box or something like
that
we've got emmc so this is where our emmc
storage is going to plug in we've got a
flip switch for our SD card versus emmc
booting we've got a TG input if we want
to plug in an OTG cable that's USB -
we've got stereo audio that's an output
and of course we've also got audio on
the HDMI digital out one of the things
that you notice with this as per the HC
1 HC 2 is that there is no SOC there is
no CPU there is no central processing
unit shown on the board and that is
because on the flip side which you
cannot see all right
the SOC is on the bottom of this board
and what that allows Hart kernel to do
is they've created this massive heatsink
this huge aluminum heatsink which feels
very cold to the touch is in contact
with not only the the SOC so the
processor itself but also the the RAM
modules which has four gigabytes of ddr3
or is it DD let me think here for a
second
it's in contact with those modules
anyways it's gonna keep it really really
cool I I'm I stand corrected this is
ddr4 Ram see I'm even astonishing myself
here folks it has four gigabytes of ddr4
Ram it's 35 percent faster Ram than the
n1 way way faster than the then say the
Raspberry Pi 3 now the metrics that are
provided by Hart kernel are based on the
Raspberry Pi 3 model B but it's still
fair as a comparison and we can say that
the CPU the performance is 20% faster
the previous generation of this and the
the heat dissipation is obviously gonna
prevent throttling as well that's one of
the key characteristics here if we
compared this to the Raspberry Pi the
benchmarks of the end to it absolutely
blast past the Raspberry Pi 3 the dark
blue that you see there that represents
the PI 3 the orange on the right that's
the n2 for those who are curious the xu
4 is the purple bar and the light blue
bar is the n1 GPU performance is 10%
faster than the m1 so it performs very
very well ramp performance is easily
easily 10 times faster than the
Raspberry Pi 3 it's also available in a
2 gigabyte model so if you want less RAM
save a little bit of money you can just
go with 2 gigs depending on your use
case and and there you have it folks
wonderful now I believe there is
composite video out of the audio jack as
well that's something I'm being told
there you go questions comments let us
know let's look at this case here I'm
quite curious about how this can all
comes together so this kind of these
typically snap together it came free
snapped I'm afraid to break it there we
go
ok so when this is assembled if this is
like the the home cloud one then it
slides yeah exactly
and this it does indeed it has a little
more of a pronounced track than the home
cloud one so it's easier to line that up
not that the home cloud one was
difficult by any stretch as I mentioned
though this is a lot smaller than I was
expecting the pictures really give it
that depiction that it's quite large and
I think because we're so used to the
Raspberry Pi form-factor that when we
see all of the stuff that's included on
this we think of this like a micro ATX
well it's not ladies and gentlemen let
me grab
a Raspberry Pi 3 okay in its case I
don't have one out of its case right now
but I'm just I just stepped off the
camera here just to show you so form
factor wise here's a Raspberry Pi 3 it's
not much bigger actually it's not a
whole lot different now it's a bit wider
mm-hmm Raspberry Pi 3 USB 2 but 10 over
100 yeah Oh Droid and 2 for USB 3 Giga
bet just saying 4k 60p not 4k 60p there
it is beaut unboxings make me really
want to buy I can jump right back over
to the set folks look at that that is
awesome not yet available to the public
however I do have an advanced
development board because of MEMS Linux
if you aren't familiar with it yet head
on over to NEMS Linux comm and it's
going to be ported to that board I'm
really excited about this board though
it is currently supported by Ubuntu
eighteen point o4 as well as Android not
too sure on the version on that one you
can check their forms also maverick has
released preliminary version of Debian
stretch for the n2 so the software
support is coming very very quickly and
I think they've really nailed this one
because they are provisioning
development units to the development
community before they release it to the
public which is a very wise idea because
what what tends to happen and this is
what has happened we've seen this with
some other SPC manufacturers where the
boards come out and there isn't yet any
software for it right so everybody goes
and buys one and then the developers
have trouble buying one and so now the
developers the very people who are going
to be releasing software for it are
having trouble getting a hold of the
hardware to be able to release the
software and the people who bought it in
the first run are saying
get it working yeah malee doesn't work
whatever yours yeah this is the thing
so Odroid has really hit it with the end
- it's a beautiful looking board very
well manufactured as you know with the
Odroid systems the benchmarks are in and
the benchmarks look spectacular so I'm
very excited about that all right
that'll be available April 2019 is that
make sense
it's coming soon yeah that's what my
birthday oh my goodness Dave add this to
her last night
it has 4k video output it would make a
great set-top box it's got infrared so
you can use a remote control to control
it
let's do see it's perfect it's
absolutely perfect now that we've said
that the community's gonna send you like
four of them what do you do with all
these all of a sudden you're in
developer check out the Odroid m2 along
with their other products in the line
cap five dot TV slash Odroid
[Music]
[Applause]
