welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's Kim here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 202
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
August the second 2011 and I am on
location at Silver Beach developments
with my friend Jerry Kowalski very it's
nice to see ya Thank You Robbie yeah
pleasure to hell are you here in
haliburton yeah Cheers I like that how
do you like the beauty of Halliburton oh
I don't know how you get anything done
honest as it all I want to do is relax
just kick back it is a locals actually
work I guess you occasionally yeah yeah
it's it's hard son Billy nice s yeah
yeah Halliburton is a one of the most
beautiful areas in Ontario it's just
west or just east I should say of the
Muskoka it muskoka and Halliburton
comprise the most prestigious part of
cottage country that we have here in
Ontario and we're very fortunate that we
were able to live and work here and that
has been my goal now for a couple of
years a couple more than a couple of
years to build silver beach silver beach
is a new lifestyle development it's a
lakeside condo development we're right
on the lake we have all of the best of
the amenities that you could ask for in
cottage country we have beautiful we
have a beautiful sand beach we have boat
docks we have a golf course directly
adjacent to us that we're connected
connected directly to the golf course
and that's that the pine stone beautiful
pine Stone Resort and 18-hole
championship golf club were five minutes
from town we have great shopping great
boutiques it's just a wonderful place
let's talk about about silver beach in
general in just a moment before we do
I'll just let you know what's coming up
in the news tonight we're going to be
looking at how spotify is is actually
being sued just two weeks after they
went live in the u.s. also hackers have
stolen personal details for 35 million
accounts in south korea and they're
blaming chinese hackers the sub $200 epc
that's an epc for under two hundred
dollars is now officially a reality
stick around we'll be telling you all
about that as well with the release of
Mac OS lion there is a seven-year-old
exploit which is still there which
allows hackers to gain access to your
password data simply by plugging a cable
into your computer and using some
software so stick around we're going to
have the full stories for you in just a
few minutes time and Jerry of course
it's great to to be here at silver beach
is just a beautiful development that you
have here we'll talk all about what what
it what it is and what where you kind of
grew from which i think is really what
makes silver beach so interesting but I
welcome everybody to join us in the chat
room Jerry's actually bringing up the
chat room as well on on his computer
over here have you used a chat room
before yes I yeah yeah okay you were a
little tentative as far as I expend a
lot of time on it I keep pretty busy on
the development side yeah I don't spend
a lot of time chatting but I have and
I'll do my best i apologize in advance
if i'm not a but i'll do my best to
answer and i'll say the same it's like
if i cant we're broadcasting live here
from halliburton county tonight so it's
it's wonderful and Jerry's been great to
to have category 5 here at the model
home and great internet connection which
we're going to be talking about as well
that's part of the part of the
technology package that comes here with
these new homes is our internet and
we're going to talk about a little later
fantastica I just want to again welcome
you Robbie and I think your your viewers
we've set ourselves up in the model home
so we're in the great room of the model
home looking out and just behind us I
think you'll probably be able to see
beautiful Lake cachet Gerwig Ahmad it's
a 16 mile long lake here in haliburton
it's one of a five late chain it's the
only five late chain in the whole area
there's about 30 miles of boating
fishing good fishing there's lake trout
there's a pickerel bass the lakes are
stocked and just ready for you to come
and fish them I go right back to how do
you get any work done yeah I want to
just be out on the boat or swimming or
snorkeling or whatever you want to do
out there but just a beautiful area is
it is and what we've tried to do is to
combine an urban feel with that cottage
country X i can see that i can see that
with the fireplaces and the yeah big
screen TV and the homes are all very
technologically advanced but they're
also exterior wise they still have that
cottage feel our building materials are
all stone natural wood its a 50 year
Fraser wood siding product and
fiberglass shingles with lots of bright
windows and open spaces as you can see
behind us you can't probably see the
whole thing but this is an 18-foot
window wall up behind us here and a lot
of our homes incorporate window walls
and large windows so we let lots of
natural light into the homes and it just
gives them that open cottage feel that
that healthy feel looking out to nature
we also we also been located just five
minutes outside of the town we offer a
unique experience of living in cottage
country because as I said we're bringing
that that urban style into cottage
country where we have that cottage
country ambience so it's a very unique
product in the fact that it's not just
it's not just a home it's not just a
place to live this is actually a whole
lifestyle the whole the idea and you
keep saying it how do you get any work
done it's a lifestyle that you should
you just become to love you've got so
much nature around you we have we have
wild animals we have deer I've seen fog
three deer yeah I've never seen a real
life dear
really I've seen free oh they they come
regularly down in the morning and have
their breakfast in in our gardens and
it's it's just a wonderful experience
living here year-round and that's what
we're offering and that's what we're you
know we're hoping and robbie has been
very gracious in offering this
opportunity for his viewers to have a
look at this type of an experienced this
type of a lifestyle experience and I
very much appreciate the opportunity to
talk to all of you and I see I've got a
couple of chats already a couple of
postings on the chat room welcoming me
and thank you everybody for that but I
won't take the time to type them out but
thank you and so we've as I say we've
got a unique housing experience here
we've got homes now I'm sure everyone's
asking that the
sixty-four-thousand-dollar question how
much and this is where it gets really
good we build brand new year round homes
here full of technology starting at two
hundred and ninety-nine thousand dollars
so you can have a year of amazing you're
around home you can use it as a
year-round residents which a lot of
people do we also have a lot of people
here Robbie that use it as a
recreational experience they come up on
weekends they have their place in a more
urban environment they have their
careers and this is their getaway right
this is a no maintenance get away we
market this as the new style of Cottage
Country Living they don't have to come
to the cottage and start cutting grass
fixing the roof fixing the deck right
they land here on a Friday evening and
they just put their feet up and they
relax they enjoy they they enjoy the
surroundings they go boating they go
swimming they visit with their neighbors
we've got a beautiful social community
here part of which will include a large
Clubhouse it will be a central gathering
area with an exercise facility a games
room out arden health and wellness area
yeah it's that schedule to be built when
we're about fifty percent complete and
we're right now thirty-three percent
complete we're one-third built so how
many houses are available
right now well the whole community
consists of 59 homes there's 23
townhomes and 36 detached homes and
currently we have 20 of those 59 built
so we're now we're now just over
one-third complete so please don't come
in and see the model holds its around
it's here it's now it's it's not like
it's something that's off in the future
silver beach is actually here and we
have 16 residents already living here on
site it seems to me like driving in it's
it's almost it seems like a community
you're going to set back from the lake
and yeah yeah we're we're a lakeside
community we have shared beach we also
have boat private boat docks right we've
got approximately one dock for every two
units in the development which is just
about right because I don't have a bow
on boats right yeah that's good so we
have boat docks that are available as
well again we stress environmentally
friendly because we are very big
proponents of looking after our the
quality of our lakes so all of our docks
are it's called an easy doc system it's
got a 40 year life expectancy it's UV
resistant it's all made of polyethylene
there's no it's a floating dock system
it's very stable very rigid and and it
doesn't cause any damage to the lake
there's no leaching of iodine's or
creosote sore anything out of the woods
so it's a very very stable long-lasting
environmentally friendly product that's
great and that's a really have to be
equal minded living in an area like this
of a thing well again that's part of
what we've had to experience right from
the word go yeah I bought this property
in 2004 and it took five years before we
were even able to start to build and
that was just to be able to get all of
the environmental procedures all of the
studies all of the cultural
archaeological ministries of environment
water treatment permits to take water
water is something that is very
important when you're living in a
community and I'm very happy to say that
we have a fabulous property here with 22
wells that produce lots of fresh clean
water and we have even built a water
treatment plant but regular grammas
on-premise we have our own private water
treatment plant that compares to a water
treatment plant that you would have in
any municipal town but this treatment
system came in at several hundred
thousand dollars of cost and that and
that's been built we built that just for
our 59 residents so you can be
guaranteed that you have great water
again the environmental side of it we
are fortunate enough to be located close
enough to town that we are actually on
municipal sewers so we're one of the all
raised you get it there's no systems
world no psychics here no septic so we
have no impact on the lake quality on
the water quality of the lake we're on
municipal sewer system everything goes
into the wastewater treatment plant in
halliburtt fantastic before we move on
I'll just mention that this episode of
category 5 TV is brought to you in part
by the p-touch 1090 from brother dot CA
make sure you visit brother dot CA and
check out the p-touch 1090 this is a
great device for labeling your stuff it
also does some graphics and it's a lot
more sophisticated than just the basic
tape labeler and when you are labeling
you are going to need some batteries
this show is brought to you by eko
alkalines batteries find out more at eco
alkalines com we're talking about
environmental friendliness these
batteries are eco-friendly to the point
of landfill safe so really something
that i would encourage you to check out
these are available all around the world
visit their website eco alkalines calm
and find a dealer near you and if you
don't see one pop of an email let them
know that you heard of them on category
five and that you're interested in
finding out more about their batteries
also of course category 5 TV tonight is
being broadcast from Silver Beach
developments and you'll find them online
silver beach developments calm I would
encourage you to check out Jerry's
website there with silver beach and find
out more about what it is that they do
here and
the beautiful homes that they're
offering right here in haliburton if you
have any questions for us make sure you
post a question in the chat room
category five dot TV and I'll just try
to keep a quick look on the on the chat
room here general question in the chat
room from Sammy says just wondering the
general climate here as far as
temperatures go and Sammy I'm I'm not
sure if you're familiar with the Toronto
not sure where you're located but we're
just located about two hours north east
of Toronto of the GTA and our climate is
very similar to what's what you get in
southern Ontario we are still considered
even though we're considered central
Ontario where we get the same climates
at southern Ontario with the exception
of maybe a couple of degrees we're
usually a couple of degrees cooler in
the summertime couple of degrees cooler
in the wintertime we do get more snow
depending on the year last year there
was more snow to the south of us than
there was here we had very little snow
last winter until near the end of the
year we got a big dumping in March but
other than that we didn't have a hard
winter at all so the climate is very
friendly the 22 all types of sporting
activities recreational activities where
there's there's downhill ski hills up
here there's one of the largest Nordic
ski trails in all of Ontario the
halliburton Nordic trail system for
cross-country skiing is right here at
our doorstep ice fishing snowmobile
trails the main top trail be runs right
through our backyard wow so snowmobiling
you can jump right on the trail right
from home and go a lot of talk about
winter activities and solar the first
thing that comes to mind as we're
talking about winter is how is the
maintenance as far as road maintenance
and getting in and out oh we're we're
just located 7 kilometers outside the
village of halliburton so it's all good
year-round roads that are fully
maintained they have the
crew have all the equipment to look
after everything and within our
condominium we have wonderful
contractors who keep our roads
completely clean and sanded if necessary
so everything is full year round access
easy living it's not climate is not a
difficult thing for us to deal with at
all and of course in the summer as you
can see by just looking at the lake it
is beautiful up here in the summertime
when I'm working on my farmers tan as
they say I've got one of those going
myself but as far as as far as weather
goes it's it's favorable climate for all
kinds of recreation it's a year-round
recreational experience cultural
experience there's lots of theater
groups and and theater never seen that
on the way over there's a theater just
on the way that yet advertising yeah
we've got a we've got a tremendous
theater located right in the high school
it's a professional theater well they
have shows every night of the week all
summer long and i'm here just you know
for this one week window but we've
experienced midnight madness which is
just a an awesome time to browse the
street of Halliburton and tomorrow again
tomorrow again tomorrow night the
streets closed down and the road link
carnival is on all all day tomorrow and
it's a good layout in town because it's
easy to get around you say the street is
closed down you think oh well how are
you supposed to get through it basically
there's two parallel roads in it and it
where there's another one up in behind
it to purchase there's the easy access
so just say like Halliburton to to me
just coming to travel and be here for
the cottage and things is there's always
something going on it's just a great
community nice people yeah tremendous
community and that's minutes again how
we fit in as a housing development
because we are actually the only
development being built in Halliburton
okay there is nothing else to compare to
what we're doing because it is a
difficult place to develop we were just
fortunate enough that we had a property
that would that was conducive to this
type of a development with having the
municipal sewer system and having me the
close proximity to town and we had the
soils to be able to to build homes
proper 8 we're not dealing with all rock
even though there's a lot of rock on the
site we have a you know beautiful rocky
outcroppings Robbie can tell you as you
drive into this development there's a
big rock ledge on the right-hand side of
you as you come in and then the rest of
the development is all sort of a nice
sloping property I know a lot of
forestry and a lot of there's a look at
I don't know if it's a pond or yeah up
in the back portion of our property we
have a beautiful pond a large pond
that's about or maybe an acre and a half
in size and 14 feet deep and we've got a
nice beautiful row of homes built all
around that pond and they say supply
forest surrounded by it surrounded by by
by bush and rocky ledges it's just a
spectacular vistas from virtually every
lot in this development Wow very cool
you would mention the golf course which
we won't talk about too long buddy I had
the privilege of jumping on the golf
cart and going up behind the the houses
yet and through the forest yeah and
you've got a perfectly groomed path to
go straight to x-ray we've built we've
built a pathway from the development
here but the residents can bake if they
want they can on their own golf cart
they can get in the golf cart drive
through the bush directly onto the plane
stolen golf course that's easy living
friends that's a rough isn't yeah you
don't even need a car if you live here
if you have a boat in a golf cart you're
covered because you can you can get in
your boat and drive all the way into
town yeah you can vote right into the
town do your grocery shopping get your
supplies wow it's a 10-minute boat ride
and then back get on your golf cart go
play golf you don't even need to have a
car if you look at verify
perfect so Jerry thinking of the nature
of category 5 technology TV and and are
focused generally towards technology and
things surrounding it what really struck
me as interesting about silver beach and
the reason I called you in the first
place is really what people may not
remember that are sitting in a city you
know the comfort of their city home or
whatever they're they're on their
high-speed internet and just are able to
get internet from 10 different providers
and just price it out and figure it out
one of the things about Halliburton and
cottage country is that there was no
high-speed internet that's correct
Robbie and a lot of your viewers I'm
sure they're all very tech savvy and
they couldn't imagine life without
internet and that was one of the key
things when we were in the early
developmental process was how are we
going to get people who need to be
connected still to their work or the
those can work from home that want to
transition into living in cottage
country without high speed internet and
back a few years ago cottage country was
one of the very underserviced areas for
high-speed internet so we took on the
challenge and I contacted countless
numbers of people throughout various
different types of Technology the most
stable of course in cottage country
because line of sight is not really an
option because as you carry behind Ellie
it's very hilly yeah there's a lot of
relief and a lot of a lot of rock and
hilly ledges so hilly forested area so
it it's very difficult to do
line-of-sight internet the most logical
was to go after bell now because Rogers
there's no cable up this way it's all
saddled Rogers be in the coaxial cable
TV raised Bell being like fiber optic
dsl dsl through the telephone line so i
started the the trek through the
minefield you might say with bell and
after a couple of years actually of work
i was able to connect with the correct
people at the right
holes in bail and was able to convince
them to come and see us and convinced
them to come here to halliburtt when
they got to halliburton they seen just
what you seen they seen the beauty of
the area they seen the beauty of of the
whole cottage country scene in
haliburton but they also recognize and I
was able to show them that although
Halliburton as a county has a relatively
small population of between 15 and 20
thousand there's this is one of the
largest cottage areas in all of Ontario
the population in haliburton booms on
weekends in the summer time and right
and throughout the year some upwards to
around 80 thousand people every weekend
from how many thought every weekend
every weekend there's there's thousands
and thousands of people because n they
and they all own land they have cottages
they have your own dwellings that they
can come too right so I said to to bail
you know you're going to have you're
going to have all of these people who
are crying for this service not even
going to be here most of the time to use
it yes is a win-win situation they're
not going to use that much of your
bandwidth they're going to be here
they're going to pay for the year-round
service and that satisfies that need
80,000 population so they looked at it
and on the strength of our development
alone I did all the numbers as far as
what their costs would be and how long
their return on their investment would
take which would be somewhat in the area
of about a three year investment through
your return on their investment after
we're completed and they seen the
viability of it so they committed to
come to us right first data to the
develop to this development okay we are
going to bring high-speed internet down
the road it's only about a two kilometre
journey from their nearest terminal
which they could retrofit so they they
said we're going to bring it here then
they said they continued to look and I
continued to lobby with them for the you
know the beauty of the area and it was I
was very fortunate to meet up with a
couple of gentlemen
in the upper echelon zobelle we fell in
love with the area they fell in love
with the town they ended up I introduced
them to the local council and the Rev of
the municipality who's fabulous
supporter of our development as well and
they were able to strike a deal to start
expanding high-speed internet throughout
Halliburton County and for the last
couple of years this has been one of
their largest growth areas for high
speed internet and virtually all of
Halliburton County is now serviced with
high-speed internet from Belle all due
to a little startup around 59 homes
where they said we see that we're under
serviced and we can do something here so
now because it was silver beach that
basically brought Bell into Halliburton
and this area to provide high-speed
internet how does that position you as
far as you know your service the quality
of the service that you receive I would
expect that they've run all new kitten
probably new fiber optics yes a lot of
the area has been retooled completely
yeah we deal in the city just this so
you understand like we deal with we're
dealing with old copper wiring from you
know it might be fiber-optic from one
place one node to another node within
its copper to the house right where you
probably well a lot of that is still the
case here yeah but might be good as they
but as they're putting in the new or the
new terminals as they expand it they're
putting in the new fiber optics right so
we're very fortunate here I think Robbie
can attest because we're broadcasting
live here from Silver Beach and and we
have a pretty solid feed that seems
great so we've got all our devices
connected yeah we're connected and
everything's working and and yes we do
have the technology at Silver Beach
where people can be on the internet they
can work from home they can be connected
to the office connected to to the web
bend to their their favorite category
five TVs absolutely thanks for the plug
make sure you tune in
yeah you'll have posters up all over the
development I can see it now all right
well that's that's really cool how how
your development has really I mean I
hope the people locally who you know
they sign up for internet that they give
you a little bit of kudos and say well
thanks for that because you know dial-up
is it's hard to believe I think the chat
room as well as is what no high-speed
internet like that we're talking only
three years ago there was no high-speed
internet up here that's correct yeah
that's unreal yeah and yeah and I
remember being just a wee lad and having
it introduced at my my house in it well
it was a it was a situation where they
didn't feel that there was an economical
viability and it just took somebody that
was here that had the passion for the
area to point it out to them that you
know you're you're really missing an
opportunity right it is here yeah and
there are people that come here this is
a it is a highly populated area for
Cottagers and tourism I think it's an
interesting catch-22 because your
population signs would be deceiving
that's great because they're not obey
they're not technically true yeah like
that that would be your year round pops
you're on your own residents versus how
many how many people really are here
yeah examine recreational properties and
cottages and how many come to the local
resorts and we're surrounded by by many
fabulous ins and resorts all through the
county so it's a it's great to have a
good reliable supplier such as Bell and
they and they have done a wonderful job
in the area great that's good and it's
certainly you know it's helpful that
that we have access here today and
thanks for that great thank you just to
to touch on what's going on in
technology news this week as I mentioned
at the top of the show Spotify is being
sued unfortunately there
are being hit by both the US and Europe
for allegedly violating patents of by
packet video the lawsuit claims that
Spotify has violated at least two
patents that are owned by packet video
that cover methods of streaming music
over data networks the legal action
comes barely two weeks after Spotify
launched a US version of its music
streaming service and as could be
expected Spotify of course said that it
would strongly contest the claims packet
video made in its lawsuit South Korea
has blamed Chinese hackers for stealing
data from 35 million accounts on a
popular social network the attacks were
directed at the side world website as
well as the Nate web portal both run by
sk communications hackers are believed
to have stolen phone numbers email
addresses names and encrypted
information about the sites many
millions of members so the many millions
of members of this site have had their
data compromised it follows a series of
recent cyber attacks directed at South
Korea's government and also their
financial firms keen observers may
recall that s oozes day view of the
PadFone that happened back at computex
in May was accompanied by another but
less triumphant announcement and that
specifically is that the company
promised a one-hundred and ninety nine
dollar netbook computer the meego based
pc x101 some of us didn't think we'd
ever see it but last week that device
took several steps closer to reality
reportedly due to begin shipping next
month the epc x101 was first spotted
early last week on several US retailers
websites as Lily puting pointed out on
Tuesday at pc superstore for instance
it's now available for pre-order at a
price of only 199 73 while it direct
direct wrong it's that list of just a
few dollars more than that a 20 898 the
suspicions have been confirmed since
there's also an official product page
for the machine on the asuste website
and the netbook turned up on the FCC
exhibits list as well and complete with
and a user manual forensic software can
exploit a seven-year-old fire wire
design error to snoop system memory for
passwords and even for dessert with
devices that are locked or in sleep mode
updated forensics show that the software
can steal Apple OS 10 login passwords in
minutes even when the devices are locked
or asleep to be successful however users
of the software it's called pass where
kit forensics v11 they must have
physical access to the actual Mac device
as well as a firewire cable which they
would need to connect to that device at
that point the software can capture the
password data from the max memory even
on the latest version this is the thing
that gets us the latest version of
Apple's operating system Mac os10 lion
scary stuff these are the top stories
for this week from the category 5 TV
news room catch us online triple w
category five dot TV in category five
news this week is brought to you by
planet calypso cat5 TV / Calypso to
download the free massive multiplayer
online game and pogoplug you can find
them online cat five dot TV / pogoplug
it's a great device that lets me access
from my ipod touch or from your iphone
or android device or Blackberry or
whatever device you're using even up
here in cottage country you'll be able
to access your files back home pogoplug
is cat 5 TV / pogoplug check them out
alright so Hillary had the opportunity
to take a look at a very awesome product
from liquid image you remember last week
last year pardon me on our cottage
special we featured a liquid image mask
that allowed me to go snorkeling and
actually videotape the the what I was
seeing under the water which is
spectacular and I'm actually still using
that mask and using it this week as I'm
up here in cottage country and Hillary
is now got the opportunity to take one
moto crossing so we're going to hear
from Hillary now and we'll be back in
just a few moments
after her review hey everyone I'm
Hillary Rumble from category 5
technology TV and maybe what you didn't
know about me was that it actually used
to raise competitively atvs across
Ontario me and my family were really
really into motorsports we love doing
off-road adventures going through the
mud going through trails but we also
have had some experience on the track
racing competitively as such we've tried
to document our adventures we've tried
that helmet cam the big honkin thing sit
on top we've tried handheld devices
going through the trails coming on our
best idea and maybe not the safest but
what we haven't tried is this the video
goggles the next version from liquid
image so come along with me right now
we're going to test these out from the
perspective of a regular user who maybe
doesn't know that much about technology
and also from the perspective of a
former racer like myself so let's see
how these hold up let's go
the video save is dot MLV or quicktime
file so they have to be open using
QuickTime Player or other software that
supports that the picture save is JPEGs
and as you can see it's pretty cool it's
easy to upload and it's easy to see what
you've done that day the 5 megapixel
camera is located right here producing
image resolution of 25 92 by 1944 the
video resolution is 1280 by 720 and of
course it shoots an HD which is awesome
shooting at 30 frames per second the
lens is 135 degrees and provides a full
field of view the camera also has an
automatic I so as well as automatic
white balance embedded in the mask
itself is a microphone with a wind guard
all of these components together are
going to produce a pretty sweet picture
quality as well as awesome video what I
really appreciate about these goggles in
particular is that they come with these
protective films all you do is stick
them over these little knobs like so and
then it not only protects your mask but
also gives you heightened visibility so
when you're going through some wet
terrain perhaps a mud or dust you don't
want to use the back side of your glove
to wipe it off then your vision becomes
impaired and smeared all you do is rub
off the protective film and then you're
good to go so I have my mask but how do
we turn on the camera well it's pretty
easy when you're wearing the mask like
this there's two buttons right here this
bottom button turns on the camera as you
can see there's a blue light that
indicates it's on the video mode setting
just switch it all I'm going to do is
tap it once and it goes red red means
it's on camera setting so it can take
some still images to start or stop a
recording or to take a still picture you
push the stop button
I just took a picture of my videographer
pretty cool huh to turn it off all you
got to do is hold the bottom button
again until you hear a beep pretty easy
stuff now to charge this wow that's
another story open this side compartment
flip it open and get your USB port plug
it in and it charges based on the power
coming from your computer but let's say
you're on the road you're going to a
circuit race or you're going to a new
location for some writing you need a
wall outlet or perhaps a car adapter
that's no big deal you can purchase one
of those for pretty cheap and just use
the end of the USB that you would plug
in a computer just stick into a wall
outlet or the car adapter pretty cool so
you can take this anywhere and always
find some sort of way to plug it in and
charge it up so you're ready to go
located in this compartment right here
is the lithium battery which has a
battery life of two hours so you don't
need to worry about your camera it
out when you're riding the dusty trail
these for my liquid image video camera
MX goggles is I like to wear them
everywhere
oh I could really go for a sack huh I
even wear my goggles when I'm hanging
out with my friends or at work here they
are so hard at work as you can see yes
it is when I'm following nature hi could
I have one medium decaf with cream and
half of sugar and a regular medium on
your burger yup listen cream and half of
sugar creaminess half of sugar okay yup
and a large chocolate milk please well
the answer on chocolate milk here on a
small chocolate milk oh here's it
everything that's it thanks for 15 gram
on up thank you oh yeah girl thank you
crazy kids stuck to hear that crazy kid
I call me crazy I don't believe it thank
you
immun yeah super-good you too bye bye I
really do wear them everywhere how do we
get it pried abilities and usability of
a former from a racer like myself and
connoisseur of motorsports it's quite
possible that I am in love this is
fabulous is a great device the goggles
feel like normal goggles the only
differences there's slight visibility
loss in the periphery compared to other
goggles but they are still fabulous and
for the purpose of wearing them and that
is to document your experience I say
they are terrific and the award for best
performance video quality and overall
awesomeness and an MS off-road way is my
liquid image video camera and then
goggle congratulations
this is category 5 technology TV and
you'll find us online triple w category
five dot TV so nice to have you here
with us tonight I do encourage you to
check out their website it's liquid
image Canada calm I've got a question
from dman 810 who joins us in the chat
room and I would ask that you PM me when
you have a question in the chat room
just makes things easier when I don't
have the demo system demon 810 was was
good to do that and wonders if there's a
model of the goggles from liquid image
that are specifically for mountain
biking and what I've done here d man as
I brought up their website is liquid
image Canada calm you'll see on the
right hand side there are masks for
water sports off-road sports snow sports
and they even have some more stuff
coming such as motor sports and surf
sports which is pretty awesome if you
click on off-road sports you're going to
see that those are the the masks that
Hillary is reviewing and that of course
is is you know it's going to work really
well on either motocross or if you're
going to be doing mountain biking I
think that there are a lot of features
of that mask that they make a great for
for serious off-road mountain biking
because of the fact that it has some
safety features like the removable film
but also it'll fit over your helmet so
one of the nice things about that mask
is it's designed to actually fit over
the helmet without being pulled out from
the side of your face so so you want to
check that out they do they are
available in the in the united states
but i would encourage you because liquid
image canada is a dot-com is a canadian
supplier i would encourage you to email
them off of their website get on to
liquid image canada calm and post your
enquiries just let them know that you
heard of them on category 5 TV that's
much appreciated of course i encourage
you to to always let our sponsors and
supporters know that you heard of them
through the show so that they know that
that they're directing
attention through us and having you know
doing things like a promo like that
through category 5 is beneficial to them
so please do PM me your questions that's
a private message in our chat room
category five dot TV on freenode its
category 5 scorpio 55 wants to know have
you demonstrated Linux to our guests and
what does he think of it have you ever
used linux i have not you have not
you're familiar with it I have yes I
heard of Linux there you go I have not
demonstrated it I don't have a demo
system here tonight basically take your
mac and my pc kind of mish mash them
together destroy them build them up
again and make them more awesome and
that's linux that sounds perfect then
it's really really good if you can
improve on a Mac in my world that's
great because I've been a Mac Mac
aficionado for me to hear that I've been
a Mac like they've brainwashed you did
yeah you know I used to be in the
graphics business i right I was at one
point very technologically savvy
unfortunately when you start digging in
the dirt and building houses you sort of
lose it wee bit of that edge so but
you're still feeling I smell faithful to
my Mac I still do all my own marketing
my own design work so very well on my
own creative you've worked with some of
it and I still I still love my maxvill
Linux is a is a free distribution that
you can get for your pc hardware there
are versions that will work on some of
the mac hardware as well my particular
favorite distribution is bait is
something called it 12 and it runs on
only pc hardware but you can get a cheap
laptop like I've got and put linux on it
and it basically takes it and makes it
more customizable it makes it usually in
a lot of cases a lot faster than it
would be with the windows that came with
the system sounds perfect it's it's
really quite good sounds great I
encourage people to check that out i'll
post a show link in the show notes of
category 5 but it's boon to calm you be
you n tu calm that's one distribution
but of course on our website you'll see
that we're also reviewing men
different types of Linux because there
are various flavors John suggests that I
would explain to you how to p.m. in the
chat room when John could just go in the
chat room and say hey here's how you
p.m. what you do is you type / msg which
is the IRC command for private message
so / msg space Robbie f because that's
my handle that's my name in the chat
room and then space and then your little
message just to bring up like your
question for example so / msg space
Robbie F space your question and then
hit enter and it will it will post
directly to my screen thanks John Robbie
I see in the chatroom we do i do have
lots of support I'm not the only Mac Mac
user out there Mac rules lots of good
max comments here keep them coming folks
if this were pre Krista days it might it
might be a little bit different but I
think times are a change in a little bit
but we're working on censoring the show
a little bit making sure that max you'll
notice that in the shot be I said to
Jerry well we we just don't want the
your your you know pretty much to be
hiding out behind a laptop so just kind
of move it over there you just didn't
want that logo chill just didn't want
that Ruth be told truth be told I gamoto
would like to know we were talking about
the internet that you were able to
successfully solicit bail to bring into
the area here in haliburton what is the
do you know the technical specs as far
as I'm the office of 55 megabyte
connection here like five megs so
standard dsl good qualities are all in
high school which is pretty exceptional
considering it wasn't here considering
it came from nothing yet thanks for
question agamotto I got your message
there Chris Reich I am telling the truth
fantastic
any other questions before we move on I
would like to check out Twitter here and
just see if anyone has sent me a
question on Twitter Andrew Jameson at
Andrew Jameson rights to at Robbie
Ferguson and he says Robbie what is the
difference between eco alkaline versus a
non eco-friendly battery and that's
that's product specific to the batteries
that that we these are the official
batteries of category 5 eco alkaline
batteries are certified by
carbonfund.org which means that they are
carbon neutral just off the top of my
head but i'll tell you go to their
website its eco alkaline scom and that's
plural it has 0% cadmium lead and
Mercury and you'll find with batteries a
lot of times it's when they say that
it's mercury free or something that's
actually not necessarily true it might
be like 0.001 percent or you know it
might be something silly like that these
are actually mercury cadmium and lead
free to the point where they are
considered as was mentioning earlier in
the show their earth friendly and
landfill safe personally I still send
them to e waste because I like to know
that the metals even though they're not
rare metals I like to know that those
are being recycled that's important to
me but good to know that in the
manufacturing process of these batteries
that they are carbon neutral so do check
out their website eco alkalines calm I'd
encourage you to do so and again I
mentioned it a little bit earlier on
their tag but they are available around
the world but if they're not if you
can't find them in a store because they
are relatively new as far as a product
goes you can actually get onto their
website its eco alkalines calm send them
a message and say where can i get these
in the UK or where can i get these in
wherever it is that you are okay thanks
for the question a couple more questions
that are coming in here just give you a
chance
scorpio 55 is suggesting that we look at
mac for Lynn on sourceforge and show
that to to Jerry and I'd be happy to
i'll i'll send you some videos to to
take a look at house that sounds good
watch it on your high-speed internet a
gamoto wondering if the batteries are
rohs is that what you mean with regards
to the batteries and i'm not too i'm not
too sure on that again i would encourage
you to get onto their website I all I
have to look at is the packaging as well
as the information that I know about the
product itself so check them out okay I
would encourage you to do that all right
just check in the chat room here for
your questions anymore private messages
I've got one more tweet that's coming
here you can send me a Twitter you'll
see my twitter handle down there at
Robbie Ferguson if you'd like to send me
a tweet and that comes straight to me k
goosey on twitter says what video
capture device do you use for the
category 5 TV broadcast thanks for the
question now tonight we're a little bit
things are very different because
tonight we're actually resorting to what
we would consider older technology
because we need a mobile rig so we're
using a laptop with a firewire pcmcia
card or pc card and that's going to a
consumer cam through firewire SD so
that's a little bit different whereas
under normal conditions when we're
working in the studio we're using what's
called a black magic intensity pro card
and that's a pci express x1 card which
can go into any of the PCI Express slots
all the way up to X 16 and that card
gives you not just the analog inputs but
also what's amazing about it is that it
gives you a hdmi full uncompressed 1080p
input through the hdmi port so if you've
got an hdmi output on a camera or an
hdmi output on a computer or whatever
you want to do it goes straight into the
black magic intensity pro and gives you
uncompressed full 1080p quality video so
it's a fantastic card it's dirt cheap I
can't believe how
chief it is there under 200 bucks and
you can pick them up through one of our
supporters cat five dot TV / bah they're
called B&amp;H photo video so go to count
five TV / bhk goosey and that will take
you to the website do a search for
intensity pro okay so that's all the
time we have for questions tonight there
is one other technology at Silver Beach
that is not just it's not it doesn't
just make me go that's smart that makes
sense but it's actually gotten you
recognition across the province yes at
the very least yes Robbie this is
hopefully your viewers will find this a
little more a little more technically
advanced than the internet which they're
already familiar with I think that quite
often there are technologies that
transcend you know sitting at a computer
but are related to our day-to-day life
exactly we have a technology that we
employ here as a standard feature in our
homes at Silver Beach now it all relates
to heating ventilation and air
conditioning we've we've got a company
here in Canada that has developed a true
zone zone control system what this
system is is it's a system using an air
handler and a combination in combination
with a condensing boiler so we actually
heat these homes this home that we're in
here now is 3,400 square feet in size
it's heated with eight tenths of a
gallon of water what we can heat this
house with eight tenths of a gallon in a
closed loop system we heat the hot water
in a boiler we circulate it through an
air handler you know in this air handler
this is a very technologically advanced
piece of equipment it has a computerized
damping system and it has a computer on
board that recognizes all the calls from
various areas of the house so each level
of the home is independently controlled
the duct system in traditional house
building we're still doing duct systems
like we did in nineteen sixty we've now
brought that into the 2000s by doing a
zone system so we actually have three
duct systems within all of our homes one
for each level of the house if it's a
bungalow we can actually split the main
floor and
have bedrooms and bathrooms at one
temperature main living dining kitchen
areas at another temperature all by use
of a computerized air handler that reads
the call from each thermostat opens and
closes the dampers as required and then
there's a DC modulating motor which the
modulation or and the air flow is
controlled by the computer reading the
call from what area of the house is
requiring heating or cooling so it's a
dumb it down for myself if I'm following
your right dumb it down come on you guys
are ya echo City so that I can
understand so at my place for example we
have the studio in the basement we've
got our main floor and then the bedroom
floor so let me tell you what happens in
your host and well when the show is
going on we've got the lights on so of
course we've got the air conditioner
cranked my poor wife is upstairs
shivering so what so if I follow you
this system allows for each level is
independently controlled of the others
right so what normally happens in a
house ins let's talk about the air
conditioning season it's very difficult
to push cold air from the basement from
from the furnace or from where they can
compressor dancing unit is up to the
upper levels of the house so
consequently your upper levels are
always hot right very very difficult to
get the bedroom areas up in the second
level of a house cooled down while at
the same time you freeze out the
basement and the main level just trying
to get air or you're running around
stuffing towels or socks into the right
covering backs and covering up the vents
closing position close them they don't
really stay well if you force the air
where you want it to go by not letting
it out all you do is create more air
loss more air leakage with our systems
each level of the home has its own
thermostat so right now if I went
upstairs into the loft I can set that at
24 degrees that area will stay at 24
degrees I can set this at 28 degrees
overnight because I'm not living here if
I'm sleeping upstairs in the bedroom
right I can have the main level drift up
during the day so basement cause
basement never basement zone never goes
on for air conditioning and it works the
opposite for heating and with the use of
all of the programmable thermostats that
we have which are very advanced systems
you can control every step of the day we
you are in what area of the house and
completely control your environment
around you so you can let the
temperatures drift when you're not
around in the daytime and then at say at
eight o'clock at night you're going to
get ready to go to bed at ten you can
have you can let the temperature drift
up to 28 degrees during the day at eight
o'clock you can bring it down to 28
degrees just in those bedroom areas only
so you can save you save up to thirty
percent on air conditioning up to eight
to ten percent on your heating costs
using this type of a system but it isn't
just the heating and it isn't just the
energy saving or the the cost saving
this is one of the newer green
technologies that actually enhances your
living because normally as you know with
any kind of green technology you have an
electric car you sacrifice power and
duration of usage there's always a
sacrifice with most green technologies
this is one of the few green
technologies that does not have a
sacrifice to it at all it has a benefit
to your lifestyle and as a result of
that natural resources canada has made
this one of their initiatives to present
through what they call their leap
program LEP local energy efficiency
programs and they have asked me to join
them and to make presentations repair
presentation so I've been hired by
natural resources canada to present to
other builders throughout the province
of ontario well in introducing this new
type of zoning and air handling
possibilities for heating and cool no
doubt in hopes that other developments
would follow suit some other developers
I've heard heard there's been some great
response and that some other developers
have already started to introduce this
type of technology into their new homes
as well which is great for the province
it's great for the homebuyers its it's
just a wonderful comfortable technology
and it and it is very technologically
advanced as far as the the onboard
computers that because they these air
handlers are even able to detect time if
a zone has been been putting air into a
zone for a period of 15 minutes and the
zone still hasn't been satisfied it
hasn't turned off yet it'll actually
speed up the motor will speed up and put
more air into that zone so is that why
it's so quiet because they never hear it
yeah you just never here is just running
at that nice it runs it runs at the
speed that's required to get the air
flow that's been yeah designed into the
technology into the area that you want
so it stays always comfortable the whole
houses is is always temperate and the
beauty of the whole system as well is
when all zones are satisfied all dampers
open and the motor modulates down to
about four percent of its capacity so
you always have a nice comfortable air
flow and you don't even feel it you
don't hear it you don't even know it but
you're always moving air within the
house so the whole house always stays
comfortable without quick spots and we
can we can understand that because we've
got on our CPUs quite often our
computers will have like two fan
technology or whatever that clocks down
the fan if ya if the temperature is
regulated at a good temperature and but
it still maintains that coolness so
we're now bringing that type of
technology that type of yeah that fan
technologist and it into home building
and it's so comfortable in here it
really is comfortable I wish you could
be sitting in here with us it's just
absolutely gorgeous the houses look
magnificent you've done a wonderful job
and it's neat to see that you're you're
pushing these technologies that are
designed to be eco-friendly and and not
only that but i think i think in in my
eyes at least if i was buying right now
i would think well these these
developers really care about the comfort
of my lifestyle you're not just building
homes and putting up cookie cutter homes
you're you're building homes that are
built to be lived in comfortably we're
building homes that I would live in
myself and as a matter of fact I do
living this development I live right
here that's a you're a lucky guy so
thank you lucky guy well thank you so
much for your time at chat room it's
been fun I hope you've enjoyed yourself
tonight lots of fun being here at Silver
Beach developments in haliburton I do
agree with Chris Reich that it seems to
be a little bit like start like the
Starship Enterprise as far as climate
control and that little low hum
when the fans come on that's that's our
our geekdom just tenant showing through
it's not again the zone Chris Rika's as
was being said there is computer
controlled very very cool stuff all
right well we're right out of time
everybody thank you so much get your
questions in this week live at category
five dot TV i'll be back to the studio
this week this coming week and looking
forward to presenting the show for you
from there and yeah it's been fun and
thank you so much for thank you here
thank you and thank you to all of your
viewers as well for allowing me a chance
to show some of our technologies and our
home building technologies and our
beautiful area of halliburton as well
and of course if you'd like more
information about silver beach
developments give Jerry a call your
phone number local locally here 705 457
14 29 ago and his website is silver
beach developments com please do check
it out find out more about about the
development that beautiful homes that
are here and and find out more about the
community of halliburton if you're
looking to buy a home this is just an
exceptional town we've really loved our
stay here so far and just a pleasure to
be here in haliburton and these are
beautiful so thank you well done thanks
everybody have a great week and we will
we'll see you next Tuesday night at the
same time seven o'clock and again I'll
be back in the studio so we'll talk to
you then take care good night
