here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Bitcoin and other digital currencies
continue to tumble and value admin
concerns that Wall Street institutions
are shunning cryptocurrencies to mop the
planets winds the British built Aeolus
satellite has begun firing its lasers
down on earth a self-driving bus has
begun shuttle service in Calgary and we
may not have colonies on Mars and faster
than light travel yet but if you have a
Vizio TV you'll get a taste of a bizarre
feature wherein gadgets turn against
their makers after first portraying
their owners also a pop-up informing you
that your TV has been spying on you and
will prompt you to sue its own
manufacturer these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
Geoff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap v dot TV slash
DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category 5 TV
news room covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week Bitcoin
and other digital currencies have
continued to tumble in value of mid
are shunning cryptocurrencies it follows
media reports originally in Business
Insider that American investment bank
Goldman Sachs was shelving plans to set
up a crypto currency trading desk
Goldman Sachs CFO Martin Chavez has
since made publicly clear that the
reports were false he says I never
thought I would hear myself use this
term but I really have to describe that
news as fake news the truth of the
matter is Wall Street is loving cryptos
they're even opening an exchange and
Nasdaq is investing in a tool to predict
crypto price movements bitcoin has lost
two-thirds of its value in the past nine
months it was trading above nineteen
thousand dollars in December and if it
continues to fall it could threaten this
year's low of five thousand eight
hundred and eighty seven dollars this
can affect the value of other coins too
especially all coins whose value are
based on the value of Bitcoin the future
regulatory framework for digital coins
remains unclear in the United States the
US Securities and the Exchange
Commission has warned that some coins
might be regarded as securities which
means dealing in them may become subject
to federal law according to coin market
cap the overall market capitalization of
virtual currencies has lost
three-quarters of its value since
January Peak slumping from eight hundred
billion dollars to around two hundred
billion dollars now blockchain
technology enables us to use and
transact currency quickly safely
interestingly it enables anyone to set
up automated self-employed business
where market where mark contracts will
enable vendors to get paid directly by a
customer with no middleman you are
already able to create your own currency
to pay for those services so what's
going wrong here's our crypto
correspondent Robert Koenig to share his
thoughts on the state of Bitcoin so
what's the reason for this huge drop in
in market valuation
from my point of view the main one is
lack of education I've seen so many
people in this market that have got no
clue what they're talking about a lot of
youtubers and and Twitter also have got
an opinion that are shedding a coin
chilling a coin and really don't know
what they're talking about many people
don't even understand what the
blockchain is so that's the main reason
that a lot of information is in the
market that is false and therefore one
has to be very careful and listening
exactly where the news is coming from
even big magazines and news outlets
bringing out news that are not correct
the other hand is there's also no real
use case or mass adoption in this crypto
market it's an early stage if you look
at Bitcoin it's still at version 0.1 so
it's not version 1 we're still some time
away of many people being able to use or
even invest into into cryptos if you
look at who is participating in the
market it's really probably less than 1%
globally people that can participate or
are currently participating in this
market there is some manipulation
happening because it's not regulated its
global there is manipulation happening
and so that's why there's a reason the
price to drop or go up the market is
really bullish not from the financial
point of view but from the outlook of
where cryptocurrencies are going to be
in a few years time it's going to be a
huge market that's probably gotten
guaranteed that that's big every big
company every financial institution is
looking into this year participating and
doing something the just from the
logical point of view it is going to be
huge so there is nothing to fear from
the basics basis of cryptocurrencies
coming into that I received two
questions that I'd like to answer which
go in sync with what I just said I mean
Sean asked for example how can I
participate now Sean there
aspects of this one is investing yeah so
and this is not financial advice this is
just my my point of view on how I see
this situation if you want to invest in
this market probably it's a good time to
do it now the price went down from
20,000 to now let's say around 6,000 it
can go a little bit further down there
are some people saying it can go down to
5,000 but we're just not a huge drop
from the risk-taking point of view you
can't even wait a few months or a few
weeks before you invest but it's a good
point you know to start investing into
Kryptos the other one how I can
participate is from the programming now
that is really attractive there's a huge
downside or there's a huge market
opportunity for programmers and I would
definitely if you know if you're if
you're if you like to program I would
definitely go into this market and start
learning how to program in a OS e
theorem and so on and the other one is
for those people that want to build
something first recommendation is learn
about blockchain yeah if you don't know
what blockchain is don't touch it and
then start dreaming about applications
that would be new so that there's no
case out there and where you can really
change something in your environment or
in the bigger picture and start building
something it's it's not that difficult
and the next question is Michael he
asked I heard that the issues of concern
around cryptocurrencies including
potential money laundering and and
market manipulation well Michael yes
market manipulation yes that's there and
all the big like SEC and so on they're
looking into this year and they will
find those that are manipulating the
market and they will be penalized I'm
pretty sure about that the potential of
money laundering that is not there that
is just a myth it's much easier to
launder money with US dollars or
Canadian dollars or yours then
with cryptocurrencies and why because
the cryptocurrency stays on a blockchain
and therefore you can always go back to
any transaction that was made and really
find out what happened
yeah with US dollars you can't once
they're spent they're gone blockchain
it's there you can still find in Bitcoin
for example the first transaction that
was made by Satoshi Nakamoto back in
2009 that is there you can see it and so
I cannot recommend doing any money
laundering or any criminal activities on
a blockchain because it will be visible
and also the government knows who's
participating where because companies
like coinbase have to report and you can
see what public key is linked to what
name and so you can track the person the
activities of a person in regards to
cryptocurrencies now there is of course
those privacy coins like Manero and G
cash and so on that will not allow you
to do that at the moment so I would not
bank on that so I don't see that as a
potential money-laundering thing that
that's just something that is out there
in the market but it's not really an
issue and will never be an issue
because cash will always be a better
tool to do these things right that's it
that's it for me here and back to the
studio thank you thank you Robert
the British built Ellis satellite has
begun firing its lasers down on earth to
map the planets winds it's a big moment
for the European Space Agency mission as
the technology took 16 years to develop
launched three weeks ago from the core
space spaceport in French Guiana a Ola
Aeolus is now undergoing three months of
testing once this is complete scientists
will start assessing the satellites wind
data for inclusion in weather models its
maps are expected to bring significant
improvement in the accurate
see of medium range forecasts those that
look a few days ahead mark dr. mark
Drinkwater who heads the agency's earth
and missions science division says it's
a euphoric feeling in a proud moment to
reach this milestone after overcoming
the first technical challenge to build
launch and operate this complex wind
lidar now we're arguably some of what
are arguably some of Europe's most
patience ants and scientists and weather
service services eerily wait to take
over the baton at the moment when the
data comes from multiple but patchy
sources such as weather blends Aeolus
will be the first system to gather wind
information all across the globe from
the ground up to nearly 30 kilometers in
altitude it will do this by firing a
powerful ultraviolet laser down into the
atmosphere with the aid of a telescope
and a sensitive detector it will then
look for the way the pulsed beams light
is scattered back off the air molecules
water droplets and dust particles this
should reveal basic details about air
movement and numerical weather models
will be adjusted to take account of it
experts confirm that the lasers first
days of working revealed clear features
of the wind I love that they're able to
use lidar as a technology to do this
like the same thing that makes
autonomous vehicles possible right and I
mean we I think my basic knowledge of
lidar comes from an interview we did yes
and we were looking at the the city of
the monkey god and with that they used
lidar from an airplane to be able to see
through the jungle cover into the into
like ruins right so now they're using
lidar from the sky down and looking at
wind patterns which a a medium-range
weather forecasts with accuracy would be
amazing and now there'd be no more jokes
left on earth because pretty much every
joke is about how bad weather forecasts
are oh it's true but it is annoying yeah
so if they can improve they can improve
I'm game they'll be happy so I thought
to myself like is lidar like ultraviolet
laser rays that are streaming down to
earth is that good robot brains is that
gonna be a problem so I like
cancer-causing elements oh well I was
thinking I didn't know either so I was
thinking more like along the lines if
what's it gonna do to people let not
people what's it gonna do to life that
isn't people right like plenty it's
pretty fast
yeah lidar is a very passive technology
yeah it's completely safe I was I was
looking it up just to see it like
ultraviolet light already exists right
so if you concentrate it a little bit
what's gonna happen well all plants and
animals that are hanging out in the
atmosphere I already have their own
natural sunscreen I guess UV sunscreen
so hey all this in the atmosphere do we
need to wear like SPF 1 we're good we're
just we've got we just take advantage of
the fact that we'll know when it's gonna
be sunny out you know to put on SPF 60
and I mean in this day and age like the
weather patterns have been kind of crazy
and unpredictable right now there's some
storms going on and and I just think if
we can get just really as specific as
possible we can really it's it's a
safety thing really more than anything
for can be absolutely there are times
when it is a safety thing and we we
certainly feel that right now exactly
so very cool an autonomous vehicle
billed as the future of Transportation
is spending the month ferrying
passengers between two neighboring
tourist attractions in Calgary Alberta
the autonomous electric bus is named
Ella and it stands for electronic
automation and Saturday marked its
maiden voyage between the Calgary Zoo
and the Telus sparks Science Center next
door it can carry up to 12 people at a
time and it's speed has been limited to
12 kilometers an hour for its short
journeys between the zoo and the Science
Centre Ella runs on two key technologies
Josephine's hang of Telus Park describes
one as a super fancy version of a GPS
and the other is wide are short for a
light detects a detection and ranging
which is used to detect Podesta
or other obstacles in the vehicles path
Telus Park is one of the two companies
sponsoring Ellis time in Calgary along
with energy giant ATCO the federal
government has also put a $50,000 grant
toward the project the vehicle is being
billed as the first electronic
autonomous shuttle in Canada able to be
used as by the public manufacturer easy
Miele let mum members of the public
board a similar vehicle in Montreal last
year but that vehicle stayed on the
Olympic Park property Alice presence in
Calgary isn't only about showing off the
emerging technology of autonomous
vehicles researchers are watching to see
how Ella performs on the gravel roadways
linking the zoo in the Science Center
and the University of Calgary students
are studying the passengers reaction to
the vehicle while there might not be
anybody controlling Ella directly as it
makes its trips back and forth there is
a backup system in case emergency human
intervention is needed saying said there
is an operator on the bus to make sure
everything is running smoothly the
vehicle will spend September in Calgary
before moving to Edmonton next month so
the technology is actually happening
yeah it's there it's real it's it's hot
I just again about lidar it's it's it's
literally everywhere now I just I love
the fact you see investigated tight but
let me lidar kind of alludes to radar
right right you know send a signal
receive it back send a signal receive it
back but it's so detailed right it's so
precise like if you think about dots per
inch and in terms of like imagery right
it's so clear and so it can make out
things like a human form a pedestrian
and things like that
so I was thinking now I'm a little VR
obsessed as we might realize the human
intervention is a VR headset now all of
a sudden she's obsessed obsessed so the
V R aspect of this that I was thinking
is we probably don't actually need a
human operator to be honest with you you
think we need a VR headset we need
somebody at a at a central hub that can
control many and just flip with VR to
the actual bus and be able to actually
control
sounds so sci-fi we don't know its
person there you know what's coming
everything that we're talking about ten
years ago I would have said that sounds
so fine now right but this is real this
is real so when will that become real
when will the avatars become reality we
actually need a real person in there
also funny little side note is the fact
that they picked those two locations in
a city in Canada because it's a gravel
road yes it's a corduroy road up there
in Canada on the west coast of Canada
there's a corduroy road connecting the
zoo and whatever and they're right next
door so it doesn't have to go far yeah
also side note they called it the easy
mile the company's called easy mile I
get it but we're in Canada now it's an
easy kilometre easy 2.6 kilometers
that's right something like that we may
not have colonies on Mars and faster
than the light to travel yet but if you
have a Vizio TV you will get a taste of
a bizarre feature where gadgets turn
against their makers after first
betraying their owners also a pop-up
informing you that your TV has been
spying on you will prompt you to sue its
own manufacturer all this gadget drama
started on November 2015 when
journalistic watchdog ProPublica exposed
vizio for illegally using its popular
Smart TVs to spy on its customers the
secret feature recorded what when and
where it's TV users were watching in
order to sell their viewing habits data
to advertisers then advertised
advertisers could use that data to find
you on your phone and other devices and
target your you with your advertisements
tailored to those habits pretty sleazy
the company argued that it was innocent
and that all data recording was
anonymous not specific to each user and
asked the class-action lawsuit to be
dismissed but a California federal judge
didn't buy its arguments two times in
March and July allowing the legal
process to can
in you this was despite the fact that in
February 2017 the company came to a very
friendly 2.2 million dollar settlement
with the FTC on this investigation as
part of the legal process against the
company I'd agreed to push a notice to
all affected Smart TVs alerting
consumers of what happened and what
their rights are the notice should show
up sometime between September 12th and
October 3rd now more than ever if you
are a Vizio Smart TV owner stay tuned
what kind of TV do you have I have a
Panasonic okay yes Panasonic B I
remember because when the washing
machines were blowing up or whatever it
was I was really worried yeah yeah this
could like be any moment I'm looking at
the the calendar here and today when
we're filming this episode is the 12th
so you may be watching this on your
Vizio TV and suddenly there's that
pop-up pop-up right which they would do
because they would know that you're
watching category five and you would
immediately close it ignoring the pop-up
because you want to watch the show right
so it's strategy right
artificial intelligence they've got they
know exactly what you're watching Voight
getting in trouble right interesting
right I mean we talk about future
technology and thinking that okay well
what would happen if robots suddenly you
know went through a lawsuit because
they're monitoring what happens if Alexa
I'm sorry oh I keep doing that and then
now every Alexa everywhere is like
cancel we're cool my babies YouTube
we're cool YouTube I don't want to hear
about it true story yeah what like what
what happens legal it happens if right
yeah and and then what are the
ramifications and what does that do for
for the services because if it's deemed
that hey if we develop a service that
does what these devices which I'm not
going to say the word because I caught
myself what if these devices are
monitoring our
speech and things and now we can't we
can't create the product that people
want to be able to ask it for the
weather and the cookie recipes and
things like that mm-hmm
and so what if we can't manufacture that
because we're gonna get sued right there
comes a point I guess what it comes down
to I guess where I would have to stop
the that trail of thought and say okay
where this is different is that Vizio
didn't disclose this to their writers
when I buy an echo I did that I know
what I'm getting myself into I know that
she's listening right
when I finally right so so is that there
is that my opt-in is that my approval of
okay I understand that if I'm watching
category five and the host messes up
that I'm probably gonna order a
dollhouse
I here's the thing though I think that
it's not about the collection of the
information I assume that there is a lot
of my privacy that I is that I expect is
private but is not private like I expect
that when I'm in my living room having a
conversation with the devices around me
probably they're absorbing some of that
conversation that I'm actually pretty
okay with it's the selling it to
somebody else that I'm not okay with but
if it's are we coming into a world
though Sasha we're like because when I'm
on my computer and I'm looking around
suddenly I start getting ads for things
that oh my goodness I really want that
that's so me that's what I've been
looking for right right so if I'm having
a conversation with my wife and it's a
private conversation and in it's being
recorded anonymously in such a way that
it's really just picking up on key words
and trash and it kind of it's making a
kind of a picture of what kinds of
things I like right if I have particular
political views or if I'm interested in
certain technologies if I come home and
tell my wife about how
I am about the rock pro 64 and then
suddenly I start seeing advertisements
for oh they've got a case for it right
oh you know that's where the technology
has to go it's it's true I mean III know
that there are some people who are kind
of up in arms about having a
conversation about something and then
seeing advertisements for it you know
days later somewhat I feel I feel yeah
but other other ways I think it's a bit
of selective perception like it it's
that you're seeing it now because you
talked about it not that you're see like
because you're you're more aware because
you've talked about it it was probably
already there in some cases do you know
what I'm saying yeah I know that the
very things I search for are being
advertised to me so right the things you
search for but not the conversations you
have not yet right I don't have one of
those devices right but I I'm not
against it I not against it and I think
that there is that line where we are
opting into the technologies that we are
purchasing and we're saying hey this is
ok I've got my smartphone I'm using
alright gooble right and see my carry
job community and so if I'm using that
then am I opted in - yeah right I have
to be ok with what they're using that
data for right right
so maybe I'm not maybe I am I I guess I
am I'm like like right now currently in
like obsessed like infatuated with the
tell me about my day future oh sure
right give me some good news here but
they won't they won't give me there is
no good news in Canada yes but I
but I tell but I asked it to tell me
about my day and the assistant is
amazing love it I know everything that's
going to happen I know the weather I
know how long it's gonna take me to my
next thing I am down although the
weather better ones like we're
unfortunately out of time but please
comment below let us know what your
thoughts are about these kinds of
technologies listening eavesdropping
collecting data in or
to advertise to us is it okay is it
something that we've opted into with the
society that we live in and the
technologies that are around us or is it
something that you're totally uncool
with comment below yes big thanks to Roy
W Nash game fairs and our community of
yours for submitting stories to us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux' bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman Thank You
Sasha and I'm Robbie Ferguson it's been
such a pleasure having you here again
with us this week and we're looking
forward to seeing you again one week
from now take care
[Music]
