here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Mozilla says it will soon be modifying
its Firefox browser to block all user
trackers on web sites by default windows
on arm is now a thing Hoover says it
plans to focus more on its electric
scooter and bike business and less on
cars despite the fact that we hurt
profits and gene-editing hopes for
muscular dystrophy these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston GEMA
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act ok I'm
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV /
dream host to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 dot TV slash dream
host this is the category 5 TV news room
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias I'm Sacha
Rickman and here the top stories for
following this week Mozilla says it will
soon be modifying its Firefox browser to
block all user tracking on websites by
default
Mozilla VP / of product strategy Nick
nujin said on Thursday in the near
future Firefox will by default protect
users by blocking tracking while also
offering a clear set of controls to give
our users more choice over what
information they share it with sites the
move will see an initial trial of the
feature in September and should that
work out the Firefox 63 rollout will
include a component to immediately block
slow loading trackers by the time
Firefox 65 is released Mozilla says that
it hopes to have all cross-site tracking
blocked by default the
move means a shift by Mozilla from the
more passive do-not-track system that
relies on sites to recognize that the
notice and disable their trackers to an
active feature that will instead block
tracking by default and require the user
themselves to opt in to the websites
trackers users will have the option to
enable trackers by default Google Chrome
Microsoft edge ie
and Apple Safari also supported do not
track option in their browsers the
planned update would however make
Firefox the most aggressive browser when
it comes to thwarting trackers Mozilla
contends that the decision is more about
more than privacy the developer notes
that the slow loading trackers are to
blame for some patient pages taking as
much as 50% more time to fully load than
they would otherwise
mugen goes on some sites will continue
to want user data in exchange for
content but they will now have to ask
for it hmm interesting
well I worry because okay so there's the
idea that the sites will load faster
because there's no trackers I think so
but that seems far-fetched to me well I
wonder what do you give like okay so
trackers are there to sell your stuff
right they track you and then they there
is privacy
stealers aren't they it's not always a
bad thing though right
like we have for example and we don't do
banner ads while there are ads on the
site but not really like they're not
tracker or ads and things like that we
used to use Google ads on our website
right and I do use Google ads on other
websites like other websites that I own
and what happens is if you go on Amazon
and you do a search for something then
you go to my website and you're seeing
ads for that same product and it's meant
to incentivize you to make the purchase
yeah to make the purchase that you're
already interested in this is assuming
that you're not Sascha Sascha only
searches her things in the five minutes
before she's about to
and then by the time she sees all the
ads right she already owns it but and
then you get like a million ads like
here's this tent a tent that you've been
looking at I'm like wait no I own it
yeah exactly I already bought I already
said no to that one and bought the other
one Hey
and so that can be annoying but yeah so
it's not always malicious right no it's
it's a lot of times it's just to sell a
hat space and and that in and of itself
helps free distribution and free media
we've got to realize that the web is
free right we want the web to be free
right I'm guilty of it where if I'm
looking on Google News and I click on a
news article that's of interest to me
and it says you need to sign up back and
click on the next news article that is
related to that same story I - and that
person yeah and I think a lot of us are
so if we hate that if we hate having to
sign up and we hate having to in some
cases pay right like hey you've already
read four articles on our site now you
need to buy a subscription if you want
to read our newspaper that's a real
thing these companies are trying to
figure out how they can pay their staff
exactly so if we could just it's such a
catch-22 that's the thing not always
benign right but it quite often is so if
you block it verbatim or just all all
across right then you're hurting the
little guys these things that are free
it's not like people wake up in the
morning and they're like I already have
a million dollars I just want to do
things for free for people except for
well we don't have a million dollars we
want to do free things by 5:00 okay
so you have to make money somehow and a
lot of times it's with ads and so a lot
of times that's for trackers so it's
like therefore so now if you block the
trackers does the advertiser does the
advertising revenue drop and I think the
answer is going to be yes I'm sorry go
ahead I think that what's going to end
up happening because you have to opt in
to having it done right you have to opt
into your tracking but the the benefit
of opting in would be I think that
there's going to be more in some
incentives to opt in
right because if you opt out like if you
go to my website and it says click here
to opt-in to this service right I guess
it depends on how easy it is for the
programmers to implement that yeah what
I have my doubts about is the claim that
websites will be significantly faster in
that that feels like a jab at like
Google hey Google you guys are slow
fight so I just ran a scan I I want it I
went to webpagetest.org and I ran a scan
on MEMS Linux because Mnemosyne X I do
have Google ads on the website ok my
first bite is doing pretty miserably but
I've got a across the board so let's see
this is called a waterfall and this
shows me where things are running slow
so that I know the performance of my
website and where I can make
improvements right so the first bite of
course happens in M's Linux comm and
then it goes out and it gets Google's
fonts it gets font awesome a whole bunch
of other assets our CDN is CDN Zechariah
comm how cool is it that I was able to
get my son his name calm so cool he's
too young for it yet but when he's older
he will appreciate big deal so but for
now we use it as our CDN content
distribution network if you're not
familiar with the term ok so let's see
we've got Google tag manager is
happening there where where is there a
performance hit let's scroll down here's
a performance hit it's happening at
Google Ads double-click net there right
is it 50% no it's not 50% it's 792
milliseconds but that's pretty
significant YouTube is also a pretty big
hit but of course being a video website
is to be expected right what that is the
that's that's the tracker oh and so yeah
it's not 50% you can see where 50% lies
yeah but it's a small amount but it's
significantly larger than any of our
other assets other than YouTube which is
to be expected
what other assets are a big hit that's
it that's the only one that stands out
and it it actually happened to be
double-click which is Google ads G
double click done
dunno so maybe they're there Nate
they're there could be under something
that's interesting that's interesting
and do you see that this when you think
about asynchronous terms as far as
website load time so all of these assets
up here see how these are all in line
yes they loaded at exactly the same time
together right so that's good look at
what happened when ad click happened on
my website nothing else was able to load
until it was almost finished and then it
loaded the rest of my assets see that oh
yeah I can picture how that works out
actually my web site from loading like
I'm picturing that on my like on my
mobile phone yeah when that happens I
know that that's happening it's annoying
I don't like that there right oh I
really don't like that there right but
we just proved it right here on category
5 TV newsroom Microsoft's long journey
away from Intel reached escape velocity
over the past week as the first
traditional laptop with Qualcomm ARM
processor was revealed by Lenovo
the yoga 6fc 630 w OS w OS stands for a
windows on snapdragon how qualcomm
qualcomm prefers to call windows on arm
and since it's a qualcomm inside not
intel inside it gets to call the shots
this is the second always connected PC
from Lenovo to run a Qualcomm chip but
the first to run the snap try Snapdragon
850 processor officially announced last
year the Microsoft Qualcomm Alliance
always connected was created to produce
chips with support for legacy x86
instructions into an ARM processor which
should result in full-blown Windows
running on devices with greater power
efficiency than Intel could manage how
much more efficiently efficiency
Qualcomm says 25 plus hours of local
video playback on a single charge that's
right this particular yoga is a smart
but generic machine with a 13.3 inch
touchscreen convertible display there is
an LTE modem built in and the 2.9
gigahertz Snapdragon 850 system has 4
gigabytes of RAM
they're expensive but lenovo reckons
that those enterprise users will pay
that for a longer battery life
Microsoft's last attempt to put Windows
on arm showed that most legacy
applications were so deeply reliant on
x86 quirks that only a subset could run
and customers didn't want a subset
Windows RT was short-lived yeah was it
ever yeah this is why we see Raspberry
Pi Linux this Linux that everything's
Linux on Raspberry Pi because it's an
ARM processor right so Linux is ported
Windows not so much right so now they're
taking a different approach and hey
here's a Qualcomm processor they'll let
us do what we want to do do you think
that increased battery life will let
people like do you think that that will
be the draw that people will spend that
much more money on as the day it was a
trucker yeah I would want a 25 hour
battery life can you imagine if you were
going from stop to stop how brilliant
that would be or in business where you
know you're on it out in the field and
you don't have to recharge the battery
except once a month but would you just
would you trust it though like here's
the thing so I just got a boogie board
yeah and it runs for one week without
charge it's not what they say and that's
what the air quotes mean I've never
tried to run it one week without a
charge never ever I've just never done I
mean I just got it but you're just so
used to having to charge your phone
I just charge everything I own as often
as I can
assuming I'm not going to ruin the
battery by charging it how often am i
praying something for twenty five hours
and not and I look at my my bluetooth
headphones for example right and with
that they claim nineteen hours battery
life right well when are you ever gonna
listen to music for nineteen hours right
but nineteen hours of battery life to me
means two weeks of listening to music
for about an hour every night while I
clean dishes or do things around the
house or work on my computer you wait
till they die before you charge it
though I don't always but I tend to
you get that notification on my
bluetooth battery low you and I are
different in that regard I will let my
gas tank run to empty performer fill it
okay but my battery life for my things
like that's why I read this new story
and I thought okay yes it's great except
that for me the battery life isn't that
much of a bit like it's not that big of
a deal I'm never not around power I can
always juice it up fair enough right
right but isn't so that's not a selling
point for you right it's not that I it's
not that I'm not impressed and I'm not
excited about this it's just that I
wouldn't pay more for it I'm excited
about it
and but twenty five hours of video
playback think about it like thank you
how now this is a laptop so it's not
something that you're going to put into
a weather station but think right like
the uses for this or think about medical
right being able to put it on a cart in
the hospital and wheel it around and it
suddenly sounds brilliant now you don't
have to have wires going to this machine
that's powered by this laptop not that
you would but I mean it's that's pretty
broad yeah the fact that you know my
laptop I've got this ginormous batteries
sticking out of the butt end of it so
that I can get four hours of battery
life right nine cells of juice it's
heavy on the back end but it gives me
four hours of battery life which I'm
very happy with 25 hours I would never
have to charge my laptop because as soon
as I set it down at home it goes on to
the charger right I would never have to
perceptively
oh no my battery's low I've got to plug
it in I would never have to deal with
that again just yeah out of your mind
yeah cool never an issue never an issue
uber says it plans to focus more on its
electric scooter and bike business and
less on cars despite the fact that it
could hurt profits uber CEO Derek
I didn't make up the name but I did
write it into the teleprompter and I
apologize I know okay we're gonna say
daraa caution offski gosh no I'm gonna
get this right right cross route yeah
high cost for Africa hi Dara Dara Dara
anytime you say it's Daraa Daraa just
know what it says during rush hour it is
very inefficient for a one ton Hulk of
metal to take one person ten blocks
he believes individual modes of
transport are better suited to inner
city travel
he also forecasts users would make more
frequent shorter journeys in future the
ride-sharing firm has invested a number
of bike firms in the last year it's jump
electric bikes are now available in
eight US cities including New York and
Washington and will soon launch in
Berlin as well
it also teamed up with lime and electric
scooter company while forging deals in
other areas such as public transit and
fright Daraa admitted that uber makes
less money from a bike ride than from
the same trip in a car but said this
would be offset as customers used the
app more frequently for shorter journeys
he says we were willing to trade off
short term per unit economics for a long
term higher engagement he also
acknowledged that uber drivers could
lose out from the plan but said over the
longer term drivers would benefit from
more lucrative longer journeys uber
which lost 4.5 billion dollars in the
last year is under pressure to improve
its finances ahead of an anticipated
public listing revenue from its taxi
business is rising but the cost of
expansion into new areas such as bike
sharing and food delivery has meant
losses have grown rapidly regulatory
pressure is also threatening growth in
some markets this month New York voted
to impose a temporary cap on new
licenses for ride hailing vehicles to
tackle congestion while the mayor of
London has said he will seek similar
restrictions okay I've seen these
scooters like around the cities and
stuff yeah that's cool I
love this I applaud her for doing
something that maybe doesn't make sense
as far as profit goes like or is it
long-term is it like Amazon saying we're
not making money just yet but we will
and when we do it'll be 2018 and we will
be the biggest commerce store in the
universe right right yeah they knew it
where is smart like I really like this
and to tell you the truth I mean you
don't need a driver to drive you from oh
sure one you know like you just don't
need that from here to there if it's you
know three kilometers right I get a
half-hour lunch every day yeah
and that's enough time to have a
sandwich yeah it's not enough time to
walk to the coffee shop that's on the
corner right but wouldn't it be nice if
I could just oh there's that bike and
it's a scooter an electric scooter right
so now I can all of a sudden take the
scooter to that corner get myself a
lunch and then take the scooter back and
park it on the road like not on the road
but near the road yeah where someone
else can grab it
exactly I like that idea so it makes
sense for that use case I'm not gonna
hail a taxi for that no not a chance
cuz it feels kind of wasteful like it's
important if I need to go to the airport
yeah I would I would get uber to drive
me to an airport but I like I don't need
anything more than an electric bike or
scooter to get from getting around town
and getting past the traffic and stuff
yeah I mean I guess you're allowed like
to you know their bikes their bikes
you're going you can do it drive it
along the boardwalk whatever
uber eats is another thing that Oprah's
getting into same idea right food
delivery again just a simple way like
that maybe they're not making a ton of
money on it but it's a simple way to
diversify and it's it feels a little bit
I'm more responsible I know it feels
responsible I like the hey this is green
or aspect I I can sense that yes and I
like that but I don't feel like that's
their motivates
not there this is why I'm I'm trying not
to say it even though it's really in my
heart for me it feels environmental I
know for them its pocketbook or or
something but I'm strategy right I'm
hearing environmental in with their
message but that's not right like they
they could have appealed to me by saying
listen this will save the world and I'd
be like okay I will write an e bytes no
more I did just buy a car yeah
fumes if this had happened five minutes
earlier I would have not bought my car
and I would have just taken a bike from
uber or the place where you can do that
here in Canada like it's just there's
nowhere in Canada that that's possible
right I mean maybe a snowmobile up north
and that could be your year-round
transportation but my my sister before
she became a midwife she was using zip
cars in Toronto so it's it's a car
sharing ride-sharing idea so exactly the
same as what uber is saying a new park
in a public lot and you just go in and I
don't know how you do you tap your thing
and you have the car for as long as you
need it no because she's now a midwife
and people have babies at crazy hours
she needs to have a car of her own but
like women giving birth in a Zipcar
not there's not ideal shy away from that
but this is the idea that uber has right
like just make transportation accessible
to everybody in a way that is not so
out-of-pocket and so bad on the
environment right right okay so other
flip side it's thinking along that vein
yeah who is this beneficial to not just
the person who wants to grab a quick
bite at lunch that's working downtown
but think about the in not the Natyam
firm but people who have mobility issues
right right so I may not be I may not be
able to go for a jog but I can make my
way to a scooter and safely drive a
scooter right and take it to the store
and take it back or exact whatever I
want to do or go go today dr. Riley
your doctors probably what like a half
an hour walk or like a form in a scooter
ride yeah right so you know if you've
got mobility issues then it just makes
sense it absolutely makes sense I love
it also smart for uber probably to cut
out some of the drivers not that the
drivers of uber are bad but it's just
it's a tricky game to play why I don't
like we used you to build this thing up
and now we don't need you anymore
I don't want to leave it at that but
it's but also I kind of like it
yeah I know I'm that person okay we
won't leave it at that exactly but I
just feel like you might have some bad
experiences folks where you're going no
I just think if you can cut out that
extra person you can save a lot of
trouble yeah for the first time use
gene-editing to treat Duchenne muscular
dystrophy DMD in a large mammal a
significant step towards effective
treatment for people with the disorder
the condition which has no cure leads to
loss of muscle function and strength and
ultimately on early death but in a study
on dogs scientists were able to
partially restore the key protein people
with DMD cannot make they hope in future
to test the technique in people Duchenne
muscular dystrophy DMD is the most
common fatal genetic disease in children
and almost entirely affects boys and
young men children born with the
degenerative disease have a genetic
mutation that stops them from producing
this dystrophin a protein that is vital
for muscle strength and function the
same disorder also occurs in many dog
breeds using the CRISPR gene editing
tool scientists were able to restore
dystrophin in four dogs that had the
most common genetic mutation seen in DMD
patients by making a single strategic
cut in the faulty DNA this was done by
injecting the dogs who were one month
old with two harmless viruses that
edited the genome of the dog in the
cells of the muscles in the heart
scientists have estimated that 15
percent or greater improvement is the
to significantly help patients within
several weeks of the Edit made in the
dogs the missing protein was restored in
the muscle tissue throughout the body
including a 92 percent correction in the
heart and 58 in the diaphragm meeting
the main muscle needed for breathing
Richard Piercy professor of comparative
neuromuscular disease at the Royal
Veterinary College said the ambition is
to show that this is safe and effective
in dogs and then move on into human
trials that said they also hope the
treatment will be used to help dogs
affect afflicted with the disorder this
is the first time the technique was
carried out in a large mammal the
proof-of-concept study raises hopes that
CRISPR can ultimately lead to more
effective treatments for DMD this isn't
a cure but Darren Griffin professor of
genetics at the University of Kent said
this work represents a small but very
significant step towards the use of gene
editing for DMD any steps towards
significant treatment regimes can only
be good news dr. kate Adcock director of
research and innovation at the charity
muscular dystrophy UK said the next step
will be to conduct larger longer-term
studies to see if the gene gene editing
approach does help to slow the
progression of the condition and improve
muscle strength Wow huge
it's a tough scenario babies it's like
it's testing on animals which I'm not
really all for but the it's like when
done right it cures the animal like this
is what they're doing is they're
creating viruses that when injected into
a living thing goes to the DNA that it
is basically programmed to go to and
modifies it exactly and so you know why
is it on a tech show it's like the
technology is so far beyond the little
circuits and B bobs and and diodes and
now is at the molecular and atomic level
it's just but it's still technology it's
a six averaging
so I don't love the idea of gene editing
in the wrong hands
I don't fair enough but let's put that
aside for a second because this is a
good news story about curing not curing
muscular dystrophy but like fixing it
once it's happened
Dave's brother Dave's older brother who
was like 17 when Dave was born so like I
almost a father figure to Dave his name
was Tim and he had cystic fibrosis so he
died way too early an age I never got to
meet him he was amazing a great artist a
huge personality he really shaped who
David is in a large part cystic fibrosis
doesn't have a cure but CRISPR gene
manipulation right now that they're not
even working on that I'm sure right now
but if they can do this they can do that
and that means that in future somebody
who has a family member that has some
sort of irreversible degenerative
disease something that's gonna lead to
an early death that it really doesn't
not need to can actually like save lives
and then ripple effect save entire like
the world would be such a better place
if Tim was in it it's the world is still
good but like I heard it said that and I
don't know the actual number of
characters within our DNA and the genome
but that you can think of DNA as being
just a series of letters right if
something is misspelled this technique
is simply Auto correcting it right spell
checking it and faxing that spelling
error and by doing that it's correcting
whatever the underlying issue is so you
say it's not a cure but it's kind of
miraculous it's kind of amazing that
yeah like in the in this test case it's
pretty huge significant difference in
these animals and if it can go here
where else could it go like that I think
that the Braca one gene that causes you
know breast cancer if you have it right
if if it could test for it and then
if you're born if you're born with the
bracket one gene if they could use this
technology and yeah if its genetic and
they can just fix it right these are
people that are loved that we can save
using this technology it's amazing and
it's reality yeah this is not sci-fi
anymore right it was when we were kids
watching this on movies and stuff and
now it's actually something that they're
figuring out right it's pretty exciting
and my hopes are that this is going to
end up being the technology that isn't
that doesn't divide people I want it
really to bring it everyone together
right do away with genetic disorder no
disease exactly
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight lenox
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson it's
been great having you here this week
thank you for joining us and we're
looking forward to seeing you again same
time same place next week
[Music]
[Applause]
