hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Carrie and my name is Jen and
on today's show we're going to talk
about how we are waiting
[Music]
and
hi are you waiting for me to keep
talking hahaha I had no idea that so
she's going yes anyways waiting I knew
every day last week it was our first
first episode of season 3 yeah when our
third year thank you so much for your
faithful viewing we've just so enjoyed
this yeah he's so enjoyed this yeah
and we talked about last week about the
the joy of experience yes new life in
Christ and how when we accept Christ he
gives us a new way of not only of youing
the world but sometimes he actually
restores things in our life yes a woman
who was bleeding for 12 years
gatherings a new life a new start yes
and in the passage it talks about how
her life had just been ransacked she
spent all her money on doctors all of
that was gone yes for years and years
and years and years and years and years
like was waiting waiting and even this
morning
it's funny I'm looking out the window
and if April spring is supposed to be
coming yeah it's snowy rainy it's cold
it's kind of miserable out yes and we
know that spring is coming
we know that the flowers are going to
start blooming yes but it's around the
corner and sometimes like you I know
intellectually it's going to be there
but the feeling is that damp darn
waiting because what happens in the
waiting is life doesn't pause right like
life continues on in the waiting and we
can we can know that the Sun is
eventually going to shine but we still
have to live life in the midst of the
waiting and that is what is so difficult
is like yeah it's snowing rainy cloudy
windy cold
kind of miserable if your if use that
link kind of language to talk about the
weather and yet we still have to live
life like life does not go on pause
because the weather is miserable or you
know life doesn't come to an end if we
have a headache or for sick like we
actually have to keep living to some
extent or things are given up like if
we're laid up with a cold then we visit
mr. couch dr. lie there for a while
right and so but the world keeps on
turning keeps on turning while we're
lying there on the couch which is what
happened to this woman like she her life
goes on pause yeah on pods for twelve
years which you know I we try to get a
day off once a week I try to get a day
off once a week and and I actually quite
welcome the pause I know life's going on
around me people are doing things was I
get text messages and emails and phone
calls and whatever but for that day my
life has kind of gone on pause I'm
resting I am refueling your welcome to I
welcome it but to do that every day for
twelve years not talking to anyone not
interacting with anyone and then waiting
like there are some days when I'm I'm
off that I'm like I can't wait for
Tuesday to come like I'm just ready I'm
like okay like even this past two a
Monday Kerry said to me you know what
are you going to do today I'm like well
I could do this this or I could do some
work and she's like no so anyways but
there was a hope that I could do work
when we look at this story there is no
immediate hope she had spent all of her
money so she had no money no friends no
life on pause it it has been a dreary 12
years 12 years and I wonder kind of like
what the overall pattern of her her
disposition was over those 12 years like
initially like when you get a diagnosis
well okay you know I'm gonna do some
research I'm going to try this I'm going
to change this in my life oh it's not
working
yeah but here's a new doctor and I'm
going to try this and yes and then all
my money's my money's gone
oh but someone gave me some money and
here's a new doctor and here's me action
I wonder how far in it was just like I'm
giving up I'm waiting for a miracle but
I'm giving up yes and I it would be kind
of interesting to imagine the moment
that maybe she heard about Jesus like
was it like oh he's just a new doctor
because he hadn't raised anybody from
the dead yet no right so what was her
perspective of Christ at that time well
we know and I'm just looking up a verse
we know that this has happened so far so
according to the Gospel of Mark we know
that he is healed demon-possessed men
that's in chapter 5 and we could reveal
yes we know that he has had crowds
around him and they're teaching and it
says in 3:10 it says for he had healed
many so that those are the diseases were
pushing forward to touch and whenever
the evil spirit saw him they fell down
at his feet and declared you are the son
of God so we know that he has healed
many many people we know that he's
healed a man with leprosy we know he has
healed a paralytic so we know in verse
29 of chapter 1 it says that Simon's
mother-in-law was sick and so he healed
her the fever left that evening after
sunset the people brought to Jesus all
the sick and demon-possessed the whole
town gathered at the door and jesus
healed many who had various diseases he
also drove out many demons so she would
have known that like she would have
known because his reputation preceded
him right yes so do you think it was I'm
wondering like was it her who heard it
over and over and over and eventually
she's like I'm just going to go or did
someone approach her and be like hey
there's this new guy hmm
you know it's like you know interesting
our hope fluctuated there in one of the
videos that I've watched on the life of
Christ I've seen it where he is in the
house teaching and
and gyrus comes and asked the teacher to
come ask Jesus to come and but she is
portrayed as sitting outside listening
to what is going on inside listen
because she can't be apart right so
she's living and then as Jesus comes out
the door she sees her moment and reaches
out and reaches out yeah it's like and
then that was it you know the passage
that we read last week and is it second
Corinthian strength yeah second
Corinthians 5:17 2nd Corinthians 5:17
all 16 says so we've stopped evaluating
others from a human point of view at one
time we thought of Christ merely from a
human point of view how differently we
know him now mhmmm after receiving that
new life and is that with at the moment
when she's like I'm getting this
different perspective I see him I'm just
going to reach out in faith and go
because sometimes I think that
perspective doesn't actually come until
we take that step to reach out and
investigate you're waiting so long for
your miracle to come you can become
disillusioned but take that type of a to
actually reach out interesting so we're
going to say pause we'll be back right
after this Jeff Weston GEMA you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what
are you come on you're a terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
oh I don't know we're Arctic you're
supposed to act okay fair enough are we
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own calm
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat 5 GB flash dream hosts just
don't post edible paper something just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash DreamHost hi and
welcome back to new every day
and on today's show we're talking about
waiting waiting for the new season and
nobody really likes waiting a friend of
ours is pregnant and it's been a tough
pregnancy and we are waiting for this
baby to come and you know sometimes we
wait because we're saving up for
something but there's hope right there's
hope the baby will come like there's a
period nine months the baby will come
sometimes we put a goal like okay by the
time spring comes I will have saved this
much money I can buy the new car right
when the income tax comes back I can go
shopping right so people can wait as
long as there's hope yeah and that's the
key thing and that's why you know we
love this passage in lamentations where
it says I remember my affliction in my
wandering in the bitterness in the gall
I will remember them and my soul is
downcast
yet this I call to mind and therefore I
have hope because of the Lord's great
love we are not consumed for his
Compassion's are new every morning great
is your faithfulness I will say to
myself the Lord is my portion therefore
I will wait in him so the hope there is
knowing that God is faithful and so as
we look at this woman we have been
talking like there there just didn't
seem to be any hope in the waiting like
you said like she had spent all of her
money probably all her friends had given
her money to try this new treatment and
there was just no hope because nothing
nothing nothing worked
and so like what does that do to a
person over time you would view much of
a person proverb yes
proverbs 13 12 or says Hope deferred
makes the heart sick right and it's true
yeah and we have had friends that have
done this whole you know new treatment
oh not working at new treatment ah not
working new treatment yeah and I could
continue to do it because it just
happened literally that many times and
you would get tired of on the other end
of this show because you're the okay
stop doing that but that's Sesame Island
that is the reality of some of our
friends and that's the reality of this
woman Hope deferred makes the heart sick
and when you take that hope that's
dangling out in front of you away and it
gets defer defer defer and Earth's gone
completely you can get physically ill
and actually recently I had a patient
who her husband had died quite suddenly
and she was I think in her 60s she came
in a couple days later just nonspecific
symptoms and had a cardiac arrest yeah
and so and the coroner came they called
it like broken heart syndrome ha
couldn't I necessarily identify any kind
of football pathology but her hope was
in her husband and the life with him and
that was taken away and
it made for heartsick and I mean I don't
want to throw too much science into that
because sometimes we just can't answer
those things because people are made up
of more than just the body yes we are
emotional and we are spiritual and I so
I do believe that yeah but there are
these connections Hope deferred because
it's normally because of the depression
that comes in and there's so many health
related issues that comes in with
depression that it could very well be
led to the fact that makes the heart you
just get heartsick yeah because there's
so much pain in there and that's what
this woman was going through and yet
this is where the hope is she had heard
about Jesus yeah and this is what makes
me think she knew who Jesus was
because there's a prophecy in the Old
Testament that talks about there is
healing in the Messiah's wings there's
healing when you touch the hem of His
garment and so she probably knew that
prophecy so we can deduce we can think
that she knew that Jesus was the Messiah
so when she started hearing about he's
you know delivered people of demons and
he's healed diseases in the teaching and
and what is going on that I want because
she would have had ears to hear right
sirs because she can't interact with
anyone so she's listening I'm listening
to everything that's going on and she's
putting two and two and two together and
coming up with twelve or seven going
this is him like this is her Messiah
this is this is my hope because there
she is
it says when she heard about Jesus what
so she knew who he was when she heard
about Jesus she came up behind him in
the crowd and touched his cloak because
she thought if I just touched his
clothes I listen I will be healed yeah
there's a deck she knows who he is
okay that's why she reaches yeah because
there's no there's not I might be healed
I'm not maybe maybe just if I touch his
I might be healed maybe no she's
declaring like Sochi there's this deep
knowing inside of her that's Jesus
that's the Messiah that's the king
that's the healer that pays the one he's
the one and so in faith in faith she
reaches out and touches the hem of His
garment and she is healed says
immediately her bleeding stopped and she
felt her body that she was freed from
her suffering and it goes on to say that
it says then the woman knowing what was
done or what had happened to her came
and fell at his feet trembling with fear
told him the whole truth and he said to
her daughter your faith has healed you
because what if she just said yeah
probably is but I'm not going to do
anything I'm angry Joe she just wouldn't
have experienced that and maybe I just I
just feel fit a person hmm and maybe
you're watching this right now and you
have heard about Christ growing up you
know you've heard about you've heard
about God and maybe gone to church a
couple times or maybe you've grown up in
the church and just become disillusioned
because you're not seeing lives
transformed you're not just you're not
seeing things happen and maybe you've
asked for prayer for something and there
hasn't been that answer hmm I have been
in that place of wondering and waiting
and why and viewing Christ from this
worldly perspective that I think things
should happen at a certain time and I
just want to encourage you to take that
one more step of faith just reach out
and ask Jesus to show you yeah who he
really is yes because if he can do this
in her life that we believe that it's
true and then he can do it in your life
yes yes but it comes with you right she
listened and believed and reached yeah
and and she was healed and so begins it
begins with you reaching out saying I
believe like I believe that you can
you me and so option we can say well do
this in that person that person in that
person but sometimes we need to say Lord
speak to my heart change my heart and so
I agree with Kari we have both been in
that waiting zone is this real can you
do this and then what normally happens
is that he does something in our own
life yeah and we go WOW god you're real
like you made that area in my own life
no because that's something that you
cannot refute usually is like well I
used to think like this I don't think
like this anymore I don't think like
that anymore
I used to have this pain I don't have
this pain anymore I used to whatever but
not anymore and then you think that I
asked Jesus to touch that and he did
because he is faithful great is His
mercies they are new every day great is
his faithfulness
so we encouraged you today that if you
are in that waiting waiting spring is
coming spring is coming and he's going
to make all things new we encourage you
to hold on to the truth of his
faithfulness today let's pray Heavenly
Father spring is coming you're going to
make all things new because of who you
are would you help us to be like the
woman who heard about you believe that
you could heal and then reach out to
receive what it is that you have for our
lives
we need you we need you to help us do
this
help us to step into that new season of
life and pray this in your name thank
you for tuning in again and we look
forward to seeing you next week on to
everyday
you
