hi and welcome to new everyday my name
is Jen and I'm Jane and on today's show
we're going to talk about signs this is
new every day with Jen wagger and Carey
web
[Music]
hi and welcome back to new every day and
you might be thinking hey that's Jen but
that's not or that's not Carrie where's
where's Carrie and so uh Jane thank you
sorry to myself I have gone on an
adventure Carrie actually had to stay
home and and do some schoolwork and
because she's enrolled in doing some
master's work and so I had some holiday
time and I'm like I told Jane all about
my Midwest America adventure and she's
like I would be totally into going with
that are with you on that so here we are
and you will for those of you who are
regular Watchers of the show you will
watched before where Jane joined us and
we talked about finances huh and then
she joined me on our trip to Ghana West
Africa and I asked her to join us on the
show for that so she is one of our I
want to say regular guest one of our
regular guests on the show so here we
are in Midwest America we are currently
in the upper northeast part of Oklahoma
which is like in the middle it's known
as an oil state and one of the things
that we've talked about on this journey
are signs and right at the very
beginning of our trip yes yes Kuwait we
missed a very crucial sign so first of
all we were in Sioux sainte-marie we
were crossing into the United States in
into Sioux Michigan and the first sign
we missed was the sign that actually
took us to the border so we had to go
around the block and
and try a second time before we actually
made it to the border crossing and then
the second crucial sign we missed was
just before we got to the border guard
haha and it was a stop sign and yeah he
was quite specific about the importance
of that sign and how it was there to
protect him as well as us and we had
missed the stop sign because that's what
he said he said did you see the stop
sign I said no and I was totally honest
like I did not see the stop sign he's
like well there was a sign and that's
there to protect me and I see one car at
a time he's like you know that you're in
the United States of America right now
and I'm like yes and he's like is this
where you want to be and I'm like yes
and you could tell that he was very
serious about his job and how important
it was to follow the signs in order to
make sure everybody was kept safe like
as Jane said not only him but us as well
and at that point we sort of just looked
at each other and said we in the last
five minutes have missed two very
important signs so we need to actually
stopped and prayed mm-hmm and we're like
do Lord Jesus like we're just in the
beginning of this adventure we need your
help
to make sure that we see the science
because signs are so important then like
a stop sign protects people at
intersections from hitting each other
they create space in between cars a
signs on a highway are very clear like
if you want to get off here then you
know it says in well you know in two in
two miles this is going to happen okay
in one mile this is going to happen so
they actually have signs that warn you
that the bigger sign is coming
and to take you off to where you need to
go and we didn't want to miss out on any
of the signs because right from the very
beginning we gave this adventure to the
Lord to say God wherever it is that you
would have us go and help us to see your
signs so that we will do what you want
us to do because yes it is on my bucket
list to see all 50 states and so I am in
the process of working my three appoint
myself through all 50 states and on this
trip we have seen Wisconsin and
Minnesota Iowa Oklahoma Nebraska
Missouri in Kansas so we have seen seven
states so far and it's like check check
check check check but if if we don't
follow the signs then we're not gonna
see them and we don't want to miss out I
don't want to miss out on seeing
something because I didn't see a sign or
like that very first order crossing
guard I mean I like he could have very
easily have said sorry I'm not letting
you in because it was in his realm of
authority that he could do that because
I missed the sign and you might be
thinking so what does this have to do
with anything well the fact is God has
plans and purposes for us and Jeremiah
29:11 says I know the plans that I have
for you says Lord plans to prosper you
and not to harm you plans to give you
hope in the future and so God has plans
for us so you could almost think of it
as like a blueprint for our life and
like very clear like he has plans for us
and he actually wants to convey that
plan for us and he does that through
sign
yeah and so some of the signs would be
through the Word of God through reading
the Scriptures right another way is
through prayer God's we speak to God God
speaks us God speaks us we speak back
it's a conversation thing another way
God speaks to us is through other people
uh-huh
and and so maybe Jane has been reading
something but the reason she's been
reading it is so that she can share it
with me right in conversation that's
another way that God speaks to us as a
sign from the Lord another way is
through dreams regular Lord speaks to us
through dreams and you can you might be
saying well what do you mean well if you
look at people in the Bible like David
Wow Joseph Joseph in the Old Testament
but also the father of the earth of the
father of Jesus Joseph in the New
Testament also Daniel Peter was given a
sign that of a vision of a cloth
falling from heaven full of all the
unclean foods and that was God declaring
to Peter at that point in time that he
was declaring all things good to eat and
so God speaks to us through the Word of
God through prayer through people
through dreams and sometimes it's just
the the tap tap tap of the Holy Spirit
that says and the whisper like I want
you to go here or circumstances or
circumstances I was thinking last night
the circumstance right right and so we
want you to hold on to that for a minute
we just said circumstances because we do
have a story to tell you about that as
change is said what I was thinking about
that from last night so at this point we
want you to pause and think about when
God might have spoken to you through
circumstances in order to direct you
into a different path for his purposes
so we're gonna take a commercial break
we will be right back
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you but you're a terrible actor what
this where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't prepare the papers are just don't
do it but hey it's a great deal folks
best deal you're gonna find five dollars
and change per month go to cap five dot
TV slash DreamHost
hi and welcome back to new every day we
are so glad that you are tuned in and
listening in whether you are watching us
on youtube or on our website new every
day that TV or if you're listening to us
on the stitcher app then you know thank
you so much you are you wondering well
how can I learn more about you every day
go to our website new every day TV and
there's lots of information about myself
and Carey the other co-host as well as
if you're interested in finding out ways
that you could help support this
ministry to reach more people so go to
the partners page and see how you can
get plugged in and there's lots of
opportunities there from patreon giving
a little bit with each show to just
making your purchases work for us as
well so check out new everyday TV and so
we're back we're talking about signs and
how important it is that we see signs
and that God speaks to us through his
word through prayer through people
through dreams and entering
circumstances and so we pause there for
a little bit and I want to say to you
what exactly how would you explain
circumstances to our viewers right can
you give an example right so have you
ever had this isn't my example but have
you ever had a situation where you're
driving and you have a specific
destination you need to get to and
you're on a time crunch and you hit
traffic and you're then in stop-and-go
traffic and all you can think about is I
just need to get to where I need to get
to why is this happening to me so to me
that would be an indication of that's a
circumstance that God has allowed in
your life at that moment and we often
have a tendency of thinking just get me
through it instead of pausing and say
Lord Jesus I choose to believe that you
have a different plan for me so just
help me to receive that plan and help me
to stay here in the moment and be who
you need to be because you have chosen
to allow me to be at this moment on this
part of the highway right now right here
so just let me be here right sometimes
it's you have a plan of doing one
particular thing and not just no matter
how hard you try it doesn't come to
fruition and you wonder why sometimes
you think everything is going okay and
then something different happens and you
have to turn left when you thought you
were going to turn right and I would say
that would be the example that I'm going
to use from last evening we had checked
into a hotel and you know the room was
clean and so it appeared to be fine so
you know we gave it the all-clear we
prayed over the room ask God to cleanse
the room and to fill it with his
presence as we've been doing every at
every hotel that we come to and we left
and went for supper and then needed to
come back to the room because we decided
we should fill up with gas so that we
wouldn't need to do that today because
today's Sunday and we came back to the
room and there was a very very strong
smell of cigarette smoke nice and I said
oh maybe somebody's post Woking next
door right right or outside and so Jane
opens the door and she goes outside and
there's no one there nope
and then yeah and what did you say like
you said well maybe I said I said you
know this smell wasn't here before
so maybe this isn't the room that God
wants us to be in yeah and so we
actually left we went and got gas we
came back and both of us walked in and
we're like it is stronger now and there
wasn't anybody around but there was this
distinct smell of cigarette smoke and
and Jane had already said Oh like is
already giving me a headache and we're
thinking how does this even happen like
this was a perfectly fine room right and
so we just went down and we asked for a
new room we explained the situation they
were very understanding which is
wonderful but as we went up to the other
room like we had that conversation of
what is God protecting this problem and
it reminds me of garth brooks song I'm
not in unanswered prayers like sometimes
we don't know what God is protecting us
from because he has chosen for whatever
reason not to tell us right and another
example is okay we're in the USA on this
road trip football is really big in the
States like high school football college
football like NFL like that's a national
football football league and so one of
our things was what we should be going
to see a football game because it's so
big and like every single town that we
checked in that like nothing was playing
and we're like this is weird like
nothing and it's like it is the season
of football and we're sure it just went
well maybe God has a different plan for
us and and what's interesting is we did
check into one hotel and he said well
we're running behind because it was a
big football day yesterday and so we
were packed fall and and
and we recognize that sometimes parties
can get out of hand and is that
something that God just didn't want us
to be a part of or maybe he wanted us to
save our money and put it towards
something else like we don't really know
and the human side of us says but tell
me right I want to know what you've
protected me from the God side is no I
want you to trust me right
and and I guess like even you know when
we think about the room from last
evening did he want us in both rooms he
may have wanted us to pray over both
rooms because we prayed over both rooms
so and I'm reminded of how he said to
Joshua before he before Joshua took the
Israelites into Canaan he said to Joshua
every place you put your feet I will
give you it will be yours
so was that we don't know the answer I'm
just making these broad statements but
it's possible God wanted us in both
rooms I don't know I don't know what may
yet happen or what would have happened
or could have happened that he needed
one of his children to be in that room
so that they could pray over it so his
presence could hover there we don't know
the answer to that so it could have been
to protect us it could have been because
he wanted us to be in both rooms but it
was very clear that he did not want to
squanto's in that first room and we were
to move and so we were obedient and we
moved and as Jen says we may never know
the answer to that and that's okay
because God is God and we are not and
and that's just it like when when God
speaks to us because He loves us he has
a plan and purpose for our life he uses
signs looking at the circumstances in
our life like well why didn't that
person return that email I needed it now
I'm well there you know maybe if you had
gotten that answer when you thought you
needed it
then you actually would have made
certain decisions that are not gone
honoring and so by you waiting then
other circumstances change and actually
that's the best timing but also that's
there's the waiting side of this why
didn't this work out but the flip side
is that sometimes that God does give us
signs and we ignore them so you know the
the traffic jam goes two ways like maybe
you're in the traffic jam because God is
protecting you from something greater
and wants a certain timing thing or
sometimes the Lord did tap you on the
shoulder and say no don't I know you
take the expressway every day I know you
take but I want you to go on this road
and you're like but that's gonna take me
17 minutes longer I'm not going that way
or you just and that's where the spirit
just sort of drops the idea in your head
and you're like and you sort of brush it
away
rather than following through and so
then you get on the expressway and
you're like oh this is why this is that
idea was dropped into my head and so
part of this whole I want to say first
first in our series on signs is to
cultivate that spirit within you though
that when you accept Christ into your
heart you're told who the Holy Spirit
comes and lives
basically to make us into the person
that God created us to be that whole
idea of helping us to fulfill the plans
and purposes that Christ has for us and
so the Holy Spirit you know speaks to us
through the Word of God through prayer
through circumstances through people
through dreams and visions and our job
is actually then to say dear Lord Jesus
would you help me to see the signs as we
prayed that day like help us to see the
signs help us to be aware and help us
not to be closed off to what other
people might be speaking into our lives
and sometimes it's you know this I want
to say the strangest people can speak
truth into our life and an example is I
was planning on going to specific city
in the US and my friend Jared who was on
the show a couple years ago he said oh
like you need to be really careful about
going to that City and I'm like okay and
then I was talking with another
gentleman from our church who was a
truck driver at one point in time and
when I said ongoing planning and going
to see I'm going to see a hockey game in
the city he was like oh you need to be
really careful about that city
especially at night and I'm like okay
and then we were at a Jeremy camp
concert total like two random couples
sat behind us where I guess we sat in
front of them and they said when we said
we're going to go I'm gonna go to st.
Louis and like oh that's that's not safe
and like a chain at that point said Jen
that's three witnesses that's three
different people and none of them know
each other all have spoken to say really
that's not the safest city and so I you
know I take that and I say to the Lord
what what do you want me to do with this
and so as a result I planning a
different route home because
that that's a witness that's a sign that
I need to take seriously and so as we as
we close off the show today I want you
to think about like how has God spoken
to me what are the signs that I have
known very clearly that God has spoken
to me or that maybe I think God might be
speaking to me
Ouisa we would say ask the Lord just
what do I do with this maybe it's a
verse or scripture and you're like is
this for me well asked the Lord Lord am
I supposed to do something about this
verse or I feel like you spoke that to
me would you would you confirm that in
someone else or maybe it's a friend that
is saying something to you
could you confirm that sign because I
want to walk in the fullness of your
plans and purposes for my life so as we
as we close off we're gonna pray for you
and ask God to guide and direct you and
to give you an open heart to receive
that so let's pray dear Lord Jesus thank
you so much for today thank you that
Lord you have plans and purposes for our
life and you do speak to us and you
speak to us through a variety of means
that mean we call signs whether it's
Scripture or spirit or prayer lord help
us to be sensitive to the leading of
your Holy Spirit today that we would
walk where you want us to walk and speak
what you would have us to speak and
drive where you would want to strive so
we can experience the full life that you
have for us and we ask this
so thank you so much for tuning in on
with us on this road road show and so we
look forward to seeing you back here
again next week see you later bye
you
