alrights time for our new feature cool
upcoming tech so this week we are
looking at the smart air lamp in 2015
the first ever floating light bulb
succeeded in its Kickstarter campaign
but the original had a few issues first
of all the original floating light bulb
it had a bit of a difficulty finding the
right floating point with the smart air
lamp however the levitating light lifts
itself off from its base eliminating the
original difficulty the original
floating light bulb was not very bright
but smart air lamp is three times as
bright making it not only a cool
centerpiece but also a functional lamp
smart air air lamp is also wireless so
you don't have our cable going into it
like its predecessor but it also has two
USB charge ports so that's cool it has
little power going into it
you can charge your smart devices as
well when the battery does run out the
floating lamp will gently land itself
and the light turns off smart air lamp
needs our help so that they can
manufacture the next generation of
floating lights all you have to do is go
to cat5 dot TV slash light to check out
the new Kickstarter campaign and
pre-order your smart air lamp today
