here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
surveillance camera network in the US
Capitol was hijacked by Romanian
ransomware and charges have been filed
against the pair that were arrested
abroad nissan canada's vehicle financing
wing has been hacked putting personal
information on more than a million
customers into the hands of miscreants
tesla's yuan musk has pledged to make a
pickup truck as part of his future plans
for the electric vehicle maker talk of
long-range wireless charging has been
around for some time but we've yet to
see a product that can charge devices
from relatively long distances
thanks to stirred up energies however
room-scale charging will soon be a
reality and available to everyone and
Apple has changed the rules around how
games on its App Store will be using
loot boxes these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere whether you
shop on thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H photo
video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
Lynn explains I'm Sacha Rickman in here
the top stories were following this week
the surveillance camera network in the
US Capitol was hijacked by Romanian
against a pair that were arrested abroad
two of the five unnamed individuals
cuffed this month in Romania on
suspicion of spreading ransomware
earlier this year are now facing u.s.
computer crime charges for their alleged
role in taking over 123 of 187 neck
networks computers computers that
control washington d
these CCTV cameras according to Europol
which led the arrests this week two of
those arrested are suspected of
attacking American computer systems
using the server ransomware
in an affidavit obtained by CNN unsealed
by mistake and then resealed Secret
Service agent James Graham laid out the
but the basis for the US Department of
Justice's computer fraud case against
two Romanian nationals a Justice
Department spokesperson confirmed the
linkage of the arrests and the US Court
filing the spokesperson said these are
separate but related investigations and
the people you name are among those
arrested by Europol Graham described how
around January 9th 2017 in January 12th
2017 the pair as part of an alleged
ransomware scheme took control of the
networked Windows computers used by the
Washington DC metropolitan police to run
their traffic cameras On January 12th
having recognized that some of the
cameras were offline DC police IT staff
in a Secret Service agent used remote
desktop software to connect to one of
the servers controlling the cameras they
watched as the device with a number of
open desktop windows was running
unexpected software the IT administrator
subsequently blocked Network access for
the compromised device which was then
removed along with two other computers
for forensic analysis investigators
determined that two ransomware variants
server and Dharma had been installed on
the computers they also found a text
file USA dot txt that contained 179
thousand six hundred and sixteen email
addresses being used to spam intended
run ransomware victims a text file with
the same checksum was subsequently found
in an email account associated with one
of the defendants one of those email
addresses stood out to the investigators
and they were able to obtain access to
its records from Google within that they
found evidence to show that the two
arrested were renting access to server
in order to infect victims
scramble their files extort money from
them to respect to restore the data the
Europol released calls this crime as a
service the various email accounts and
IP addresses and cross-references with
fraud databases provided enough details
to ask romanian officials for further
digital data linked to the defendants so
that's crazy
I just I feel like the CCTVs for
Washington DC the traffic the it
controls the traffic lights
I wonder how purposeful it was though
that they hit that network like
ransomware is typically very random and
and its targets I think that's where we
fall into thinking oh well nobody would
ever attack me well we ran ransomware
which is one of the worst threats that
we're up against right now is not a
targeted attack typically it goes out by
well 179 thousand email addresses that
they're disbanding so are they all
targeted well technically they're on the
list but how did they get on that list
they're not necessarily specifically
targeted right but somehow they were
able to compromise these servers so that
leads to thinking okay something's not
being said right about infrastructural
security windows right it is Windows and
it had a remote desktop installed so
were they monitoring is here's the thing
we've got remote desktop on our
computers if you're running Windows it
allows you to connect to your computer
from home right at the office and so on
right so if someone was whacking away at
your password trying to guess the
password how would you know right yeah
you would
you wouldn't so what kind of security
mechanisms are in place by the
government and the police to protect
against that kind of attack typically
you know if you've guessed the password
five times and it's wrong locked locked
the IP address so here's a case where
probably what they're not telling us
okay yeah blame it on ransomware blame
it on this and sure they did something
bad
but there's an open port called remote
desktop
they've been whacking away that they
found the password they remote it into
the desktop and launched a bunch of
programs installed the ransom
we're manually writes this was not an
accidental whoops somebody ran the
program on our traffic cameras no this
is somebody remoted into the traffic
cameras that you had wide open to the
world right whoops see what is server
and what is Dharma
are those two different variants of
ransomware so Dharma
I think Dharma is the older of the two
but they're all very current like this
Dharma was August I believe I was when
it hit Dharma being oh it's hard they
all kind of run together at this point
it was so much easier when there was
cryptolocker and a couple of variants
right what's neat about server or what's
different about server is that it's
being sold as a service as they said in
this accidentally open document which
was promptly sealed after we obviously
read it and got all the information but
it's sold so there's some hackers have
cracked that service yeah and and are
now selling it saying hey Sasha would
you like to run your own ransomware
scheme here's the program you pay for
this and then you make the money off of
the ransomware right and that's what
server does now Dharma is a different
variant of ransomware I'm not too sure
on that one how it differs are they're
all just different variants right but
Dharma in particular if I recall
correctly is one that it does not like
wanna cry was devastating because it
took advantage of exploits in Microsoft
Windows in order to propagate right so
it infected its spread Dharma requires
the user to run it okay so if you get a
Dharma infection you have run something
malicious you've gone to a web site
that's tried to throw you something and
you said yes to the wrong question but
in this case the malicious users
themselves remoted into the computer and
installed Dharma right that's the
impression that I get I feel like if I
was in charge of the CCTVs and the
traffic lights in any city at all I
would not use it for any malicious
things I would just always make it green
lights
perfect it's like it senses your
geolocation data in fact it would be the
opposite of ransomware I'd just be like
pay me and I'll make this I'll make the
light screen for it
it'd be good it makes absolute sense
Sascha yeah that's right this is why we
don't give you any power
nissan canada's vehicle financing wing
has been hacked putting personal
in an email to nissan car buyers nissan
canada
it's computer systems were compromised
with unauthorized persons gaining access
to the personal information of some
customers that have financed their
vehicles through nissan canada finance
or infinity financial services canada
the note added we apologize for any
frustration and anxiety this may have
caused our customers and we thank you
for your patience and support as we work
through this issue wow that nice a
similar message is now on the
automaker's website according to Nissan
Canada the exposed data includes at
least customers names addresses vehicle
makes and models of vehicle
identification numbers credit scores
loan amounts and monthly payment figures
Nissan Canada admitted it discovered on
Monday December 11th that it had been
hacked and alerted the world
ten days later no personal banking
information such as card numbers were
taken we're told
however the automaker is offering twelve
months of free credit monitoring to its
customers just in case the scumbags do
exploit the exposed records so a twelve
months is not enough because they
miscreants could definitely strike in
the thirteenth month also I don't need a
credit card number if I were to be this
person really like would you really need
the credit card number to steal
somebody's identity No Yeah right
really I think we fall into thinking hey
if someone gets my credit card number
they can go shopping and get into my
accounts but if I have if I have the
payment amount
right of the right and I can just assume
which my personal information personal
information then when I call the bank
and say hey I forgot my password and
they'll say well can you tell me a
little bit about your bank account yeah
I know that I'm the 15th of the month
one hundred ninety two dollars and
seventeen cents comes out they'd be like
Oh obviously you are Sasha right yeah
exactly but they're the half back
they're the person who stole the
information and if I'm not sure which
bank you deal with well guess what I've
got your phone number
boo boo boo boo hi Sasha this is Robbie
calling from TD Canada Trust ah we were
looking at your account oh oh you don't
deal with TD Canada Trust oh okay I'm
sorry I must have the wrong number
hi Sasha this is Robbie calling from
CIBC you know oh yeah so we're listening
for flags oh that's your bank okay
excellent ten days ten days well this
before they alerted anybody now here's
the thing why wouldn't they just say as
soon as they found out hey there's a
problem what were they trying to figure
out in the background how much
information was taken wealthy we can
only speculate right but like anything
that is shrouded in bureaucracy and
lawyers right what do they need to do
they need to confirm data before they
can release it we're not going to just
announce randomly hey we've been
compromised
yeah probably best and to take ten days
I don't think that's unreasonable I
don't love it no but if we now know
exactly what's been taken probably have
a little bit of information for the FBI
to know or whoever I guess here in
Canada it would be a different agency
but you know what I mean like they need
to collect enough information to one
make sure that the person doesn't still
have access to that data
in that they're actively copying data at
that time I need to lock it down do you
think 12 months is enough to offer
insurance protection gives you enough
time to change all your cards change
your name move to a different country
and Canada it's this information could
be used for identity theft and other
things so it is it is more serious than
they let on and couldn't they have just
stored the information in a far more
secure way this reminds me of the story
just where like a hard drive was stolen
out of a room I feel like why is any of
that information not you know encrypted
with government grade encryption yeah
hindsight right you were always looking
back and saying oh I really should have
had a backup of those files or I really
should have well and companies are just
as guilty because companies are run by
people rights at least for now
so speaking of machines taking over the
world
Tesla's Elon Musk has pledged to make a
pickup truck as part of the future plans
for the electric vehicle maker Elon Musk
made a promise on Twitter after asking
his followers for suggestions about how
the firm could improve he said the open
back truck would follow the model why
yet to VG's held car which is expected
to be based on its model 3 sedan but
experts note Tesla has suffered repeated
delivery delays that has led to some to
question whether the loss-making company
can meet its existing commitments which
also include a transport truck and a
sports car musk has also made several
promises about new features that Tesla
intends to add to its existing vehicles
including intelligent windshield wipers
demand for pickup trucks has ridden
risen over the past year despite a drop
in demand for other types of light
vehicles musk had previously hinted at
his plans for a pickup when an image
showing an obscured pickup was briefly
shown being carried on the back of its
semi-truck at the press conference
announcing it in Nova
in his tweets musk said the vehicle
would be would likely be slightly bigger
than Ford's best-selling f-150 pickup to
allow it to contain an unspecified
game-changing feature wonder what that
means a game-changing feature Wow that
kind of leaves it wide open now Twitter
was a buzz and one particular tweet
actually caught Elon Musk's attention
and got him to reply MC flash tube said
here's a list of the things I think that
could be first of all a rain sensor all
eight cameras as a dashcam and beyond
light settings for brightness footwell
front and rear seats sign recognition
for the automation system music
quieter when you open all the doors
that's interesting and finally his
greatest suggestion which has caused
Twitter to erupt is Tesla disco mode
ambient lighting that mew moves to the
music beat with an on-and-off brightness
elan said something like oh I love all
the first ideas we're gonna say that
yeah those are probably possibilities
but that last one not too sure
intelligent wipers and I remember
talking about that before but of late
driving it in pretty much any city but
especially Barry evidently I would like
intelligence indicators I think
intelligent other drivers would also
help right okay so define the indicators
cuz your answer was serious mine was a
joke although I will say that robots
driving cars would be better than human
tracks well they have autonomous
features so what would be the problem I
have is people do not indicate their
intentions when they're driving right
right or they slow down almost to stop
before turning on the blinker that says
I'm actually turning exactly or they
turn without ya or they turn without
indicating where they change lanes of
sound indicating
they'll just indicate while they're
changing lanes that's a big pet peeve of
mine I know all of our viewers are just
going yeah that sucks me too because
none of our viewers would do something
like that no never
could not be some sort of intelligence
in the car because clearly it's not
intelligence car that's somehow robot
voice over the intercom is like you
didn't signal yeah is there something
nice ashes for when you turn without
signaling you got a jolt or something it
shocks you two electrodes we all know I
sold Mike I don't even have a car I have
no longer a driver I ride my bike and
still it bothers me people don't any
more dangerous it's more dangerous yes
please indicate Elon Musk please make
your extra feature an indicator safety
features are key I think that's what
boils down to exactly talk of long-range
wireless charging has been around for
some time but we've yet to see a product
that can charge devices from relatively
long distances
thanks to start-up energist however
reality and available to everyone the
San Jose based company announced that
the federal Commission's communication
or the FCC has just certified it's a wot
op midfield transmitter which converts
electricity into radio waves and beams
of power to any device fitted with a
receiver up to three feet away wireless
chargers have been around for several
years but most of them require a device
to be in direct contact with the station
a startup called pi recently released
what it called the first ever
contactless wireless charging products
which uses the same resident induction
tech as Qi although it's range is
limited to one foot energizes power at a
distance system boasts a greater
distance than pi and is still able to
charge multiple devices at once
additionally the watt op eco system
allows receivers and transmitters made
by different manufacturers to work
together
in addition to the midfield transmitters
the company is also working on far field
transmitters that have a greater range
and allow multiple transmitters to be
linked together to cover large spaces
there's also the near field transmitter
a low-power solution that can be
embedded into laptops tablets consoles
and more there are no wot op devices
available to consumers yet but energist
will be showing off the technology at
CES in a couple of weeks that's cool I
love this
so CES is the Consumer Electronics Show
yeah that's right which I had to look up
because I was interested in it turns out
that it has like this big long history
if it turns out oh yeah turns out
everyday it's a big deal where all the
manufacturers go to show off the newest
stuff right yeah converting electricity
into way to raise is that is that
something that is easy like what would
that mean this is a whole different
thing
like that like being able to beam that
energy is like how do you do that safely
without creating microwaves and things
like that
wrapping people's pacemakers answer
something causing health issues and so
that's something that they obviously
would have addressed considering they've
got FCC approval but the technique
itself is typically just being able to
direct the energy through a diode that
would you know transmit the energy to a
receiver but I guess that receiver would
be your phone or your SmartWatch or
something but presumably I could be
sitting in a waiting room using my smart
phone and that waiting room would be
charging my phone yeah well I mean when
you think about it radio waves like I'm
not I'm not a scared of radio waves I
feel like they're everywhere they're
everywhere
beside us turn on your radio you can
hear it because you're just capturing
the radio wave they're already here
have a metal filling in the back here
and it's all the time yeah shortwave
see okay so here's a funny a little
story about this story is I was reading
it earlier
and I charge my phone with Qi charging
okay right and I love it but I was
talking about this and I was like oh
this is so much better than my thing I
mean I can actually use it and not have
to have it sitting on the desk yeah
what's funny is that my lamp got mad at
me and my Qi wouldn't work geez look at
this it's like not registering my phone
anymore
that's really creepy early it's random I
turned it off turn it on again and it
was fun that's always the answer oh
there you go you got one more I do all
right
loot boxes these boxes are random
rewards for gameplay and often give
players benefits and power-ups that can
be used in games in a change to its
developer guidelines Apple said games
must now let players know the odds of
getting particular items in the boxes
loot boxes have been controversial for
some time with experts saying they
amount to a covert lottery in the
updated guidelines Apple said any
in-game mechanism that rewards players
with randomized virtual items must list
the odds of receiving each type of item
in addition it said customers must be
informed of these odds before they buy
the boxes or rewards many games offer
extras to players that can change the
appearance of the game introduce new
characters or b-style power-ups that
help people as they play some titles let
people buy loot boxes with in-game funds
they generate by playing or by spending
real money to purchase the games virtual
cash the controversy over the crates was
thrown into sharp focus last month with
the release of the Star Wars Battlefront
2 game which used them extensively US
politicians called for greater
regulation of games that use loot boxes
and crates one politician saying that a
Battleford but that battlefront too was
Star Wars themed online casino the
backlash led to Electronic Arts the
publisher of the battlefront 2
to rework it to remove its reliance on
the random reward system in the UK there
have been calls for games that use the
loot system to be regulated just like
other lotteries the UK's gambling
Commission said the boxes did not come
under its control because the rewards
they handed out were only usable in the
game yeah that I would say is my main
point it's a game and the rewards are in
the game it's not a casino it's not real
money I mean it is real money I guess if
you're spending your real money sure
doing it those who do but I think about
my kids using a game that is in all
essences an online casino right and
they're you know being trained to gamble
so there's kind of two sides to it as
adults we can we can differentiate we
can say hey you know I could rent a
movie for five bucks or I can deposit
five bucks into this game and and play
it for a while well it is gambling right
but are putting the odds on it going to
help that decision at all that's a weird
thing right yeah a solution I feel like
no hey you're gambling we're gonna prove
it by giving showing you what you're
getting that which treats it like a
lottery pick stuff yeah I don't I don't
love that politicians are discussing
this I feel like this is there are more
important things to be talking about
although I will tell you I did last
Christmas gift Dave a treasure box for
the house that I just put randomized so
much that we actually have a real one in
our house and sometimes if there's
nothing in it
the chances are actually pretty good it
has nothing in it and sometimes I was
like they could potato chips sometimes
it has a Nintendo switch it has like
like it's very randomized but the odds
are pretty low there's ever anything
more than a love note in there well
that's fun so there we go
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight linux bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
richmond
[Music]
[Applause]
