here Arthur's recovering this week in
the category 5 TV news room hackers can
hear you even if you don't have a
microphone san Francisco's public
transit system has been exploited by it
automated ransomware more than 130,000
records of US Navy employees have been
leaked SD cards aren't just for cameras
anymore so it's time for a new standard
and Google's artificial intelligence
gives robots the ability to dream these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere Jeff Weston Gemma you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put out of a paper sorry just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dreamhost I drink my
coffee backwards you drink your coffee
backwards this is the rap video animal
side with folks
I don't even see look and there and that
is our commercial for the category 5
mugs it's on both sides you can pick
them up at shop doc category five dot TV
market is my turn all right all my I'm
Sasha for Madison here are the top door
is for the weak of November 30th 2016
experimental malware has highlighted the
possibility that hackers might be able
to turn headphones into microphones in
order to snoop on computer users
research by computer scientists at
ben-gurion university Israel has
revealed that both headphones and
loudspeakers present a potential bugging
risk the researchers put together
proof-of-concept malware in order to
validate the risk malware can use a
computer as an eavesdropping device even
when a microphone is not present muted
taped or turned off the researchers warn
in a paper speaker turn speakers two
microphones for fun and profit the
researchers survey the scope of the risk
and access potential countermeasures
possible possible hardware-based
defenses include using only active one
way speakers or deploying either white
noise and motors or audio jammers I
think this is actually the creepiest new
story I have read in a very long time
because it is yeah the potential for
real spying is I think it's so intrusive
you think that you've got it under
control just by turning it off no AP and
if you use passive speakers on your
computer and it can be turned into a
microphone yeah should we demonstrate
this a little bit for those of you at
home who me don't understand and her
workings of a speaker and a microphone
yes so sash are you saying that we could
have instead of buying you a new
microphone we could have just put these
on could you just put those on your head
yeah it'd be cool welcome to the news
okay so this is just a pair of
really great there thermaltake eSports
headphones standard headphones right so
you plug them into your computer and you
don't think anything of it use them to
listen to music and they're great great
nothing to do with these headphones but
everything to do with the way speakers
microphones everything like that works
so if I have these on and let's just put
these into an adapter here and I'm going
to plug this in over here okay right so
I'm going to plug this into our mixing
console and I'm going to disconnect all
three of our microphones okay so now
I've got a pair of headphones plugged
into our mixing console to emulate for
you what it would be like if you had a
pair of headphones or a passive speaker
on your computer right once the
microphones are off i will tell
everybody out loud all of my passwords
to everything because the speakers or
the microphones we'll all right yeah
yeah picking up all the conversations
remember these are headphones right okay
so I'm gonna I'm gonna start with Sasha
goodbye okay sash is gone oh there goes
Erica and here goes me hello hello this
what's that these are headphones folks
headphones this is not a microphone I've
just got them plugged into my computer
or whatever all right i'll plug us back
in
[Music]
say hi I'm back hello I'm there's me um
yeah that is a mogul Beckham lozito the
worst news story forth not a girly
things to learn yes cuz I'm gonna be
walking around my house now just
imagining that everything and everyone
can hear so don't have what if they're
not plugged in and you're okay what if
your computer has passive speakers
built-in Oh doesn't mind us then what
are we doing how do we avoid this you
can't put despite the news story you
can't put tape over a speaker doesn't
work that we're gonna have to do a demo
on how to cut the wires and we're gonna
have to we just created they just can't
win hackers always find a way and now
you know now now you know okay Wow now
that we are sad now that we know we just
put a damper okay hard drive scrambling
ransomware menace more than 2,000
systems at San Francisco's public
transit agency on Friday and demanded
100 bitcoins to unlock data that's the
equivalent of about seventy three
thousand dollars us Wow yeah ticket
machines were shut down and passengers
were allowed to ride for free on
Saturday a busy post thanksgiving
shopping day for the city while IT
workers scrambled to clean up the mess a
variant of the HD decrypter malware
infected 2112 computers within the san
francisco municipal transportation
agency these systems appear to include
office administers CAD workstations
email and print servers employee laptops
payroll systems slq databases lost and
found property tournament terminals and
station kiosk pcs the worm like malware
automatically attacked the agency's
network and was able to reach the
organization's domain controller and
compromised network-attached windows
systems there are roughly 8,000 500 pcs
macs and other boxes in the agency's
network after the vulnerable computers
were infected and their store
scrambled they were rebooted by the
malware and rather than start their
operating system they instead displayed
the message you hacked Oh what's this
part makes me laugh you hacked a whole
data encrypted contact for keep the
ransom where's masterminds claimed in a
statement on Sunday via email our
software is working completely
automatically and we don't launch
targeted attacks FM s mta's network was
very open in 2000 server / pcs were
infected by software wow this is this is
a lot of money and seemingly it was an
easy attack yeah there's so many folds
to this story we've talked about malware
about crypto ransomware on the show
before and one of the things that keeps
coming up like I encounter this all the
time customers who are not so sure why
do I need to pay for ongoing maintenance
why do we need to have someone here
every month to run our maintenance and
to make sure all of our systems are up
to date so understand here is a network
of thousands of computers and thousands
of computers are out of date so much so
that here's an exploit in Oracle
software fraud that was that was patched
not only revealed but patched fixed more
than a year ago and yet it was used by
automated software to lock down their
network so how does that work well why
would anyone want to attack me nobody
would want to attack me well these spots
as the hackers have said go out on the
internet and find susceptible systems
there they don't care whose system it is
they if they can get one percent of the
systems that they encrypt and damage the
files to cough up money right then
they've made a killing and their BOTS
their tireless they are gone 24-7 they
don't care they'll search until they
find something absolutely absolutely
it's the call center mentality where
you're just picking up the phone and
dial in numbers and
those people out of every hundred will
buy exactly and here we are we're using
it for malicious purposes and nobody's
really safe and that's important to keep
your stuff stay up to date absolutely
today for example if I may interject and
I know this is your show sasha fh Tommy
reminds us this is totally this sashes
show thank you i love you today this
morning seven o'clock in the morning it
was unveiled that firefox the browser
has a zero-day exploit firefox itself
the web browser can be exploited in such
a way that it can compromise a user's
computer so firefox mozilla was very
very quick to bring out a patch but did
everyone install that patch have you
installed that patch yet you need to
know that that exploit is there so if
you're not updating your system and
these kinds of things are found and
that's what happened here at the transit
system it was found but it was a year
ago and it never got patched and so now
hmm who knows what happens next Thank
You Robbie hey you know this is your
show thanks for contributing to my show
I know the United States Navy has
revealed that the names and Social
Security numbers on 1003 134,000 386
current and former employees has been
leaked thanks to a compromise of a
laptop used by a huge pack ered
enterprise services staffer the IT
contractor and the and the Naval
Criminal Investigative Service probed
the data loss finding that unknown
individuals access the records no
information was released on the details
of the incident so we're uncertain if
the laptop was stolen infected with
malware or otherwise compromised so we
don't know a lot of information about
this in fact really except that while it
was compromised we don't know how but we
do know that the personal information of
these
you know fine individuals is out there
somehow somewhere so just more exploits
going on yeah this is somber day for
news on a brighter note it's time for
fun time for faster sustained IOPS on SD
cards SD cards have have historically
been associated with digital cameras
media players and game consoles another
relatively simple and appliance like
devices in these roles the cards are
primarily needed to offer fast
sequential read and write speeds since
they were typically just being asked to
save and access one file at a time but
SD cards are becoming increasingly
important as primary storage devices as
and who use cases use cases that demand
better random read and write performance
to account for multiple apps making
small read and rights to the cards in
rapid succession why in recognition of
these more complex use cases the SD
Association has introduced version 5.1
of the SD specification which adds a new
app performance class that guarantees
buyers a minimum number of input output
operations per second iops just as the
current speed classes guaranteed minimum
sequential writing speeds the new a
one-speed class promises that cards
support sustained write speeds of at
least 10 megabytes per second at least
1500 read I iops and at least 500 right
iops additional additional speed classes
will be introduced to meet market needs
the good news about this is because SD
cards are really important in like the
Raspberry Pi right yes that's exactly
what was coming to my mind set yeah so
that's a great news story as far as
accessibility of information I think so
up to now the SD card micro SD cards
you've got a camera and you need it to
save very very quickly and sequentially
to that card but reading is
comparatively slow
so you put that same card in your phone
for example it's got all your apps or
best example that you can give is the
Raspberry Pi I think this could have a
big performance gain for things like the
Raspberry Pi right I think that's
fantastic I think it's amazing news this
is also great news google's deepmind AI
has pioneered a new technology which
allows robots to dream in order to
improve their rate of learning this
follows after the company's recent
announcement of its new lip-reading
software using artificial intelligence
the latest development differs from the
previous research in which company in
which the company trained it's AI to
master i watch listen attend and spell
WLAN network structure while
transcribing several hours of BBC
footage in precise explanation of its
latest research deepmind explained that
the aim of the study is to recognize
phrases and sentences being spoken by a
talking face with or without the audio
following its announcement earlier this
month deepmind researchers partnered
with blizzard entertainment in order to
transform one of its games into our
learning environment for AI its popular
video game starcraft 2 will be used to
teach and test machine agents in
particular researchers identified that
starcraft was an interesting testing
environment for current AI research
because it provides a useful bridge to
the messiness of the real world The
Dream's discovered by the researchers
are allowed have allowed the AI to
highlights different sections of the
games that may be particularly
challenging and repeat them until
mastered this technique was found to
develop a total of ten times speed
increase in the rate of learning that is
amazing for computers want me to go AI
where is just today
i find it hilarious if you ever get on
to like get onto google image search and
do a search for deepmind dreams oh and
the things that this AI comes up with
like do you just go check it out you
have to see it to see what a computer
dreams like what does a computer dream
and I wonder if they have reoccurring
James don't know I like it I know it's
like it was wondered what your dog or
cat dreamed of now you can see your
computer dreams of I wonder like 10 10 I
don't know the nightmare is new 00 0000
10 thanks for watching the category 5 TV
news room don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category 5 TV news room and
sasha tomatoes
you
