at my church I went in to do some sound
system work because we had a hum in the
system and it ended up we had a whole
network problem that at work yeah their
net yeah that wasn't there was some
devices that were not connecting
properly and then when we tried to get
into the system settings of the router
we were locked out so there was
something on the factory end of the
router that because it been so long
since it logged in yeah it was no longer
loading the admin page so we had to
factory reset do you think so might have
a compromised at Bunnie chance I don't
think it was a compromised ation but we
have had a lot of technological
additions to the network over the last
year and nobody's gone in to do
maintenance just clean everything up and
so I think it just kind of bogged things
down as this consumer gear or
professional notes like answer later
yeah yeah I mean it's just me after
church now turning it off and on again
once in a while exactly but it's one of
those things where somebody else comes
along they've got a bright idea of how
they want to make things better and the
notions patchwork and so when we went to
try and fix the settings in the back end
nothing was working so we had to factory
reset everything so we're talking about
IP phones computers debit machine all
that so it was a busy long day you had
did that networking issue did it have
impact on the hum that you were
receiving or is this just unrelated in
your head no just totally I'm really I
came in to take care of them not that
I've ever been there where oh well I
needed to check one thing and oh by the
way this this this and this are broken
was totally looked like I came in to
deal with this hum where we had
electrical lines that were running up
against the sound cables and I just
wanted to separate them under the sound
stage and so then because of our debit
machine there was doing a security check
yeah and it was failing because of a
port and the network right so the like
oh you know you got to deal with this
port so I went to log in to fix the port
and I could he get in for diagnosis
absolutely and so then when I couldn't
get in I'm like why can't I get in
what's going on and so I finally found
it back-end to get into the one router
and it only gave me access to half the
network and some of the stuff
that was not connected it was saying it
was live connected I'm like this is
ridiculous and so we finally after about
six hours got it all figured out and and
resolved on our things run out a look
explained nice and you talk about
factory resetting the device to bring it
back to settings that allow you to
connect in and change things why are you
laughing I'm laughing because doing that
it with some things actually makes it
worse how do you know so much about
factory resetting Sasha gave me a call
no it was a text message yes
Sunday warning me that there was a
problem on the network oh it was a
potential problem so gonna be ready for
it
yeah okay so was it 5:30 the next
morning oh it's still it didn't go away
on its own yeah which I thought we could
be a possibility so I do reminder calls
for patients that have appointments on
Monday on Sunday because I live closest
right so I stopped in but Dave and I
were like on our way like through like
it was stopped for the calls and go
because I had like a crazy amount of
homework which is another story I got to
work and the internet was down and I
thought to myself oh probably just the
Internet's down like it'll probably just
be fine yeah yeah right so I um plugged
the what's I called him oh is it a modem
I unplug the modem and then I plugged it
back in and the internet was still down
this is where it the truth comes out for
what I did although I feel like you know
someone did I don't know who yeah you do
I just did what I do at home
you pushed all the buttons like Network
in the back that I helped you set up no
this is the okay so Rogers
Communications the coaxial cable
internet yeah has a hITRON modem okay
that hITRON modem is obviously in a
business network it's bridged right so
that it goes into DHCP server and that
provides all the IPS okay I would like
to in my defense I wasn't the first one
to touch it because when I went in to
look at it it was upside down on the
shelf
so somebody else touched it but I also
did touch it it's a ghosts of Christmas
past but then I took my pen and I just
put it in a little hole the recent oh my
gosh it was you you do was you okay so
on on devices where you see the button
that says reset that is not the button
that reboots no it's not so Jeff when
you did a factory reset on your devices
you knew that you were doing a factory
reset and yes how to then bring it back
up - yes so so what happens in a case
like that yeah we need okay we need to
save it life for Robbie
so the modem when it comes from the from
the internet service provider mhm
is built for home so you can plug all
your computers into it and it gives them
an IP address and it gives them access
to the Internet but it's insecure in
that your computers are now connected
directly to the Internet so how do you
know that there is a proper firewall
that's blocking certain ports how do you
know that someone's not trying to whack
away your remote desktop right so that
if they finally guess your password all
of a sudden they install ransomware and
encrypt all your files right so when
when a professional network is set up
the modem gets bridged which is
essentially saying okay it allows
Internet connectivity to one device but
the DHCP server which allows things to
get IP addresses is turned off and the
modem acts like a dumb device it is then
connected to a proper commercial
firewall yeah and that firewall controls
what ports are allowed to be used what
devices can be connected by MAC address
what IP addresses are allowed to
remotely connect into the network so
when you factory reset that modem you re
enabled all the home features of the
device so now so at home that's why it
works fine sure the cuz you have a
commercial routing right right so so now
what you have is you've got your
commercial stuff yeah it has DHCP
servers and firewalls and everything
else still active but you've just
activated a second
DHCP server on that same network so now
you have IP address conflicts so every
time you turn on a computer it doesn't
know where am I supposed to get the IP
address from there are two servers
sending out IP addresses so now things
lose communication and they can't
connect you can't get on to the internet
because you're in-house firewall can't
get the connection because it's all
messed up right right well nothing else
was working but but we say that so you
can understand yeah what the difference
is between a reboot yeah and a reset
yeah set puts everything back to the
manufacturer default and that's not what
I wanted to know my intention so my
actions and my intentions were totally
different so unfortunately that can
cause a lot of problems on a network
right if you don't reboot things like
your server for example it did sense
that from your face that day doesn't get
angry when he's on the air when people
are watching just about picture what
your face was like when you saw it
I'm just personally that oh no oh no no
no no no we'll see you know hey Sasha
know what I'm an IT perspective I had to
come in and I had to diagnose and figure
it out on an active network that oh my
gosh the bridge is gone right we have
two active DHCP servers and the bridge
is down now was that an like an initial
thought for you because you left it last
time who said ever reset the modem right
okay so your brain doesn't naturally go
there right how long does it take me to
fix it Sasha diagnose it and fix it
18 minutes 18 you timed it well I knew
when your appointment was okay pretty
good but you were down for two days
basically yeah because it was when I
came in that I that I fixed it yeah so
watch out for that button you watch over
yeah yeah so I won't do that so but
unplugging it and plugging it back in is
a safe way that's a reboot
and that's fine that if that I will do
in future and so in this case maybe
Rogers was down for a bit maybe they
were doing construction in the area or
installing it in the neighbors unit and
they had to disconnect yours for a
moment to connect everything together
who knows right yeah exactly so whether
you would have needed to restart the
modem or not is it's hard to know
so whatever no we do not never know when
you boil it down basically what happened
is Sasha's bread wasn't toasted enough
so she brought out a flamethrower to fix
it I saw was onion or just suddenly
caught on fire overkill on the solution
just wait for the internet to cover I'm
just gonna reset the system next time
call your toaster manufacturer and is
this what I'm supposed to do
[Music]
[Applause]
