well here are the stories that are
covering this week in the category five
dot TV newsroom reddit is going closed
source iconic board games Settlers of
Catan is coming to virtual reality
Amazon is facing at least one lawsuit
from those recalled solar eclipse
glasses nearly half a million pacemakers
are vulnerable to an easy hack attack
that could kill the user and a firmware
upgrade is immediately required and a
huge breakthrough has been made in
cancer research as scientists develop an
nano bot capable of killing cancer cells
in under three minutes these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere now here's another
great way you can support the shows you
love from the category-five TV network
by shopping gearbest
that's right Jeff cat5 dot TV slash
gearbest it's an online store for the
geek streak in you or the loved ones of
course I mean especially your loved ones
right because cap v dot TV slash
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices do that
cell phones you bet you cap v dot TV
slash gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked Android cell phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those make a great gift absolutely from
high tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 dot TV slash gearbest has you
covered they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
there's no way they have it all it's
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than $30 plus free shipping at camp five
dot TV slash gear best yeah alright you
kinda got me there Wow any other
questions for me Jeff now that the
winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals and say copters oh
my goodness well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about thirty
two up to sixty three percent off the
regular price love it
what's the website again well you're
gonna find gearbest on our partners
pages for any of your favorite category
five TV shows like new every day
category five technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest
so that's easy tech five dot TV slash
your best that's right
happy shopping by Jeff Wesson and here
are the top stories of the week of
September 6 2017 nine years after going
open-source reddit is archiving the
source code for its website and mobile
apps the source code will still be
accessible but will no longer be updated
reddit cites concerns about competition
as one of the reasons for the change in
direction but reddit is not completely
turning its back on open source while it
will no longer be possible to access the
full source code it will still be
possible to access a limited number of
code bases such as baseplate rolling pin
and Mac Sunnah the site says those who
have been paying attention will realize
that this isn't really a change to how
we're doing anything but rather making
explicit what's already been going on
and users are not convinced by that
explanation
reddit explains that the initial
thinking behind open sourcing the
project was to ensure the site would
stay alive no matter what happened to
the company itself while nine years
later reddit has evolved into a gigantic
online Beast and the company points out
that has done a terrible job of keeping
its open-source project repos updated
and a post explaining the changes
founding coder Christopher slow says
open source makes it hard for us to
develop some features in clear like
recent video launch without leaking our
plans too far in advance as reddit is
now a large player in the web it's hard
for us to be strategic in our planning
when everyone can see what code were
committing the iconic board game
Settlers of Catan is coming to virtual
reality a new version is being developed
by game studio experiment 7 which
previously created a pair of VR take on
a pair of VR to take on chess with
feedback from the original minds behind
Catan the VR game which is coming to
both oculus rift and gear VR and called
simply Catan VR is described as true to
the classic but optimized for virtual
reality with a fresh fully immersive
format unfortunately right now the
creators aren't showing off what the new
VR title looks like though it appears
that it will feature both a
single-player and online multiplayer
content
I love Settlers of Catan when I heard
this I was stupid giddy VR is getting
like real man I know so I have no clue
you can play board games in VR well I
have no clue what its gonna look like
but I'm you know I'm picturing a case
it's gonna be like first-person yeah
walking around doing trading and
resources like I have no clue but that
would take it to the next level oh yeah
or remember battle chests when we were
kids where it was chess pieces that you
know as you move them then all of a
sudden they turn in they morph into a
real person and start slicing yes yeah
that was a lot of fun but imagine that
as a board game it's still a board game
but it took it to the next level Oh
something like that so cool I can't wait
for it to come out that's gonna be
exciting alright a u.s. couple have
filed a proposed class action lawsuit
against Amazon claiming they sustained
I injuries from solar eclipse Eclipse
glasses purchased on the site
Cory Payne and Kayla Harris said they
experienced headaches and vision
impairment after using the glasses to
which the us eclipse to the u.s. eclipse
on August 21st
Amazon issued a recall on potentially
hazardous Eclipse glasses on August 10th
which we reported on August 16th the
couple however claimed that they were
not informed of the recall which means
they didn't watch cat 5 what are they
doing no legal documents filed by the
pair say the warning was tragically too
little too late
amazon has declined to comment on the
lawsuit which was filed in a federal
court in South Carolina last Tuesday ok
pretty much every day for a week leading
up to this all you saw was glasses
recalled mm-hmm
don't look directly at the Sun blah blah
blah so do not use these glasses from
Amazon I I saw it everywhere so you'd
have to be living in a hole to have not
seen that information and I'm not sure I
buy it that they weren't informed yeah
that's such a hard thing like whose
responsibility does it become an Amazon
sells like people sell products in
Amazon as if it's almost like it's
developed into like classifieds right in
a way when you buy something on Amazon
you're probably not buying it from
Amazon unless you've specifically
selected it as Amazon right they emailed
everybody that but even then it's not
Amazon's product that's it like yeah
that's a tough thing where do where do
you where D is you know do you do you
buy the cheap thing save a couple bucks
and find out that hey it's gonna make
you blind so oddly enough for the
Eclipse my grandma's funeral was
happening at the time the Eclipse
happened and we were all standing
outside as they were placing her casket
and her stand and somebody comes up to
me with a paper plate and they go look I
put a pinhole in this plate if you hold
it out and actually a see the Eclipse on
really the pavement so we had this
and because the Sun magnified through
the holes
hold on footstep you know grandma's
placed in the the Hurst and then we turn
and we look and we watch this it
happened it was a it was a very
memorable moment yeah that's kind of
special yeah but it was it was
numerating grandma yeah alright talk
about painful software updates and
estimate four hundred and sixty-five
thousand people in the US are getting
notices that they should update the
firmware that runs their life sustaining
pacemakers or risk failing victim to
potentially fatal hacks cardiac
pacemakers are small devices that are
implanted in a patient's upper chest to
correct abnormal or irregular heart
rhythms pacemakers are generally
outfitted with small radiofrequency
equipment so the devices can be
maintained remotely that way new
surgeries aren't required after they're
implanted like many wireless devices
pacemakers from Abbott Laboratories
contain critical flaws that allow
hijackers within radio range to seize
control while the pacemakers are running
advert representatives wrote in an open
letter to doctors if there were a
successful attack an unauthorized
individual ie a nearby
attacker could gain access and issue
commands to the implanted medical device
through radio frequency RF transmission
capability and those unauthorized
commands could modify device settings
example stop pacing or impact device
functionality the update will require
patients to visit a clinic where doctors
will put the pacemakers in backup mode
while the firmware is being patched the
Abbott letter said that certain patients
the update should be performed in a
facility where temporary pacing and
pacemaker generator change are readily
available due to the very small
estimated risk of firmware update
malfunction nanobots the drill into
cancer cells can kill the cancer in just
60 seconds
the tiny spinning molecules are driven
by light and so quickly that they can
burrow their way through cell linings
when activated and one test conducted
that Durham University the nano machines
took between one and three minutes to
break through the outer membrane of
prostate cancer cell killing it
instantly Wow the motor is a rotor like
chain of atoms that
can be prompted to move in one direction
causing the molecule to rotate at high
speed dr. Robert Powell of Durham
University said we're moving towards
realizing our ambition to be able to use
light activated nanomachines to target
cancer cells such as those in breast
tumors and skin melanomas including
those that are resistant to existing
chemotherapy once developed this
approach could provide a potential step
change in non-invasive cancer treatment
and greatly improve survival rates and
patient welfare globally the scientists
whose work is reported in the journal
Nature created several different light
activated motorized molecules designed
to hone at home in on specific cells
the researchers researchers are already
proceeding with experiments in
microorganisms and small fish and hope
to move to rodents soon ahead of a
clinical trial in humans if animal
testing is successful I love this
awesome I think it is probably one of
the coolest news stories we have ever
covered it's it's like life-changing
literally always on people but the fact
that you could take I mean when you look
at a picture of it it's all it's not bad
and we're talking literally atoms like
it's yeah for our picture as an artist
rendering so understand this is
something that is so incredibly
microscopic like you can fit tens of
thousands of them on a single hair Oh
probably millions
I mean iliyan who knows like I don't
even but I think this is so neat and the
fact that it's just it's been something
that's been manufactured and it's
controlled by light and then it's gone
like you just you go in there and the
cancer is gone it's obliterated it's
killed I love this I think this is so
stinkin cool I can't wait to see how
what's next what's next for the tech
right how can this be you know obviously
they're they're still in trials but this
could be absolutely groundbreaking oh
for sure
and something I've never thought of yeah
let's stop it with chemotherapy and
let's do nanobots yeah oh so awesome I
think it's cool big thanks this week -
sparkly balls Roy W - in our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight lenox bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Jeff Weston
[Music]
[Applause]
