you'll notice I can do camera switching
tonight Jeff yes just standing around
I'm just like hands behind my back and
I'm doing this kind of stuff how does he
do it how do you do the Wirecast guru
figured this out remember when we did
our March Break special yes
I borrowed something from Sasha Sasha do
you want to show the folks how you
operate your teleprompter with this with
that handy-dandy what is it it's a
keyboard
cyborg keep our Rico magic it's
fantastic so what I did is I programmed
Telestream Wirecast to know that certain
shots are in fact different keystrokes
on a keyboard okay and then programmed
Sasha's remote to operate that and then
I was able to move around the building
in studio D here and change camera shots
no matter where I was
that's exciting so it worked and so then
we said we need this we do this is great
so lo and behold jumped on Amazon you
know that's funny I saw it for some
reason I thought it was a blackberry cuz
it looks like our key it kind of does
too but here's the thing it's strictly a
keyboard Sasha's also is an air mouse so
when you move it around it controls the
mouse on the screen and you can
accidentally click on stuff and things
like that so I wanted one that was
strictly a keyboard so I think this has
I guess like all the letters of the
alphabet plus all the numbers I would
check no I'm saying anymore how many so
we've got 26 characters in the alphabet
plus we've got 1 through 0 and so I can
program any one of these keys to be any
camera shot in Telestream Wirecast
awesome and then all I have to do is
just push the button on the keyboard and
and it swaps lets so with with this
technology
don't go hog-wild you just be swapping
camera and going to give people like
camera dizziness back and forth back
apart isn't that a cool idea though
folks it's completely wireless so we can
expand the studio if we got wireless
microphones like we had rented for our
special guests then we'd be able to
actually move
round and just switch with this at my
side I like that that's kind of cool so
I ordered it it was like 14 bucks and it
arrived very very quickly hit 14 yeah
and I got this wonderful letter from the
shipper okay dear sir ma'am sounds
personal very personal a dear sir ma'am
hmm how are you doing
uh-huh oh thanks for your order and
thanks for choice us for choices my
phone my friend hope everything going
well at the same time we had send some
gift together with this order just as
gift hope you like it another hand could
you please give us a 5 stars feedback
and 5 satyrs product review if you
feeling everything good thanks very much
sir ma'am best wishes to all of your
family okay that was just like spot-on
perfect so I love it arrived and it
arrived it it's here it works
fantastically well I appreciated that I
appreciated everything yes what's your
free gift let me let me express my reply
okay dear ma'am sir I is doing well very
well in fact as you have provisioned my
order and it is all I had hoped for
thanks to you for fulfilling my order my
lover
at the same time I had received your
gift together with this order I accept
this as just a gift and not a bribe to
provide you with a five Sattar feedback
I like it very much and its price was
just what I had hoped for in a gift free
another hand I could give you a five
stars feedback and five satyrs product
review because the wireless keyboard I
purchased from you is exactly what I
desired in all things
and arrived quickly at my postal I feel
I should also add because you asked such
a question I am feeling everything good
thanks you for asking ma'am sir I wish
your family well with warmest affections
I appreciate the kind words everything
about that was absolutely perfect and to
answer your question here's the gift so
it is a CID spinner as it says on the
package okay and let's see here because
folks are wondering what it is there you
go okay digit spinner what do you expect
it's it's going to be a little bitter
it's one of those you know hid you
distractions at the office you remember
the Little Miss thing and say alright I
like yeah you want to throw it don't you
yeah it's been so fast how fast can you
get that go inside I appreciate the free
gift but left looks lost and I will give
them a five-star review because this
thing works great yes
that's why I'll give a five-star review
and I'll put it in our shop right and
I'm going to promote this to Telestream
Wirecast community because this is a
great little camera switcher
[Music]
[Applause]
