welcome to new everyday episode 160 and
we are back Lawrence and I are together
after many weeks of us at random times
being on vacation but that's ok we've
got a wonderful core faith message for
you today about salvation and the fact
that our sins are paid in full once and
for all
stick around this is new every day with
Jeff listing and Lawrence Cruz
[Music]
welcome to new everyday so excited to be
back together yeah it's been like a mom
yeah so in case you're just tuning in
your loyal enemy has been like a month
so for two weeks you were on vacation
yeah then two weeks I was on vacation
because it's summertime so you know
we're gonna take some vacation have some
time to rest like that's good yeah it's
very good
it's it's on it is hot in here
well I got a heat wave oh my goodness
it's been like a drought in our area for
almost a month I mean there's a little
bit of rain here and there but my yard
looks like a wheat field
well everything smells like people in K
V V V land yeah television to the high
desert hey you are the high desert we're
feeling some desert like temperatures
and we're not kidding which is very
unusual to be sustained this long yeah
exactly so you know it's a hot one we
are so glad that you here with us if
you're just tuning in you've missed in
past episodes by the way the last two
weeks for nah man of God oh you know
yeah
little was on you want to check out
those episodes talking about the
provision of God the calling of God it
came from India and that whole story
that he's been through his life that
hospital seen him like that's younger oh
my god I have no clue no clue
yeah I know you want to check out past
episodes you can catch it on demand on
our website new every day TV you can
catch us on Facebook Roku
Kodi Plex basically any on-demand player
YouTube you name it we're there you can
even catch us as a podcast on google
play music I think we're on some Old
Testament tablets do I think so maybe
that's a lot of ways you can access this
that's true and we mentioned kvb B if
you're ever visiting Southern California
or maybe you're in Southern California
now you do it you can catch us on K vvv
TVs television for the high desert we
are everywhere and we're even on that
little thing
the internet the internet that small
little interweb
that's Trek it's a little box that keep
in the back of my garage okay so enough
banter enough having fun let's hop right
into it so today we're we're gonna our
key Scripture is in Hebrews oh yeah
Hebrews chapter 10 yeah Oh everyone it's
the whole chapter happens to be a
favorite chapter of mine and oh boy it's
rich with a lot of truth in there I love
the whole book of Hebrews yeah it's a
great book very very encouraging
especially when you get into the chapter
on faith like oh yeah which is the very
next job exactly the Hall of faith as
they say in Hebrews chapter 11 but
Hebrews 10 I remember as a young man
just seeing actually the caption in my
Bible and so it wasn't actually the
Bible it's like the Holy Writ itself you
know is the out of it yeah it's Christ's
sacrifice once for all was these big
bold letters I'm like what is that once
for all and that's pretty much where
we're going to the right wow that's a
huge statement yeah like if you were to
walk down to someone in the street and
say what does once-for-all mean chances
are you gonna get somebody going pretty
sure that's a boy band no it's not but I
mean the concept of once-for-all is
infinite it's eternal
yeah it is never-ending it is once for
all time and it's what everything too
good to be true
come on Weston what do you tell me right
have solace is what I think a lot of
people especially in our culture say
yeah once about what is this like the
the latest late-night you know gimmick
that someone's trying to sell us don't
know and prices just $19.99 just once
for all and not we're talking about
something that's absolutely genuine and
what is it it's our salvation
it's the payment of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ to his the pain
of his blood for our sin the payment is
once and for all
and it takes care of absolutely
everything now the whole idea of the
payment for our sin as a Christian you
hear about the he know Christ paid for
us and you really need to understand
what that means like last week you were
talking with Leno and he was talking
about how he had to make a payment for a
schooling or else he wasn't gonna be
able to finish his his I think was his
master's yeah that's right kinda he kind
of jumped right from one degree to the
other it's like well that maybe be
another show but like what it's like how
much schooling did you do that's right
he was at the end of his fifth year he
said completing his master's of theology
yeah and so you know they came to us
said hey you need to pay your bail and
he's trying to live by faith and the
next days called him and handed his
receipt yes somebody paid his bail paid
and oh that's right and if it wasn't for
that payment would he have been able to
graduate what'd he have had his master's
maybe not we don't know but God provided
and so when you think about the concept
of Christ paid for our sins we're told
in the Bible the wages of sin is death
we've all sinned we've all messed up
we all deserve to die end a story but
that payment has been made and when you
think about the fact that I deserve to
die for the wrongs I've done might be a
minimal wrong hmm might be a major rock
did you want me to answer that
no but the fact is Christ made that
payment for you once for all it's done
you are free from the punishment of
death or your sin so that's huge
it's huge and I if I know well I know
myself
maybe you relate to me but there's been
battle after battle in my mind my own
the devil pouncing on me to make me
think that maybe that sin I did
yesterday was enough to have God say
well what are you doing and maybe I know
he's got this giant eraser from heaven
and he's erasing my name out of the
Lamb's Book like how ridiculous I know
that all through but you know what I
actually lived my life in the past thing
that maybe that's what was going down
right yes and that's the mentality of
performance-based salvation oh like
there's a series of shows right there
you don't want to get caught in that
trap of performance pay salvation
because that's not what it's about
well it's it's our human tendency isn't
it to take what God has done for us and
then need to quantify it
yes this is another word make it
religion out of it yeah I say if you did
this and you did this and then make sure
you did that and you will then somehow
you're in and not what's move it's eat
yeah it isn't at all what it's about and
again I used to think that it was even
even as a young Christian man I believe
I was born again I did love the Lord and
I do love him still you know and so I
was still his child but there was this
part of my mind that was almost leaning
towards thinking the reason why I was
was his child is because you know after
all Jeff like I was doing a good job
like this is this was my mentality and
the Oh I mean God in His grace kept me
as his son as his child but he allowed
me to learn a lesson that it had nothing
to do with how many chapters I was
reading per night or how many hours or
minutes I was praying in a day and I
thought that was making me so good a
Christian and I mean it's good to do
those things but he allowed me to
realize that it had nothing to do with I
think he's at my performance right and
it had everything to do with he
is grace extended to me through his
death on the cross mm-hmm now we got to
go to into a break but before we do that
already when we ha I know that times fly
but let's hop into that scripture and
hear it before we head to the break so
that we can kind of just take a moment
to think about it yeah yeah okay well so
in in Hebrews chapter 10 verse 10 the
Bible says for God's will for us was to
be made holy by the sacrifice of the
body of Jesus Christ once for all time
look that's it like you know what in
every version I read I can't find your
name there Jeff you know and I've looked
for a mine maybe I should look for
Leno's I mean he's part of it even his
name isn't there but God's Will was for
you and I to be made holy not by
anything we could do but by the
sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ
and nothing else and that would be once
for all time likely no went to that
office thinking that he was going to
have to pay some some bill mm-hmm and
instead of a here's your bill to pay
they gave him a receipt that said this
paid in full oh no balance owing nothing
more to pay because everything of his
theological education was paid in full
go ahead write the exam so good this is
what Christ has done for me and it just
softens me praise God he's done it for
you yes he's done it for us and friends
he's done it for every one of you who
are watching who are listening your sins
have been paid for once and for all
through the shed
of Jesus Christ so so good so rich and
the one thing oddly for me that stood
out when you read that is it was God's
will that means it was a plan it was a
purpose it was intentional God's
intended plan was to cover our sins
through Christ's blood as well it's his
desire it's his good pleasure it's what
he longs to do for every one of us you
every one of you who's watching it's
God's will for you to be made perfectly
holy through the sacrifice of his son
what a mess is oh man I've got ready to
go let's all right we got to take a
quick break but then we're just going to
talk about this some more and really get
into the meat potatoes of it don't go
anywhere
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these high
quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
oh we're back friends to new every day
thanks for joining us if you are just
joining us now oh we are talking about
Hebrews chapter 10 which can be
summarized like my Bible did and one of
the headings there says Christ's
sacrifice once for all I'll tell you
what it makes me laugh with joy yeah oh
yeah our sins are gone man
they are never again to be held against
us because what Jesus did was enough on
the authority of who he is and what he
did we can we can have hope we can know
the joy of having all our sins forgiven
it's so true it's just simply a matter
of recognizing it accepting it
trusting in him yes receiving it and
it's funny I mean as we were talking
just in the break I was reminded of
somebody that I went to youth group with
and you know I would remember every
Friday night you know we have you know
our fun worship and games and stuff like
that yeah but then every Friday she'd be
up at the front oh god I'm so sorry
forgive me for my sins please come into
my heart and every week was a
forgiveness and salvation request on her
part
and I watch this go on for four years
yeah and at the time just something
wasn't clicking I like that that doesn't
seem right but yeah I mean you're
reading this and I'm going it was once
for all you know and if I could go back
in time you know 20 years ago and say to
her it's done like once that's all you
need your sins in the past the present
the future they're gone you just need to
accept it I would love to be able to go
back in time because I think she missed
out on a huge key element of her
spiritual walk and being able to live in
the freedom of knowing our sins are gone
it's done yeah I'm listening to you like
thankful that our sins are gone and yet
you know what Jeff I relate sure to that
girl or whoever it is you're talking
about
because there was a time when I felt
like I just had to go back and call out
to God and hope that he would forgive me
and make no mistake about friends if
you're here listening were and whatever
media if you're listening watching us
right now and you're wondering oh I need
to go back to God then run towards and
do whatever you gotta do call on his
name right reach out and even if it's
the hundredth time it's okay like it's
not like all of a sudden we've arrived
and we don't need God that's not what
we're doing
definitely not but in my younger days I
was thinking that oh I been forgiven and
a church service and God did clean me up
and somehow when I would leave maybe I'd
have a bat no definitely I would have a
bad thought and I would act on it and I
would do something wrong I would sin
against the Lord and I had this idea
that uh oh no like I said in a previous
episode I think God is gonna throw me
out of his kingdom and I was worrying
that he was gonna cast me aside and the
devil would pounce all over that and
make me think that I was unworthy and
maybe I wasn't good enough and you blew
it repeatedly and repeatedly over and
over again Laurens God's never gonna put
up with you and how far from the truth
that thinking was you know what Jeff I
think of a verse here also in Hebrews 10
it's verse 17 can I share God's word
with you
each of us who are listening open up
your heart then he says I will never
again remember their sins and lawless
deeds oh there's a spiritual mic drop oh
yeah boom thank you we leave now that's
right what a great message Hebrews 10:17
look it up I do it somewhere No
go ask your mother first and don't tell
my mom I said she's 88 but I bet you
she'd catch me I will never again
remember their sins and lawless deeds
Jeff it's bad it's great news it's a
phenomenal news yeah but imagine no no
help me that's Jeff but you don't know
someone would say to you you don't know
I've been I've been so bad to my wife I
cheated on my spouse I stole money from
my brother you know like you don't know
the things I've been ripping this
company off for years can they be
forgiven Jeff uh you know what
absolutely at instantly as you're
talking I'm thinking of the woman caught
in adultery I'm like all the townspeople
they haul her out ready to stoner and
Christ goes yoohoo with that sin throw
the first stone and they all drop their
stones and walk away so it's just her
and Jesus and where are your accusers
there are none neither do I accuse you
go and sin no more like so maybe you've
messed up it's a simple answer you're
forgiven
go and sin no more just stop yeah like
just stop and start believing yeah and
start acting like your sins are really
gone because that's freedom because they
really are how can Jeff and I get on
camera and say to whoever it is that's
watching all over the world your sins
are forgiven you I'll tell you how come
we can say that on the authority of
Jesus Christ Jeff you highlighted it so
well
it was his will it was the will of God
to take away your sin to to wash you
brand
clean like you've never ever sinned
before it was God's will to clean you me
Jeff and everyone of us like we had
never sinned through the sacrifice of
Jesus Christ the Lord and his will has
been accomplished friend he has died on
the cross for your sin for my sin once
and for all and whoever calls upon the
name of the Lord will be saved and have
their sins forgiven the Bible says it's
just like we had never ever sinned
before that's how complete the work is
Jeff I you know I even struggle to wrap
my mind around that because I go would
it be like if I never messed up yeah
like I can't picture that but just the
idea that I am without blame I am
forgiven it's like it's not there I am
washed white as snow it's almost hard to
say it first it is yeah I feel kind of
guilty saying right because I know I've
messed up yeah but that's the grace of
God in that ultimate well and you know
as you were talking I'm picturing that
final moment where Christ is on the
cross and he says it's finished and I'm
I'm suddenly like hearing this sorry I
get choked up hearing this new
realization of what that means it's
finished your sins done you're not bound
to it
you are free and clean on manigott
it's good because that's that's what the
that's what the true gospel does right
there's no weight on us you see we're
not none of us are strong enough to
carry the weight of our own sin that's
the beautiful message of the gospel of
Christ
none of us you said all of us have
sinned all of us have blown it beyond
our ability to make it all right gonna
make any of it right
and God says yeah but the will of my
father
there is that I would come in said Jesus
and take your sins upon me and die on a
cross and make full payment paid in full
go write the exam well what's our exam
well one day we're gonna stand in the
pearly gates is it will right when God
calls us and there's gonna be an
examination hmm do you pass the exam and
I got some great news you like me those
of you like Jeff and I who have trusted
in the finished work the it is finished
work of Jesus Christ on the cross
there's going to be a receipt given you
like Leno was given a receipt for his
schooling like you've been given a
receipt for so many things you bought
God's gonna give us a receipt for our
sins to say guess what paid in full
thank you very much welcome in - welcome
to your reward because you go put your
trust in the finished work of Jesus
Christ now come on that's the gospel of
Jesus Christ and what a good message it
is very much so if you're watching this
and you know I've heard this before
yeah great wonderful be encouraged be by
it be reminded of the goodness of it and
share this with somebody else somebody
who needs to hear but the forgiving
salvation of Christ and what it truly
means to be blemish-free to have their
sins paid for in full it's done it's
over you're clean you're taking care of
house how sweet it is so many things
what can we share with them do this go
to Hebrews chapter 10 read verse 22 10
22 let us go right into the presence of
God with sincere hearts fully trusting
him for our guilty conscience 'as have
been sprinkled with Christ's blood to
make us clean there you have it that's
them that's the good news
our sins are gone once and for all such
a great way to finish
episode well we are out of time I think
we could easily go for another one but
that's all we've got
thanks so much for being here let us
know what you thought of this episode
some of the past episodes your contact
is on a website on maybe our Facebook
page and just uh say hi comment on
YouTube and if you got a question maybe
there's a show topic you want let us
know we're happy to explore that with
you and we'll catch you next week on you
every god bless you catch a new episode
of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku Kodi Plex YouTube
Google Play Music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
