welcome back this is category five
technology TV once again tonight I'm
joined by Robert Capps you remember him
from previous shows he is a world-famous
expert on data privacy he is the VP and
authentication strategist for new data
security Robert it is so nice to see you
again
thank you now you were here now it's
hard to believe I mean time flies it's
been a year ago in February you were
here on episode 492 and we talked about
something called two-factor
authentication and we realized through
the course of that discussion Robert
that two-factor authentication while
possibly a good strategy to data privacy
is not enough when it comes to
protecting our data before that we also
had you on we talked about a hack that
occurred at a casino here in Ontario
Canada and that was back on episode
number 479 if you want to go back but
tonight boy oh boy this one's this one's
big I think I should just kind of let
you talk a little bit about about time
hop and what has happened that time hop
just as sure yeah so what happened at
time hop is they've had a data breach
we've heard data breaches constantly in
the news these days every day you open
the paper or I guess who those who get
papers you open your web browser and you
see a lot of information about this
company was breached this company was
breached this company was breached
it's a daily occurrence and at this
point there's more data out there on
internet users than there are humans on
the on the internet or even on the
planet right more there are more records
that have been released in data breaches
than there are humans here on earth and
so with that sort of numbers in mind
looking at what happened when time hop
is actually not quite as big as some of
the others they lost 21 million consumer
records that's a drop in the bucket
compared to some of the other
organizations but what was really
impactful here is it wasn't just a name
and an email address
maybe a password it was a phone number
it was a date of birth it might have
been their gender their nationality and
those sort of data points and that's a
little more impactful when you think
about how this data is used once it's
stolen stolen data is often used for
account takeovers you know if they get a
username and a password they go out and
they they try to log into a bunch of
different websites across the internet
and see where they work that shouldn't
work except the consumers aren't real
good about keeping unique museums a
password for each one of these sites
they access know you you mentioned and
something that you hit on here is that
we're seeing this happen over and over
and over again it seems a theme here at
category five technology TV that we're
constantly reporting on this site has
been hacked this user database has been
compromised why is it that all of a
sudden this is happening ah well it's
been happening for a long time what
we've seen is that the regulations being
put out by different nationalities or
different organizations are forcing the
disclosure of data breaches in a much
more profound way and and so where once
these things got swept under the rug we
now have data breach discovery and
disclosure laws on the books here in the
US there's a number of laws at the state
level and federal level recently in
Europe we have gdpr which really
mandates that there's any exposure to
consumers information it has to be
disclosed in a very timely manner and
this is actually one of the first
breaches that's occurred publicly where
gdpr
played a central role in the timing of
that that breached its disclosure and
actually interestingly enough I do read
the the the the the blog post time how
time hock put out there and let me say
they did a fantastic job catching the
issue ran resolving quickly and getting
the information out to their consumers
but what we did see is that there's a
lot of confusion and they talked about
in their blog posts about what do we
need to do how do we need to do this
there were lawyers involved over the
weekend
you know it was a fourth of July week
and always the way has got the long
weekend off and guess what yeah and
smaller and smaller organizations tend
to have fewer security staff and if one
of them goes out on vacation and it
sounds like that happened on this
situation as well that can delay
understanding the full scope of the
issue and and that is what happened they
had to come out with a subsequent
release saying that there were date of
birth and other data points that were in
the data breach that they found out
after they started going and doing all
of the forensics on the on the attack
those situation that happens I've been
behind the scenes during data breach
recoveries and you know you get in there
you go okay well we think the problems
here and then you start looking and it's
over here too and it's over here too and
you start you know culminating piece by
piece the data that's been stolen you
get into a position where you know you
you can only disclose what you know and
you might have to disclose again and
again as you find more and more
information that happened in this
situation yeah and then it comes across
as more and you know we hear about it
with Facebook it seems like more and
more and it just keeps happening I'm not
a time hop user and so as someone who
doesn't use time hop and viewers are
asking you know how does this affect me
I think there are two facets to this
type of data breach one obviously we're
gonna have to talk about Robert the
impact that this has on time hop users
but for those of us who are not using
that particular service there's also the
the recognition and the understanding
that we gain from these types of
breaches that we really need to learn to
secure our online profiles we need to be
a lot more conscious of our privacy and
security so we do you know if you're
watching this right now live and and
you're wondering you know how does this
impact me just keep in mind that hey
this is one particular data breach but I
think that there are you know this what
we're learning here tonight with Robert
Capps is transcending time hop and into
into various platforms I mean it's a
whole it just keeps happening right
we're gonna hear about the next one
tomorrow yeah and the data that's being
stolen is often be
intermingled from different data
breaches and compared and what they do
is they create deeper and deeper
profiles for consumers because that can
then be used later on for other sorts of
attacks whether that's account takeover
identity theft or any number of other
things like synthetic identity
assertions
we're starting to see people's identity
as being piecemealed together different
people different there's different
social state of births and addresses
things are put together to create a new
identity that then is used to try and
get credit and eventually open accounts
in that new person's name that's that's
a problem too right so as more data gets
out there there's more and more use
useful data for the fraudsters to attack
the financial and retail systems and I
think that that's the kind of thing that
we're starting to see here is that this
data is culminating together now they're
starting to use it in different ways
what's particularly troubling about
attacks on social media aggregation
sites is that social media has a lot of
contextual information that an attacker
needs to understand their mark they're
their victim the person they're going
after that that information like
mother's maiden name maybe cousins names
the color of a car a lot of that data
exists in social media even if you have
that lock down to just you and your
friends products like like time hop and
there's a number of other companies out
there that archive social media or do
other things with social media posts
that you put out there they have access
to that information without having
access to your logins what happens is
when you register your account with one
of these aggregators they reach out to
the social media platform they get a
token to be able to do specific actions
as you without having your username or
password and in this situation with Time
Hawk those tokens were stolen which
could have been used for pulling
additional data about those consumers
down and archiving it now based on the
the the blog post that time mom put out
there they've worked with their social
media partners to figure out if there
was any of that sort of scraping that's
occurred it doesn't sound like it did
but as you look at some of the the
security techniques that are being put
in place
and privacy blocks are being put in
place at social media outlets to keep
data within their networks these are
natural next attack points for getting
the information that is long than they
available to to these these aggregators
and this bad thing these bad guys so for
the users who say oh well my online
profiles you know it's nothing private I
don't post anything online you talk
about account takeovers is is this
something that I need to be concerned
with if I would define myself as one of
those people cognizant of risk versus
concern online transactions are still
far safer than some types of physical
transactions if you think about the
protections you're afforded by using
your credit card when you purchase
products online you have almost zero
liability and zero risk for those
transactions even if you interact with
somebody that maybe it wasn't the best
merchants your financially you'll be
made whole by your financial institution
do the regulations list here in the u.s.
other countries you know you're here
your regulations may vary but most of
North America is pretty much aligned in
that respect what what I think we're
going to be to be seeing here I actually
what I think we need to be discussing
with consumers is taking the right steps
to protect themselves so you know when
when a consumer logs into a new site or
creates a new profile don't use the same
username and password they use as other
sites I know that's a tough one
using password managers on your computer
helps I do have a friend who is ultra
secure in his mindset he has a password
journal it's a physical journal he
writes his passwords in and he changes
any scratches out for the next one
anything is always on him but you know
these are these we're always told don't
write your passwords down I I think some
of that dogma that we've used over the
years has really put us in a bad
position when it's really forced
consumers to do the wrong thing within
what they end up doing is the easiest
thing which is reuse of usernames and
passwords it is perfectly okay to write
those things down as long as you keep
them secure it's
perfectly okay to use digital password
wallets on your computer or your phone
as long as you maintain the security of
those devices and you keep strong
passwords on those on those password
stores they're gonna be good tools for
helping you keep your digital life
straight and keep your your account
secure key accounts to to keep control
over social media you can be used to
pull data about you and to impersonate
you online bank account records
alternate payment systems PayPal's and
and and and companies like that the your
email account people don't understand
that their email account is the gateway
to their access to other sites if you go
and forget your password for facebook or
you you'll forget your password for some
merchant site they're gonna email you a
new password and so once your email
account has been compromised
it is the Gateway to taking over other
sites other other access to other sites
and they have when we spoke about
two-factor authentication
last year a lot of sites that have
two-factor authentication while it's a
great service they do what they send
your two-factor authentication link by
phone or by email yep and so you know
that just if they have access if you've
used the same password across the
platform that was compromised plus your
email account now all of a sudden
they've got access to your 2fa as well
right so back to timehop if I was a user
of time hop and there are viewers who
are users of time hop what you mentioned
that there was a lot of data stolen and
some of this is private information
stuff that you would rather keep
absolutely private what was actually
stolen here so name email address phone
number date of birth they also had
gender designation and then there was
the possibility of some nationality or
at least we're coming from what was also
stolen were the the tokens that were
representative of the logins he had
provided to to login to Facebook
whatever social media time hop was
accessing on your behalf
the good news is that as soon as the
identification of the issue happened at
IHOP they invalidated all those tokens
and so that that was the right thing to
do so as a user timehop you're secure
you should probably go and and you know
change your time hop password as as
normal just in case something happened
in regards to the passwords there's no
indication that's what happened but good
practice change your passwords guys and
then you know you can reestablish your
connection to to to your Facebook
whatever it happens to be one thing to
keep in mind though and this is actually
best practice for consumers go out there
and check on your social media sites and
see what has access to your social media
you'd be surprised
you go to Facebook you go to Twitter you
go to the other platforms almost all of
them have a way for you to go and look
what applications have access to your
data on on their the platform and you
can revoke it and you can remove you
know do those sort of things getting a
regular habit of going in and seeing
what you have acts what has access to
your data and turn it off if you're not
using it anymore and and in the cases
where they've archived a bunch of data
about you you might reach out and ask
for your data to be deleted if that's an
option or close your account if you're
not using those accounts anymore or
whatever happens to be but but for the
most part do a little spring cleaning
here and there and and and make sure
that you're not giving up your data it's
just any organization because you're out
you gave them permission six months or a
year ago right and the other thing that
we have to consider I think Robert is
that companies get bought all the time
apps trade hands and if we've authorized
an app to have access to our Facebook or
our Twitter profiles and then four years
later we don't even use that app and we
don't even remember having used that app
well how do we know if the same company
even owns it if they're using it for the
same purposes but they still have access
to all that information and and our
profile itself right if two factor
authentication isn't enough as we've
established on the show previously if
usernames and passwords are simply not
enough what is next what can we do as
users and what can companies do to help
protect private information
right so yeah I can give you a little
bit about what my organization does
without pushing the sales button to art
you know there are things you can do
around consumer behavior right they tend
to come back and interact with the same
sites at the same time it's a day they
used to tend to use the same kind of
computer the same kind of browser when
they log in they use the same cadence of
keystroke they're using the same
username the same password time and time
again on that site hopefully not shared
anywhere else using the same devices
they're coming from the same internet
connection there's enough data points
about that consumer as they're
interacting to make a judgment call as
to whether or not it really is them
that's logging in and out some of it
just happen to have their credentials
that in itself is enough to strongly
protect consumers I would say about 80
to 90 percent of the time oh wow beyond
that point you really start getting into
physical biometric verification so iris
scans selfies fingerprints voice prints
there's some other modalities of
physical biometrics that are now
becoming normal in use online for next
next point up or step up authentication
or these like are these ways to access
accounts or are these form of two-factor
authentication well that's kind of one
in the same
so for two-factor authentication they
are additional factors albeit ones with
more friction and take a little more
consumer effort so they should be saved
for the for the points where
frictionless authentication doesn't work
or isn't appropriate like it's just
there's not enough data to make a
judgment call you step up to the next
friction full experience for the
consumer yeah and and then just keep you
keep stepping through the things you you
have in your ear your toolbox to
authenticate users until you can't write
at that point you really have to
question whether or not you're dealing
with the right person so is this kind of
what like the what's coming to mind here
for me is the new Google reCAPTCHA how
it uses a kind of an intelligence engine
to learn if the interaction that I'm
making with a website is human
or potentially a robot and if it doesn't
quite sure then it asked me to identify
the cars and identify the signs so are
these the kinds of technologies that
that we should be implementing I think
that there's actually technology goes
beyond that right so we we've been
producing technology that goes beyond
putting captures for prairie consumers
for a long time captures it in front of
a consumers is I mean something didn't
work for anything technology lies like
they're like a caption in front of a
consumer you've failed to identify them
as a human up to that point possibly you
should probably go back to your human
detection drawing board and figure out
how to work that one out
we started off with a smart CAPTCHA back
in 20 2011 or 2012 and very quickly
figured out that if you put the caption
there you failed and if you've
identified them passively you you've
been able to not put you know friction
from the consumer and and and and
basically not tip your hand as to how
you're managing to identify those
consumers versus the the bots that makes
your investment technology go a lot
further when they can't quite figure out
what's going on the from a begin from
the capture perspective it's cool for
them to figure out whether or not you're
human but they've got a long way to go
because they keep showing those captures
to people okay so biometrics on the
other hand where I have to identify
myself with a thumbprint or eye I think
about the failure that we've seen in
things like facial recognition being
able to open phones by a picture or an
audio recording yeah are these even
going to be or are they already
effective ways of authenticating a user
I wouldn't start there right so there's
right okay there's multiple kinds of
biometrics there's passively collected
biometrics and these are things like
keystrokes these are things like if
you're holding a mobile device I've got
one somewhere around here you know if
you're holding your mobile device and
you're using it you tend to use it a
certain angle in a certain hand and that
information is available through the
sensors in the device it allows you to
profile how that consumer usually holds
device right because my arms certain
like my eye size a certain way I've got
the glasses off right now because
there's glare in the screen but you know
when I'm looking at my device without my
glasses tends to be up here if I got my
glasses on it tends to be down here and
I'm comfortably looking at it there's an
angle to that right and there's a
certain amount of distance between my
eye and the device and as it comes up
closer the angle changes all those data
points are collected it can be collected
in real time during an interaction
anonymized of course they can't say that
this is Robert but they can say that
this is the human that normally
interacts with this account and from
that perspective you can strongly
identify someone even with physical
aspects of the of their their their body
and how they interact you can do that
without violating consumer privacy or
being creepy or anything that goes along
with that but you can do it in a
friction free way that allows the
consumer just to do their what they want
to do naturally without having to go to
those multi-factor you know fingerprints
and iris can it's right getting back to
the question on using non live
recordings of those biometrics that's a
concern and there are technologies that
are being used to mitigate some of those
issues in consumer electronic devices so
things like base ID with Apple you know
they're projecting dots all over the
face and they're measuring the actual
movement and the distribution of those
dots on the face in order to make sure
that you're actually a 3d representation
of you oh and and so that isn't gonna be
subject to a photo being used to get
around it but it could be subject to a
mask now we saw that someone built a
proof-of-concept mask and they spent you
know thousands if not tens of thousands
of dollars breaking face ID what they
really did was prove that if you spend a
lot of money you could probably break a
consumer biometric product but the cost
to do that and the heavy lifting to get
it done you had to give a 3d image of
the person's face and you had to be able
to print it with enough fidelity know to
have found somebody's head that was
small to fit into it that didn't distort
it that's a lot of ifs in order to
actually break those technologies no
Madame Tussauds might
beg to differ and do I need to be
concerned if I was some big executive
rep in a company that represents
millions of customers and billions and
billions of dollars do I need to be
concerned now with biometric data of
things like and I hate to say it but
like if someone wants to steal that data
or that do I need to worried that my
fingers are gonna get stolen or you know
those kinds of things that going to be
something that is a new concern in this
world where we use biometric data yeah I
mean the way we're using it right now is
with consumers is mostly as convenience
it's it's a convenient mechanism to
prove physical activity or physical
presences in the transaction we do have
not just saying don't Elevens but actual
evidence of crime gangs abducting people
in other countries for exactly that
situation you're talking about this is
not a normal thing it does not occur in
a daily basis is not something the
average consumer should have to worry
about this is where you know tens of
millions one hundred millions of dollars
we're at stake and they needed
somebody's fingerprints to do something
like that it's a movie theater plots we
don't see those happen in reality that
much that one you spoke of actually does
have some some actual reality base to it
but it's so it's such a rare that's
where they're they're abnormal those
situations yeah all right
so yes yes I need to be trillionaire
than you which I'm not but I do think
about folks who got in on the Bitcoin
game real early and and have very real
concerns of having their accounts
compromised and those kinds of people
have you know very real threats that
come to them so this all sounds as you
say the consumer doesn't really need to
be quite as concerned but it does sound
more like this these are things that big
companies like Amazon or Ebay
should be implementing what about a
smaller online e-commerce sites and like
is there transcendence of the
these types of services that we can
start to use as well yeah so passive
biometrics and behavioral analytics are
available to small mom-and-pop web shops
the technology there is is as simple as
some JavaScript and some additional
components that go on the application
server and then some web services
calling data around in order to get
intelligence and provide you am I
dealing with the human am I dealing with
the right human that's accessible to
everybody who has a website and not for
tremendous amount of money as you get
into physical biometrics you need to
have some additional technology built
into your native mobile app which means
you have to have a native mobile app you
start getting into the realm of
technologies they get a little more
expensive or a lot more complicated to
deploy the passive stuff is pretty easy
and and and it gives you the vast
majority of your customers secured in a
way that they just weren't prior to
deployment of a technology like that for
now though most of the large issues most
of the fraud issues that are occurring
or occurring against the large
organizations at the scale and so if you
have a small organization starting to
have some fraud issues or can't take
over issues putting these two
technologies we're talking about the
passive biometrics behavioral analytics
products out on their site will solve
for a tremendous number of their issues
that sounds fantastic now you mentioned
JavaScript code availability and things
like that where can I get it I just know
I certainly don't mind I mean if that's
what you guys are doing then then we
need to check out new data security comm
icon and learn more about the technology
that is available to us there I've been
speaking tonight with Robert Capps he is
the VP and authentication strategist for
new data security Robert always always a
pleasure having you here thank you for
sharing your knowledge and your
expertise and we look forward to the
next time as well okay take care
