welcome to category five technology TV
this week we've got an exciting show for
you we are gonna compare the Odroid xu4
queue with the Raspberry Pi 3 there
we're done have a great night no we're
gonna plug them in we're gonna actually
turn them on do some tests we're gonna
see how how well they lyin Monaro we're
gonna see how fast the ethernet adapters
are built into each of these devices
we're gonna do a couple of different
tests to see how each one performs
looking forward to this signing and
Becca's here so I'm really looking
forward to this cigarette
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku kodi
plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
this is category 5 technology TV episode
number 543 nice to have you here I'd
like to welcome back my wife Becca
Ferguson it's been a while since you've
been here yeah a few years I think yeah
and this is how we spend our Valentine's
Day folks so romantic
this could be the most romantic show
ever thank you for tuning in I hope
you're having a great day hope you're
having a great week let's get right into
it we've got a lot to cover tonight
we're gonna be looking at the Raspberry
Pi 3 versus the Odroid X u4q and we've
got some comments that have come in over
the past a little while first of all one
came in from Chuck leaf 54 94 this is a
long time coming you want to read that
one yeah he says wow it's been like
seven or eight years since I've seen you
I guess life just had me preoccupied the
last shows I've seen was about six
months or so after you got robbed I got
to see the new server built up and
running so it's been a long time a man
thank you so much for writing in that
was a long time ago when when was the a
lot of folks probably don't even know
about that but our our studio when we
first started the show was in our house
and somebody broke into the basement
probably just a random robbery but yeah
it was just one of those things someone
going from house to house checking patio
doors and then gone two hours
it wasn't unlocked they actually
shattered the whole patio door yeah
glass pieces all over the carpet yes sir
mess but I mean imagine their surprise
when they got in and there were cameras
and laptop computers and what do you
know we never caught the person probably
addicted to some kind of drugs or
alcohol I think the cost of the job home
life the cops at the time thought it was
one person yeah they thought they were
on foot so they never could prove it and
we lost all that stuff that was taken
and which the which the the community
came together at that time you'll
remember this Chuck Lee the community
came together contributed to help us to
get back on track and we did not miss a
beat we didn't miss a show the next
couple of shows were a little bit on the
rough side as we kind of regained
momentum and got stuff you know bought
new laptops and things like that but so
all that to say it's been a long time
since you've been here thank you for for
tracking us down again I hope that you
enjoy how far things have come here we
are in our studio space
we've got about almost a thousand square
feet of studio space we've got a green
screen in front of us
we've got another set over there that
you saw last week we've got this set
here and a lot has changed since since
the times when it was in the house
Sandrine Markey sent in a question last
weekend and I responded it was about net
neutrality and you saw the video I think
a lot of folks have seen that video it's
up on Linux tech show comm it's up on
our website category 5 TV and category 5
TV on on YouTube but Sam green actually
replied to my reply you want to take
that one this way thanks for answering
my question I saw it live and I still
disagree with net neutrality for two
reasons one you and I can control our
internet you in using QoS because we
know what we're doing but it won't
prevent my father as an example
complaining about his internet
connection when he's using a VoIP phone
okay should we take one at a time sure
okay so that's that's number one
Sandrine so
interesting perspective for sure so
here's a case where you're thinking more
along the lines of not us tech savvy
folks who can who can make those
decisions and set up our own quality of
service or set up our own firewall so
would it be then this should it not be a
net neutrality thing but shouldn't
should it instead be a service that
someone could opt into so there's
someone like your dad is able to say to
the service provider yes I would like
the enhanced security package at no
additional charge I don't think there
should be an additional charge for it
would that be a better approach I'm like
is it really a neutrality or a lei user
I don't know if they would understand
well enough but what if the ISP were to
offer a bundle that includes enhanced
security it includes blocking of
security threats hackers and and
exploits and things like that it
includes anti-malware for your network
maybe I mean they got to know that if
they're running Windows they need to
have anti-malware right and that's our
responsibility to I think as tech savvy
folks we need to we need to share these
things with our non tech savvy relatives
and friends and things but also the QoS
perspective so if dad is using services
like Netflix should he be able to opt
into that wreck you know quality of
service style system as opposed to it
being enforced on everybody and not the
advantage of opting into it for someone
likes and Rian's father yeah who may not
be as tech savvy as you or I and and
doesn't know how to set up those kinds
of things in-house mm-hmm then he could
say it's you know I recognize that it's
probably you know the QoS that the
Internet service provider is going to
provide is not going to be optimized
specifically to each user but it's still
going to be better than nothing if they
can say okay
bittorrent ports we aren't gonna blanket
block them or throttle them but for this
guy who's opted into this service yeah
will throttle it for him so that if he
ever runs a BitTorrent service he
doesn't wonder why YouTube is stuttering
yeah those kinds of things right so if
the ISP were to maybe provide that as a
service out of the box it's a check box
that you check off to opt into or vice
versa maybe there's a check box that you
opt out of because URI sandrine would
say oh that's a service I do not want
maybe that's a better approach but then
is it the you know is it a net
neutrality question or is it more of a
ISPs providing great services to their
end users mm-hmm number two number two
I'm already seeing the consequences of
this so-called net neutrality debate
I lost my free subscription to UTV
extras which is a c.b.c french streaming
service that came with my contract with
Rogers and my friend lost his free
subscription to Spotify with Videotron
another ISP as far as I can tell we're
losing diversity from our internet
provider offerings again I don't know so
much a sandrine if those are net
neutrality issues now first of all
Videotron Rogers CBC or all Canadian so
I assume that these are Canadian
services they you know that you're
opting into that you that you're that
you're meant to be receiving but Canada
is not under the same we're not having
the same issues as America when it comes
to you know the the regulations and you
know whether net neutrality is going
forward or not are you saying that the
net neutrality in Canada has adversely
affected your ability to get these
services because I don't I don't under
an isp will provide free access to this
or free access to that potentially and
they may stop doing that at any time
it's like a value-added service I don't
know that it's really again a net
neutrality issue because I don't think
that they're saying well we're gonna
block you TV which would be anti net
neutrality so I'd be
I almost wonder like Sandrine I know the
that this viewer is is tech-savvy you've
got a podcast as well maybe we should
get her on the show and actually have
this because you've asked her a lot of
life science can't answer you right now
so it does make it very I'll hear from
her Thursday afternoon and then yeah so
maybe we should do that so let's let's
have a chat
popped me an email go to our website
category-five TV send me an email with
contact us I think that would be a great
way to approach this particular this
particular item and a good opportunity
for a viewer to appear on the show as
well we've got to take a really quick
break but when we come back it's the
Raspberry Pi 3 in a to the death battle
with the Odroid xu4 cubes to ground
you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Lynda learn software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals
join today and start learning we'll give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat5 dot TV
slash linda welcome back this is
category five technology TV and we're
finally gonna do it we're gonna take the
Odroid xu4 cue and put it head-to-head
with the Raspberry Pi 3 just to see how
each of these performs in various
different things so first of all our our
video about well it was basically me
just assembling the case the cloud shell
to and installing the Odroid X u4q one
of the main criticisms of the video has
been well you didn't even fire it up how
can you call it the Raspberry Pi 3
killer
yeah well fact is here tonight we're
gonna fire it up that video was just a
demonstration of you know assembly and
getting it up and going as far as
building it but tonight we're putting
them side-by-side
quite literally there they are so we've
got the X u4q here from Odroid that's
the hard kernel device this is the
Raspberry Pi 3 computer as well so the
Raspberry Pi 3 as you can see is just
ever so slightly bigger than the Odroid
X u4q as a matter of fact and that is
the case even outside of the outside of
the cases the SBC itself the Odroid is
smaller this is an 8 core and this is a
4 core a couple of notes here I've got
Gigabit Ethernet going from both no
Wi-Fi in use here Gigabit Ethernet going
to the same row
and it's a gigabit router and I've got
an eye perf server sitting on that same
router as well with gigabit ethernet in
it each one of these has a game
controller receiver we've got a keyboard
plugged into each and a mouse as well so
that I can demonstrate things that's how
this is going to work so now each one is
booted up there's the old Droid X u4q
running Ubuntu mattei very responsive
works great and I've set each up exactly
the same so here's raspbian running on
the Raspberry Pi and again very
responsive very impressive for this
small form-factor and they and just the
price and everything speaking of price
it's important to note that one of the
other criticisms that we've received is
that the Odroid Xu for Q is
significantly more expensive now what we
have to take into account is that the
previous demonstrations had included the
cloud shell - the NASS case the
backplane the three and a half inch
screen all of this stuff so the cost
difference between what you're seeing
here tonight is actually only about
twenty dollars or so so the Odroid Xu
for Q sells for $54 on the hard corner
hard colonel website the manufacturers
website so it is not significantly more
than the Raspberry Pi 3 but we're going
to see tonight whether it's really worth
that $20 difference is there a
significant enough difference to be able
to call it a Raspberry Pi killer maybe
not certainly it's not going to kill the
community that's for sure
that's not the intent it's a little bit
tongue-in-cheek when we say that and
it's a bit of a running joke here at the
studio because we said it once and it's
just like erupted into this big big
thing but so let's let's get straight to
it so over here at the Raspberry Pi 3
we're gonna bring up the terminal and
over here at the Odroid xu for Q I'm
gonna do exactly the same thing now
you'll notice this is a full operating
system this is not like a stripped-down
this is the like boom-boom-boom at a as
you would expect so over here I'm gonna
go H top and we see four cores with it
looks like 750 megabytes of RAM
and over here on the Oh droid xu4 we've
got eight cores and 1.95 gigs of ram and
both are pretty much doing nothing right
now they're sitting idle okay so let's
get out of each top and first thing that
I want to try is we're gonna do a little
bit of a side-by-side comparison here
I'd like to show you and and know for
myself how this is going to perform as
basically a desktop computer I do a lot
of image manipulation editing photos and
things like that so would a Raspberry Pi
on the TV or as a computer like a very
small form-factor computer does it run
well with the GNU image manipulation
program it's a free piece of software
right so we're gonna learn learn
side-by-side how these are each going to
perform so first thing I'm gonna do is
we're gonna bring up our file manager
and on each machine I have downloaded
already the exact same image so if I
jump over here to the Odroid xu4 queue
I'm gonna see the exact same thing in my
downloads there they are so a couple of
differences in the operating system
obviously the Raspberry Pi raspbian just
gives me a thumbnail kind of like circa
windows 98 whereas this is more like a
it's a full operating system with I can
see the actual preview of the image so
what I want to do is I want to
right-click and I'm gonna hover over
opening it with the GIMP GNU image
manipulation program I'm going to do
that on the Raspberry Pi as well and
then we're gonna go side by side and
just see how they compare as far as
speed goes to load this up in the GNU
image manipulation program so as long as
I don't bump the mouse and click in
three two one
the Battle of the SPC's begins Odroid
xu4 q came up quicker and started
loading pretty much identical yeah I
would say I didn't even though the
screen seemed to come up quicker on the
Odroid exactly the image was in one of
the things that I do need to address
with the Odroid xu4 q is you'll see that
I've got some strange like the
backgrounds here are all blue that's
like the theme of the operating system
I've just got to fix that on the
Raspberry Pi out-of-the-box it looks
nicer whether or not that's an issue
couldn't tell you don't think so alright
let's go we're gonna right-click and
we're gonna try something here I want to
do a scaling operation
so usually scaling is a pretty intensive
thing to do that's like increasing or
deep in the size of an image so on my ex
u4q I'm going to go scale image and I'm
gonna set the height to 8,000 pixels and
we're gonna use 72 dpi and cubic
interpolation it's important to note
these things because we want it to be an
exact side-by-side head-to-head
comparison we want to set the settings
exactly the same on the Raspberry Pi 3
so over here on the Raspberry Pi 3 image
scale image again 8,000 pixels height 72
dpi cubic interpolation and I'm gonna
click scale because it's prompting me
are you sure you want to create this
image I'm gonna do the same thing over
here we're gonna be prepared then to
begin working you'll see that each one
says it's going to be eight hundred and
ninety six point three megabytes so on
the raspberry pi I'm gonna hover over
scale and on the Odroid X u4q I'm
already hovering over scale so if we're
ready won't do the countdown with a
drumroll three two one click OK the
Odroid xu4 queue is moving I can see
that kind of down at the bottom there
you see that progress indicator it's a
little more significant as far as speed
goes to the rad
very PI raspberry PI's doing it though
this is a great opportunity for us to
have a sip of our coffee and for you to
just stare at that progress indicator
yeah we need some suspenseful music here
I think here we go it's real time folks
keep in mind this is a heavy operation
on any system so the this is that even
happening on single board computers just
shows how far technology is coming the
Odroid is ever so slightly ahead how's
that going to real-time let's see what
happens
boom Oh droid is done that's berry pie
still chugging along still checking
along medbay pie I can almost smell the
heat coming off of that processor and
come on you can do it you can do it
right there we go Raspberry Pi pulled it
off way to go that's the Raspberry Pi 3
okay so now next up I want to let's
let's try something really really tough
this is a big image and this is
obviously gonna be really really heavy
on any system I'm gonna go filters and
we're just gonna add a 5% Gaussian blur
nice and simple Oh what does it say
failed to run plug in blur gauze failed
to fork cannot allocate memory this is
the Odroid xu4 cue that we're looking at
so it looks like I've hit that memory
threshold so can I just hit OK and just
do other stuff how's the responsiveness
here if I'm clicking around looks like I
can still do other things I have created
a rather significant image though
haven't I it is responsive can I do
anything with it blur Gaussian blur not
gonna not going to do it so we literally
do not have enough memory to be able to
work on this image now that it is a
ginormous image we're talking 12,000 by
8,000 in pixels so that is an
unreasonable size for for any case let's
see if I can do anything at all with it
blur no it's not gonna let me do it so
we have maxed out the Odroid xu4 it is
still very responsive though as you can
see can i scale down now maybe I can
scale down all right let's jump back
over to the Raspberry Pi 3 and we're
gonna try the same thing right click
and in note filters blur Gaussian blur
what the PI is going to allow it and the
Odroid xu4 is not how can that be
let's get a look at our system tools
system monitor and see what this is
telling me CPU is really low memory
we've we're using one point five
gigabytes 77.4 percent of the RAM what
does the Raspberry Pi say do we have the
same tool we do not we may need to use
that each time jump into the terminal H
top tells me that we have used we've
exhausted the RAM completely perhaps
there's some swapping going on here yeah
eighteen point five Meg's has been
swapped not sure if there's any swap
going on with the Odroid xu4 queue there
is not there's no swapping happening and
there is still some ram there so why is
it not letting me go filters blur
Gaussian blur so that's a disappointing
thing right there and that could be
software that's not necessarily the
board itself but we do need to see in a
real-world environment now it was faster
it got me there faster but surprisingly
it seems that gif doesn't want to
proceed it doesn't want to go any
further so that's one test we're okay
the Raspberry Pi has passed and the
Odroid xu4 queue while it was very much
faster in the rescale operation it it
failed when it came to adding the
Gaussian blur to that massive image so
let's go back to the raspberry pi 3 here
we're gonna get back out of that and
we're gonna go back to a reasonable
image size I'm going to control Z and
control Z here so keep in mind that now
we're back at a standard image size of
it looks like three thousand by two
thousand pixels so if I does it release
the RAM let's find out
yeah okay so it is going to allow me to
now that the image is back at a more
reasonable size so let's undo everything
get back so that we're again comparing
one to one okay there's that and there's
that so over at X u4q let's add a gauzy
and blur of what's a he twenty percent
let's make it heavy and the blur method
is RLE
using the wrong keyboard there so I've
probably zoomed in on the Raspberry Pi
here we go and I've closed out of a
couple of things
no worries all right right click filters
blur Gaussian blur I close my tools
there just so you know that's why the
Raspberry Pi now looks a little bit
different but side-by-side they are
doing exactly the same thing Raspberry
Pi we're gonna go
hover over okay and the Odroid x u4q
we're gonna do the same and three two
one
watch those progress indicators again
the X you fork you just blast past the
Raspberry Pi though the Raspberry Pi is
doing very very well
it seems at the very last second though
the Raspberry Pi locks up and then waits
for a moment and then the the thing
happens whether it be blurring or
rescaling so I think the the Odroid X
u4q I mean the the the one test that it
failed is this huge massive image that
nobody's going to ever work with a
twelve thousand by eight thousand a
picture on an SBC anyways you need a
supercomputer for that but it did fail
that where the Raspberry Pi kept going
so so do keep that in mind that the
Raspberry Pi did pretty well and that is
again probably an operating system or
software difference between them jumping
back over to the Odroid x u4q gonna
close down my gimp and the next
side-by-side that i want to do here
becca is we're going to start doing some
things like testing the network
interface controller the ethernet
adapter see how fast each one is I want
to also stress test each SBC we're going
to be doing these things in just a
couple moments we've got to take a quick
commercial break and that's what we're
gonna be doing when we come back
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap v dot TV slash
DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host welcome back this is category
five technology TV and tonight we are
comparing the s you heard me the
Raspberry Pi 3 versus the X u4q from
Odroid now these are two single board
computers very very tiny computers so
you can see compared to my hand how
small these computers are and yet they
are quite powerful for the for the form
factor they're great for creating little
projects if you want to create robotics
or learn coding it's great for that kind
of stuff now one of the questions that
we've received is does the Odroid X u4q
have GPIO and it absolutely does
now in this case they are covered up as
well as the Raspberry Pi case that I'm
using they're covered as well but this
one has a remove it the case doesn't
really matter but this one has a remover
removable cover this one though the X
u4q does have headers for GPIO and there
are some riser boards that are that are
coming out and it's a growing product as
well so you remember when the Raspberry
Pi started up the Raspberry Pi like
brand and
all of their SPC's and yeah it was
really hard to get your hands on them
there were not a lot of peripherals
there was not a lot of support and they
were always sold out that's kind of
where we're at with hard colonel and the
au droid devices right now is where we
were with Raspberry Pi
even when the pi zero came out it was
impossible to get your whole your hands
on one when the pi 3 came out it was
really really tough now we're at that
point where it's several years old and
everybody forgets that and we we don't
really remember that hey that's how it
started up with the Raspberry Pi 3 too
but now they're in full supply and you
know you can get them pretty much
anytime you want the hard kernel devices
they're making them as they need to make
them and and they're there sometimes out
of stock on Amazon I haven't seen them
out of stock on their website hark
Colonel calm but I guess it could happen
and then they just keep making more and
they do have plans to continue
manufacturing the XE for for the next
several years anyways so it's great
board and we're checking them out
tonight so we've got the Raspberry Pi 3
up on your screen and we've got the
Odroid Xu for Q up on your screen as
well now we're gonna do some stress
testing we're gonna find out how these
actually perform as far as kind of the
the the benchmarks if you will we're not
getting into scientific benchmarks or
you know fully accurate benchmarks as
far as MIPS goes and things like that
but what we are doing is showing
side-by-side with the same tests how
these compare so we can see if one is
faster than the other so we're gonna
look at a stress test we're going to
also we're gonna check out the Ethernet
adapters and we're gonna learn about the
speed how many hashes per second these
things can mine as well of
cryptocurrency
so jumping over here to the Raspberry Pi
3 let's get out of what we were working
on here and oh and I want to I want to
leave the terminal open I'm gonna get
over here to the Odroid X u4q close out
of the stuff that I've got open as well
you see the both systems are very
responsive the Odroid x u4q to me
has more of at least out-of-the-box has
more of a desktop computer feel to it
the responsiveness is is like a desktop
computer as well but the operating
system feels very desktop computer ish
Raspberry Pi raspbian has done a
fantastic job of making it feel that way
as well but it it has a bit of a a bit
of us I don't know not quite a desktop
feel to it it's not quite as powerful
and it has a little bit of latency to it
so over on the Raspberry Pi 3 first
thing I want to test is we're gonna
we're going to run a probably a 30
second test using stress ng so stress -
ng and we're gonna tell it to use all
CPU cores and we're gonna test to iOS
we're gonna do virtual memory with 1 gig
blocks and we're gonna go for 30 seconds
and then we're get the metrics brief at
the end I'm gonna run that and we're
gonna jump over to the Odroid xu4 queue
and we're gonna run exactly the same
command so stress ng - - cpu 0 io 2
okay we're gonna let that run on the
Odroid xu4 queue jumping back to the
raspberry pi how are things looking
hasn't been 30 seconds yet there we go
okay so first of all we're looking at
BOGO ops
how many Bogle ops is it
what's a BOGO op again we're not getting
scientific you're a BOGO op is a bogus
operation okay okay so how many bogus
operations can these boards process on
their CPUs on their iOS and the virtual
memory that's what we're looking at so
it's not a scientific number it's simply
a comparative that we can take two
boards side by side and say you know
they operate with this many bogus
operations per second so looking at the
raspberry pi 3 how many BOGO ops do we
get per second so looks like CPU is
about 20 3.04 and the i/o is 23700
jumping back over to the Odroid xu for
let's see if we can bring that up a
little bigger oh and it figures it
wrapped it to the next line ah okay so
looking at the same thing 29 point oh
seven for the CPU and 53 47 for the that
is i/o sync let's jump back to raspberry
pi I got to run that again because it's
not I can't I can't do the side-by-side
comparison let's run it again same thing
now because we've specified CPUs zero
this is going to use 8 cores on this
particular device
and simply give us some numbers to
compare oh that is the time that's the
time BOGO ops I'm looking at the
completely wrong column look at the left
hand side they're 1906 for the CPU and
906 thousand for the i/o all right what
do we got here five thousand two hundred
and thirty-four for CPU versus the 1906
on the Raspberry Pi so we're about five
times Wow four times faster CPU and i/o
sink is 129,000 on the Odroid and again
how did how does it think it's nine
hundred and six thousand although this
is a different I Oh sink versus i/o
they're not the same test and we want
everything to be exactly side-by-side
comparable but we can't compare that
value because they're not comparable
value that could be a version of stress
ng that's giving us a little bit of an
off-putting value so we're gonna look at
just the CPU where CPU on the Raspberry
Pi is comparable at one 906 to the value
of five two three four on the Odroid X
u4q so again not scientific but it gives
us an idea that it's about four times
faster just in this bogus operations the
i/o stuff they're not a compare
comparative side-by-side so we can't use
that number but CPU is about four times
faster ok jumping back to the Raspberry
Pi let's test the network interface now
I've got a CL 100 from logic supply
connected to the same Gigabit Ethernet
switch as both of these devices it's
running iperf as a server that means I
can basically send packets to it and
receive them back and it will give me a
benchmark of my the network speed okay
so you have to have a receiving server
on the other end and it has to be
connected to a gigabit switch so on the
Raspberry Pi 3 let
type iperf - see and the IP address of
that iperf server which is 192.168.0.1
o1 we're gonna run ten simultaneous
connections and we're gonna run it for
30 seconds there we go
now over here on the other devices the
Odroid xu4 queue let's run that exact
same command i perf see 192.168.0.1 o 1
- p 10 - t 30 and notice i'm not going
to hit enter until the raspberry pi is
finished because that would be an unfair
benchmark because of course this one is
already using the bandwidth so we've got
to do this one at a time
raspberry pi should be wrapping up there
we go
I'm gonna hit enter on the other device
here and let that run while we look at
these specifications so at so basically
what we're seeing there is the bandwidth
megabits per second on all 10
connections and then the summary at the
end which is an average over 30 seconds
so we're getting ninety four point two
megabits per second now with the 100
megabit Ethernet adapter in a raspberry
pi 3 that's pretty significant that's 92
percent of its overall promised speed is
being achieved so that's pretty good
jumping over to the old Droid X u4q the
average is 926 megabits per second so
again we're getting about 92% of the
promised speed but in this case we have
Gigabit Ethernet so the speed of the
Ethernet connection is about 10 times
faster on the Odroid x u4q then on the
Raspberry Pi 3 so if you're using this
for a server if you're using this to
like run an ass box or something like
that this is definitely gonna be the the
PI killer for sure as far as that goes
another reason you would want that
faster network connection Plex servers
mm-hmm if you want to do multimedia
streaming that kind of thing that's much
much faster the final test that we're
gonna do here Becca because I know this
is running into the the geekery beyond
measure
but we are measuring it don't worry the
geekery is high with this one okay so on
each of these systems I've installed
cat5 TV miners you can find that on our
github cap cap 5 TV on github there's an
application called cap 5 TV - miners and
we're gonna mine monaro with each of
these boards so let's see how many
hashes per second each of these can do
so on each system I've got it already
installed this is the Raspberry Pi 3 I'm
gonna let that connect and get a couple
of jobs from the pool and over here on
the Odroid xu4 we're gonna do the same
thing
mineiro and we're gonna let that connect
and grab from the pool now it looks like
they're both connecting to hash vault
yep
so we've got the same pool we've got the
same application the same version
everything is exactly the same between
them just different hardware so this is
the raspberry pi 3 we've got two jobs
looks like I'm just waiting for any
hashes per second to be reported same
with the Odroid xu4 queue just waiting
for any kind of report as far as how
many hashes per second we're getting
this could take a couple of moments
we'll take this opportunity just to
mention a little bit about cap 5 TV -
miners that's a cool way that you can
support category 5 TV network because
you can install this on your computer
your SBC on whatever when you're not
using those devices it will mine monaro
and deposit it to category 5 TV so it's
a really interesting way for you to be
able to support the shows here at
category 5 while not actually spending
anything other than just using your
hardware and and possibly electricity
you know might bump up the electricity
bill a little bit if you're if you've
got a supercomputer and it would take a
really powerful with the SBC it's not
gonna be an issue you're not gonna be
running up a lot so that's the Raspberry
Pi we're getting to 8.2 hashes per
second 8.2 hashes per second it's not
high but it's something over on the
Odroid x u4q
we're getting 25.7 hashes per second
again a significant jump in performance
when it comes to the Odroid xu4 queue so
if you were looking at using an SBC for
mining
this is CPU mining granted so we're not
using GPU mining here because the
Raspberry Pi 3 just wouldn't be able to
handle that so with CPU mining we're
getting about 8 on the raspberry pi 3
and about 23 did I say on the xu4 25
almost 26 and there's the raspberry pi 3
it's gone down to seven seven point
seven the Odroid is holding its own at
twenty four point seven so definitely
getting better hash rates on that
mmm-hmm
all right so that's that's your Odroid
comparison the xu4 queue to the
raspberry pi 3 if you have any other
questions for us please do send those in
you can go to our website category-five
TV and click on contact us or of course
if you're watching this on line you can
comment below as well alright so we've
got a head over to the news room are you
are you ready to do this yeah first time
this is it's nice having you here
I haven't give me a lot of time to speak
tonight so this is your opportunity now
to do the talking
mm-hm and I'll operate the teleprompter
for you here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom is amazon planning to track its
employees a patent has been granted for
an ultrasonic wristband that can monitor
a workers every move data on soldiers
running patterns captured by fitness
apps Travie has been discovered to
detail the secret whereabouts of
military bases best
music companies that it will stop
selling CDs this July YouTube is
developing new policies to protect
itself from the fallout caused by
creators that are posting inappropriate
content these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
Linux bias
i'm becca ferguson filling in for sasha
Rickman this week and here are the top
stories we're following this week Amazon
it seems wants to keep a close eye on
its employees the firm's latest patent
suggests it's working on an ultrasonic
wristband that can monitor a workers
every move according to the patent data
about the position of the workers hands
is sent to the company in real-time
Amazon describes the technology as a
time-saving device but some have
criticized the system for going on us
for going a step too far in monitoring
performance sayang at the verge writes
while the patent describes this tech as
a time-saving system tracking workers in
this way it seems dystopian the amazon
patent was published by the United
States Patent Office
it describes ultrasonic tracking of a
workers hands that would be used to
monitor performance of assigned tasks
diagrams show how workers will wear
bracelets on either hand which contain
ultrasonic units the ultrasonic unit is
configured to be worn by a user in
proximity to the users hand and to
periodically emit ultrasonic sound
pulses States the patent these silent
pulses would then be picked up by
ultrasonic transducers placed around the
our house the patent also outlines a
feedback system which means the device
will vibrate to point the wearer's hand
in the right direction the patent
further states the management module
monitors a performance of an assigned
task Amazon sees the bracelets being
used by workers not only in its
warehouse but also outdoors and on cargo
ships the patent includes this
tongue-twisting statement existing
approaches for keeping track of where
inventory items are stored may require
the inventory system worker to perform
time-consuming acts beyond placing the
inventory item into an inventory bin and
retrieving the inventory item from the
inventory bin such as pushing a button
associated with the inventory bin or
scanning a barcode associated with the
inventory bin accordingly approved
approaches for keeping track of where an
inventory item is stored are of interest
the company insists that this is a labor
saving measure intended to verify that
correct items are being processed and to
avoid the need for computationally
intensive and expensive monitoring it is
not clear however if the designs will
ever actually materialize Amazon has
declined to comment on the patent way to
go first of all what a tongue-twister
indeed yes and long winded it kind of
you know I think about the fear of being
chipped and how companies in San
Francisco have you know pursued shipping
employees and and other places in the
world as well and how that's a big
concern to employees and human rights
and things like that and conspiracy
theorists yes yes I was thinking of
there was an episode of Undercover Boss
we watched together once and he went to
the shipping warehouse of his company I
can't remember what his company was but
he was undercover as a new employee and
he was being trained how to build boxes
and package items so he had to make the
right size box put the item in get the
address labels and I was
yeah and there was a certain quota you
had to have a certain amount of boxes
packed within every 30 minutes and he's
scrambling trying to get these boxes
made trying to fill them trying to get
the odds on he was getting more and more
stressed and the person who's training
him
she was getting stressed because she's
just like you're not going fast you're
gonna get fired so I was thinking if you
had bracelets on tracking how fast you
were going you would just be you would
just be so stressed out the whole time
because you knew you knew they were
seeing exactly how fast you're packing
the boxes and I don't know it just seems
like it would be a very stressful
working environment because you can
never just pause a moment and take a
breath there's two sides to it I didn't
really think of it that way but so
obviously if Big Brother Amazon my boss
is watching my hand movements using
these ultrasonic devices then it's like
they're spying on what I'm doing and but
the big run-on sentence that you had
about the inventory bins made sense in
that
well I deal with a little bit of
inventory and sometimes things get
misplaced and you don't really know
where they've gone and then finally you
find them and well you've missed the
sale so the one perspective that I
gleaned from that is that because of
this they'll know where that product got
placed yeah always
and in a warehouse like Amazon I can't
imagine how massive the inventory is
yeah I kind of if you've ever seen the
Canadian show warehouse 13 where the
warehouse looks like it's Maya
you couldn't find item if you could just
be sort of like okay lead the way
ah yes sad end of things might be it
might actually probably not cartoonish
but that would explain how they see it
as a Productivity thing yeah for sure
you're not gonna be wasting time looking
in all the wrong Isles for a box to take
you straight to it so that side of
things could for sure be if more
efficient I think what do you think
comment below let us know
the hidden locations of secret US
military bases patrols and forward
operating bases have been accidentally
revealed by the fitness app Strava
Nathan drew sir founding member of the
Institute for United conflict analysts
initially revealed the information on
Twitter noting that data from strophes
heat map makes the u.s. basis clearly
identifiable and mappable
in subsequent tweets Reuther was able to
identify a Russian operating area in my
min and guard patrol a Turkish Patrol
Afghanistan fo B's and a soldier running
routes Wow the revelation shows some of
the dangers inherent with the growth of
the Internet of Things and unrestrained
shadow IT Strava users are automatically
opted into sharing their data
anonymously on the heat map and must
manually opt out if they wish to not
share that data the version of strophes
heat map that was used in roses analysis
was released in November according to a
straw a blog post it takes into account
data from 1 billion activities and three
trillion latitude longitude points 10 DB
of data in total stratas privacy policy
knows that the data is anonymized but
that doesn't actually make it unusable
usable for hackers cyber attackers or in
this case possible military threats this
information should serve as a wake-up
call to security and IT professionals
alike that even seemingly harmless apps
such as a fitness tracker can prove
dangerous to your organization
enterprises need an IOT policy and it
must account for all devices used in
connection with the company not just the
ones handling sensitive data wow that's
scary we need to take a look at this
mm-hmm
talk to us about the Internet of Things
for those who don't know what exactly is
it how does it work well Internet of
Things as a term and and IOT is the
short form for it that basically
represents all of the Internet connected
devices that are not computers they're
not tablets they're not for surfing the
web they do other things using an
Internet
action so in this case it's it's their
the example is Strava z-- wearables for
fitness tracking Strava being the
software that could be on fitbit's and
everything else but but so Internet of
Things is anything that is connected in
in a way to the internet or even in this
case not directly necessarily the
Internet it gathers the data through GPS
satellite systems and then shares it on
the internet anonymously with the with
the provider yes so in any giving given
room that you're in there might be half
a dozen devices that could be tapped
into sure oh yeah not just the obvious
things that you would think yeah so you
think you're alone and private
necessarily yeah and then we so a good
example a very easy example of an
Internet of Things device would be like
Alexa or Google home or one of these
types of smart devices your phone is an
Internet of Things device which may be a
little bit you know it's more like a
computer but so think about that little
Alexa device and it's that's always
connected to the Internet or sharing
information with the Internet servers
and so but in this case it's really
freaky in a way because it tracks your
movements and and so because of that the
data is anonymous but what has been
found here is that because it's tracking
movements and mapping those movements
somebody who runs the perimeter of an
army base that's supposed to be secret
is drawing on a map this if they're
walking inside the Pentagon into secret
rooms and you know this kind of stuff
they're mapping creating a floor plan
anyone looking is thinking what's there
right exactly
and who's looking so let's let's take a
quick look if we may I've brought up the
Strava heat map and can you believe that
all those bright points are where people
are using their devices so should we
should we go so far as to head to
somewhere like Afghanistan which is
which is dark but you do see some points
where okay this is a little bit on the
scary side that there are
on the heatmap in Afghanistan that are
lit up mm-hmm and so you know this is
innocently you know we've we've worn our
tracker and are doing the jog around you
know wherever but what what can be seen
from above
now I wondered now this they may have
cleaned it up they may have removed some
of this stuff because this was a lot
brighter before which is a good thing
like maybe somebody has clued in to this
news story and said okay we need to
clean this up but observe what can be
could have been seen so it looks like
they have removed a lot of it and that's
great from a security standpoint but
like what is this stuff so here we've
got a building of some sort and just to
demonstrate what what we're talking
about somebody has been running around
in a circle here and you know you can
see the floor plan of the building
itself and you can you can basically
make out what what it looks like mm-hmm
and that's all because of the the heat
map and as I mentioned there it looks
like they've they've clued in to this
news story and taken us seriously and
and remove some of the stuff that should
have been hidden in the first place
which is good what exactly is shadow i T
shadow I T so in this case the term is
being used because your wristband this
Strava device is something that is not
necessarily approved by the organization
so it's an internet-connected device
that my boss has not approved me to use
on the network so shadow IT is like IT
infrastructure that exists within a
corporation or a company or an
organization that is not endorsed by and
approved by the policies in place by
that organization so for example in a
military base you would have a very
specific type of phone it would be
approved and it would have a very
specific set of applications installed
on it by the organization
and you're not allowed to bring your own
personal phone it's gonna be that one
so shadow IT on the other hand is stuff
that is not it has not gone through that
approval process and it's that wristband
that's monitoring your track tracking
your movements it's sometimes shadow IT
is a very good thing think about Google
a lot of innovations come out of Google
because they specifically set aside time
and say to their employees ok you've got
time to work on your own side projects
those projects in and of themselves are
technically shadow IT they're creating
infrastructures and creating projects
that are not really approved by the
blanket organization the company that
runs it and it's happening internally
but is not approved by other than just
the blanket go ahead and do it but then
innovation says ok now somebody's
created something awesome now it becomes
part of the in the actual IT
infrastructure of the company so it's
not always a bad thing
yeah and in the case of Strava where
users not aware that they need to opt
out if they don't want their data share
it is assuming that the anonymity is the
same that's it we think oh it's
anonymous so it's safe yeah
you don't necessarily clue into the fact
that anonymous is not necessarily safe
mm-hmm you may be tracking my data
anonymously but it is still drawing an
outline of a military base yeah so I
think it's more of a just a case of hey
it's in semantics where we've just made
a mistake and maybe it maybe it needs to
be I I don't know how you resolve
something like that well maybe just more
awareness raising awareness within the
staff maybe
yeah within the staff you're always
gonna have somebody that just doesn't
follow policy yeah and they're still
gonna have a device because they're
thinking I'm not losing steps mm-hmm
right maybe there should be an anonymous
you that they could opt out but if you
opt out do you lose your steps do you
lose because it's competitive so if I'm
if I'm jogging I'm getting steps steps
what would be the point of the fitness
app the fitness app is meant to promote
friendly competition between other users
so
so you wouldn't there'd be no point to
opt out because that would you lose the
purpose you lose that competitive nature
of the app itself so I think there's
that too yeah Sasha is always bragging
about her steps yeah and I look at my
phone and I'm like no the end of the CD
format might be insight as to major
retailers are set to push for change in
their relationship with the industry
through the end of this year according
to consequence of sound 89 million CDs
were purchased in all of 2017 paling
greatly in comparison to the 800 million
sold in 2001 the drop in popularity for
the format has already caused a shift in
how each store carries inventory with
target for example only handling a
limited selection now compared to nearly
800 titles at its height according to
Billboard best buy on the other hand is
going to get rid of CDs altogether by
July sources are suggesting that the
company's CD business is nowadays only
generating about 40 million dollars
annually while it says it's planning to
pull out CDs Best Buy will continue to
carry vinyl for the next two years
however keeping a commitment it made to
vendors sorry the vinyl will be
purchased merchandise with the
turntables from now on target is taking
a different route instead of getting rid
of music they are pushing to change the
payment structure for both CDs and DVDs
from the movie distributors the store
has sold music untold music companies
that they would like to switch to a
consignment arrangement with consignment
the inventory risk will shift back to
the labels themselves any pushback on
these new deals and sales terms could
hasten the demise of CDs they also note
that music companies are keeping a
watchful eye on what happens with DVD
sales as well before making any final
decisions the death of the CD I'm oh
it's coming yeah but you know me I buy
CDs physical CDs and then we rip them
yeah we only old school that way yeah
you can't really rip our
NLP yeah I mean you can but what's the
point it'd be a lot of work I suppose it
would be more of a collector's thing
like if young people who are used to
just downloading music through iTunes
and whatnot sure Amazon sells mp3's yeah
a lot of people I think like not having
the clutter because yeah yeah there is
that got rid of a lot of CDs over the
years just because they take up so much
space but if you were someone who liked
having a collection like being able to
show off a collection people would walk
into that room with the collection would
be like um these are CDs it's not cool
Robbie yeah it's not cool do you think
consignment sales for CDs are fair
though because that seems to me like
only the wealthiest record labels would
be able to afford to distribute CDs that
way true you know what I'm saying yeah I
think back to when we had a band and we
garaged boxes of CDs and we were on
consignment
yeah because you put the money out there
to get them printed and packaged and all
that so you would need a lot of money
invested just to send it out to all the
stores and there's the risk that they
won't sell as an independent it would
have made it impossible if everyone was
consignment as an image I'm sure record
labels aren't all sure that some record
labels are bigger than others so with
the smaller ones have difficulty
competing I think if they have to do
consignment beyond competition I think
it's just gonna put a lot of labels out
of business yeah plain and simple
because if you're not making the sales
online but men may be many to them are
maybe maybe they're just gonna pull out
of the store and say you know what we're
not gonna do consignment we're doing
well with mp3s or or iTunes yeah the way
that movie rentals have gone it's yeah
all online instead of going into a
brick-and-mortar store so could be akin
to that yeah yeah and then maybe for
those of us who like the nostalgia of a
physical CD they're just gonna have to
do it online anyways mm-hmm but it's the
inevitable evolution of retail yeah I'm
sure you'd still be able to order the CD
online and show up in a box on your
doorstep the fact is though we don't
have a CD player in the house
yeah so just one in the car that's it
yeah and that's just because it's
built-in but anytime we've needed to
play a CD it's either rip it or we
borrow my our daughter's boombox
right yes so that's it so and that's
usually when we first get a CD and we
want to listen to it before we've had a
chance to yeah exactly
before if we've had that time to rip it
exactly what is the last CD you
purchased and do you think vinyl is a
suitable format physical format to write
into the future as an alternative to
digital music let us know in the
comments below
interesting yeah vinyls back yeah it's
weird it they take a believin more space
in there people are that's really well
we grew up with vinyl but I think the
trend is that these are young people who
did not grow up with vinyl it's new to
them yeah it's a are you using a vinyl
player and is it new to you like is this
a new technology if you will or a retro
technology it'd be like our children
have never used no record player before
so imagine if if Tali our oldest
daughter our daughter were to ask for a
record player I think that's crazy
it'd be like me asking for one of those
big you know crank players to I don't
know what they're called if you were an
antique collector you Shirley Grahams
the gramophone that's that one yeah okay
YouTube says it's developing new
policies to deal with video makers who
damage the reputation of the website
chief executive Susan Wojcicki look
what's cookie yep yep said egregious
behavior by video bloggers cause
significant harm to the entire community
of video makers the site has been under
close scrutiny after video blogger Logan
Paul made a video which showed a dead
body in a so-called suicide forest but
many video makers are frustrated with
YouTube's policies in a bid to stop
advertisements appearing next to
controversial content YouTube has been
using algorithms to identify contact
judges or content that it judges not to
be advertiser friendly yet many of the
platforms biggest stars have complained
that their videos have nevertheless
being incorrectly marked as unsuitable
for advertising YouTube creators have
coined the words D monetization and ad
pocalypse to describe this problem the
platform has also been criticized for
what video makers perceive as a lack of
transparency about its policies in a
blog post missus wad G key that she
wanted to strengthen the trust that our
community places in YouTube through open
and frequent communication addressing
the so called ad pocalypse she said the
company was working on a more accurate
solution that would involve an increase
in human moderators to review videos
were also currently developing policies
that would lead to consequences if a
creator does something egregious that
causes significant harm to our community
as a whole she added when Logan Paul
uploaded the video he recorded in the
suicide forest YouTube retaliated by
removing him from the Google preferred
program which sells premium advertising
for the websites top 5% of video makers
this is a big problem for YouTube
creators because even us like we're
pretty benign here we don't get into
political debates we don't get into that
kind of stuff at least we try very hard
to avoid it yeah to be very neutral but
we last week alone so last week's
episode we were talking about open
Banking with our interviewee we were
talking about various topics like I had
talked about net neutrality and sure
some of them are you know maybe it's on
the fence but several of our videos got
flagged as non monetizable is what I'm
getting at so even as benign as our
statements here on the show are we're
dealing with it and we're having to I
had three videos last week where I had
to request a manual review by a YouTube
staff and it's work for me and it's
extra work for the creator and
and you've got to catch it because if if
I ever missed that they have flagged one
of my videos and each video cost me
money to make so if I ever missed it and
then they pull all the monetization from
that video I could lose a lot of money
that is meant to reimburse the cost of
creation and pay the rent and help with
the bills yeah
so it's a bad situation so yeah they
absolutely need to improve things for
sure now does YouTube have contracts
though did Logan Paul know that it was
not appropriate to post a video with a
dead body well I think that as a human
being it should be ingrained into our
our souls our spirits that that is not
appropriate
yeah in any case now there is a lot I'm
there are things like that on YouTube
but is it just that those videos have
been D monetized so they are allowed to
put graphic content because they're not
making money or is it more than maybe
they don't get caught because they're
not making money or because they're not
big enough to be noticed that's true too
yeah and so there has been a change
there too because if they're not big
enough they'd simply D monetize to the
channel so mangofox 70 has been
demonetised new every day has been d
monetized because we just don't have
enough subscribers on those channels and
so now we're losing money because
YouTube has put this into place Thank
You mr. Logan Paul for making them have
to make this change no but with Logan
Paul like it was said that these are in
violation of YouTube's polishers
so we accepted coins YouTube does have a
policy of no dead bodies in this case
I'm assuming I don't know that specific
so if yeah so if they're saying is in
violation of policy where is the policy
that said no dead bodies like well and
did Logan Paul should they have
youtubers sign a contract or in some way
acknowledge that they have read the
policies and know exactly what they are
I'm not sure specifically what policies
they're referring to but I know that
there are two policies that I can think
of immediately that would apply to
him first of all when you sign up for
YouTube like an account to create to
become a creator you have accepted their
terms of use so you're more than 13
years old you accept this this and this
and it's a big long document then if you
are going to become a YouTube partner
that is a monetizable partner with they
call them partners so we are a partner
with YouTube and so we are able to
monetize the video so when you see the
ads at the bottom of our YouTube channel
that helps to pay for our bills that's
through our YouTube partnership so we
have accepted yet another contract with
them with regards to our partnership and
that one is very specific that you will
not create content that is of a
controversial nature that is you know on
to really summer summarize or it can't
be anything that an advertiser is going
to find offensive or because it's just
advertised he knew better
he should have known better had he ran
the contract that he clicked YES on so
it to me it seems that it was at YouTube
had every right to
absolutely absolutely right now it's
hurting a lot of little guys so he's a
big guy how directly does it hurt the
little guys what's the I can only use
myself example like how can we blame
Logan Paul well it's easy to blame him
because that's what me because the
little guys aren't posted dead bodies no
just use what he did made you to YouTube
realize we need to make changes now
and so now part of that as you said I
just are they too little to get noticed
so now they've just cut off all the
little guys so all of the small
organization if they're it cuz if
they're wanting to use more human
moderators they don't want to be wasting
high-spec yeah
little channels where previously you
could post a video like that takes you
time and and possibly money to create
and you might have a couple thousand
views and you
get twenty bucks back yeah and that
helps to encourage you to grow and to
become better and to do more now they're
saying no no money for you so how many
subscribers do you but what's the
threshold before you can start making a
thousand now a thousand subscribers a
thousand subscribe I suppose in some
ways it's an incentive for the little
guys to get to promote their channel and
get their subscribers up there mm-hmm
absolutely yeah for sure yeah I don't
disagree with the choice I just it does
hurt a lot of people and I think that
they're they need to fix the system like
yeah the fact that our videos get D
monetized all the time now I would hate
to be somebody who was a little more
controversial than we are and you know
there are news channels that make their
living off of broadcasting the news and
the news is controversial but is that
included they get they get be monetized
I know that channels they have to show
censored video footage and things sure
so I I'm sure there's a difference
between what you're allowed to talk
about versus what you're allowed to show
oh absolutely yeah
but YouTube and Google use
speech-to-text
and then they run that through the test
the the filters and oh this person said
this this and this and so now it's
flagged and you cannot monetize that
video based on a robotic algorithm yeah
and so that is where it's hurting people
because it's not very accurate mm-hmm I
see again we welcome your comments below
if your YouTube creator it would be a
good opportunity for you to share as
well yeah how has it affected you big
thanks to Phil priest Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Becca Ferguson thanks Becca this is
category five technology TV it's been
fun having you here this week happy
Valentine's Day my wife this is what we
do on a Valentine's Day actually okay
truth be told
this is all pre yeah we pre-recorded it
for you
so that everyone could have the night
off including us so we're probably just
wrapping up dinner right about now yeah
it was delicious dear I've enjoyed every
every last bite I hope that you have a
fantastic week it's been fun having you
here it's been it's been years yes
literally years I'm trying to think had
you ever have you done a show in studio
D not that I recall not that I recall
either and we've been here since season
8 it's season 11 and we're coming up on
the end Wow almost nice to have you back
here hope that you all have a wonderful
week and looking forward to seeing you
again next week
take care
