welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 562 and this week
we've got a jam-packed show for you
first of all we've got internet also we
are gonna be talking about AI how it can
do some eSports and blow your mind with
how quickly a I can learn we're gonna
talk about the Odroid xu4 and off the
Odroid and one don't go anywhere it's
gonna be a fun show
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our life recording is a trusted only
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revived your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SS category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 dot TV
category 5 dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech is
here cat 5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash IA ib hey
there internet installer just arrived
and it's only about twenty-five after
four on wednesday so this could actually
happen in time for the show so i
actually i brought down the conduit here
the PVC pipe it goes down to our desk
and that's gonna look pretty good and
he's gonna climb up in here i presume
and bring in the the cable here so let's
check in with him and see what he's
doing
that's Jeff hey Jeff getting things
started alright
Jeff's official designation is Internet
connectivity guru aka magical genius
what do you got there this is a five
gigahertz and vic wa t radio excuse for
communicating across space and time oh
nice it has a built in flux capacitor
he's gonna get up on that roof on a
rainy day at least there's no lightning
today that's what they were calling for
got all this cable soon gonna be giving
us wireless internet how's that for
irony just an itty-bitty thing much
smaller than what I was expecting that's
cool and from here where I'm standing I
can see our tower there it is that's how
close we are beautiful alright so back
inside while Jeff is out there in the
rain on a tin roof he gave me the
numbers gave me the numbers I've got the
IP address everything else we've got
static IP I've got the router and the
Wi-Fi access point set up ready to go
now I'm gonna punch those in get them
all preset so the one we bring in the
cable we're gonna be up and running
cables down
oh you're videotaping me again eh I am
now yeah make sure you get my feeling
like this is gonna be a team effort
there's gonna be a wire coming out of
here in just a second here it's coming
through so big 47 I don't know if you
know about signal strengths this radio
47 decimal yeah it's very good so you're
like they don't give you 100 you've got
99 and 99 quality and capacity here 130
by 130 Meg's
so you're running at 98.2% right now I'm
gonna 30 Meg to the receiver on the
other end
yes but you only get to pay for it
that's the trick yes okay so yeah we can
plug in a cat5 and we're good to go
nice
it works there's so much dust on my
screen it looks like stars yeah
thanks Jeff we are on the air I think I
hear the heavenly semaphores
it reminds me of like the previous 559
episodes no this is like for real like I
am in the chat room I know it is so
great to see everybody we're all in the
chat room at the same time yeah okay
we'll be the entire time and yeah we're
getting pretty good speeds as you saw 10
over 20 which is awesome fantastic so
that was just checking in there the
lucky are you talking about all right
given the background well sure okay so
we had internet because you know it's an
Internet show and then we didn't have
internet there was a storm wipe dead or
Internet I don't know what happened but
we had to get new Internet it would be
fun if we like made something up like we
should have talked about oh there was
explosions yeah yeah things melt there
was tornado reports that day it was
there yeah and it was so beautiful and
blue sky we still never figured out what
actually no no exactly but we did
actually just yesterday we were able to
get the new company in to set up her
internet and now it's this amazing
internet it's about the same speeds we
had before but it won't drop because
it's direct line-of-sight yeah I
shouldn't drop out like LTE LTE does not
like that we're streaming HD video
through it no and the thing I'm excited
about is it's unlimited like we have
been limited on our internet in the past
oh so and Jeff you got it I I'm excited
I'm sitting here going 24-hour cat5
marathon are you in I'm there are you in
you in oh I do it okay listen to what
that means folks so LTE internet we were
broadcasting from Studio decent season 8
through an internet connection that is
built for cell phones right we had a
special kind of router with a special
kind of antenna sitting in our front
foyer a pointed at the tower across the
way right
worked fine yeah it dropped out a lot I
couldn't get into the chat we couldn't
maintain access to the chat room because
it was a little bit finicky it would
drop out and then come back so you
wouldn't notice necessarily because the
feed would stutter and keep going right
but the chat room would drop out we lose
access the website that we were trying
to show you on the air would stop
working right those kinds of things but
the problem with it and my wife said
this she said why are you paying so much
for something that barely works yeah
right why are we paying so much so with
LTE you're paying by the megabyte right
right so everything that you do
everything that we would download our
show on the show would cost us more so
to to think about installing Linux and
then running apt-get upgrade and apt-get
just upgrade oh well that's gonna cost
us more money you know so Jesus has a
chat room during a show yeah well that's
possible I mean with how talkative the
Foo is tonight it could really run up
our bandwidth expense but here's the
other thing that some folks may not
realize is that if you look at your
calendar so pull out your old school
calendar you got it hanging on the wall
I'm sure in your kitchen you got one of
these old things it's a piece of paper
that you flip up and it's got numbers on
it notice the Wednesday's last month I
think there were four Wednesday's yeah
the month before that I think there was
five was there were five Wednesday's
right so when there's a month where
there are five Wednesday's and we're
paying by the bandwidth using that month
now cost us exponentially more than the
previous month right and makes you wish
that there were some two Wednesday
months so when Jeff says it's exciting
that we have unlimited unlimited
bandwidth that means if we do five shows
in a month it costs the same as if we do
two two or twenty right cat5 yeah and
incidentally the cost per month now is
going to be a little bit less than hour
per week cost on LT that's mind-blowing
Oh
now we're a group of volunteers so and
when I say that I mean like we fund this
adventure through your contributions
through you shopping through our
partners those kinds of things through
your patronage so as such the more
something costs the harder it is for us
to maintain it at that level so now
we're able to get to the next level and
our cost is going to go down but the
repair the installation and everything
was very expensive so I will just appeal
to to our viewers to say even if you're
a patron even if you're contributing in
some other way perhaps look at our tip
jar and just say you know what I really
want to support this and I really love
what category-five is doing and just
throw a little something extra in the
tip jar even in spite of even in spite
of the fact that that we are already
supporting it yeah we're recording to
disk and this is something that Sasha is
just pointing out they're not seeing the
show because I didn't push the button
over there okay so incidentally now
you'll see this on demand afterwards and
that's okay
but incidentally I've had quite a day
the the Installer left about a half hour
before you guys got here yeah and so
it's been go go go I've had to rewire
everything because new router new DHCP
server new everything as far as
networking goes basically just the same
wires so so run run run I'm just gonna
zip over there and I'm gonna fire up the
feed we're gonna take a quick commercial
break and then everyone's gonna be able
to see what I'm talking about with our
new internet connections this is just
one of those really great reasons why
the chat room is so valuable to us
because very much so but notice that the
chat room is working because we've got
internet stick around we'll be right
back for a limited time get your hands
on limited edition shirts from the
category 5 TV Network these high-quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
count 5 dot TV slash shirts welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV
everything's working now and our
internet was up our stream was up
however because our IP address had
changed the server location had changed
as far as the internet was concerned our
website and our back-end infrastructure
was saying that we were down right
because it was still trying to connect
to the old location right which doesn't
exist anymore I've just made a quick
change to our back-end infrastructure to
point to the new IP address and now
we're up and going now you see alright
so we've got a great show planned for
you tonight so much stuff I'm Robbie I'm
Jeff
I'm Sasha just in case you were
wondering who are these crazy people on
my TV or my phone or my computer all
right what do you got for us well I
would like to share some amazing news
big news folks big news are you ready
for this I want an Oscar
[Applause]
my friends and my family what have you
got you seriously what actually this is
no this is not it's an Oscar obviously
yeah I do this show and this is an Oscar
actually what this is I've been going to
this Oscar party with the same group of
women since I was like well 16 maybe
oh yeah we all work the pizza together
and all the guys would take over the
restaurant in the cocoa to the to the
Oscar party and the person who gets the
lowest score on their guesses for the
Oscar wins they get the trouble here so
actually I lost so you're guessing at
who's going to win the Oscars and I did
so bad I guess with my heart on my head
yeah that's amazing this is the second
year that I've won the last time I won I
am was then by wind
I was 2016 when I was Sasha dur made us
but now I'm Sasha Rickman way to go Dave
there we go
you married a winner that's nice do you
know that I actually held in my hand a
real-life Emmy like really yeah because
my brother's an animator an Award an
Emmy award-winning animator so hey I did
get to hold it when I have participation
ribbon for crunch cross-country beat
once it's one of those ones where
everybody gets a ribbon yeah all right
now it's my turn
we are one of the top 100 tech podcasts
in the world yeah yes we are and who's
the number-one bald nerd that's me are
you still going I don't know should we
check yeah we got it
let's check yeah Google calm I can't
bring it up on your screen but you can
go to google and type in bald nerd
that's it yep you're still there boom
there I am the second picture that's a
charming shot to get rid of that second
guy and it's a stock image from from
Getty Images so we're
and then and then my website is the
first one that comes up here it's all
I'm just happy that when you google my
name pictures of me actually show up I
feel like that's magic that's cool when
I google my name it's some guy in the
states I think he's from California he's
been popping up cat5 TV shirts are still
available but that's another great way
that you can support us you can head on
over to cap five dot TV slash shirts and
just by buying a shirt you're thrown a
little bit in the tip jar at the same
time do you have to remember I want to
get that new one new kid on the block
chain you do you want to get that do you
want to get that fun I know yeah weird
on the show we'll do like if we're gonna
get Robert back on the show okay and and
when he was here yeah we're all gonna
have to wear remind me when I'm not on
air that I need to order it because this
is so a conversation that I have with my
kids every day like we're on our way
somewhere and they're like oh dad can
you do this for me
the thing that I could have done right
then and there at home but no we're like
in the car driving somewhere and it's
like oh you need to tell me that yeah
when I'm not driving what else we got we
have that effect to VR giveaway contest
is ongoing for just a limited amount of
time now because we have a limited
amount of games left to give away but
you can win by emailing contests at
category five TV let us know who you are
where you are how you're watching and
you know all anything you want to tell
us there you go have we heard from last
week's winner yet yes and he was tickled
pink that that he won and wasn't
actually expecting that we would read
his email really so I hope that that was
okay so just be careful what you're
right we might read it we may read it if
it's awesome here's what 80 Tours yes
that's right it's amazing incredible
just because you're gonna be playing
dead Effect 2 VR now that we have in
as of a half hour ago seriously I want
to say hi to the chatroom I do see
Albuquerque turkey and Bob Kay 54 Albert
3 the Foo Jhelum this is like romper
room right now as it is but I do want it
yeah it's good to see orange man again
as well and there's one from Jay Lim who
says Sasha it's nice to see you live
again yay and we're here in the chat
room Garvey's here and we're here Garbi
did he notice that we're here I was sad
when we couldn't be here we were here
but we were here we didn't get to you
yeah I wasn't leaving my deck there's
bull that day yeah and the next but then
the internet was down last week so yes
but that's a thing of the past
mm-hmm into the future I want to tell
them a little bit about Google play
music before we before we get on so
there's a thing that's called Google
Play Music that thing okay we're on
Google Play Music so what you want to do
is go to category 5 TV slash subscribe
you know if you have Google Play Music
installed on your device you can just do
a quick search for category 5 as well
we're going to mop new every days in
there as well yes so if you want to
listen the kind of works like a pod
casts exactly because it's not new every
day works really well as a podcast but
it does it's not quite a visual show
like category 5 is we do have shows
where we're more like talk centric than
we are demonstration centric so like
this week's episode will probably work
out really well as a podcast I think so
let us know yeah that's cool okay so on
with patreon now I was let's say hello
and welcome our new patrons this week
we've had a few who subscribed since
last week's show welcome and I've posted
a couple of vlogs and I'm doing all I
can to add some content just exclusively
to patreon now Michael was asking now
that you've got the new Internet yeah do
you think you could bring back backstage
pass I'm just gonna go ahead and hazard
a guess the answer's yes
you
yes absolutely and that's something that
comes to us from our patron Michael and
you can thank him for it later so what's
for those who are not patrons that are
going I don't understand what backstage
passes
sure why would I want that backstage
pass is an old system that we had in
place in Studio C back when we had hard
wired Internet yeah so what it allowed
you to do is switch the camera angle
yourself and with backstage pass you can
switch to the behind the scenes view or
the main view and be able to switch back
and forth between them a lot of people
would just bring up both right yeah so
we're gonna have that again why did we
have to cancel that it's because when we
were on LTE one more camera would have
been double the expense right for
broadcasting Plus because it was LTE it
might have dropped out a little bit more
as well so that could have been a
problem so hello to our new patrons we
appreciate you very very much and hey
I'd encourage you if you love
category-five and what we do all it
takes is one dollar a month and if you
can believe that you think okay a buck a
month that's nothing so why bother right
not gonna make a difference it's only a
buck a month here's the plain fact I
think there's probably not maybe there's
someone out there who says I can't do it
but and if that's you that's okay we're
still doing this for free but I think a
lot of us if not most of us can say oh
yeah I love category-five I love what
these volunteers are doing I can give a
buck a month maybe I can give more a
buck a month is that's I don't even have
to think about that I can do that easy
and if that's you which I think it might
be then please head on over to cap five
TV slash patreon and the reason that we
ask is because there's power in numbers
and if everybody or even if half of our
viewers were to just say yeah I can
commit to a buck a month right it's easy
right then Wow how things have changed
imagine everything we could do on the
show if even half the viewers gave a
black month I can't even fathom it but
for me as kind of the guy who's in
charge around here from a logistics
perspect
in all perspective yeah thanks are you
taking over the the overhead this matter
I'm delegating to you if we had that
happen so and this is going to happen I
know you're gonna make this happen when
we have that happen I will sleep better
and I everything will just be covered I
mean if we could just if we get
everything I get where we beginning of
one month all the way through to the
beginning of the next month without
Robbie losing sleep the world will be a
better place in a little it's a little
tongue-in-cheek but there's a lot of
stuff that we'd love to do through
category-five a lot of product
demonstrations that maybe that's too
valuable that the company won't send it
to us for free because they don't want
to invest a piece of product that's
worth X number of dollars so if we could
buy it and show you that product then
that's great but predominantly my main
thing is I want to be on top of
everything and you can help us get there
so when that means getting better
internet we can be there right when it
means having the ability to replace a
hard drive that's failing which is the
case that I'm you know that's something
that I'm having to deal with right now
we can just do it yes
so hey thank you not to talk all about
you know and it's not a big Athan or
anything like that but if you can give a
dollar a month please consider going to
cap five dot TV slash patreon and don't
delay do it today speaking of awesome
shows like our show can we talk about my
new other favorite show what is your new
ugt on us on their favorite show I'm not
on that other show you're the one who's
on new every day
I just spreading the chef's wealth the
joy of tax I wondered if he oh the what
she just she just let the cat out of the
bag right there I thought we were still
talking about Jeff and then she just
dropped a bomb the joy of Texas so much
fun right okay so Dave and I started
watching it and Dave's paused it in in
the middle of the show and said you need
to tell Robby about this thanks Dale
there you go okay so I then I came to
the studio and I said Ravi there's this
new show and you'd already seen it but
okay I'm not because of the hearing I'm
not undershirt understanding what the
last word are you tax isn't like Tec HS
or tax it's a pun look I'm not hearing
the last word
it's te CH like tack I soon but I was
like maybe it's texts like it's you're
texting on your have you seen it have
you seen it Sasha tell us what it is
alright so it's two friends with
incredible accents and they show they're
British I believe incredible accents and
one of them is old school doesn't like
gadgets and gizmos or it doesn't like
likes to do all and he's better about it
and he's hilarious hilarious but he's
bitter about oh yeah because then he's
other like his friend the other guy he
has everything I want a smoke everything
he has like inflatable snow shoes
so the nathan challenges old tech versus
new tack and and sometimes old tech
would true but it is the banter between
them their chemistry is similar to ours
you know it's incredible there there we
don't make fun of one another as we
should but i feel like they permission
piece right there Krista and I had this
great banter going on where she was
constantly catching me off guard with oh
yeah oh yeah on the joy of text though
they like he will just blast him with
something that you don't see coming it's
hilarious
so they take tech and they make it so
much fun and and we could even learn a
lot from it I think I think in our
presentation so an Internet show like
this as well it's on Netflix okay so
that's a produced show yes oh it's great
awesome it's yeah it's the most fun go
check it out that joy of te CH s another
I suppose new Netflix show or at least a
new discovery for me
is look-alikes oh that's a lot of fun
but totally different genre and it's fun
but it's it's probably a bit more and
niche like you've got it you've got to
have that kind of sense of humor I like
to kind of dry British humor so like
that for me is a lot of fun what it is
is that they've formed an agency of
look-alikes who look like celebrities
but what makes it is the guy who is a
Ricky Gervais is so bang on with the
mannerisms with the styling the styling
actually it's not him like that you can
see these you can spot these subtle
subtle differences you know that it's
not him but if you saw him on the street
you might think oh my goodness it's
Ricky Gervais right or oh my goodness is
Gordon Ramsay and they just have that
like it's definitely they they're
look-alikes they definitely are but the
the Ricky Gervais character is so bang
on with the mannerisms as well as the
look so it's quite convincing and quite
humorous so you gotta check that one out
to at least give it a chance give it a
couple of episodes called look-alikes
there's a show called explained or
things explained and it's old it comes
on Netflix new episode every Wednesday
and it goes through a myriad of
different topics it explains things like
the stock market or okay what did it do
it did recently eSports it's done like a
like just really random 20 minute long
episodes strange for Netflix like an
education piece to help you understand
it's like now I know what eSports are I
did not know before then we're gonna be
talking a little bit about eSports
coming up now you will be able to inject
lots of great information that's true
cool that's strange for Netflix to have
a weekly show a weekly show every
Wednesday speaking of learning Jhelum is
in the chatroom and mentioning that
we've really fired up their desire to
work with a Raspberry Pi oh yes we have
we're a little bit we've got a lot of
great features coming up not just for
the PI but for the pine a64 I'm hoping
to get a rock 64 as well to do some
experimenting with and Jeff Yama what
did you bring with you today
I brought my old ride euro droid yeah so
it looks just like my Odroid it does so
here's the back two years ago or so
uh-huh we install or maybe it's three
years ago when we did our back in the
400 series episodes we did the retropie
yeah and this is gaming retro gaming on
like a raspberry but yeah so I set it
all up and we played for a couple of
weeks and then we did an episode about
Plex Pi it was like oh I want Plex PI
but I only had the one Raspberry Pi oh
so I swapped out retropie for the Plex
PI and we've just been doing Plex ever
since and so you know it's so why not
get a mammoth two gigabyte ram yeah
eight core yep Oh droid xu4 yep so yeah
so anyway that's what I did and I said
okay it's not I want to get my retropie
up and running but wait retropie is for
he is in my name yeah it's for Raspberry
Pi right so what are you can do on an X
you for so on the X you for I was
looking online to see is there way to do
it and so if I install Debian yeah as
the base operating system then I can
there's some workarounds where I can get
the retropie working however I stumbled
across a website yeah I want to refresh
my memory what it's called
it is Odroid arena comm nice they have a
complete out of the box download for
your SD card so that you load it and
rate of the image you created on your SD
card and it's done nice and so it's
called retro arena edition and it is
like retro pie is there I put it onto
128 gig SD card really oh really
fired it up flawless
absolutely flaw for manoeuvre psa's a
raspberry pie go
well here's I don't know you don't know
I I misplaced my ROM file No
so I've gotta find oh so you're just
sitting there navigating through the
systems like yes and 64 it was so
painful
yeah so yeah I've got to find my roms
I'm hoping to get it up and running this
weekend because like a gaming rig school
is done for kids as of tomorrow hi my
kids are like what do we do for the long
weekend cuz it's all you what weekend is
Canada we Day weekend so I'm like we're
gonna game but I gotta find my roms and
what's this something else here yeah so
I was looking on Amazon because we have
him what can I just interrupt for just
once I shouldn't tell you that I would
rather it be named the retro droid retro
droid thank you continue I've been it's
been a week on retro droid why not just
call it retro I know but it's Odroid so
retro droid right retro droid try to say
that more time retro droid because we
have a PlayStation at home and the issue
I found with my retropie before is we're
using the PlayStation controller and
your PlayStation Flyers oh yeah
retro Phi is not working so I said I'm
gonna go out and buy some new controller
okay that ran the Crawfords of this it's
absolutely bring this up on the screen
Jeff this is amazing it's from matric
home I found it on Amazon it was 15
bucks 15 bucks bucks Canadian no and
it's absolutely 15 bucks Canadian that's
like four dollars I know it's a stunning
ps3 controller it works the same it's
got a slightly different feel but the
hand hole is so much better it does feel
nice yeah you can't see it but the body
itself has like that soft feel to it mmm
whatever that fill key smooth yeah
whatever it is that they put the coating
on there's so good in the buttons and
they like everything about it it's just
smooth he's loving my or I will take
this over a ps3 controller
any day I'm gonna put this in our store
cat 5 dot TV slash we're gonna have to
go cat 5 TV slash Odroid sure
and we're gonna put it in there for you
now this is a Bluetooth controller yes a
ps4 of PS ps4 what are you gonna do with
your Odroid because the Odroid doesn't
have bluetooth I'm gonna have to get a
bluetooth dongle just a dumb girl yeah
but in the meantime I can use the cables
because it comes with okay you can just
go USB yeah you know what a dongle on
Amazon like just a little USB thing is
like $4.99 maybe 999 if you want all out
yeah that's sweet it does feel really
good that feels better than the ps4
controller that I have this is what I
imagine robots feel like well it is a
robotic controller it's electronic so
yeah we want a report after the after
the break
and I let us know how it went how I want
to know how does the Odroid xu4 Q
perform in n64 mode like I know that the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ we found it performs
quite well but the Odroid xu4 is 8 cores
with 2 gigs of ram right so when I had
the retropie up I tried playing Zelda
and 64 ocarina of time yes and it was
very buggy and slow some of the graphics
weren't showing up and it was painful
that's the like if there's a game that
epitomizes my childhood gaming it's that
and so I can't wait to play it on here
I've just gotta find my ROM oh I hope it
works so well yeah brilliant
so yeah well we've got to take a really
quick break thank you for sharing that
stuff with us tonight Jeff go to cat 5
TV slash Odroid to pick yours up when we
come back we've got a couple of exciting
things to talk about yet oh yeah we were
mentioning that we're gonna be talking
about AI in eSports it's true and I'll
know in a minute
hey I in eSports yep and we've got some
sad news from Odroid as well we've heard
the happy news yeah it's got some sad
stuff coming up stick around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
to category 5 technology TV lots of good
stop lots of good stuff we were talking
about dry before the break yes we were
talking about some eSports that's right
or rather we were teasing about some
yeah we still don't know what we're
talking about how some AI fits into it
should we should we start yeah what's
the open a eyes artificial intelligence
bot is going to be competing in esports
at the international 8th in august this
is some big crazy di news why and here's
the thing ok before I lose the chat room
because windows wants to update thanks
it lets me turn it off for the next 8
minutes let me just read some I'm just
gonna see in this phrase and discuss ok
so there's a game called dota 2 and it
requires basically that you need to
understand what's happening in the game
like chess and then some like chess will
be done after 40 moves this can take
thousands and thousands of moves in
order to complete a game right
well here's the thing open a eyes got a
bot that is learning to play dota 2 and
is planning to compete at the
International
August I like so we've heard about AI
playing games and competing against a
human player with chess and things like
that but with dota 2 you've got like
five on five gameplay yeah so five
humans versus five a eyes right
first are going at it I think it's fair
to say that it's competing okay why this
is where things are getting crazy Sasha
because you think about okay well we're
gonna be playing AI and you know when I
was a kid I played a fellow on the
Nintendo Entertainment System and I
played I played against the AI right so
that's how I visualize AI now let's
think about this for one second in
context okay so this is one of the
researchers who says if the AI can
explore it will learn given enough time
now how long does it take to learn a
game like dota 2 a lot
the bots learn from self play meaning
two BOTS playing each other and learning
from each side success and failures so I
learn my bots will learn from the other
BOTS failure as well as my own failure
and so we're learning at a pace that
humans already can't do the bots are
being powered by 256 GPUs Wow 256 GPUs
that's a hundred and twenty eight
thousand processing cores oh he's huge
so the researchers looked at that amount
of power and said let's turn up the
speed a little bit Jeff let's see what
happens if we turn up the speed they
increased the ai's gameplay during
testing to the equivalent of are you
ready for this brace yourself because
we've talked about AI in the past they
increased the speed of the AIS learning
capacity to the equivalent of 180 years
of learning what 180 years of non-stop
gameplay in just one day
oh come on in one day those ai's learned
at a pace that it would take a human 180
years that's pretty rough this is game
point and it's going to compete against
will compete it's gonna destroy yeah
violate which is can I know what makes
this a little bit scary at the same time
so over the course of the trial so while
it was while they were training these
they trained them for four weeks right
four weeks that's no time at all right
the bots clocked over five thousand
years of gameplay great
they're like the Masters now we're
looking at this behind can you imagine
this is like having eternal life and
being able to play dota 2 for that
entire time you'd go crazy but the bots
don't so we think of this in context of
the games think of this in context of
artificial intelligence in general right
with the learning capacity to take on a
task that a human finds difficult like
driving sure like driving like put AI
into that and let it learn from its
mistakes yeah so if it can learn like
that how quickly will AI be able to
create its own ascension maybe not
sentient but sentient emulating BOTS uh
you know what I bet you there's AI that
can that's there now we just don't know
about it allowed to know about yeah
people they're gonna shut us down if we
say that Jeff you know what let's be
real like when you have that kind of
capacity mm-hmm was 128,000 course yeah
like the sky literally is the limit like
there's nothing that can hold you back
and if that is not used responsibly yeah
yeah then we are in trouble as a human
race like they're just using that
capacity for learning a difficult
computer game budget if they're like hey
let's put that into running the stock
market and somebody's gotta earn 120
manipulating this yeah
and suddenly it's like oh here's the way
you should invest your money like there
is a lot of potential and a lot of
danger in this type of artificial
intelligence with artificial
intelligence on task of you know helping
reduce greenhouse gases and coal solve
the cancer thing what yeah let's get to
I feel like that's already been done
what continue probably has I want to say
like six months ago or something there
was something where AI was used to
figure out how to deal with famines or
crop growth in the desert or something
well that okay so now we have to listen
to the AI and actually do it is the next
step yes I do want to bring it back to
the story for a second because I don't
think that it would be as interesting
watching the five AI compete against
five humans as it would be to see five
competing against another five do you
think that might happen I think that
would be way more fun to the
International and see what actually
takes place here's the question though
so because it's competing yeah if it
well let's when it wins yeah do they
declare it the winner or are they gonna
say hey that was kind of a fun the fun
expansions AK but the real winner is
right yeah because I you know eSports
2018 we give it to the computer and
every year thereafter I think though
that we're at that time where artificial
intelligence things like Sophia they're
not they're not really she's not really
a citizen
yeah we've given her citizenship but
it's really just it's a fun kinda like
we're playing with AI exactly like you
can play a game here yeah yeah so I
don't think it's I don't think that's a
fear yet yeah we'll see all right let's
move on to the Odroid yeah yeah jeff has
got an Odroid xu4 cue which I love but
the xu4 cue of course is running the
Samsung Samsung processor the X Neos
Exynos X something like that
in there 55422 anyways so it's it's
still a very very fast board it's yeah
and it works really really well but it
is kind of you know it's a few years
yesterday's technology as far as the
processing goes so the n1 was it was
announced from Odroid so this is a
little bit earlier I think I mean they
already started working on development
units in 2017 they shipped out I think
about 30 development boards to variety
of people in the community so that they
can start developing for it right and
it's doing really really well getting a
lot of momentum getting some community
support behind it yeah I mean it's crazy
it's a hexa-core processor plus dual
core ARM Cortex processor 2 gigahertz
like so I think it's like multiple
processors with many cores it's got the
Mallee T 86 860 MP for GPU so that's
gonna be better graphics out of the HDMI
maybe 4k from that when I would expect
but the key thing about this board 4
gigabytes of RAM mm-hmm yes 64-bit it's
got 2 SATA 3 ports native SATA built
right into the board so you're not
having to use riser cards or anything
like that you don't have to buy
accessories it's got emmc which is
typical of you know you've got that on
the xu4 as well which is great so you
don't have to use microSD but you can
use microSD on the n1 as well as the
extra four it's got USB 3 it's got USB 2
it's know and it does say in the
specifications that if it has 4k output
as well not likely because bluetooth is
is considered like a peripheral
something that you would add like like
Wi-Fi now Ethernet though yeah so I
don't know the answer to that maybe but
here's the thing it's really exciting
about the end of the board itself it's
like yes bleeding edge is gonna be super
super super fast with AXA core processor
yeah and four gigs of ram but they've
cancelled it
so we're all getting really really
excited about the new Odroid a 10-1 and
they had to cancel it and this comes
about due to supply issues with RAM they
wanted the four gigs of RAM and they
can't get the modules there they have to
have based on the processor
they have to have four modules so they
have to be for one gig modules in order
to operate this board in order to
manufacture it well the only modules
they can get are 512 so they're gonna
end up with a 2 gig board which is half
of what they were promising and really
is on par with the Xu for Q which
already exists yeah and so why would we
do this new board maybe for the SATA but
really I mean that's not what people are
looking forward to so that's upgraded so
they've just cancelled it all together
those who got the development units can
still use them I guess that's cool
yeah but that said they are switching
things up they're going back to the
drawing board and the n2 is slated for
this fall ok so we should see that one
this fall we're going to see production
units going out hoping around September
the n2 and that's gonna be a game
changer I think for SBC's single board
computers it's quite a bit bigger but
still small and blas nes bc out of the
water as far as performance goes yeah
really looking forward to that so
unfortunately the n1 is done maybe 42 is
gonna be the one maybe one day they'll
be good supply and just jump into the
end - I'm supposed to at the end make
their own RAM well no I mean board
manufacturers they they work with you
know they're gonna buy chips from chip
manufacturers their RAM from Ram
manufacturers and right and all of the
components come from other manufacturers
and then they design how it all works
together right that's good not everybody
is Apple Apple just but Apple doesn't
answer I mean even Foxconn builds their
devices ok so and the chips are not
Apple chip correct but a lot of apples
hardware they make like I've got a
friend who is his entire department all
they do is find a way to make the fans
better there you go but they're not
Apple fans yeah there are they've got
the patent oh ok yeah
but they might be manufactured by
someone else no I don't buy somewhere
else but yeah but designed by and and I
know some people are saying oh but there
are Apple processors in the the MacBook
and Suffolk or the air but yeah they're
working toward that but ya have to get
part like the iPhone is correct you know
and they're Macs are currently Intel but
they're switching to their own thing but
I'm sure it'll be manufactured somewhere
else I just yeah I just I'm sad that
Odroid had such a great unit still do oh
yeah and I think we're all still excited
about the end - yes yes just now we got
to wait a little longer like you asked
is it was it the fall for the n1 I don't
think it was I think it was meant to
come out sooner was it okay yeah but now
we're gonna see the end to in fall the
FEU says there's only three Ram makers
three I would have thought there would
have been more Kingston technology is
definitely one of those yes all right so
we've got a head on over to the newsroom
are you ready I am I am indeed here are
the stories were covering this week in
the category 5 TV newsroom the Reserve
Bank of India has given the country's
banking sector a hard deadline to get
Windows XP out of its ATMs after failing
safety tasks dozens of carbon monoxide
alarms sold via Amazon and eBay have
been taken offline Tesla plans to
downsize its solar production the
company will cut 9 percent of its
workforce close more than a dozen
installation facilities and end its
partnership with home depot pornographic
images are appearing in Super Mario
Odyssey these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
aren't you your terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five dot
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias I'm
Sacha Rickman and here the top stories
recovering this week the Reserve Bank of
India has given the country's banking
sector a hard deadline to get Windows XP
out of its ATMs June 2019 that's more
than five years beyond the May 2014 end
of support for the OS in a notice to the
nation's banks issued last June 21st
2018 the Reserve Bank makes it clear
that XP and other unsupported operating
systems have been on its mind since at
least April 2017 when it issued a
circular outlining its concerns in spite
of previous adverse or advisories
instructing banks to put my migration
plans in place things have not moved
fast enough where the RBI the notice
said this the slow progress on the banks
part in addressing these issues has been
viewed seriously by art the IRA RBI
adding that the vulnerability of rising
from the banks ATMs operating on
unsupported versions versions of
operating systems and non implementation
of other security measures could
potentially affect the interests of the
bank's customers adversely
in other words customer accounts could
be affected in a negative way a
timetable presented to the banks says
that they must reach 25 percent
depreciation by September of this year
50 percent by
December and 75% by March next year the
timetable also requires banks to
implement anti skimming technology and
to use white listing on ATMs so that
only approved software can run on them
banks have been instructed to file their
compliance plans by the end of July 2018
mmm I like this you like this
I like this that banks are running
Windows XP Jeff know it that's not what
I like I like the fact that they're
saying let's get it together
yeah come on smart yes like you would
think for banks to be that far behind
with all of the issues that have come as
a result of the unsupported XP and some
of those things it makes me wonder like
are they did they bother doing those
security updates on Intel chips on their
computers to get rid of those issues do
they match it on Windows XP yeah like so
I like this is it a is it a global
problem when there's an ATM issue well I
have to presume that this is not just an
ATM issue I know they must have other
systems that are operating in their
network but the ATMs are fairly
independent of the kind of global scale
of things because they connect into
their internal infrastructure and then
that infrastructure takes care of things
right think about what would happen if
one of these systems got say a
ransomware attack or some other form of
attack which was implemented that's true
but you've also got the fact that these
the ATMs have a vulnerability because
they are running such outdated software
yeah are connected to your banking
information oh yeah my like the personal
information of the customers of the bank
right look personally because I'm here
in Canada so I'm okay from the Indian
Bank I presume you would think if you
have any offshore investments over there
any my offshore accounts Jeff that's
they're doing variable work they don't
want the five bucks in my account but if
somebody's got a big account I'm safe
from identity theft because I've looked
at my bank statement I'm wondering
whether or not there's a better
operating system they could switch to I
wonder if any suggestions okay for
of all here's the thing what prevents a
bank from upgrading all of their ATMs to
an operating system that is supported
what makes it so pay all the money yeah
it's still yeah yeah yeah but what do we
have to do no but what are we gonna do
just install something else on them no
these are these are proprietary bits of
hardware right that have this built into
the firmware it's probably like some
like like I think of a Weiss terminal
like you know like one of those little
boxes that you just plug a monitor into
and it's not quite a computer but it has
XP on it I'm not I'm not buying it about
this I know
no 2014 buddy 2014 2014 was AOL yeah I
get that but they said even in a
circular memo from 2017 so a year ago
they were told sure get it together
they're done now they're not doing it so
now they're being compelled into a
drop-dead date but the cost to upgrade
the software now we have to take into
account we also have to replace all the
ATMs so it's going to be time and money
right both of those guys with all your
offshore accounts like it's cost so it's
it's it's time and money for the people
who like own the banks that own the ATMs
right to implement a new operating
system that will again eventually be
unsupported so they're just trying to
drag it out the windows upgrade paths
right exact so back to your question my
question is could they not come up with
an idea for an operating system that
perhaps wouldn't be quite so prohibitive
would a Linux based ATM network write a
better answer I think the answer is yes
but how much you want to bet there isn't
software for it I will bet you all of
the money in my offshore accounts okay
since you asked but how yeah so my guess
is there probably is not a commercial
version of banking software that is
surely Lennox based right jump that that
as a fact there must be I don't know
because I don't work for banks and I
don't do that kind of thing but there
must be Linux paste what you would say
TM software but it must be in how many
versions could you I mean like I between
work and all the stuff I involve with
many different banks they other than the
graphics they all run exactly the same
way yeah I'm sure maybe there is but
look at hey why don't thanks
use the next runner ATM so somebody
actually I mean the first thing is that
from that is doesn't why don't we
haven't propre read this article so I
don't even know what it gets into but it
I really honestly think that the next
story story should be that the banks in
India are switching to Linux operating
system ATMs I think that that would be
their strategic move says banks in India
and Brazil have started to move their
ATM systems special versions of Linux
fantastic that's happening yeah when I
think of India and I'm not this is not
stereotyping or anything like that this
is just it's a fact that there is a lot
of software piracy in India yes yeah and
so when I think of the cost of
implementing like a Windows 10 embedded
environment or something I just it
doesn't seem as there's not as much
motivation to do that as there would be
for something like Linux where I can get
a piece of hardware that I can put free
or economical software because I imagine
it's probably got some proprietary
aspects into my ATMs and then upgrade
and keep upgrading because unlike
Windows Embedded I I can upgrade the
software and not necessarily have to
replace the hardware every time right
interesting
hard to know the answer to that are ATMs
using Linux where you're from I'm sure
that it's possible maybe that proves it
because if banks in India and Brazil are
starting to transition to then it must
exist
well there's your saved all of your
offshore bank money because you do oh
you wonderful did I win all yours
no I don't have one that's kind of my
point as well this here is a scary story
dozens of carbon monoxide alarms sold
via Amazon and eBay have been taken
offline after failing safety tests
consumer watchdog which said some of the
alarms seems identical to the ones that
had failed tests in 2016 3 of the
unbranded devices made in China
repeatedly failed to sound when carbon
monoxide was present the watchdog said
that there are flaws in the current
product testing system it advised anyone
owning one of the alarms to replace it
immediately consumers should contact the
company that they bought it from a fret
request a refund it said most of the
devices are unbranded with no model
number but all resemble the picture
shown Alex Neal the managing director of
home products and services at which said
it's extremely concerning that these
unsafe alarms were being sold by major
retailers
when household names such as Amazon and
eBay are selling products that could put
consumers at risk it's it's clear that
more must be done by businesses and the
government to proactively identify
potentially dangerous products and stop
them from entering people's homes amazon
says all sellers must follow our selling
guidelines and those who don't will be
subject to action including potential
removal of their account the products in
question are no longer available
that's something what's sad is that
there are people out there with carbon
monoxide detectors that they really just
trust right how do I test a carbon
monoxide detector now smoke alarm
obviously you can swipe a match and let
it off right we can do with exactly what
you can't really shouldn't have a test
button yeah what if it's faulty the test
button just makes a noise when you press
the test button but does it make a noise
when there's carbon monoxide present
that's the thing you can make something
that just makes a noise
oh yeah the button works yeah exactly so
is it is it your car that produces
carbon monoxide so you're saying hotbox
your house with the exhaust from your
car detector off an extension cord put
it at the back of your car right suppose
you could try that wait right there you
go simple idea is my friend make a
cardboard box type unit yeah I have a
little bit of a problem with people
blaming Amazon and eBay in the fact that
it's it's not their fault sure they do
they can't stand behind every single
product that you can buy on Amazon they
can't their Amazon they're the I don't
know how to say it but they're just the
spot you buy them here's the thing about
Amazon eBay
now eBay is more like a marketplace of
garage tailors like so used Amazon now
they're change and I'm of course but
Amazon we look at it as a store we look
at it as an online big-box store right
now what we need to do is we need to
realize as consumers that that is not at
all
the business model of Amazon right the
business model of Amazon is if Jeff has
a product that Jeff wants to sell he can
ship it to Amazon's warehouse and put it
on Amazon's website and they will sell
it for him and he will make a profit
Amazon's like the mall their stores in
the mall right kiosks in the mall right
it'd be a good exit like yeah yeah like
the mall anybody can go into the mall
anybody can sell their wares from the
model it's not some malls fault yeah
that the carbon monoxide detector
doesn't work it's the fault of the
vendor themselves well absolutely
more than manufacturer themselves
there's so many times we the consumer
there's yes here's we went to the local
comic-con
and at the comic-con they were selling a
lot of made-in-china goods that were
obviously off-brand and probably you
know you hear about things like the
hoverboards that explode the battery
right yeah and those kinds of well we
know that those are off-brand and don't
buy those ones because they probably
have that issue right now they had
products that had that yeah that looks
like it
maybe contains lead right I'm concerned
about that so let's not let's not go
there so right as a consumer I need to
look at Amazon as that marketplace where
I need to be a little cautious a little
a little leery I need to be careful also
for counterfeit goods oh yeah we love
the sjcam yes and if you follow our
links through our online store cat5 TV
slash action cam you're gonna get a the
proper product now there are a lot of
vendors who have brought out knock offs
because sjcam didn't patent the design
right so there are a lot of knockoffs of
this product now if you get that
knockoff it may work okay it's not gonna
be an SJ cam but I use that as an
example that's not a safety issue but
what if it's a fire alarm what if it's a
carbon monoxide detector and it looks
like a legit carbon monoxide detector
now I as a consumer can be cautious of
that and realize hey there's something
off about this or at least when I get it
in my hands there's definitely something
off about this but what I find that
person who is renting an apartment and
my landlord is a stingy landlord and he
and they bought the cheapest one off of
Amazon how do I feel safe how can I be
safe
exactly I mean people will take the path
of least resistance if it's less money
they're gonna order it right that in a
lot of cases so there needs to be a
regulation not be not on Amazon but
somehow on like the person themselves
like you you'll have to buy a carbon
monoxide tester that's like FDA approved
or whatever it would be like just maybe
you know yeah I could print the sticker
at a print shop right throw it on - ah
you can't win no like here's the reality
of the situation we live in a world that
just like the rise of fake news because
we live in a social media world where
everything has to come out like that and
if you don't hop on that piece of
information you're not the first news
outlet to get it out there and so that's
why we have all this fake
News that's anything it's the same deal
with mass consumer products we have so
many changing products that are coming
out that people like I've got to get
this on my store I'm gonna sell it
because that's the most amazing product
people get a buy it up I want to be the
first one out there going back to the
beginning of to April 2017 you look at
the fidgets spinner craze yeah how many
fidget spinners all sudden showed up in
different kinds and different models and
I mean that of a sudden we and a lot of
them had led well yeah exactly there
wasn't anyone patent so people just hey
I'm gonna make my own spin spinner and
market it and that's the way things
aren't so you've got companies like
Amazon you've got companies like eBay
you've got companies all over the place
that are saying I'm gonna take this
product because somebody's coming to me
they're gonna sell it to me super cheap
and then I'm gonna turn around and sell
it for super cheap drive traffic to my
website it's all about supply and demand
and as a human race we want more we want
it cheaper we want it faster and so we
are predicating a market that is going
to be unsafe because we don't take the
time to really research we want it now I
blame us so let's make a choice to
select very carefully those safety items
absolutely we heard about and not to
milk this thing like crazy but we heard
about people buying knockoff unsafe
solar eclipse glasses yes well yes this
is a safety item so when we hear these
kinds of things maybe with safety items
we just need to be a little smarter and
say you know what I'm not gonna cheap
out on that this is a safety thing
except I don't want carbon monoxide to
take out my family I'm gonna go to the
store and buy a proper it's approved
leave that consumers responsibility to
do the very best they can yep and at the
end of the day I think the big issue is
we don't have proper regulations for
international sales
we have domestic regulations but when it
comes to buying stuff overseas or from
another country you have you don't have
the proper international regulations to
say if you're going to sell this in our
country or even if you're going to sell
it from your country for it to come into
our country needs to meet these
specifications we
I've done some things like produce but
we don't have it on a lot of the safety
devices that we should have in our homes
if we had regulations like that on a
global level
this kind of stuff wouldn't happen
because then you would how you call the
people you call the people all of my
people make their people will do it make
it happen Jeff yep and then put it on
the blockchain at least my advice you
can do something about well I agree just
as those solar eclipse glasses yes
you know we're great for solar reasons
Tesla makes solar panels
nice segue yes and Tesla plans to
company will cut 9% of its workforce
closed more than a dozen installation
facilities and end its partnership with
the Home Depot the Home Depot deal
accounted for about 50% of Tesla's solar
sales the staff reduction raises
questions on whether Tesla has a plan
for its solar power division the company
says it expects solar and car battery
production to remain on schedule in
total it looks like about 60
installation facilities will remain open
and Tesla has said that these cuts are
part of a broader work force reduction
which is expected to reduce the
company's staff by about 4,100 people
across the board there has been little
in the way of good news lately for Tesla
or those who depend on the company for
making a living last month
Elon Musk ordered a review of the
company's contract work force which led
to the majority of contractors being
terminated unless they could find a
Tesla employee willing to vouch for them
this recent round of cuts which will
affect both Tesla's solar and car
divisions shows that not even a company
employees are safe well we do know we do
not know the exact reasoning behind
Tesla's decision to cut its workforce it
may have something to do with the delays
plaguing the model 3 the company is
currently trying to produce 5,000 units
of the electric car per week but has
been falling short of that number thanks
to a combination of factors ranging from
mismanagement contractors and over
reliance on robots
there are rumors that the company will
have to go to Wall Street for a loan but
it would appear that musk is trying to
avoid that route which may partially
explain why the company is reducing its
workforce so I honestly think that
cutting solar panel production is is a
sad way to solve the problem because I
really see that especially because it
was Tesla that was doing the shingles
the solar shingles and I could imagine
that actually really working to help the
earth like I just said Mars yeah I don't
want to see Mars impacted he's not
cutting it though because he doesn't
agree with solar panels or renewable
energy it's cutting it because there's
inefficiencies right and I hate using
that word inefficiencies because it's
such a generic you know safe sounding
word that basically means we need to cut
but at the end of the day he is a major
business mogul that needs to cut costs
and 9% is albeit unfortunate but not
catastrophic to that division if it was
hey we're cutting 25% hey we're cutting
you know even 20% that would be enough
to say that's a major blow but to cut 9%
you can still get by so I don't think I
think it's more so cost-saving than it
is you know changing the production
levels and I'm sure there will be some
production level drop on it but the
thing with this is they have Tesla the
company and musk have sunk so much money
into other things like SpaceX that's my
thinking like don't touch Mars exactly
yeah and I agree with you and I think at
the end of the day you're gonna see that
the shift is going to move towards that
direction and that part of the company
like the solar panels will get sold off
and I could be wrong but I think Tesla
bought the solar panel company yes from
somebody else yes
so they've just acquired it so now sell
it off to somebody else get the money
for because you can say here's also
solar panels and people do Tesla but
then put all your money into you
this space force that's been talked
about by the US government I just I
really want a future where I can have
solar panel shingles I want that I also
want a model snow so well I need to get
into my office or my offshore accounts
and make it man here's a sad one I know
this is gonna be tough pornographic
images have begun appearing in Super
Mario Odyssey as far as Mario games go
Nintendo hit it out of the park again
with Super Mario Odyssey having captured
the essence of the game perfectly
it is perhaps one of the most fun and
accessible games currently out there or
at the very least on the Nintendo switch
it seems however that some naughty
material has been turning up in the game
hackers have found a way to get
pornography to appear in the game
they've reportedly found a way to
infiltrate the profile avatar system
with it they have begun uploading adult
images the issue is all based on the
mini games offered within Mario
odyssey's showing other players scores
and of course their avatar with it
Nintendo has advised that while they
work on a fix for the problem any young
children should only play the game
offline by doing this they won't be able
to view any of the online scores
submitting and as such will avoid the
offensive material the mini game which
has the most specifically been affected
by this is Luigi's balloon world which
was part of the free update added
earlier this year the software used to
exploit the issue can only be installed
on cracked Nintendo switches it's
believed that this might only be the tip
of the iceberg as to what hackers could
be capable of this is unfortunate I
can't even express in words how
brokenhearted I am about this because
this victimizes so many people will not
so many like the kids the kids obviously
but as a parent yeah and Jeff you
probably feel the same way like we have
such a responsibility to protect our
children right and at such a young age
that are sitting and playing Mario
Odyssey come on it's just
I I can't I can't even like that you can
crack and you can crack a Nintendo
switch you can do such great things we
talked about some wheat right right
you can do amazing things with it why
would you go to that place why would you
really shake the core of the goodness of
people
I just because just wants to be an idiot
look at this it's worse than idiot that
is like I know it's family for
lieutenant yeah I'm holding my tongue
here I am trying not to cry because this
is not what kids need to see when they
finally are excited that they get to
play on their switch and they're playing
Marriott cart or a Mario Odyssey and
it's a fun game I've played it it's easy
to play for kids you write and now I
mean restricting them to offline play
in that they can still enjoy it but it's
just that there's that dark force out
there and I don't it's it's one thing if
you know and I don't mean one thing like
it's acceptable but it's one thing if
you're gonna if you're gonna hack the
system and put on adware or steal data
as far as usage statistics it's another
thing to take something like a
pornographic image that at the end of
the day serves no purpose it was for
this game the image itself was probably
taken in a victimization sort of
situation so there's even more there's
like just it's so really just yeah I
wish that the hacker who did this was
listening because I feel like that like
you need to re-evaluate what you're
doing like I'm an ethical hacker in a
lot of ways and I do a lot of things
where I work around using exploits and I
will figure ways around things that are
meant to stop me from being able to do
certain things with systems and let's
use it for good people yeah like come on
use those talents for good you could
have really uploaded pictures to those
avatar pictures of like funny you know
like Daffy Duck and you know Mickey
Mouse something just to show that you
could do it but you don't have to be
disgusting so what can we do as parents
okay put it put your Nintendo switches
offline okay but what you need to know
that this is a problem that this is
something that's happening right now
and that you need to maybe be in the
room with your kids and be ready like
when it when your kids are watching
cable TV you got to be ready to you know
guide them and and show them that hey
you know we let's let's block that or
not offer I mean for web browsers you
can have adult content filters that's on
Anna's handle switch on exactly have we
got to that point I mean I'm listening
to the story I'm thinking you know what
how much you want to bet that the person
who did this is actually some teenager
who wanted to see oh what can I do with
some cracked software possible we're
speculating now but yeah but I would
like to hope hope that all of the adults
out there would be respectable enough to
not do something like this and it was
just some ill-advised teenager who
thought that they were being funny and
it went awry mm-hmm I hope that's all it
is
I mean I want to protect my kids and
keep their innocence as much as possible
for as long as possible and even at the
age of 11 or oldest I'm finding it's
becoming difficult and stuff like this
just makes me go really humanity don't
let me down like that exactly don't
worry a really great game I'm sure it
was none of you that did it yes so sorry
but if it was but but let's let's be
careful out there I mean is this a sad
thing for sure sure it's true
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
story sauce this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sacha
Rickman Thank You Sasha I'm Robbie Jeff
thank you so much for being here tonight
thanks for having me to end on a high
note because that's
bring some helium and bring my Oscar
back there you go I hope that you had a
fun time this week I hope that you have
a wonderful week ahead and we do look
for the kids being off school that's
right do something fun get them outside
take them somewhere do something my kids
gonna take my kids up to the cottage
what are you guys up to treetop tracking
yeah nice yeah I see some of the videos
that your husband posts and my response
is always no thank you
really cuz I was a team togetherness my
last one three top line was was it is
yeah I I did I just post me it would
really my facebook life is means bring
joy to your life to be up in so high I
couldn't do it that's a little high but
I'll see you down and there's no floor
you're attached try skydiving no thanks
your that's fun what are you doing it's
my birthday weekend yeah three five
really just getting how much older than
Jeff I am yeah I know so I actually have
no clue what's going on oh but I do know
that if I could find my ROMs there there
will be some gaming going on but it's
also here in Canada it's Canada Day
weekend so there's lot of exciting
things going on in our city and happy
Canada Day to you if you that's right
happy fourth of July we won't yes well
we will be here on the fourth of next
week's episode we'll be July for white
and blue I hope I have red white and
blue just the clothes I got we are like
red white and blue if we changed orders
here see I just all I have to do is wear
blue because I got the red hair in the
white skin there you go pasty white
astok it's gonna be a good weekend great
everybody enjoy take care if it's a long
weekend for you be safe be safe anyways
but we look forward to seeing you again
next week take care bye
