for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 268 of
category 5 technology TV it's tuesday
november the 6 2012 great to see ya nice
to have you joining us tonight it's nice
to be here how you been mapping look
right y'all out there you're looking
great yeah everybody's just looking just
wonderful today it's wonderful must be
something in the positioning of the moon
something happens it's getting colder
yeah I just wiggled a camera I'm gonna
be in trouble I'm already in trouble
here in the cat5 studio there's so many
cameras now it's hard not to jiggle one
when you move something how's Robbie
doing doing good man yeah it's been good
yeah he's a good beer at mr. Powell
shows this is 268 yeah who was the last
one you were here for the anniversary no
oh the annivers no no you're right over
here the day at that day I are the
Kapiti it's a blur yeah it was a good
show to Jack Daniels my coffee that mean
I didn't do that no it was a sasha she's
she's a bad he's hinting in his
disappointment that there's not jack and
the coffee i can tell you right now
there is not hmm Eric what well we've
got a exceptional show tonight we've
actually got a very special guest
joining us Bob Don oros is joining us
from Romania what is here to talk with
us about now we're up linked directly to
to his office in Romania we're gonna be
talking about endpoint protector a very
very cool technology to protect your
business from data leaks data theft
we're gonna be talking all about that
with some product demonstrations and
just to familiarize us with with this
fantastic product that that bogdana has
been working on bringing into canada in
the united states so very excited about
that stick around we've got your viewer
questions as well and lots going on
tonight so launching it right talking I
tell you what's coming up in the
newsroom all right there are plans to
revamp UK government websites which
could save a ton of money and keep you
away from the government
or as they call them in the UK Q's how
the qu e ue s is as I yes yes according
to techrepublic a seventy-four percent
of organizations have no plans to deploy
windows 8 I heard that the Facebook
loophole made some account accessible
without a password some accounts i'm
assuming i must have copied that down
the room the classic video game elite is
getting a modern remake thanks to
crowdfunding wow and google's new nexus
10 tablet beats apples Retina display at
300 DPI stick around these stories
you're coming up later in the newsroom
that's awesome Eric don't forget if
you've got your mobile device bring up a
macat five TV that's our mobile website
and that's got some really cool features
just for you i would but sometime were
told me how to turn off my wireless when
I walked in unbelievable unbelievable I
can't work out of these conditions
unreal well young we've got an exit yeah
we've got an exciting show for you so
we're gonna take a really quick break
and bogdan will be joining us in just a
moment's time be ready in the chat room
as well you're going to have some
questions for him and we welcome you in
our chat room category five on freenode
or just visit our website category five
TV you'll find the links there we'll be
right back after this I'll be here hmm
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here
eco alkalines of the world's first and
only certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm this is category 5 technology TV
i'm your host robbie ferguson and i am
the gang or the co-host I'm Eric Kidd
good to be here and all of the above hey
we are joined tonight by bogdan otos who
is here joining us via Skype uplink
we've got an uplink to his computer
screen as well we're going to be looking
at at his product endpoint protector
joining us all the way from Romania bug
done it is so good to have you here
welcome to the show hello Robbie hello
Eric thanks for the invite it's a
pleasure for me to be here for the first
time for the category 5 technology TV
it's a very nice surprise for me and
they're also a very late surprise for me
to be on it all right now in Romania
it's actually around 2am so I hope my
colleagues are going to catch this demo
presentation I'm sure if they're not
going to catch it right now they're
gonna look at it tomorrow I've also made
some small publicity for category 5
technology TV Merrigan so I'm gonna try
to speak a little bit about my protector
sounds great that was good yeah endpoint
protection understand is something that
we as a hardware or virtual appliance
running on the ubuntu platform just had
to throw that in there because we've got
a lot of blue fans in the chat room a
couple people that actually work for a
boon to as well at canonical but
certainly is a is a an appliance that
allows you to monitor and protect your
business network from data leakage which
is you know a private confidential data
being taken outside of the company
accidentally or even data theft where
it's actually done on purpose you're
able to protect that so tell us a little
bit about the product we'd love to know
more about this excited this actually
that is actually very critic what you
said I hope you're not going to take my
job in
the next period of time so I could never
I could never work until 3am there's no
way no no okay I only gave him you see
my executor and I can imagine yes uh
yeah what what imported protector is
actually doing it has 3 important
modules with which we try to keep the
data in the company so first of all what
we do is that would provide the vice
control where we have the possibility of
blocking users bring unwanted devices to
the network to the company's networks on
this and what the devices you can have
virus like conficker or you can take
confidential data out of the company so
this is one the first mode one of the
most important it's device control the
second module what you see also now
spirit now it's what we call
content-aware pinellas protection this
module allows the administrator of the
network the possibility to stop users
from sending confidential data out of
the company we have the possibility of
defining which is confidential data i'm
going to show you briefly later a little
bit later and then we have the
possibility of defining the applications
which we want to protect on which data
can i can be leaked out of the company
this is the second module and the fourth
module is what the most recent one that
my colleagues were working we actually
had a press release earlier today and
it's called mobile device management
this gives die idee administrator the
possibility to protect smartphones and
tablets which are running iOS and
Android on them and gonna go more a
little bit in depth about the
functionality of this so Antwoord
protector as Robbie was a very
eloquently putting earlier it's what you
see right now is virtual hardware
appliance what we can deliver this is
the interface with how we connect to the
server as you can see right now I've
logged in and here we find several
information regarding the the system and
i'm going to show you let's say some
small functionalities of the app just to
get to a small teaser of it so first of
all i'm going to show you a little bit
how we will have the possibility of
defining
finding great sport specific part
specific computers so for instance let's
say we have this computer which has the
antrum protector client installed on it
and here we have all the types of
devices that this tantrum protector
supports and precise the very classic
that you can also see like USB devices
CDs DVDs card with the rocket drives
right digital cameras of course the
usual iPhones iPads we also have the
possibility of defining rice for other
let's say not so used devices like
Kinsey boards and thunderbolt and for
example the way that we define right for
specific device is quite simple we
selected this pc and let's edit on this
pc we don't want to allow access for
example to cds and dvds what we do right
now is that with we just define the
policy we save it and then the policies
being sent to the client and then
whatever this is going to try to take
some data from the under on the dvds in
this case they will not be able to do
that so if somebody went into my office
and tried to get on something like
client dad or credit card information to
a DVD you're saying that will actually
stop them from being yes that so what
happens in that case what happens in
that case if somebody were on site and
trying to copy something to a USB Drive
or a DVD what happens in that case so if
yes so you something more if for example
if you have a levels of if you manage to
allow the USBs then we have we also have
the possibility of blogging everything
which is happening with those devices
with the USB in particular so for
example whenever the user is trying to
copy files on the on the USB if he's
allowed have the possibility of knowing
exactly what kind of puppy what kind of
art do user copied so for example here
in this fire tracing report that you can
see we see exactly what was the user's
activity so this user tried to read some
file from this device this was the file
name the file size and the file type
even more than that if the user is going
to copy something from the computer
on the USB and he's allowed we can also
store a copy of the of the file and show
it here in the in the server so what we
do is actually make a duplicate copy of
that file which is actually being
uploaded here into the server so this is
in the 80 sorry in that case then an
administrator somebody let's say I am
running a company and I'm concerned
about people taking let's say staff
taking private information about our
clients or something like that so I'll
actually be able to see what it is that
they're putting into documents and
things like that as they transfer files
onto USB drives from exactly this is
exactly what you can do and another
thing that you can do is that if for
example you have a very strict and very
confidential information you might be an
insurance company might be a bank you
might be handling a lot of a lot of very
private data from the users yeah we also
have the possibility of let's say
defining that confidential data and when
we mean confidential data will refer a
sickly free important pillars that we
can define so first of all what we
define confidential data is specific
regarding file types so for example we
can stop people from sending certain
file type over the internet or over
certain USB devices oh and here in the
interface it's very cool because you can
define it in a very easy way for example
you want to make a position where you
don't allow cell files to leave the
company's premises all to leave to leave
the company's premises you just save the
policy and whenever somebody's going to
try to to send that information over the
Internet they excel files there will be
blocked from sending it and of course we
can define those policy specific for
different users different computers
depending on how the administrator wants
it so this is this is why the solution
is quite flexible right to put it like
another important thing after the file
type is what we call a predefined
content filter what does what does this
allow is that for example in the event
that the user has some the company is
working with potentially for me
should such as credit card information
such as social security numbers I've
been numbers we can define policies
where for example we stop people from
taking sending auto out on the Internet
information like let's say visa for
example visa credit cards so how it how
we do this is that we just save the
policy the policy's being sent to the
client and now when I'm going to try to
transfer a file which has my credit card
information on it pay attention folks is
about to give us all this credit card
info yeah okay so as you see you also
see that you will have I don't have the
permission actually to to send this file
over the internet I open it without book
because old I was also i was also
protecting this was the policy but even
though you were stopped from being able
to send that to transfer that over the
Internet you you do personally still
have access to that file I can you open
that file locally yeah yeah I can open
that file I can open this file and I can
show exactly so this is the file and I
will change 11 number from this so now
it's not going to be a valid credit card
information it's just going to be a sink
simple random Osieck of numbers ok and
I'm going to take the file and now due
to the fact that it's not a valid credit
card information anymore I should be
able to send it over the internet so the
endpoint protector appliance in fact
validates the guests are data first
confirms a little never occurred so what
the antibiotics are actually solution is
doing is that it's looking in the
document and it's looking for this
patterns where in this case it's a
credit card from visa but it's looking
for different patterns that can be
defined by the administrator and as you
can see if I change the pattern and I
change the number of the credit card
then the user can send this information
i can send it to myself for example and
now i am allowed to set this information
because it's not a valid credit card
information and so on so i understand
that e that the system itself doesn't
know your credit card is not looking for
your credit card number within the
document it's looking for any valid
credit card index price
for any valid credit card information I
see any valid credit card information
you can also give me your credit card
information to put it there is we don't
even try no I'm just curious no this is
this is another filter that we provide
so this is the predefined content where
we give a sequence of you know exactly
how a pattern of Giza cards look like
and you know exactly for a kind of
pattern off of numbers to look for in
the the document the fault of the filter
regarding this has to do it what we call
the custom content filter where then the
administrator can be finding himself
some regular expressions which shouldn't
leave the dot which should leave the
company so for example you can make
something like a dictionary in this case
I can put a confidential dictionary
which is already here and you can be
fine in this confidential dictionary
list of terms which shouldn't actually
leave the company so here you find any
type of words so for example you can put
anything which is connecting the word
Robbie to should not seek the company's
premises you just save the dictionary
and then whenever somebody or whenever
some of the users which we assign this
dictionary are going to try to transfer
any documents which will contain these
words then the phone protector client
will help them from from sending those
information over on the internet and of
course that save the company a lot of a
lot of problems due to the fact that a
lot of people take confidential data
they can also leave it and they go to
the competition and they can take them
or I suppose if you if you're in a
large-scale company you know say five
hundred a thousand users there there's a
very real potential that somebody could
walk away with confidential data for
malicious to be honest we have
implementations running from 10 16 10
1015 computers so this is so a problem
that is also for the small and medium
companies it's more let's say strickland
for the larger platter organizations due
to the fact that they need to comply
with a lot of regulations but also right
now the regulations are being also
enforce the medium companies
also small companies due to the fact
that some of them have a lot of
intellectual property on those computers
of course this this will will will help
them keep their data in and keep them
protected fantastic this is a category 5
technology TV we're joined tonight by
bogdan autos who is joining us from
endpoint protector CA and we're talking
about the endpoint protector hardware
and virtual appliance tonight and you
can find out more on the website
endpoint Protectorate CA there on your
screen and of course join us in the chat
room category live has a chat room on
our website category 5 TV and if you
have any questions at all feel free to
cite those there and we are getting a
few in the chat and and for example if
you could tell us that maybe let book
down know a couple of these the waters
mr. what if you had a say your credit
card number was 111 112 2222 again you
just changed that to some cipher that
changed it from a numeric character to
an alphabet like a-a-a-a bbbb would i be
able to send her that information yeah
that information should not be able to
send because that's not the so when we
when Anna protector looks it looks
exactly for the pattern of hug the
credit card looks like so if you assign
I don't know set the numbers or
something like this 60 make something
back up I don't know some of the bad
things would change all ones 2 a's and
all choose to be easy i freed yes yeah
we in case of that we don't we don't
offer any protection connector yes
tougher protection we know how the
credit card type of data looks like and
we always know how to scan it and we
always identified based on the specific
pattern ok so my mic double standard and
information and reconstructed it at my
place or whatever another question was
can you prevent printing of information
we have the possibility of blocking here
in the in the interface we have the
possibility for example to block for
certain users certain computers to block
the printers printers is a special
category for example you just
put them here and deny access we save
the policy and then in specific for this
computer you're not going to be able to
allow printing so this is this is what
we what we can what we can provide for
this for the city now a common thing
that I've heard of is in order to get
around these kinds of barricades that
companies put up somebody will just go
and take screenshots and just email
those screenshots themselves yeah we
also have a protection for this for
screenshot so what we can do is that we
have the possibility of actually be
rocking the print screen possibility if
you can see right now in my screen so we
have whenever the user we can whenever
the user is trying to print print
something we can block him from doing
that and of course you can do that for
different users for different groups
different computers again flexible
depending on what the company's needs
are because maybe many maybe some of the
departments are going to have
confidential information on them and
maybe some of them are not going to have
that important information in it so for
them we don't need to define such strict
policies I see okay so what what we have
here then with endpoint protector is a
primarily a hardware device that goes
into your network and provides a drop in
reply like piece of hardware is it is it
like a proxy or a firewall how do the
devices connect to the server and what's
in the network from from copying things
the way we run the devices is that my
colleagues from the technical team did
an awesome job where they made the let's
say an integration of the hardware and
software and what you need to do as a as
a user as a company who is our customer
the only thing that you need to do this
just get this hardware price that you
can provide ready with the operating
system with the boot running good with
an phone protector server running
already on it the only thing you need to
do it just connect it in your network by
sign it an IP and then the server part
is already running then the only thing
that you need to do is just deploy the
clock the endpoint protector client on
the pcs or the max that you want monitor
because we can also have the possibility
of protecting max okay we are actually
the only company in the world who have
the possibility of protect
cease I mean Mac Mac Windows and Linux
operating system okay now that was going
to be one of my questions because we run
a lot of linux on our networks obviously
so it I can install the client on my
life systems as well and so really all
round solution so what happens with
mobile devices because these days i mean
i can email stuff or copy things to my
mobile device and that can either get
lost or stolen or or i can just use that
for malicious purpose if I if if I was
that kind of a user so what happens in
that case now we also thought of this
possibility and since we got a lot of
feedback from the market regarding the
fact that we wanted them let's say more
advanced mobile device management
products and what we do right now is
that we are today actually we watch the
first future version of the of the
mobile device management is being better
for the last couple of months and days
actually of the official release and
what we offer where this is that first
of all as I said in the beginning we
have the possibility of protecting
smartphones and tablets which are
running iOS and Android on them and when
I say protect I mean first of all here
we see a list of let's say a couple of
smart phones you have an HTC Wildfire an
iPhone an iPad and there you have the
list of all the devices which are
connected actually to this server and
first of all I just selected this HTC
device for this first of all for any
type of device first of all we provide
location which is comes quite in handy
because at any point in time the IT
administrators will know where the
phones or where the tablets are in case
they're lost fantastic a couple second
of all we give a lot of information
regarding the songs or the tablet in
this case regarding operating running on
it the Wi-Fi mac and you are saying
earlier if the user is losing the phone
for example we have the actually two
possibilities we have to post a bit of
locking which means that we can send the
administrator just rocks the phone just
from here from the interface and he can
just send when he pushes the lock button
than the phone so immediately locked the
signal is sent over the air and or we
can wipe the data this is in the case
where the usual actually sure that he's
not going to find the phone if he's not
going to find the phone or the tablet
for Shirley has some information
confidential information on it and in
case somebody finds it that could be a
significant data breach for the company
so due to this fact we have the
possibility of wiping automatic in the
data either from the phone or from the
from the SD card so we can do this
actually quite different we can do the
data the wiping from the from the from
the device so we can do the wiping from
the from the SD card well yeah we got
some customers who are very actually
very excited for know about these
features that we provide for for the
Android also provide for example
possibility something like for you at
any point in time to know what at the
apps which are installed on it and you
have also the possibility of actually
uninstalling the apps so if the user is
going to have some has a if the user has
a company phone and he has some apps
which shouldn't be on that company phone
then we have the possibility of
uninstalling the app suggests on this
web interface of Antoine protector okay
now with their policies let's say I have
my personal phone that I've brought in
from home would I be able to have a
different policy because it's a personal
phone versus if it's an office phone
that I shouldn't be installing apps on
yes we actually have a possibility of
providing because in the in the
engineering the phones we have the
possibility just in device settings you
have the possibility of saying exactly
if it's personal phone company unknown
and then you have we can have the
possibility of defining specific
policies for example we can define
specific policies for iOS phones or you
can define specific policies for android
devices or you can define specific
policies as you mentioned set for
personal phones or company phones well
the product endpoint protector looks
extremely robust I mean everything that
I can throw at you it just seems like
you've already thought of it which is
fantastic I mean especially with the
security product it's not always easy
for companies to really hit every nail
on the head so yeah we we tried to make
the best the best as possible from what
apple and google gave us with the with
iOS and with the Android yeah and also
for example for iphone these days my
colleagues would actually showing me
today some really awesome features where
for example you can also block a lot of
apps installed apps you know from from
working for example if the user doesn't
need it you can allow serio or not you
can allow some have something like
FaceTime the use of camera doing that
you cannot make it take pictures or
something like that so we can also have
something information like that you can
also allow youtube or not ok so any
other on your network assign why is
angry birds not working yeah some of
them actually because because for
example we also went for example you're
running when app like you took for
iphone right now yes we actually when we
don't allow you to run it you're not
going to be able to find it so what's
going to happen that he's gonna be fun
if you're not going to actually see it
at all ok that's smart okay well that's
man when you go home your access back
your personal phone yeah what happens if
what happens when let me leave the
premises what happens what depends what
kind of policies you have defined here
so it's all policy driven it's its
policy driven depends on what kind of
what is usually the quality sticks but I
know that my colleagues were also
speaking with something in development
that for example we're going to define
policies from let's say nine to six
something like policies from ankle
things and after that I'm going to have
other policies interesting well that's
that's really really neat very cool
we're speaking with bogdan arose from
endpoint protectorate see i do check out
that website there's a lot of
information there just to let you know
what what endpoint protector is all
about make sure down at the bottom of
the page you you like them on facebook
you can tweet about them you can you can
+1 them on google+ make sure you go
about that
and and send in your questions as well
and of course join the chat room and
vogue Don is there with us joining us
from Romania tonight and is there to
answer your questions for the duration
of the show and and we'd love to we'd
love to receive your questions as well
hear the show thank you bugged on for
for being a part of the show tonight
very very excited about this product I
think we're living in an interesting
time where security is becoming more
than just an antivirus more than just
anti-malware it's now some you know an
endpoint protector solution is is the
ideal solution as a supplement to those
things because all those things are
important but now we're seeing a whole
new dimension of okay well now that
we've got all a whole bunch of tablet
computers or tablets in our office how
do we protect those how do we keep
people from taking them home leaving it
into the buggy when they go grocery
shopping and then all of a sudden
somebody's got access to all of our
company data a lot of them also have you
know like a remote connection to
internal computers and things I don't
know about you but I certainly have you
know like remote desktop applications so
that I can access my computers when I'm
on the road from my tablet yeah it's
handy but what happens in a business
environment if you don't have any
control over that so I think that's
where endpoint protector certainly comes
in thank you very much for for joining
us tonight thanks for having me thanks I
had me European Eric and though we keep
in touch and I'm also gonna be here to
Branson to your your viewers quick just
a fantastic thanks man nice to see you
this is category Soviet technology TV
thank you for joining us our website is
triple w category five dot TV and we'd
love to see you joining us in the chat
room tonight bogdana is there and
willing to answer your questions for you
and we're there certainly to answer your
tech questions as well we're here what a
cool product wow what do you guys think
let us know in the chat room category
five on freenode and of course you can
get in your questions for a little bit
later on in the show live at category 5
TV or post went to our attention in the
chat room there as well that would be
fantastic thin test fabulous well what
do you think is it time for news I think
it is I think it's time for news
here are and jumping right in yeah you
go for my Hugin interrupt meal you like
unbound right through here the top
queries from category 5 TV news room
plans to reduce the need for
face-to-face government services by
improving confusing online offerings in
the UK have been announced the
government digital strategy report
acknowledged that most people rarely use
online government services services
which handle more than a hundred
thousand transactions per year are to be
completely overhauled the government
expects changes to save up to 1.8
billion pounds perhaps yes what that
looks like okay when a billion pound a
little by by the Year 2015 folks that
little squiggly thing before the dollar
the pound thing was no problem it's the
BN on the that is not a standard billion
sign up now you're expecting a whole
bunch I was it exactly or to the power
of okay yeah then moving on to the next
story now it's a lot of money they're
gonna say pounds of it czech republic's
windows 8 business intentions study
reveals that seventy-four percent of
businesses have no plans to deploy
windows 8 and the new touch-centric user
interfaces drive is a driving factor in
the decision Microsoft Windows chief
steven sinofsky has described windows 8
as a generational change the lights of
which hasn't been made since windows 95
with windows 8 Microsoft hopes to move
its flagship OS beyond the pc into the
fast-growing tablet market but according
to techrepublic pro and ZDNet or ZDNet
of hearin each other the border research
microsoft hasn't convinced many IT
decision-makers that Windows 8 is an
essential OS upgrade time will tell how
people adapt to the new windows but the
general consensus is don't upgrade
unless absolutely necessary which it
isn't
Facebook has moved quickly to shut down
loophole which made some accounts
accessible without a password the bug
was exposed in a message posted to the
hacker news website the message
contained a search string that when used
on Google returned a list of links to
1.3 2 million Facebook accounts in some
cases clicking on a link logged into
that account without the need for a
password all the links exposed the email
addresses of facebook facebook users I'm
just really glad that I wrote in the
long form million and I was really glad
you did that and what I just throw knee
right off in an official statement
facebook said the links were sent
directly to private email addresses to
help people easily access their accounts
and we never made them publicly
available or crawlable yeah Oliver I
guess it did lots of quote so it must be
however it said the links were then
posted elsewhere online which led to
them being indexed on search engines Wow
so big player like Facebook literally
creates a system that allows people
access to the accounts just by way of a
link and thinks nobody's going to
exploit that deems you're trusting Souls
yes boy oh boy the classic video game
elite from the early eighties a 21st
century makeover it needs one David
Brahmin one of the creators of the
original is seeking 1.25 million pounds
that's close to two million dollars via
Kickstarter to fund the updated version
called elite dangerous elite dangerous
it will involve the same mix of
interstellar travel trading piracy and
spaceships as the original 8-bit game
those who pledged cash to the project
will also get a chance to shape the
development of the updated version
that's amazing how cool is that that is
so cool and I should just make mention
that the screenshot is from the release
in 1984 that's that's not the new that's
not a screenshot of the new one believe
it or not learn that's that's the old
one
google has announced that the nexus 4
handset Nexus 10 tablet will go on sale
in just two weeks the handset can be
used as a game controller when
wirelessly connected to a TV and Google
said that the screen of the new Nexus 10
tablet has the world's highest
resolution display better than Apple's
impressive Retina display yep the nexus
4 smartphone has a new panoramic camera
tool called photo sphere which google
claims is unlike any panorama you have
ever seen they set on their blog
snapshots up down in every direction to
create stunning 360 degree immersive
experiences immersive experiences hmm in
addition users will have access to
Google now which flags up flight alerts
hotel recommendations and package
tracking based on the user's location
and the contents of their previous email
messages and are you ready for this
nexus 10 will be able to manage multiple
profiles meaning that the tablet can be
shared between more than one person it's
almost 200 2013 so we'll say it's about
time no word on how scared Apple is but
we hear they fired some of their key
staff so keep watching the news yeah I
think the guy was involved in the maps
debacle is gone no oh is that what
happened yeah we get the full stories at
the category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think is worthy of on-air
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm Eric
Kidd thanks Eric hey you're welcome now
that the news is over to surrounding or
some of the death space here you ought
to have Thanksgiving dinner with me I'm
switching the sides of the desk with
this guy did I mention the category 5 is
a member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here just thought I'd
tell you that and the National
Association of Internet broadcasters
remember that too hey Robbie it's
important stuff
hey and also I just want to give a quick
shout-out and kudos to quarter e
electric the official electrical company
of category five TV find out more about
them quarter electric com and we will
give you a ye of a month a year sorry
almost a year but a month is still
fantastic I'm gonna give you a month of
free netflix account five TV / netflix
go sign up today you can cancel at any
time but you will not want to especially
when you see that the bill is only eight
bucks a month thereafter it is fantastic
love me some netflix cat5 TV / netflix
check it out are you it's easy Eric I
even worked at it once yeah well I love
it I love it what's in the bed well I uh
I got some post let's see what we what
we got here I see a postcard whoo hey
this is this folks is Bulgaria whoa
that's what it says looks kind of like a
a bowl from here I'll give that a read
yeah sure it's got print on it oh yeah
that's some pretty tiny typing there and
it's written in Bulgarian Oh Bulgaria is
world-famous for its long centers of
folklore traditions in the field of the
musical and dance arts voices of
Bulgarian performers of folk songs are
cosmic and mystical the magic of their
performance is completed with the
incredible splendor of traditional
clothing and this is hello i am mehab
thanks for help last time and keep made
in this great show keep making the great
show eight years yeah I remember the run
did you find them on the map let's see
let's see here okay it's gonna be tough
for me
do you know where I'm going am I going
east I would go let go up stop north
okay yeah okay and then hit a little
more east down right it just a lot more
not really little your mouth I see him
okay there he is there we go and log
into the show and Sophie well somewhere
around there i mean spread the word
about category 5 i see that we've got a
you know maybe a couple of viewers in
sofia or that area what can also happen
with with some some countries is that
because it's all based on IP address
right so if the internet node is all
centralized you could have a hundred
people and they're all connected the
same note so it only shows up as one pin
on our system but that's fantastic thank
you very much for sending that in love
receiving these yeah actually you'll
you'll have that when you're doing some
polls i used to do have some
questionnaires on the website oh yeah
the TV station but into internally we
look to the world like one IP address
right so yeah that's your temper you
know do you think dave keon is gonna
make a comeback with the maple leafs and
you know if you said yes you got the
only vote now right building and you
could be in a business of a thousand
people and they're all doing the same
yes so everybody's watching the show but
it is still only shows that one version
gets to vote this was interesting
because this came as part of this
package and I nobody knew what the
contents of this were just because we're
English here so that's interesting so
that so the postal worker at Canada Post
actually requested that I open it right
there on the spot I was pre torn because
they were curious they were saying well
what is this it couldn't they didn't
know what it was like Google to let it
through the whole translate wouldn't do
that for that's cool so a little gift
hear from our friend in bog bulgaria
wasn't that cute oh that is very cool
look at that the genuine article you
can't get enter you know one than that
what i'm thinking this here we'll just
toss this in the garbage and put this
over here Spock and there you go could
you see that okay that's awesome thank
you so much oh oh
whom I just need a little heavy hand
wrap it we have done rather hey let's
see kind of like my friend Kevin his mom
still had the plastic on the couch when
we go around the house probably just
didn't trust you and also a magnetic
calendar right from Bulgaria 420s put
this well put that on your flash drive
because the magnet will be fun for you
go that's very cool thank you for
sending in the guy can play with this
bag right here my microphone for the
rest of the show I can like the bag
that's cool we love receiving your
postcards little you know little gifts
like that is that means a lot and we'll
put that up in the studio and you know
you're right I don't even know what the
tape says the safe is tough Tariq often
contains dangerous goods you can send in
your stuff sending a postcard in
particular but if you know we appreciate
this stuff to thank you very very much
to our viewers category 5 technology TV
postal box 29 00 9 Barrie Ontario Canada
l4 n7w 7 thank you so very much Spock
was going to moon you but dear me just
can't take this guy anywhere you invited
me to the studio your own darn fault
whoops so tell us what's what's going on
here oh yeah I left my beard at home ok
it was removable and it's well there's
prostate cancer and mental health men's
mental health there's a move to try to
raise awareness for for that and it's
called Movember as in November with an M
so the the push is to get as many
gentlemen to grow a moustache for the
month of November and I'm not above
begging for donations for this so it is
a good cause there's my picture the day
that was yesterday I shaved it but you
are you gonna be able to bring that up
yeah there I am so this is day 2 after I
shaved a shaved yesterday and as you can
see if you get a clue
up here I've got a little bit of stubble
starting up here already all right um
think so there's there's a there's a
link there so people can make donations
directly through the through yet website
so that's mo bro mo BR 0 dot Co not calm
but CEO / Eric kid that's you needed see
a dot mobro duct seal mobro dot CEO /
Eric kid I don't need the dot CA first
no I thought I did and what wait you
can't but i'll actually do i'll put i'll
put a link for that in the show notes
for episode number 268 so people can
donate for to the cause right there
absolutely in the right there see how
minutes pictures so how do I look
looking good my neighbor came up to see
who was stealing my car yeah um I teach
a class of guitar students and a couple
of the kids were saying where's Eric
some people in the chat room earlier
we're saying that it's easily taken ten
years off you well you ought to see me
on the ice I'm playing hockey way but no
actually it didn't improve my heart's
getting cold out there as i said i have
this late ha gross i have an late hockey
since I shaved it off so oh yeah we'll
see we'll see tonight's the night very
good so folks if you can support that
cause for prostate cancer and men's
mental health it's mobro CEO / Eric Kidd
and Eric algeta and now are you i think
you know you think I think you need
see a mobro dot CEO / Eric no kid no
you're right that is well I don't listen
to him cuz he came up with a bunch of
air that is ugly alright sorry the one
that I typed work just fine air let's
try this again maybe I spelled my name
wrong but i'll post a link for you in
the show notes episode number two sons
date all right thanks Eric no I'm
concerned
there you go that one worked no it leave
it on there were yeah okay all right
he's just learning short links folks
well I mean you show him a short Langan
is crazy what do you mean is not dr.
condom what's Dinoco hey you know what
doc code okay i just i just noticed my
team yeah which is from a pub where I
play some music now and then um I'm
leaving well there you go I'm leaving in
donations so their usual folks you can
help Eric but what interested the team
raise some money for a good cause there
yeah yes indeed so we've got your viewer
questions Eric I'll get you to pull up
the viewer questions because we've like
me to ask some questions all day oh my
quickly here's one from jib stir hey
Jeff stir hi Robbie and Eric Wow I'm not
gang or you're getting good host I am
Eric thanks for answering my question
about setting up Samba mount points to
folders on my freenas box I will no
longer have to remember to back them up
I've watched the show since season two
and it has really helped me get my head
wrapped around the terminal thank you
the meaning of shiny it means good from
the TV show firefly broncos rule yes
love that show but it's been a while I'd
better they had a lot of words that they
had made up very cool okay let's move on
to our next question this looks like
it's from thanks for the adobe 33 glad
that that helped hey Toby and only 33
we're going to learn leet tonight folks
and three actually equals e so if it
says tob 33 it's Toby you know my best
one of getting something like that
messed up I was working in music store
and I was somebody written down they
wanted ZZ top eliminator the music book
yeah and I said can I get
ZZ Top no yeah working there yeah Wow
Zed Zed I I didn't know oh no I thought
it was 3333 top eliminator hits is what
I thought I don't know what it was but I
messed up I could not believe I messed
up ZZ Top Wow anyway and that's why you
always correct me because old moment in
the movie yes it was traumatic yeah I'm
still traumatized hey Robbie and Eric
that's two virgin fantastic I tell me I
have a trick question for you I guess
what desktop environment i'm using aah
zat gnome or unity ok that looked like
an evil laugh so I give it literally
really awesome show and if it's not Eric
kid on the show this week my apologies
oh wait okay I've got a screenshot here
this is what he's talking about what hey
oh that's awesome I would guess unity
myself it's got blue moon to logo and
everything it's no wait there nope
something just set me off here what is
this how can I get rid of that thing up
there look at that this is Zorin OS ah
ok explain further Toby it's noam top
three LOL on three don't know if you
know this if you did sorry you can do
this in mate lxde session fall back
fluxbox open box and xfce and i'm
assuming the colon in the right
parenthesis is this smiley now command
is unity 2d shell and if run in terminal
you can just close it down when you're
done using it and the HUD HUD works on
some d / you just stopping by desta okay
thank you shame to D is gone in 12.10
and then there's a not a smiley it's a
tier could come in handy if you need to
dash or HUD okay okay that's awesome i
wonder if-if zorn will take advantage of
the fact that hey that looks just like
unity to me I I'd love to see what the
dash looks like and when you actually
click around that's pretty cool not that
I'm a unity fan but I mean that that
looks really similar so I wonder if it
support or what it is my cool what do
you got now we have more thanks Toby
I've got a question from John zim here
hey John just posted on Google+ a
screenshot of you and your spidey
costume doing your show are you on
google plus we have a great community of
Linux geeks hmm there's what we need
more geeks oh what's wrong you know hey
now there it is that is one folksy
looking little setting for a couple of
wow that's awesome thanks for posting on
google+ yes were you working out before
that she was 48 hours straight cat5 TV /
g plus and that's spelt out p lus so G
Plus count five TV / GPL us will take
you to my profile and in fact we just I
just started working on google+ page as
well but g+ is going to take you to our
my main profile you'll be able to find
everything from there and you'll see
that there is a category 5 TV page but
it isn't configured or active just yet
but do do add that to your circles
because we're going to be we're going to
be adding some value-added stuff to our
Google+ page you'll also see that
through our website we've really really
stepped up our facebook presence
Twitter's doing fantastically well I
love that everybody is following us the
the host of the show but do remember
that we also have category 5 TV that's
that one down there just below Eric
category five TVs are our show Twitter
account so if you want to get some of
the stuff that's just specifically about
the show tech news all that kind of
stuff that's where you want to follow
and then of course following us
individually you're going to learn a get
to know a little
about us individually as well as some
stuff that has to do with the show
because that shows a big part of my week
so it is a big part of your week it is
yeah but Facebook to cap fived on TV /
facebook twitter i'm at ravi ferguson at
kid Eric at Catterick I've been somewhat
remiss in my tweeting yeah well yes you
got it you got to work on that important
stuff some twit keeps tweeting about how
many keystrokes and most movements he's
been making I'm almost about ready to
untwist Eames I've got I got a short
link for everything and I'm really
throwing them off with these short links
but cat5 DV / what Paul her note / pulse
pulse cat5 TV / pulse if you wanna know
what he's talking about I've been wrong
before but I think even Rachel's on my
side on this one yeah some people just
don't get it Garvey has weapon me at the
keystrokes it attracts how many times
you hit hit keys on your keyboard and
then post it to ya we post your progress
and then it sends it out to all the
folks who thought you cared about them
but you really don't you just loading
their inbox anyway we have another
question here from Michael hey Michael
Oh Robbie hey I have a question about
Zorin 6 all right I want to know if I
can use the program winscp that was an
odd spot I should put the question I
should I see ya I mean LCP so fun less
you tell me which one is suitable for
website maintenance thank you okay um
well you're okay website maintenance so
the question is do you need to use SCP
which is I would think we're going to go
with SFTP SSH over ftp a lot of people
use ftp i don't because i'd like to use
secure so if you're using SCP as far as
the protocol goes then certainly you
might stick with when SCP but I use
FileZilla client I love it it's funny
I've used winscp it's just weird
? is what happened there oh yes so when
you set up your ear accounts and stuff
in here you can choose ftp s ftp ftps
and ftp over TLS ssl filezilla client is
available for you through the synaptic
package manager you're not going to have
any trouble installing it getting it
configured its glorious file Loula oh
it's a really good program there exi
useful so all the time it's excellent
it's good I mean as far as ftp SFTP goes
that's when I prefer and it also allows
me to right click on a file on the
remote server and click on view / edit
and because I've set up my preferences
to automatically open files in G edit so
slash user slash bin slash G at it so
anytime I right click on a PHP file it
opens it in G at it I can make the
changes and I push save and it
automatically updates the file on the
server so i don't have to i don't have
to do the whole transferring back and
forth and over and over so that's the
way i like to do it when I'm working
with a file transfer program it'll be
filezilla so give that one a try let me
know what you think and and if it meets
your needs we'd love to hear back from
you end and see what you think yes and I
also like the the folder synchronization
folders digitalization yeah so and how
you can actually if I click on images on
the local folder it will change the e as
on the remote folder tues so that it's
always yeah you're right it's like it's
synchronization as far as the view goes
I'm sure other folks have done that sort
of thing I know in the early years and
doing this sort of thing it drags up new
to the wrong folder yep yeah yeah
exactly so it helps say yeah it's really
cool upload nothing like uploading the
wrong index dot PHP into the wrong
folder oopsie and saying oh yeah over
right yeah okay and Robert rosinski is
here Robert another and also saying hi
to Robbie and Eric fantastic you guys
are great buddies are
the calendar which are short link is
cat5 TV / calendar surprise that's about
one piece yeah no actually the the see a
dot thing was on the movember site so i
thought it was i was wrong yeah do you
want me to get a shirt that says I was
wrong and brought me I really have
already got a maid for you okay Robert
says thanks for the info about the
server from last episode that was number
267 your suggestion made sense just
another quick question regarding backups
all right I want to be able to back up
my Nast to an eternal I'm thinking extra
hahahaha an eternal hard drive I can
give this back up in my head and eternal
hard drive we wouldn't need backup they
never crashed why would you ever need a
backup if it's eternal sorry thank you
for that Robert that was fun we operate
interact no backup is nice to an
external hard drive can you suggest a
program that I can use that has a GUI
and which can span over two drives okay
i think it was our gift that you
mentioned have to use in last week's
show which is command line the nass i
have is five point four terabytes but
about two terabytes full i have backed
this up to an external 3 terabyte hard
drive by copying the files across which
I realized isn't the ideal way to do it
I have looked at a few programs under
linux but could not find anything that
would recognize the nass which is set up
as an NTFS drive and access through
samba on my Zorin OS system hmm and that
was from robert kazinsky in melbourne
australia robert is a mic it's tough to
manually do your backups like that
because what happens if you miss a file
or certainly it make sure you do that
control h thing so that your viewing the
hidden files too because sometimes
you'll you'll copy stuff over not
realizing that you're not getting the
the hidden files very very important i
would look at now I love arcing Cardiff
if you want to stay away from the
terminal get into synaptic package
manager into your your package manager
whatever it is that you're using
apt-get if you want to hit the terminal
look for something called back in time
and just spell it out google search in
synaptic package manager that's going to
give you an rsync / diff backup manager
that is going to save a lot of space
because it does it keeps the changes
from one full backup so like art if it's
going to do one big backup and then it's
only going to save the changes on a bit
for bit level from there on so your
backups are not going to grow
exponentially because if you change a
document file you don't need to back up
the whole document file back in time we
use diff to just save the changes all
right and then you can revert back just
using back in time on that external
drive that's fantastic get into synaptic
grab back in time give it a go let us
know what you think Robert and thank you
very much for the question we're all at
a time Eric that's it thanks for being
here buddy I'm sticking around thank you
don't forget to go and support the
closet yeah cat category 5 TV check out
the show notes for episode number 268
that is going on until the end of
november goodbye apparently right till
december fifth first i think yeah member
first yes oh there and oh yeah so check
it out episode number 2 68 in the show
notes i'll send you a picture of the
perfect yeah please do it alright folks
have a great week I'll talk to you next
Tuesday night nice to see you Eric great
to see you at home and we'll talk to you
next week you kids you're looking great
out there keep it up
take everybody looks sweet
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
t be broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada
at seven p.m. eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you
drive and interact in the community chat
room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
