welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 413 for Tuesday the
eighteenth of August 2015 tonight we've
got quite the show for you Erica and I
are going to be showing you all about
the fundamentals of Google Analytics I
suppose we're going to be looking at
right from the get-go how we get a setup
how we use this free tool in order to
track your website blog visitors and
even drive traffic to certain areas of
the world we've got a lot to cover
tonight we've also got stopped to give
away you've been casting your ballots
we've got a whole bunch of stuff i want
to show you tonight and some great news
stories hey hey this is going to be a
great hour here's what's coming up in
the category 5 TV news room UK mobile
firm ee has recalled a portable charger
it had given away after a medical
student was left with severe burns after
using one airbus has won a patent for a
hypersonic passenger plane which could
potentially fly from London to New York
in an hour the persistent rumors about
apple building some kind of car have
felt at times like they were puck
powered purely by Apple fans desperate
for something new and exciting now
there's proof samsung has unveiled what
appears to be the world's largest hard
drive and it's an SSD windows tens first
major update has stranded some users in
an endless loop of reboots they released
the pilot this past weekend and we've
got some seriously big news about the
future of star trek renegades stick
around that full details are coming up
later in the show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
crystal wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV episode
number 413 so great to see you I'm
Robbie Ferguson in America alone and
it's great to see everyone hey it's been
a while I got stuff to give away before
we get into it how you been how was your
summer oh it's been great just school is
like picking back up again school just
never ending with her I never a never
ending I'm always working and I'm going
back to school and I'll be going down to
lakeshore campus hey I've got a great
idea I finally finished school let's do
school some more yay hey you know it's
that's that's this one if you're if
you're into that kind of thing yeah well
how you been it's been a while it has
been a while I'm not kidding yes serious
it has been what have you been just to
give a little preliminary and we'll talk
more about it but what have you been
studying at school so that's your big
move your major so my major um was
marketing and now I'm the reason why I
am going back to school is to further my
education with business accounts so I'm
going back for a business co-op okay
basically i'll be working and in school
at the same time so I guess I just never
left school on go alright well we've
been collecting your ballots we've got
this free play buddy this is an awesome
little device that I showed off on
episode number 4 11 make sure you tune
into that episode because we had some
really cool product reviews the teeny
drones and all that let's take a look at
what we got here this is a solar-powered
crank powered this is a brand-new and I
don't even know if it has any charge
because it's never even seen sunlight
but you can you can oh the battery's not
even released I better not do that right
cuz I'm gonna send this to you Ray but
you crank it up it's got a flashlight
it's got a radio it's got it all we're
gonna send you one of those so we're
gonna hop on over to draw bot and draw
bot of course has collected your ballots
over the past week so here we go this is
exciting
this is for the free play buddy check it
out okay who do we see demon 810 nice to
see ya Greg and orange man whoa robot is
moving fast tonight don't waste any time
draw bot we need to do this free play
buddy has n o Double A weather stations
and the winner is wow it really didn't
give us a lot of time and I don't even
know what a demon 810 way to go and you
should see me rocking away at the the
board here trying to get the right music
to play but yeah demon 810 awesome stuff
this is if it will charge your phone so
you can crank it you can put it on the
the dash of the car I put one on the
windowsill and it keeps it always
charging and you see that charge like
going and then you can plug in your
phone charge it it's got the am FM radio
the NOAA Weather Channel as I said so if
there's a weather emergency or whatever
they can cut in and you can you can hear
what's going on my favorite thing but it
is the crank you know if you don't have
it charged you don't have the Sun what
are you gonna do you don't have a
flashlight you crank it up when you're
digging tunnels and such it's no son
right so there you go no it's got multi
LED light and everything check them out
is from free play and we will post the
links in the show notes for episode
number 413 but that is going to d man
810 congratulations all you have to do d
man 810 is send me an email you can send
that to live at category five dot TV I
just need your mailing address and
that's gonna go to the post so
congratulations and thank you to
everybody for participating in the draw
that was a lot of fun I get so lucky
you're always giving away stuff when I'm
here always giving away stuff you're
always getting working always giving
away stuff that returned my pop-pop I'm
like oh it's awesome speaking of giving
away stuff it doesn't have to be
tangible stuff that's given away named
Nate UK is one of our viewers in the
chat room tonight nice to see has been
given away his time working on a brand
new Cody channel for cat
five TV so we're really excited to see
the progress of this channel that he's
been developing for you the viewers
really great way to contribute to the
community by adding his skills to to the
community in that way certainly
something that I have wanted to see
happen and people have been asking for
Cody channels and flex channels and
things like that but it's a lot of time
to code this kind of stuff so to have
someone like like Nate UK step up and
say hey I'll do that we so we really
appreciate that I know the community is
greatly going to appreciate that as well
you can go right over to github and I'm
sure we'll post links in the in the chat
room there Nate if you if you're there
yeah I see you there if Nate UK if you
could post a link to the github page so
people can can bring that up and install
that on there Cody install it's coming
along real well I understand that he's
actually working right now on testing my
view so maybe a few minutes in he'll get
that work and he'll be able to say in
the chat room that hey got it working
there you go github.com / Nate UK just
like it sounds and it's working he says
why I was working wait about we're eight
minutes in and he's already got it going
way to go fantastic have you ever
thought hey I'd really like to have a
t-shirt like Robbie that has brands on
it like teespring and such t springs
great i mean they make some awesome
t-shirts but you've got a you've got to
basically sell so many of them in order
for them to go to print there is a way
that you can do just one t-shirt if you
wanted to or if you want to get a good
deal on t-shirts for your sports team
your event that is going to be going on
we have a deal for you cat five dot TV /
shirt check it out no minimum orders
free shipping and a very good turnaround
time as well cat5 TV / shirt one draw
attention to nature sounds of Ontario
Canada thanks everybody who's been
supporting that channel that is nature
category five dot TV and of course
you'll find it on a rope
channel coming soon to to Cody as well
that'll be a part of our channel there
we've got more stuff coming to nature
sounds of Ontario Canada people have
been purchasing the lossless wav files I
really appreciate that and that goes
back to supporting category 5 TV network
as a whole and we were talking about
people you know giving and yeah and
we've been receiving so linden sent me
something cool and it's a keychain he
said we were going to be he was going to
send me this for it's kind of like a
late birthday present but it is they
it's something to do with Doctor Who for
sure I think it's from Gallifrey what do
you think Adam is that gallifreyan I
think so ken cool and then we thank you
windin and I appreciate the birthday
wish I've Linden seen the public oh
we've got the call box there so make
sure you check out the behind the scenes
if you got that you can see ya the
TARDIS that leads to the closet that is
smaller on the inside how does that work
ok and then ah got something in them I
got this today whiskey 0 this was
unexpected and I was in the front seat
of the van and and what is this No haha
I've been saying we need to get a
shelving unit back here or something
like that Star Trek seen just a shelf
with random paraphernalia and what is
better than a legacy das game Star Trek
judgment rights and it's like it's mint
man oh I'm sorry this is old salt sent
this to me I'm sorry old salt I said
whiskey zero because i was watching the
chat there it's just like one of those
things but thank you whiskey 0 for being
here old salt sent this in to us and
it's like it's oh it's kind of like a
DVD or something too what is that is
that so like I see is that it be yes
nice i'm gonna have to like oh it's got
a pin you know this is awesome old salt
thanks man that is decided this is gonna
end up on a shelf line oh yeah sure cool
cool I'm is an addition to it is limited
edition like a dos game oh I should read
old salts message as well says I realize
that's a dos game
but I had to get it for you after all it
is Star Trek it's also limited edition
although I don't know if you already
have it don't have it but do now thanks
also whether you play it or not can you
can you play a dice game dosbox maybe
we'll give it a try I hope you enjoy
owning it from one tricky to another
from old salt thanks man and yeah that's
definitely gonna go on display here at
studio D so thank you never know it
could be a future episode future episode
from the past the laptop came in so
thank you to everyone who has been
supporting the show it's an i7 and we
were able to get this I mentioned that
it's a be a b-grade laptop so we were
able to get it for like 250 bucks but
it's a nice little latitude for that
price is fantastic so an i7 dual core
but and it's going to do the job for us
but it got here today and rise no
operating system installed I thought it
was going to come pre-installed and so
we've been we were rushing you notice
that i got debian on there with cinnamon
but it wasn't ready in time so we're
using a borrowed laptop from sasha
tonight but so that's going to be that's
going to be fantastic and thank you to
everybody who's been supporting category
5 TV the network and category 5
technology TV and her other shows and
you can do that through patreon at
patreon.com / category 5 it's a really
fun way to support the show we
appreciate everyone who's been doing
that okay are we ready to get into it
well that's like enough enough of that
all the room cleaning stuff are you
ready to dig deep will tell us about so
marketing you've been studying marketing
and so Google Analytics is a big part of
Kurt you know the current methodology of
marketing a website promoting it in
google and other search engines it's
important to know how people are finding
you so that you can kind of tweak things
right so you can tweak basically your
approach to your potential targeted
market
and to know if you're even reaching your
target market are you reaching the
demographics that you hoped for are you
even reaching for the users on the
operating systems that you hope for and
are you even reaching users that are
using the social media that you are also
using outside of your blog or outside of
your website and how can you fix your
current approach to your online blog and
website to better optimize user
engagement so what is Google Analytics
that's a free tool it's completely free
and it was designed by google in 2006
and it's just been completely updated
and just there's been so many developers
that I've just made it so easy we'll get
into that I'll challenge your ease of
use statement for the people who have
not had any prior education to coding or
to the idea of you know making your own
scripts and as well like you said you
had made one and what was the what was
the idea of the one that you we're gonna
we're gonna look at once we get into
reporting because reporting is a big
deal when it comes to your analytics
data because you need to know as erica
saying well how are people finding you
who are they what are they what are they
searching for what search engines are
they using and and is it leading to you
know we look at things like bounce rate
so it are they just hitting your website
and then going back to the search engine
and saying oh that was an inappropriate
result and you're not actually holding
on to them on your site you need to be
able to track that kind of information
that's where the reporting comes in and
we'll look at one of my tools little bit
later on the show also with that because
with your experience you can throw that
into Google Analytics and with someone
without that they can just use a
it's kind of like an all-in-one get your
reports get your analytics and also
improve your SEO rating online and also
improve engagement without going to any
other sites but Google Analytics it's
just basically something that you can
have on your mobile device you can check
it on the go and you can actually now
create alerts so they'll email you
Google will email you if they notice a
change in your traffic hmm so if
something's going weird or wonky so know
about it or if something's going really
positive mm-hmm and there's been slight
um like changes since it's been around
obviously trying to create ease of
access so we're noticing now that just
more and more sites are using google
analytics but they actually aren't fully
optimizing the full potential of the
site okay let's get into a little bit of
we're really looking at the fundamentals
tonight get me started with Google
Analytics and this is what the purpose
of helping you to improve your search
engine optimization to understand some
of the tools that are freely available
to you and and really utilize a platform
that is is robust easy to use and free
of charge ten use so it's really
fantastic google has an infrastructure
as well that is so huge and so the
resources that are available to you or
our massive so it's not like installing
pubic for example on a local server and
then having to host your own analytics
data to be able to figure out who's
visiting your website it's not a hit
counter it's nothing like that it's much
more robust than that but because you're
using their servers in order to track
and manage this data there are slight
limitations I think you'd have to be
pretty darn big in order to reach those
limitations and at that point you are
making some serious change you don't
mind paying the bill but for the general
user you and i we're
looking at the free service absolutely I
think it starts with I mean you need a
google account right and then you could
go to google.com / analytics and when
you're there you create your account
your it's a click of a button Green
account you create your property and
property would be you know the name of
your overseeing business for example and
then you create individual tracking
codes within that property which are you
know the various websites our online
store our main website and the different
things that you want to track separately
of one another and you can do up to 50
websites per account or account per
account and you can create numerous
accounts so really I mean that's that's
pretty limitless as far as I yeah it's
it's it's actually crazy to even think
of they do this all for you and just
throw it all there and you have this one
site to go to and it's awesome let's
look at what the tracking code looks
like to use the end user so this is
tracking code that I've created just in
a sandbox environment and this is done
by simply going to your administrative
panel and clicking on tracking info and
go to tracking code you'll see the code
that it gives you there so this code you
simply it's obviously a JavaScript
asynchronous code so it's deferred until
after page load and then it will it will
track the the user information kind of
you know for the analytics and then you
just copy that paste it at the end of
your code follow the instructions there
but that's going to start tracking all
the data that you need so then once
we've got that can I look at can I just
bring out I don't want to get ahead of
where you want to be but i want to show
kind of the the panel here as so as far
as that goes so let's go over to
reporting now and you'll see you know
kind of an overview of you know the
current month the past month i should
say and information about you know what
country are people coming from what
browser operating system service
provider language as well so if
somebody's hitting your website that is
you know you're getting a lot of spanish
hits for example you'd know hey
maybe you should have some Spanish
content maybe something that I'm doing
is important to the Spanish community
just as one example and even I noticed
in my password that your website may
reach a location that you never even
thought possible Tijuana welcome you've
got a huge amount of information at your
fingertips it's huge and that's why you
and I are here today to just start off
with the beginning steps to Google
Analytics so we've created our account
we've got an analytics tracking code for
our property what's next so once we have
our tracking code if you have to put it
on to either each page or just on if you
have a like let's say you have blogger
and versus a website longer actually
dies wordpress even any word you can get
a google analytic dropping so simple a
drop in Google analytic it's actually
done right for you thrown into your
template and that's it right I literally
I think when I had installed it it took
me longer to wait for the analytics to
pop up the next day that's another thing
once you put in your tracking code yeah
you do need to wait for the analytics to
start up I guess they have to receive
enough data to to aggregate and actually
find so information for if you do
install it at home right away um it will
not pop up it takes up to 24 hours okay
so it will work it just takes the 24
don't expect it to all of it hey i just
installed it I'm waiting I'm waiting I
got my mom and my dad my brother and
sister they all clicked on it and it's
still not coming up so we've got all
that stuff in place and so so number
where we go what do we do number one you
want to make sure you are not um
tracking yourself ah so what she means
by that is i'm the guy sitting there
going refresh refresh refresh every time
I make a change on my website bumping up
my page views
it's kind of illegitimate right and some
people don't realize that until you've
already started up your website or your
business and have 10,000 views in the
first hour it's been tastic oh it's so
awesome man i must be famous already but
it's one of those things that you really
do need to know and you can actually put
limitations on there but just do your
it's basically your email so when you go
to google and you're going to show us
how we can do this on a panel here and
we've got a bit of a disconnect because
while erica explains things I'm going to
bring them up on the screen for you just
quickly backing up a little bit to
tracking code and thinking along the
lines of PHP and yes Erica touched on
the fact that you don't want to just
drop it into each individual file
because if you do that what if you miss
a file and it's not going to get tracked
so it's better if you're not using a say
a wordpress or blogger blog where you
can just drop in a module it's handy to
use something like a PHP include in all
your files if you've got a file for
example like a foot or dot PHP that you
include in every single web page might
as well put it in there i found that way
the most effective so I'm not missing
when I add a page yes because if you do
then it's not tracking right over all
except a success of that new page so
that's something as well um that I found
simple for me to use was just an overall
put the script right down at the bomber
footer yeah make sure it's there and
I've had no issues perfect I've all
right let's take a look at the dashboard
and see where do you want me to go Erika
well let me go to a min okay so we're
gonna administer the account up here
mm-hmm and we're gonna go to user
settings or your management then user
management okay so you have we want to
make sure that you have permission at
the top yeah of course I created it
right so that I should have right
sometimes you have to reset this to make
sure before you start your
shuel tracking because then what happens
is then you don't have access to those
reports so you just need to make sure
that the email is there before you first
step is making sure that you've got the
capability to mmm to modify this so when
would that ever not be the case i guess
if someone else created it yeah a
different account yet with you and you
only had save you access right so if
someone's I had made it for a business
and they wanted to get into it I yes and
they can only see from when for
basically what I've done and they can't
edit it so just for better
communications if it's for your just for
yourself there's no need to worry but if
you're using it for multiple users then
make sure that you add each email that
they can all edit on the assay me that's
good from a security standpoint too
because I adding for example I could add
Erica's email and give her read and edit
access or something along those lines
but I'm not giving her the username and
password for my account right which
would potentially lead to a security
problems she's she's bad you never
happen away all the time ok so we user
management we've got that we've got our
tracking is taking place can we look at
a little bit of reporting and where
where that's going to take us and that's
that's kind of you know that's I think
where we all want to be as you know when
we're first starting out oh yeah we want
to see you know are we getting a
response are we even how where and where
my page and where do I start my
marketing efforts and this is where
marketing can get integrated into google
analytics okay let's take a look show me
around so we're looking now at your
audience overview so we're looking at
the General Sessions and this is your
dashboard so on your dashboard um you
see pretty basic tab a very yet very
basic but from this basic data there are
hit
in gems in order for you to optimize the
basically referral rate from social
media sites ok so let's let's go through
a little bit I I'll be honest with you
Erica and I meant it at this at the top
of the show kind of half mockingly but
the reporting tools that are provided by
google are incredibly sophisticated they
are they can be tweaked really really
well when you have the experience and
know how to do that yes the default
reports are okay but you gotta go
through a lot of Hoops to find the data
yeah you got to understand the metrics
that Google presents and all of the
different variables that are available
to you so we won't really get into a
whole lot of like can we can we look at
form customization or where do you yes I
want to show you a tool that's going to
really help you because we are a little
pressed for time at this point but
reporting can be a little bit of a
challenge but when you gain access I
think when you understand how to get
access to that data so basically is you
can apply these filters so you get only
the data that you want to look at show
me how to do that um so when you're
going take it just take a little down
there and you're going to go see this is
this is exactly hit it is its vast and
Wow oh yeah in it and it is a little bit
like to the average user yeah to me it's
just my kind of overwhelming okay at
first so what I like to do is I kind of
just break it down so what do I want to
look at so with the you just go right
down
and let's go to a quick little thing
like mobile okay also handy to know you
know who's using a mobile demise vs and
this is can help you with your filters
so like let's say fir filter do we want
it to look at desktop or mobile well
right okay so i can see here for example
that 99% 99.6 percent of my website
visitors are desktop users right so that
tells me either one I've really messed
up and my website is not compatible with
mobile and so Google is not giving me
those results or I'm just not appealing
to a desktop users I would be concerned
if that was the case if it was that far
cute I should be seeing at least forty
percent mobile these days I'd say more
in the sixty percent range so
considering mobile app use has gone up
big time so I think that you can almost
use that data to realize where you've
got problems just like that I've only
got two mobile users out of 531 users
I'm doing something wrong because
keeping in mind Google will pull you
from the search results if you're not
mobile friendly on mobile devices maybe
I'm doing something wrong and then
that's where you can kind of dig deeper
or n go so out of my mobile users so
crazy and this is just one little yogic
little example and then you can add
filters later on sure choose your
dimensions add your filters so let's
take a look um back to technology on the
dashboard oh go down a little bit go dad
down down down down technology that oh
there's one called tech nice is like a
browser and operating system we've got
network can we check out the browsers
let's see how I uses users are using
edge no not one so faked ass Safari so
if we see two users using safari which
is generally used on the iphone right oh
yeah so that's where we can start to
link that there was you know a problem
with the mobile tracking and that you
know how can we make it better for these
users so we're seeing that chrome is the
number one obviously so for to better
appeal to them we have to now adjust you
know our visual settings as our design
compatible for safari users and right
utilize more problems right but in it
kind of you don't want to get to get
overwhelmed but it's just one of those
things that you can better off you know
you your mol biol effectiveness and to
basically have a better customer
experience or user experience so now we
can I I've clicked on chrome I see all
there's so much data it's hard to parse
so I said forget this now I love it but
for you as you're getting started the
essence-- my little bit of frustration
at the Google's reporting pro at
Google's reporting process it is pretty
vast but there's nothing there in place
and Google is usually pretty good at
this stuff mm-hmm there's nothing in
place for the entry level hey let's get
started welcome to google analytics
click here for a really easy to use
report yes that would make sense to me
it's sadly lacking from google analytics
analytics though remember is a huge
amount of data all this kind of stuff
like we're talking anything you want to
know about your website visitor so their
location not
not down to the street address but
general location country city that kind
of stuff you're able to pull off a lot
of data and it's not just that you can
know their behavior you can know the
accusation you can know where they came
from we're talking about referrals in a
referrer where are they coming from how
are they finding need you can even know
their service provider and i found out
and actually on one of my accounts was I
had more windows but number two was
Lennox users and for some whim and
someone for a website that's saying
software building and they see Oh more
windows is coming up too yeah yeah more
windows users than Lennox but I'm up for
let's say for example I am a lennox you
know user and I'm giving basically I'm
just giving out my software for free and
making sure that people can get to it
but then I see people with the double
operating systems and people that you
know with the windows are clicking on
there right but they don't need what
you're basically trying yeah every every
use case I think it from for every
business is going to be different your
example of a software company that has a
mac version a windows version and a
linux version they can use the analytic
data to see hey we're doing really good
in the linux world because it's a lot of
linux users coming to our website we use
that data for example to realize that
hey we've got a lot of viewers that use
microsoft windows and maybe we do need
to occasionally include a windows review
or something like that for example right
but it's different for everybody so what
I set out to do was I we want to create
an easier way to do it and I tried doing
that with search goblin calm and search
goblin is a site that I own that is just
like my kind of sandbox for goofing
around
figuring things out and a lot of it you
know impacts me at work and helps me to
expedite services that I'm providing to
customers but also at the same time it's
a playground for me to be able to do
things without affecting those customers
so if you go there and create a Google
Analytics report with the generator it's
pretty neat because you don't actually
have to do anything I'm talking about
how Google Analytics is so complicated
to create a just an easy report I want
an overview I want to know just the
basics so I'm going to go there and it
automatically connects to my accountant
gives me a list of all the the sites
that I have so in my sandbox for example
I can click generate report and I didn't
have to do anything and it just gives me
the the data so you have the sessions
yeah it gives me the referrals and
bounce rate and any information that
it's able to generate in just a single
click this is just the sandbox website
so the data is just kind of you know
skewed and but it helps you out and it
gives suggestions on how to better the
the website as well so that's another
tool search goblin calm to get you
started but get on over to google.com /
analytics to try this out we're going to
talk about this more on future shows as
well army oh yeah get into some of the
more advanced stuff we wanted to kind of
get started a little bit easier today
but if you haven't even even if you've
heard about it maybe you were skeptical
about it what is this you know thinking
it's just everybody uses it well it's
being you know the peer pressure it's
everybody's doing it man it is being
used for a reason and just like for to
make its it's basically to make it
easier for you to better off your
website for your users and for yourself
you know you can basically get all these
insights that you never would have got
from a generic little hope they came
from this place yes that's it we used to
have to rely on surveys and hope that
one percent of people would respond and
and usually it
at demographic that does respond and so
excuse the results well now we can tell
how many male and female visitors we
have on our website based on google
knows google nose job cool is that all
right well thanks Erika that's I think a
good introduction to Google Analytics
anything else that you want to add
before we get into the news well there's
a lot of exciting news today it's huge
but I can't wait to hear Sasha and she's
waiting patiently so patient baby the
new all right Sasha over in the newsroom
it's off to you hi it's Tuesday August
18 2015 and here are the stories were
covering this week did you receive one
of those portable phone chargers from
EEE earlier this year watch out they're
being recalled for exploding and
catching fire fly from London England to
New York in about an hour it could be
possible based on a new patent which has
been approved for a new model of Concord
aircraft the rumors are true Apple is
working on an autonomous car an SSD with
nearly 16 terabytes of storage space
Samsung just unveiled the
earth-shattering new Drive and will tell
you all about it and so it begins the
first big update to Windows 10 has
broken a whole bunch of systems and
since Windows 10 doesn't let you choose
what updates to install many users are
stuck with an unbeatable computer and
they release the pilot this past weekend
and we've got some seriously big news
about the future star trek renegades
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere you've got mad skills now
hone them learn new skills or improve
your existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses something
up now for free
cat five dot TV / Linda I'm Sasha
through madison here the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room UK
mobile firm ee has recalled a portable
charger it had given away after a
medical student was left with severe
burns when using one EP said that it had
identified five instant incidences where
Power Bars had overheated as a result of
and as a result is recalling one of the
batches that amounts to about 500,000
units according to the firm as a gesture
of goodwill it will be offering affected
customers a 20-pound voucher to spend on
accessories in a statement the firm said
we have identified a very small number
of incidents where Power Bars had
overheated all of which relate to batch
II one dash 06 so on the side of the
actual power bar it'll say model II 1060
should I bring that up oh yes if you put
that would be perfect through the magic
of television yes so this model alone
could pose a fire safety risk we are
therefore recalling this batch and
requesting customers to stop using the
power bar and return them to a local
store at their earliest convenience
medical student Katie emslie from
Aberdeen suffered severe burns when her
phone charger exploded and set fire to
her bedroom floor I cannot imagine EE
began giving away the smartphone charger
to every customer in April II was
swamped with requests for the charger
and estimates that there are now 1.5
million in circulation but says only the
batch identified was affected the scary
thing about that is sometimes you let
you plug your phone into a charger and
you leave like you leave your room you
make the house like this I mean this
poor medical student has burned her hand
but it could have been much worse so and
of course I was reading that news story
and Robbie gave me a phone charger I
know but this I I swear this one will
not explode and I thought the phone
charger that yeah yeah it's awesome it
was
Vic timing he gave me a phone charger
yes you're not yesterday last week last
week and I had it at home charging my
phone for the whole week and then I read
this news story and I thought oh sorry
what is he doing okay it would have been
really funny if it was the same one in
the picture I should have planned that I
should have like replaced the picture
with the one that I gave you new sorry
Sascha thanks because okay airbus has
won a patent for a hypersonic passenger
plane which could potentially fly from
London to New York in an hour that means
no matter where you're watching category
5 you can come visit us if you're on
there you go we're gone by one of these
for the studio that's right yeah dubbed
the Concorde to point o the jet would be
capable of flying more than four times
the speed of sound documents lodged with
the US Patent Office refer to an ultra
rapid air vehicle and related method for
aerial trent or aerial locomotion
according to the documents the jet would
reach speeds as high as Mach 4.5 or four
and a half times the speed of sound that
compares to Mach 24 Concord the patent
application says that the airplane would
use a variety of engines that would
serve different purposes and power that
would come from hydrogen stored on board
to turbo Jets under the fuselage and a
rocket motor in the rear would be used
during takeoff and it would lift off
vertically like a space shuttle there is
a 0% chance i would get on this thing
once launched the turbo Jets would be
shut down and retracted and the rocket
motor would then kick in to climb to an
altitude of more than 100,000 feet then
ramjets used usually on missiles would
then be ignited and the flight would
reach its top speed no word when if at
all these patents would actually lead to
development Robbie would you ride on
this would you take would you take a
flight on the Concorde 2.0 I would
probably wait until they've worked out
the bugs to be honest
I don't know I don't know I'm not overly
confident I would really hope that they
equip that plane with many airsick bags
cuz i can tell you four times the speed
of sound i'm gonna get a little bit like
a hundred thousand feet though are you
not practically in space like is that
the stratosphere where does that start
you must be there the g-force must be a
little different up at that height than
it would be like we think of 4.5 mock
4.5 down here would be insane but yeah
Wow yes we like mmm-hmm can you imagine
like going for a flight and taking off
vertically before you know like an
astronaut but yeah Wow my palms are
actually really sweaty up front nervous
thinking about it I think my stomach
just dropped thinking about that the
persistent rumors about apple building
some kind of car have felt at times like
they were powered purely by Apple fans
desperate for something new and exciting
so far we've only had theories in mock
designs rather than any actual evidence
something was happening but now we have
something firm The Guardian newspaper
has gotten ahold of correspondence
between Apple engineer Frank Faran and
officials from a car testing facility go
mentum station it reads we would like to
get an understanding of timing and
availability for the space and how we
would need to coordinate around other
parties who would be using it the note
was sent in may go mentum station is in
Concord a city a good 30 minutes drive
northeast from San Francisco it's a
facility specifically set out to test
driverless car technology with 20 miles
or so of row they would recreate real
word real-world scenarios for the
autonomous car industry so what does
this tell us about apples car ambitions
not much but it does at least offer for
the first time some concrete evidence
that plans are in motion or that
somebody has a great sense of humor and
is hacked into apples email but very
cool so an icar
and yes white and rounded nice smooth
edges how cool would it be if it had a
home key yes all right you just push
just push the button and it just takes
you there nice well done hats the flash
memory summit in California samsung has
unveiled what appears to be the world's
largest hard drive and somewhat
surprisingly it uses NAND flash chips
rather than spinning platters really yes
it's boringly named the PM 1633 a boring
Shannon aimed at Sasha which is being
targeted at the enterprise market and it
manages to cram almost 16 terabytes into
a 2.5 inch SSB package by comparison the
largest conventional hard drives made by
seagate and western digital currently
max outer at eight or ten terabytes to
reach such an astonishing density
Samsung has managed to cram forty eight
layers of three bits per cell 3d v-nand
into a single die this is twice as many
layers as was possible just two years
ago historically like most computer
chips NAND flash has been structured on
the chipped laid down on a single
two-dimensional plane in a similar way
to how logic chips are moving towards 3d
transistors Samsung and more recently
Toshiba and Intel have been forging
ahead with 3d NAND the simplest way of
describing 3d NAND is that everything is
turned on its side so instead of having
just one layer of memory cells on a
single plane you can now have dozens of
layered cells all standing up next to
each other in fact that's where the V
comes from in Samsung's v-nand name it
refers to the vertical nature of these
cells at the flash memory summit Samsung
showed off a server with 48 of these new
SSDs with a total storage capacity of
768 terabytes and a performance rated at
2 million input input output operations
per second that's Amelia meeeeee two
million
by comparison the consumer grade SSD
that you probably have in your PC is
probably capable of about 10,000 to
90,000 I ops depending on the workload
we don't have a price for samsung 16
terabyte SSD but we can't imagine it
being much cheaper than eight thousand
dollars when it is available and we do
have a price for it maybe it'll be on
Amazon we can link in the roomie you
know shop for it on our affiliate same 6
8 16 terabytes sixteen thousand
gigabytes my first hard drive was 13
eggs Wow mind blown unbelievable and
what does this crazy servers and the
cloud be able to throw a whole bunch of
these at it how fast would everything
work not very fast at all if you have
Windows 10 right now windows tens first
major update has rated some users in an
endless loop of reboots and it's not
even februari second users have been
reporting the problem to Microsoft which
is yet to suggest the solution not ideal
for an OS which is less than two weeks
old known as kb 308 12 for one for two
for Tory the update incorporates a
number of bug fixes for the new
operating system but has been failing on
some machines when this happens when it
happens Windows 10 automatically reverts
to a previous version but as Windows 10
updates or automatic in mandatory it
then tries to install the dodgy update
again some users reported the updates
getting the update getting to a certain
percentage before failing with
uninstalls taking a long time when
Windows 10 gets stuck in a reboot loop
the problem has been exacerbated as
Windows 10 updates are forcing cannot be
turned off while this policy was
intended to make the operating system
more secure some of our youth that users
should be given control over whether or
not they choose to update
this is true Windows 10 users writing on
Microsoft's help forums identified a fix
for the update loop error that involved
deleting certain keys from the registry
those uncomfortable with changing the
registry should wait until Microsoft
issues and official fix or download
linux install Linux thanks for that no
problem so we gotta wait for Microsoft
to post a fix for the fix yeah that's
what you're telling me what I'm confused
about and I'm sure that they figured
this out but if this is a loop where the
update is failing and then it reverts
back and it tries to update again at
what point are they going to be able to
insert a fix like I'm worried that the
loop is going to be unbreakable but I'm
a it's frustrating to I we we've got
some viewers on YouTube who have been
experiencing this this week and saying
you know how do I fix this looping
problem and the problem is it's also
kind of different for each system and
different systems will have different
fixes so there's no one answer to get
you up and running yeah which is
horrible I mean if you only have one
working computer and your operating
system happens to be Windows 10 at this
point I'm sorry now this is the best
news we have got breaking news for Star
Trek fans will tell you what's up right
after this
it matters not how Strait the gate how
charged with punishments the scroll
I am the master of my fate i am the
captain
unlike you Khan Noonien Singh was a
great warrior you are just a failed
genetic experiment
until three years ago the planet siphon
was not on any of our charts
I fear the Federation is on the verge of
collapse
I will bring the Federation to their
knees for what their portal did to us
we have urgent matters to discuss we
have nothing to discuss
ah
and now the biggest news to hit the
pointy ears of Star Trek fans in a very
very long time Star Trek renegades will
be producing further episodes following
the successful release of the pilot
movie this past weekend we're excited to
announce the schedule of 12 episodes per
season for reasons the Renegades team
didn't we're not able to disclose CBS
cannot move forward with Star Trek
renegades at this time or any Star Trek
series for that matter however an
exciting plan B has been initiated Star
Trek renegades will be moving forward as
an independently produced fan supported
internet TV series awesome nice the
current film will be episode 1 and they
are already writing episodes 2 &amp; 3
Chekov will be part of the next two
episodes but then will be retired the
role will be retired in addition to most
in addition to most of the Renegades
cast returning the wheels are also in
motion to bring many Star Trek stars and
their familiar characters awesome to
accomplish 12 episodes per season
they'll use conventional episode of
television production schedules
including shooting each episode in seven
or eight days editing and scoring the
episode over the next month and then
completing the visual effects over the
following two to three months this is
now possible since the team is already
in place and the most difficult and
time-consuming visual effects work was
completed for the pilot so cool visit
Star Trek renegades calm for more info
big thanks this week to roy w nash and
our community of viewers for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you would like to send email it to
newsroom at category 5 TV for all your
tech news with a slight linux bias visit
the category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis thanks Sasha
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show hey if you're new here
greetings want to say hi to some of our
duly registered viewers let's go through
the list grumpy pc welcome to category 5
TV Trojans by my scatterbrain Sedona Red
welcome you got TI 2d it's like a wrap
yeah toh phir welcome to the show hot
caribbean and pie powder puff dough it's
like watches oh ya got galit Florence
yeah and a AZ top pearl handle you guys
welcome to the show though Michael tech
hey how do you get Michael tech I can I
got lucky under I'm a beach I got beach
kk beach geek welcome to the show thanks
for joining us okay PDFs mail and Nate
UK welcome to the community and already
give them back thanks for being here all
right do we have time can we please
pretty please and some viewer questions
so so much thanks for that by the way
it's a show that is some exciting news
i'm stoked about Star Trek renegades I
love it I absolutely love that we got to
show the trailer breaking news yeah
you're headed here first when Google
comes at us and says hey copyrights we
actually talked to the develop the
creators of Star Trek renegades and got
the a ok so there you have it
exclusively for you guys just for you
alright what do you got for me I do I
got a really great question it is
actually dating back to the unraid 6
episode yeah alright so I have
successfully upgraded unraid six
Congrats but I don't understand where my
stuff is when i insult install a docker
app like sink it sinks my photos from my
phone but where they are but I don't
know where they are on my server
okay so you're unraid server is a linux
machine at slackware so if you hop on to
your server access at over samba however
you want to do it you'll you'll find in
the directory tree of Linux you've got /
MNT mount has all of your mount points
if you go into the MNT folder you'll see
disc 1 this 2 just 3 those are the
physical disks of your unraid server you
don't necessarily want to go into any of
those because if I copy a folder that
has a hundred files and I've got seven
drives in my array it's going to
automatically select where to put the
files and they won't necessarily all be
on one drive so there's a folder or a
mount point if you will called user and
if you go into that so MNT slash user
then you'll see all of your users shares
if you haven't created any yet you can
you can actually create those through
the unread panel and you can set those
up and and point them at your system but
essentially I mean you can go into / MN
t / wherever and you'll see that's the
file system not of the flash drive but
of the actual physical hard drives and
then you can locate them and of course
you go into your doctor settings and and
I wish I had a nun rates over here we're
going to be putting one together on the
show and then I can actually demonstrate
but if you go into the doctor settings
by going to the IP address of your
server and logging in then you'll be
able to actually change or view at least
at this point the the storage folder
where it's actually putting your doctor
apps where it's storing things but that
docker app has that docker container has
access to the physical array so as you
save things in docker whatever it is
it's actually saving to the array you
just need to see where it's where it's
pointing to and you can see that in the
docker settings on the
the panel good luck do we have time for
one more I hear an enormous storm
brewing out there a anybody walking home
nobody's walking home very good whew
what's this I have a question so just
wondering where you could put purchase
the brick backdrop to your set oh you
like that I'd suggest amazon how do you
like that go to our website cat5
category five dot TV go to support us
and and you'll see the affiliate links
follow that through to your local amazon
and just it's wallpaper so do a search
for faux brick wallpaper or brick
wallpaper and you'll be able to find
some stuff and and then get some friends
to come help you put it up there you go
well thanks Alan for your interest and
it does sound like a storm it's just
there's a storm brewing right into the
show folks and that's all the time I
can't believe that the time is up but
thank you erica for all your input into
the show tonight and thanks to those of
you at home great news for Star Trek
fans and really excited about that
thanks Sasha thank you hope you all have
a fantastic week see you next Tuesday
thanks guys for my chains have an
awesome we hope you enjoyed the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven p.m. eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
