do you know that I've been having
trouble with my smartphone I did you
were having problems with the audio when
you were doing that right so okay so I
had a lg g3 mhm this is going back a
ways and the Wi-Fi chip on it stopped
working and getting into Google found
out that hey this is a fairly common
issue with these I had used it for a few
years so and it served me really really
well it was good phone and so I thought
okay I tried fixing it I took it apart
and I tried doing all kinds of things
and following all the steps that they
said to try and piece of no soldering
involved no soldering involved
thankfully but it didn't work now so I
had to go out and get a new phone and I
wanted to save money and these are
personal you know a personal expense I
have to have a phone
I guess these days you just have to and
you rely on them quite a bit and I
especially need it because you know I
have to be on call and stuff like that
for work and for the studio but all that
said so I needed to save some money I
didn't have a lot of disposable income
when my phone just stopped working so so
I went to the stores and Wow phones are
expensive you can get them cheap but you
got to be on like a three-year contract
or a one-year contract and the
specifications aren't very good on the
phones that are in those contracts a lot
of the time and just so you know what
I'm used to as far as my contract goes
yes I use pay-as-you-go because even
though I need to be available so that if
an emergency happens someone can call me
I don't take a lot of calls right on my
smart phone I use a magic Jack at home
and and that's great it saves me a lot
of money but I don't take or make calls
I just have to have the ability to if I
need it right so that said I pay only
$25 every four months for my service oh
you get very little with it you get a
very little amount of data you get very
little amount of
phone usage right but enough that I
usually last the entire four months
before I use it up so it's like six six
dollars and twenty five cents per month
and uncovered so I'm happy so I'm not
gonna go on to a contract because the
cheapest contract is gonna be yeah yeah
I'm like ridiculously more expensive so
so with that in mind I started looking
and I got on to our classified system
monka GG they started looking for phones
I've you know they're okay well I didn't
know if I could trust that so I found a
kiosk in the mall that sold refurbished
phones okay okay I can actually save a
few hundred bucks here and ended up
getting an LG g5 which I thought was
going to be an upgrade so I went from
the g3 to the g5 thinking okay this is
gonna be great and and it was
refurbished and so you know I but I
figure I'm buying it from a kiosk it's
gonna be good and no so I I had LA I've
lost a lot of faith in refurbished over
the past couple of weeks as the phone
itself the screen went and a really
weird way for it to go if you had an app
open and then closed it it would still
be on the screen but it's not an
interactive and you bring up another app
on top of it you can still see that
other app underneath it and it was
really odd and gross and the camera
would not focus at all laughs as if the
focused capability of the camera just
didn't work at all
so all these things were fished from
what Frankenstein certified yeah so but
I tried I tried to save money I tried to
be a good you know alright I was proud
of the fact that I you know I only spent
$200 on this phone
I threw $200 in the garbage that day
folks not to say refurbished is not
fantastic but unfortunately I got a
lemon and it didn't work out and so I I
did lose a lot of faith in the
I wasn't gonna go back and ask for
another one because now it's charging me
another 200 but there's no return papa
that you can't return them
ya can't exchange them it's just it's
like it's like buying a phone at a
garage sale you're you're you're taking
a risk buyer beware
yeah so I said okay well what am I gonna
do and you know thinking back to the
kiosks and and the phone companies and
the cost and the contracts I don't want
to get into that and I thought you know
what I'm just gonna look around and
Xiaomi is always up there they're very
very popular in South Asia China India
and and that brand of phone they make
really good high-end phones but it's a
lot cheaper okay right and and I I'm not
I'm not getting into an argument you
know like China made and all this kind
of stuff and I I hope that you know like
the best of us I hope that you know
people are well treated in their employ
and everything else that's not my intent
tonight but I really needed a good phone
for a very good price and I do suspect
this has a happy ending it does yeah and
that's what I want to show you and today
show me so yeah exactly
so this show me or Xiaomi poka phone f1
was 300 us okay so more than I paid for
the refurbished device but Wow the
specifications on this are crazy for
$300 right so you know my history of
dropping things so I can't even touch it
right so I've actually I've put a case
on this I'm going to show you in just a
couple of moments but I'm gonna head
over to the unboxing table and we'll
actually get a look at this when I
unboxed it it's kind of like we're gonna
step through time here as I step over
here alright so let's get into the box
of the Polka form by show me I'm just
gonna show you what the specifications
show here so we've got
Qualcomm 8:45
Snapdragon processor that's an
eight-core processor the phone boasts
that it has liquid cooling there's kind
of an odd thing but I suppose that
sounds really good right it's gonna keep
it cooler I know that my LG g5 got
pretty warm the GPU is an Adreno 630 GPU
the phone has six gigabytes of RAM it's
got well let's get into the the
packaging here and see what we what's
included it comes with this gel case I'm
not going to use that I'm gonna put it
to put a proper case on it that I'm
gonna order but that's nice that it's
included anyways it gets you up and
going out of the box without having to
worry about scratching the finish and
everything else
basic instructions cool and there it is
the polka phone f1 so it does have a
much larger screen than I'm used to and
full disclosure here I am NOT a phone
guru folks so I want to be clear about
that this is not a technical
demonstration but I wanted to show you
the specs here it's got a snapdragon 845
liquid cooling like I mentioned an AI
dual camera with dual pixel autofocus
that's right there and that is 12
megapixel and 5 megapixel and then we've
got a 20 megapixel camera on the front
here the battery is quite high capacity
four thousand milliamp hours and it
supports quick charge 3.0 as well and
that battery is able to give a lot of
life let's just kind of peel off these
stickers this just shows me how to
install the SIM card and everything else
which we already pretty much know how to
do alright here's the charger here even
though the box shows that this is the
global version so did arrive in English
out of the box but it came with this
power adapter which is from the planet
of Volk
looks like it no it's like European but
it is a quick charge this is not a 3.0
as you can see there but it does have up
to 12 volt quick charge and and there
you have it so but this with the
interesting power connector this is not
going to plug into our Canadian power
outlets but they did include this little
guy there's gonna stick out from my wall
like crazy right but that should at
least get me up and going I can until I
can again buy something off Amazon that
will it'll replace that but it'll at
least let me charge it with quick quick
charge I think this is quick charge 2.0
and it's taking me way too long to get
into this we should just look at the
phone right alright how exciting and the
USB cable there we go
with quick charge capable cable so not
just 5 volts and then we've got a SIM
card tool as well so let's let's see now
I imagine that the phone should come
with at least partial charge anyways so
I should be able to boot it up there's
no button on the now the LG phones I can
press the fingerprint reader and it will
turn on but it looks like the power
buttons actually on the side here there
we go I like the look of that screen
it's so dark
it's you know what I mean like black is
black not like slightly illuminated gray
it's got a really good look to it it's a
big screen yeah it is it's more than 16
over 9 that's for sure but it doesn't
feel huge in my hand I got to admit that
it's a I thought that it was going to
feel bigger because it is a big screen
mm-hmm but it it doesn't it actually I
don't know they maybe because it's so
close to the edge I see that it did come
with almost a full charge there up at
the top
right you can see that it's got the kind
of the iPhone ask look with the with the
tab at the top there as well now I want
a new phone I have zero need for a new
phone however you'll drop yours
eventually yeah you know it so as I
mentioned I did purchase a case off of
Amazon just something that was more
suitable for me and really really you
know I I'm really liking this phone and
I must reiterate that one of the reasons
that I went with the xiaomi poco phone
f1 was the price and I'm not a phone guy
right like I don't know phones I'm not
this is not a technical specifications
demonstration this is just you know hey
this is my impression as a phone user so
if you're looking maybe you're thinking
about upgrading your phone maybe it's
time to look around like we don't
necessarily have to just go with what is
presented to us by the phone companies I
mentioned that it has an eight-core
processor six gigs of ram it will take
like a kingston 256 gig micro SD card so
that gives you tons and tons of storage
the phone itself my version only has 64
gigs of internal storage but again
putting in that 256 gig card which I
would rather use anyways because I can
unplug it and do data recovery if I had
to a phone is much harder and much more
expensive to do data recovery on I did
find one thing odd and kind of
interesting but even though the the
selfie camera is 20 megapixels writes
very high res it only records video in
1080p which I found kind of odd and yet
the 12 megapixel camera on the front
will record in 4k maybe they're thinking
like okay well I want really nice 4k
videos like that the cameras do support
HDR all the cameras do the front-facing
also has really good photo stitching for
panorama
and panoramic view as well that's good
let's look at the specs really quick
because I know some people are gonna be
wondering about it it has stereo
speakers it's got the 3.5 millimeter
jack for headphones or a microphone or
any other compatible device I found when
I put a case on it my headphone wouldn't
plug in so I bought a little extension
cord to to fit in there because it's so
so narrow but that's my cases fault not
the phone it has bluetooth 5
so like specifications are really up
there with like current modern and yet
really affordable it's got a built-in FM
radio which I've never seen in a
smartphone but I guess that's very cool
yeah if you don't have nearby internet
connection you can't listen to your
radio station you can listen to the
old-style radio that's has USB type-c
for charging and OTG it has infrared
fascia facial recognition fingerprint
scanner on the back it has an
accelerometer gyroscope proximity
detector and a compass very cool mmm-hmm
that's really you know that's the some
of that so the fingerprint scanner does
that work for unlocking your phone now
that you've oh yeah like if I just yeah
okay it just unlocks it right yeah yeah
so that's that's handy yeah we're gonna
actually get a look at the phone itself
we're gonna take a really quick break
but when we come back I'm gonna bring it
up on the screen and just kinda show you
first impressions about how snappy it is
how how well it works and and tell you a
little bit about my experience so far
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this week we are looking at the polka
phone f1 from xiaomi and these are
available through our link cap v dot TV
slash f1 so if you're looking for a
budget phone that doesn't have such
budget features like we're talking like
this is a pretty high-end spec phone
again not a phone guy but I know what
works really well what's super zippy and
what feels like a good phone and has
some pretty good specifications right
and eight eight core processor six gigs
of RAM everything else it's cut dual SIM
capability if you don't want to use the
SD card because it is either an SD card
or a sim in the second slot so what I
have is SD card and sim but if you need
dual SIM you can do that as well shall I
bring it up on the screen yes okay so
here we go so it obviously has miracast
capability it's got Android 8.1 Oreo out
of the box it is upgradable to 9.0 Pi
and let's just kind of get a feel for it
so you can see right on the screen
that's in real time it's a little delay
to me so as I move things it's a little
bit a little bit delayed but you can see
the snappiness of it what what do you do
with a phone right out of the box I mean
here you go
poets so this is kind of what it what it
looks like what it comes with other than
I installed an app called asphalt
because I thought hey you'll probably
want to see if a game performs well on
here let's bring up YouTube and let's do
a quick search for Linux tech show nice
Linux tech show and we'll click on us
yeah there we go
this is reliant on our our Wi-Fi as well
plus we're streaming live video from the
phone to the Wi-Fi there we go let's see
do we have anything that's kind of like
a really good adventure yeah but I mean
come on now so we wanted to know if you
could put a custom OS on the phone I've
read that these come routed I'm again
not a I'm not a power user when it comes
to phones right so so I imagine so but I
that's not something I would ever do you
can do a lot of searching about these
and find out more but from my user
perspective all I see is hey how does it
handle how does it feel as I'm kind of
navigating and how does it perform when
I'm actually using it so it came with
YouTube out of the box they're the only
app that I've installed is that game
which I'm eager to kind of try just to
see and if there's anything that you
want to see I mean there there's things
like allow compass to access the devices
location sure allow compass to take
pictures and record video why why oh I
know because it's augmented you know
whenever it's got compass capabilities
so let's just bring up this asphalt 9
and I'm gonna switch to full full-screen
mode so that you can see kind of the
performance and this is this is in fact
real-time so what you're seeing
on the screen is what's on my phone
right now so let's let's see I've never
I've never run this I don't know
hopefully the volume isn't too loud not
finished okay do you need the tutorial
No thank you got that let's just do this
how hard you can you can even tell in
these animated menus that it's super
zippy how do I just play go games these
days are so crazy city - all right
mm-hmm
okay oh this is nice yeah and remember
that's got a really big screen on it -
yeah like so Sasha seeing this in real
time how do i okay oh okay
oh I think that the that calls
accelerometer drifting oh okay hold to
drift yeah all right let me play okay
yeah okay it does not feel janky at all
folks and that's some pretty good good
graphics for sure this keeps playing a
game like this is how I would drop my
phone this is how you do it you have to
finish in third or better press the
nitro yeah pushing the nitro I'm not
good at it but here I am right so I'm
just kind of there it is so I mean
performance is exceptional and it's
doing all this plus I'm streaming live
plus everything else what first you know
it congratulations on your win well
thanks but yeah that's pretty sweet so
you would use two SIM cards
I should ask if you wanted to take your
phone say to Jamaica yeah you could do
that or just by case for example I have
a cell plan that is it doesn't include a
lot of data right so I can also get
pay-as-you-go data from a provider who
provides cheap data right and then any
time I turn on my data it will use the
data from that
provider and not use up my minutes
that's smart yeah so I can do that kind
of thing as well but yet for traveling
it's perfect for that if you need
dual-sim capabilities but there you have
it folks I mean it's zippy it's snappy
and it's affordable it feels really good
it has a glass screen and it does have a
plastic body but as I say you know just
grab yourself a nice little case for
it's something that works well for you
there you go is a great phone you like
that I'll let you touch it thank you
there you go
do you like it yeah Garvey said that the
second SIM card could be used for work
as well that's interesting too like a
work contract or something like that
well there you go folks so that's the
show me polka phone f1 just a quick
review from somebody who doesn't really
know about phones but that was great I
know when it works really well and so my
out-of-the-box experience so far has
been excellent I felt really good about
it I haven't had any buyer's remorse
from this particular phone the last one
on the other hand yeah that one left
really bad taste in my mouth but this
one so far so good feels great it
doesn't feel cheap the battery is not
removable keep that in mind but it is
4000 milliamp hours that's the other
thing that I have to mention the battery
life on this is nuts right I know I have
never I'm not used to that at all and
does it get warm to the touch when it's
running well I just played the game and
we had it open for oh yeah no it's good
doesn't feel warm at all that's the
liquid cooling system right you see what
I'm saying
but when I say it's not the battery life
remember Jeff and I were talking about
my smart phone and he was talking about
how he has a charger on all the time and
plugs in his phone in the car and
everything else because my phone is dead
by the time I get home right that was
the LG g5 this one when I get home at
night so I start work like I might start
at about 6:00 a.m. i unplug the phone
and it's in my pocket I'm using it
throughout the day and
and then when I get home and I'm using
it throughout the night this one is
still at like 86% charged
that's insane yeah very I am not used to
that and I love it
no man five wants to know if it has
wireless charging capability you know
how I have that japaese that's a really
amp excellent question and you know why
that's an excellent question because
when you look at something like this so
when you get online and you start
looking at the specifications and saying
doesn't have wireless charging and this
and that you're gonna have you're gonna
see things like that where you say oh it
doesn't have because the answer is no it
doesn't okay and the reason and this is
really really key to remember this keep
in mind all of the amazing features that
they fit in this yes for 300 dollars and
then think okay they had to they had to
cut corners somewhere yeah where did
they cut corners on the processor no it
is an 8 core snapdragon 845 right did
they cut corners on the RAM no it's 6
gigs of ram is it the screen
NoHo the screen is amazing so where do
they cut corners things like the
wireless charging I love it but also my
phone is warm by the time I take it off
the charger so oh yeah right whereas
that one will always be cool ok it has
liquid cooling and no wireless charging
it's super cool yeah so do keep that in
mind when you're looking at the specs
for something like the polka phone f1
that there are some things that have
been left off of the spec list because
indeed they they had to cut corners
somewhere but I think what they've done
is they found a really good spot for
where to cut those corners so they can
keep the price low while keeping the
specifications that I really care about
really really high but it does have the
quick charge USB C so I can plug it in
and it will charge it up very very
quickly I had about 80 percent charge I
plugged it in and 20 minutes later it
was at a hundred percent yeah like it
didn't take long at all and I just
didn't want to risk it right I'm not
used to a phone that worried when you
were like I need to plug it in for the
show because you said just remind me to
take it off the charger and I thought oh
is one of those phones but no it's not
let me because it's gonna you know I
don't want to neglect the camera so what
do we have here we've got video short
video photo portrait square panorama is
so cool in manual mode so you know look
at all that I don't know my way around
just yet what we got change your your
focal your white balance shutter speed
and ISO that's great
hi there you go I'll snap it don't you
notice look at the blur behind me that
is stunning Oh
smile I just said to myself to smile
here get in here look at the background
I love it oh that's good so we want to
look right there yeah there we go that
looks absolutely stunning so that's the
20 megapixel front face camera I don't
know if that's because I'm in portrait
mode square mode so you didn't blur the
background there something we didn't
think of during the live show so this is
recorded after is a video test so this
is what the video looks like on the the
selfie camera and here's what the video
looks like from the front camera I'm not
sure which one because there's two of
them and the audio that you're hearing
you notice I don't have my head's
headset on at this point so the audio
you're hearing is in fact from the
microphone built into the poco phone FY
so that is the polka phone f1 from
Xiaomi you can get one at cap five dot
TV / f1 super cool
