here comes jared jared is one of our
videographers on the drone zone so you
may have seen him before hey buddy hey
you're gonna have to speak up because
I've just got a microphone on me but
this I'm good what do you got so I
actually have a Garmin vivofit too and I
got this last year actually at a source
and it's just typical like it's like a
Fitbit or whatever it tracks my on the
date how many steps he walks you're only
steps how many steps we got today I have
especially 4206 I do not have that hold
on let me check I did go to the gym
today though I don't know where my phone
is yeah I'm walking back and forth in
the studio I'm not counting my style
yeah I've 2815 let me think here bus
okay wait here thousands lazy yeah okay
do you get funny though I get like 10 to
15 Tim earthly tether what are you
healthy I go around every day you really
like outside around every day but on the
traction 7058 haven't you yeah okay
sorry not competitive at all so do you
find that the this the fitness tracker
encourages you to yeah like try harder
and yes you can attach it to your like
you can sync it up with your iOS or
Android device or your computer and you
can actually enter like competitions
with other people so that's a bit of a
friendly motivation chintu and it's
cheaper than the Fitbit hmm and because
the Fitbit alone like just a band to get
a new stylish band it's like 70 bucks
for a new band and this you can buy
replacement for like 15 bucks as ever
Wow and no but this was on eighty
dollars on sales nor makes one hundred
twenty dollars but I was the price
comparison doing a new place in person
wasn't good how how often get to charge
that and then hold attorney pretty it
has a battery and you just replace it
once a year a lot all night and then it
tracks your sleeping patterns too so how
deep you sleep was how long it was cool
yeah don't that you run every day that's
yeah that's good keep it up man that's
really good to see you guys really just
logged 100 steps I didn't even her get
away oh you would say slam on behind my
back here sorry six months thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
