welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 534 and tonight
we've got a lot to cover we've got a lot
to squeeze into an hour and a half and
here we go first of all we're gonna look
at a couple of 4k cameras in addition to
that we've got a giveaway we're giving
away that great game debt effect VR and
version to VR and we've also got your
viewer comments we've got some changes
on patreon and we're gonna show you how
you can find what files are taking up a
lot of space on your Linux server so
much good stuff TV newsroom forget about
working overtime in Japan now the drones
are flying overhead blaring the tune
auld lang syne in a blow to the robot
delivery industry San Francisco
officials have voted to restrict where
they can go in the city dantdm has been
named the richest youtuber of 2017 after
making more than 16 million dollars this
year alone and we'll tell you what you
need to know about a serious bug in
TeamViewer for Windows Mac OS and Linux
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is category 5
technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kim's Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPM and the internet International
Association of Internet broadcasters cat
5 dot TV slash ia IB
welcome to episode number 534 this is
category 5 technology TV I'm your host
Robbie I'm Jeff I'm Sasha
and I mentioned there that we are using
nimble streamer and a lot of times
people hear things on the air and
they're just like okay yep moving along
moving along they say it every time what
on earth is that so let me just tell you
a little bit about something that
happened to us here at category 5 this
week now there are a lot of things that
happen behind the scenes that you may
not know about one of those things is
somebody who has sponsored us for years
that you may have never heard of their
name is sig Lazaro now I would encourage
you to please check out their web site
sigla Cerro comm and they provide
hosting streaming services colocation
for dedicated servers if you want to
host any kind of server at all they're
the folks to call now they've been
sponsoring category 5 TV for years what
have they been doing
they've been hosting the very co-located
server that runs our nimble streamer
software so when we here at the studio
send a feed to that server it then goes
out to everywhere so that's whether
you're watching on roku Kodi Plex any
where that you are watching it goes
through that server in order to get to
you so unfortunately that sponsorship
has dried up only because now it's not
something that we've done it's it's
simply the fact that they're
restructuring the company and now it's
time to move along now understand that
these folks have been sponsoring us and
bringing you the live feed for years
remember when we first introduced Roku
that's when it started
so really yeah so think back that far
and consider that every single week
these folks have been providing our
bandwidth and our streaming service
they've done it in the background no but
we didn't have to mention them on the
air we didn't have to do advertising for
them it's just they love what we do and
they wanted to support us and our
viewership so that's come to an end so
this week it is it is absolutely sad and
and we appreciate the folks over there
Pablo has been absolutely fantastic
quick to respond to emails and quick to
solve issues whenever we've had them but
they've been old reliable as far as our
stream hosting goes so with that this
week came the need to decide okay what
are we gonna do next
how are we gonna keep doing this
broadcast category five technology TV
every Wednesday night live and so we
started looking at this device from
logic supply it's a CL 100 it's a little
micro server computer and it's got a
nice little kick behind it it's got a
lot of horsepower for a little tiny
thing a little bit bigger than maybe two
Raspberry Pi computers side-by-side as
far as the form factor goes with this
now it's got Debian on it and I've been
using it as a development server for our
our new version of NEMS which is coming
out you find out more about that at nems
Linux comm and so just as a test because
it's such a quick oK we've got to come
up with a solution
I installed a nimble streamer on that
hardware yeah so what does that mean to
you and this goes back to my question
what is nimble streamer you hear about
it on the show you know that we've
mentioned it and we're actually going to
show you in coming episode in a coming
episode what it actually does and how to
configure it but what it does is it is
the software that when we send a single
feed it sends it out to however many
thousands of people are watching on any
platform so it makes it compatible it
makes our one feed compatible with Roku
Plex and cody and all that so having had
to reinstall this software nimble
streamer what does that mean one I've
got to install the current version it's
the one that was just released in
November
so it's very very current then I have to
reconfigure all of our feeds No yes and
I was a little bit oh oh no right you
know that's a lot of work to reconfigure
but here's the thing as I was
reconfiguring these feeds so we got
rokuko' d-plex all those back up our
website live dot cat5 dot TV those four
things now set up on nimble streamer and
then I got looking into some of the
features of WMS panel which is provided
by nimble streamer and it allows you to
configure it and lo and behold they've
brought out the capability to now also
Simula to blow away and simulus
to Facebook live so if you're watching
this for the very first time tonight on
Facebook live or YouTube live know that
it is thanks to nimble streamer running
on a logic supply CL 100 little
microcomputer that you're able to do
that notice today coming into the studio
yeah the driver it's like category 5 is
live one there you go so I think this is
a great opportunity for us to branch so
you know it started out as a bad
situation and you know these guys have
been supporting us for so long yeah
bless them for doing that and now we've
got to find another solution
here we are nimble streamer is still the
software we're using to do it and that
makes it possible to broadcast now on
our website live cat 5 TV Roku Kodi Plex
Facebook live YouTube live all at once
from one sheet now further to that one
final comment about nimble streamer and
how we've got it set up now is that if
you go to live cat 5 dot TV
during the live show you're gonna notice
something has changed previously you
would have been getting the feed at
1080p okay that's how we distribute the
show that's our feed right now because
of the way nimble streamer is set up and
rebroadcasting is now using full HLS 1
you no longer need Flash Player that's
gonna make so many people happy Oh
- its HLS it is adaptive bitrate what is
Robbie what does that mean no longer do
you have to watch in 1080p if you've got
a slower connection it will
automatically step down to 720p 480p
360p right 144p all through that service
very cool
so again cig Lucero fantastic company we
love them please do support them go to
cig Lucero comm and check them out see
if their services are for you they're
from Argentina and they have been
wonderful to us and to you indirectly if
you watch the show live they've been the
ones providing that for you so for
anybody who doesn't know it's sigla
Cerro sigi
it's down low CER oh there it is I can
do I can do the magic stuff I know you
can but I'll try to help alright help
man thanks man thanks man okay so
speaking of our stream getting better
and better all the time we've been
talking to our friends over at B&amp;H cat5
dot TV /bh their photo video store in
the US and they've sent us a couple of
new cameras to give a try - okay because
we're at 4x last week at the end of the
show I promise you we're gonna be
looking at a 4k camera this week well
sorry I've got three of them and we're
gonna show you just quickly we're not
doing unboxings or demonstrations or
anything tonight so before you get ahead
of me just want to show you what they've
sent so what this is is with a 4k camera
the intention is that we're gonna be
able to punch in on a 1080p cam shot on
4k canvas and we're gonna get really
crystal-clear view even when we're
zoomed in beautiful stuff so here in a
studio that's a great thing to have so
they've sent a few for us to look at
there's another there's a JVC pro cam
that's on its way as well it's gonna be
here in about a week or two okay but for
now okay so we've got three different
tiers of of cameras so this is a
consumer camera it is a FDR a x53 from
Sony these ones are kind of neat because
they've got floating optics so you think
about you think about a stabilizer
system yeah
normally you'd have to have a pretty big
heavy rig in order to get those really
smooth shots well do you remember when
we looked at the sony action cam and how
great that was yes this has got that
floating optics so it actually moves
inside the camera in order to get that
smooth shot okay
here in the studio we're working on a
tripod doesn't really matter to us but
it is a 4k camera at 30 30 frames per
second it's gonna do a really nice job
for us we're gonna try that out over the
next couple of weeks then in a little
bit of a higher price point but pretty
similar price is a prosumer panasonic
this one is the WX f99 one and I haven't
really gotten this one out of the box to
take a look at yet but looking forward
to giving it a go as well
this is Panasonic's offering that's
about equivalent as far as price goes
and again it's a 4k 30 frame per second
camera and that's what we're finding
with the 4k cameras and you know until
you get into the 20 30 40 thousand
dollar range they're all gonna be 30
choice surety frames a second is what
you're gonna get from 4k at this point
we're not seeing 60 P in 60 frames per
second in the consumer kind of
entry-level prosumer and entry-level pro
cameras yet then we've got another one
from sony this is a big step up from the
FDR IX 53 this is the ax 100 and this
one is more of a professional camera and
again it's 4k with 30 frames per second
and all of these have HDMI output
incidentally so they can go into
Telestream Wirecast and all that kind of
stuff so we're gonna be looking at all
three of these cameras plus the JVC
that's on its way to us looking forward
to doing that for you if you have any
questions you know maybe you're in the
market to purchase a camera whether it
be for your own personal use or for
studio like here we'd be happy to answer
those questions we're gonna look at
things like comparing the ISO components
and the f-stop and how how good the
picture is how well we can punch in at
1080p 720p and so we've got a lot of
exciting stuff coming for that kind of
high-end consumer into the prosumer line
of video cameras which kind of
transcends the studio environment and is
you know for even
you know you want to take videos of the
kids the a x53 is probably a great
camera because if you're walking around
it's got that stabilization system to
give you the smooth movement and we're
gonna be looking at all these over the
next little while
so save all your gift cards and
Christmas cash you're gonna want to buy
up soon there you go cat five dot TV /
BH show them some love for showing us
some love and we've got a lot of fun
stuff coming for you okay so we've got a
brand new feature tonight we are now
showcasing our biggest fans on YouTube
you big fan you you've commented on our
videos - that's how we can gauge because
when you start interacting with us
that's how we know that you're not just
a fan you are one of our biggest fans on
YouTube true so let's get right into it
first of all Daddy chase says love the
video please remove the overpowering
music but it detracts and distracts I
just wanted it to sound cool alright
daddy chase next up I'll get a better
one
Michael Hawthorne what a DIYer channel
what three people presenting the one on
the right says nice at least three times
a minute the one on the left is sleeping
what the middle one is hyperactive sorry
wait what did you say I wasn't paying
attention early this guy says nice three
times a minute nice this one sleeps for
the record it looks like I'm sleeping
I'm actually like all the way in the
chat room I'm hyperactive this is one of
our biggest fans on YouTube folks so
they know what they're talking about
Kyle now says stop calling it a
backplane okay so will Google this
backplane Oh a backplane is the back of
a t-shirt what a backplane is when you
have a backplane that you plug hard
drives in to or other components like
the one we were demonstrating right
thank you for pointing out that Graham
pink ten says please learn how to
pronounce SATA sata3 expecting SATA well
they could be or they could be expecting
SATA either one would be acceptable just
like SATA which stands for incidentally
serial ata
would you say serial Atta or if you had
an IDE hard drive would we call it I did
here's what worries me about this
particular comment have they ever
watched me in the newsroom and any city
or town or village or any serial ata has
three accepted pronunciations SATA SATA
SATA that's it in some circles if you
say SATA or SATA you might get bullied
apparently according to our biggest fans
on YouTube if I say SATA I may also get
bullied nice deadzone says no can't
pronounce SATA lmao look pay attention
here we've already covered this virus Z
says fires that could be virus Zed okay
maybe I want to say virus Z now we're
gonna get a canadian-american let's get
into it
4:46 the girl is green screened in why
is she green screened in first of all I
think we need to get the context here
obviously we're looking at a reference
here to John 446 which says once more he
visited Kanna in Galilee where he had
turned the water into wine and there was
a certain royal official whose son lay
sick at Capernaum I'm not sure I get the
reference that said maybe every covered
Bible why why are you green screened in
Sasha well cuz I I'm on the wine she
lives on the moon folks she lives on the
moon why would sash abhi green screened
in when we are all green screened in
just saying so for the record for those
of you wondering why sometimes we
accidentally reach out a frame it
happens there we go it's because we have
two different cameras now - for the
record hi Sasha
and when I look at Robbie it doesn't
even look like I'm looking at you
because we have two different cameras I
have to look at a chair in order to make
eye contact with Sasha yeah see these
are all the things that for some reason
I think people take for granted when it
comes to making a show is that it's not
always just a single camera there's a
lot more that goes into the show like
there's absolute Amma's around me right
now mm-hmm
and light nice the lure and a green
screen behind each of us with me mark a
the brick as long as a mark a or marker
its mark a SATA should we say yeah we'll
Varys says I pay for YouTube red so I
don't have to watch stinking commercials
your channel should be banned you tuck
cyst Chum adocus dome you didn't turn it
on turn on dome Dava oh oh oh oh seven
man this is annoying shameless
I am sad too I saw that thing
Moulson Ali Wahid says I thought this
was Linus tech show - like like grab a
blanket and Linux is an operating system
that we love and Linux tech show Linux
tech show comm is part of the category 5
TV network so welcome I know you were
looking for the Linus tech show but this
is the Linux tech show with a slight
what exactly the next Halloween episode
we're all thinking about the Charlie
Brown Chris yes dress up as Charlie
Brown
I'll have my blue blankies lioness and
Sasha could hold a football you can go
to kick it I've got one more I've got
one more we have another big fan another
comment from one of our biggest fans on
YouTube who took the time to send this
into his kuda FX says almost everything
about this video is unpleasant but the
music made me rage quit already dealt
with the music issue what's up you
essence we never figured it out I don't
speak French so I'm assuming that's a
French but thank you to all of our
biggest fans on YouTube for taking the
time to post your comments we love the
YouTube community we know that you're
all here with good intentions as are we
and we hope that you enjoy the show
we've got to take a really quick break
when we come back we're gonna be showing
you all kinds of exciting stuff first of
all we're gonna be looking at how to
figure out what files are taking up a
boatload of space on our computers going
to help us so that we can hone in on
those space hogs stick around we'll be
right back
Operation Christmas Child is one of the
great stories it's unfolding in our
lifetime
we are only seeing just the beginning of
this project and these children will
change the world
welcome back this is category five
technology TV tonight we're looking on
our computer for space hogs pigs in
space I'm pretty sure there was like a
Muppets episode or something probably
was space hogs are essentially files
that fill up your hard drive so you know
maybe somebody on your computer has
downloaded a couple of videos that are
all four gigs each and suddenly you're
starting to find that that little 128
gigabyte SSD is running a little low so
tonight we're gonna learn a couple of
tricks well I trick on Linux that's
gonna show us how to figure that out on
a server okay or through the terminal
why are we skipping right to the
terminal why are we skipping right to
the server well back on episode number
401 we already took a look at a couple
of different tools first of all we
looked at a program called space sniffer
and that is a Windows tool that allows
you to graphically visualize the space
usage on your computer brilliant stuff
now we showed you on episode 401 how to
now use space sniffer in order to find
that same issue on a Linux machine right
using wine which we learned about last
week so we no longer we don't have to
look at the GUI we've already done that
look at episode number 401 of category 5
technology TV but what I run into and
what you may run into if you have Linux
servers anywhere throughout your network
or online is that hey you know what what
do I do about my server when space
starts getting eaten up where is all the
space going so tonight we're gonna look
at a terminal command that's going to
allow us to do that so over here on my
computer I'm just gonna bring up putty
and I'm gonna bring up one of my Linux
servers which is going to allow us to
show you one of the ways to do this so
putty allows me to log in to my server
from a remote location this is just a
terminal emulator that lets me in so I'm
gonna log into our gaming server for
example and I'm going to become a super
user
and here's the thing a server does not
traditionally have a GUI correct and a
GUI being like a desktop environment on
Windows that would be like the thing
with your Start menu gonna get somebody
saying you said it wrong it's gooey so
here on a server I'm got this remote
connection and I'm gonna bring up
because I don't have a GUI I can
actually access it from here so
typically there are a couple of
different commands that we're going to
use so we can go D F - H which is disk
free and that's going to tell me hey how
many how many megabytes or gigabytes are
available on the particular disk that I
am looking at or on a list of all the
different disks in this system and there
it is so there's my disk free space so I
can see I've got nine percent use on
slash that's good so now if I do a D you
- H that shows me the disk usage which
cool takes forever it's it's gonna show
me the ultimate disk usage at the end
let's go to home Robbie and try it there
disk usage - H this is traditionally how
we do it on a server right so it's going
through all my files and takes a little
bit of time to find everything that's
there and at the end of the report it's
going to actually show me a tally of how
much disk usage there is now I can sort
that by the biggest files and I can go
through that kind of hoopla but there is
an easier easier way using n curses okay
so this shows me a tally at the end if I
were to allow it to keep going but n
curses is basically a interface for the
terminal that allows programs to have a
bit of a GUI a bit of an interface
that's beyond just text-based so the
program that we want to use is as an N
cursors program that is disk usage for n
curses is in C D U I believe so
n CD you try that it says n CD you not
found so let's install it at install n
CD you and hit enter and now it's
grabbed it
so if I type n CDU - - help now I should
see oh it doesn't even have a help let's
see n CDU oh it starts scanning
immediately crazy what I want to show
you how I can use this tool in my
terminal on my server to be really
really quick about it so n CDU and then
you can specify slash and it will show
you the the usage on slash but I don't
necessarily need to do that I'm just
gonna go home slash Robbie and there's
another thing that I want to do and this
is why when when I run these commands
you see that it's running a little bit
slow because I've got a lot of mount
points on this or on this server and
it's acting out to other servers so I
want to say you know what I only care
about the built-in hard drive and the
hard drive that I'm actually using right
now in the slash home slash Robbie so I
do dash X and what that does is it says
only scan the media that is the same as
home dat slash Robbie so I'm gonna
ignore any Samba share CIFS and that
kind of stuff hit enter now it scans
everything and almost instantly now I
see a report and again and curses allows
me to navigate this with the keyboard
I'm going to just kind of move up here
now that I'm zoomed in you're not
getting a full view there we go
there so that's what it looks like on my
screen I can I can navigate that with my
keyboard going up and down so this is a
mind test gaming server so obviously
we've got a lot of maps on there so in
my case I can go there and I can see Wow
survival servers using six point seven
gigs our dome server is only using one
gig and I can navigate that and see
where the file usage is actually
happening see how much faster that is
and easier than using something like D U
it's just like instantaneous so that's a
great tool for you just a quick and
dirty Linux tip for you if you're
running a Linux server anywhere on your
network grab ahold think n curses disk
usage so NC d u-- is the tool that you
want to install you want to run it as
root so that it doesn't have any sharing
any violations as far as permissions go
you want it to be able to scan all the
folders on your computer and then you
use n CDU - X we learned about that and
then where you want to check so slash
would be your entire heart
drive or slash home slash Robbie as my
home folder and go about it that way
that is n CD you it's available just as
you saw there you can install it on
Linux with apt or yum however you want
to install it okay so we're gonna head
over to the news room if you are all
prepared and ready to go I am ready to
rock here are the stories were covering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
forget about working overtime in Japan
now the drones are flying overhead
blaring the tune auld lang syne in a
blow to the robot delivery industry San
Francisco officials have voted to
restrict where they can go in the city
Dan TDM has been named the richest
youtuber of 2017 after making more than
16 million dollars this year alone and
will tell you what you need to know
about a serious bug and TeamViewer for
Windows Mac OS and Linux these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias i'm sasha Rickman and here
are the top stories were following this
week since World War two Japan has been
struck has been struggling with a world
work culture that consists of excessive
overtime to curb that behavior one firm
is planning to use drones that fly
around the office blasting auld lang
syne to get employees to realize it's
time to go home the system developed by
office security and cleaning firm tae-se
and telecom giant NTT will see drones
patrolling the office on a scheduled
flight path
the drones will also record footage of
what they see during the flight to
identify employees who remain in the
office after standard work hours it may
sound a little silly but something must
be done a white paper released last year
found that one in five Japanese people
work an average of forty nine hours or
longer each week from those thousands of
workers died each year most of whom are
only in their 30s and 40s the victims
died from various illnesses such as
heart failure
exhaustion stroke starvation or suicide
as a result of work stress and
depression of the drones the director of
the program says you can't really work
when you think it's coming over any time
now so what is auld lang syne anyway
it's a tune that typically plays in
Japanese malls to announce that the
stores are closing tie say will trial
the system in April 2018 dargah ting a
monthly fee that works out to about four
hundred and fifty dollars for companies
to use this service this is an
interesting tactic that is flying around
with a giant speaker I'm more concerned
I'm not so concerned about telling
people that it's time to go home as what
is your workload like what's making you
this workaholic if you will what's
making you stay such long hours well a
lot of it is cultural to it to a certain
extent of of just that productivity that
performance that or that honor aspect of
you know I'm a hard worker I've got a
few friends from Japan and that's one of
the things that they do struggle with is
you know I don't want to be the first
one out the door I you know I want to
show that I'm committed to the company
how much of that is it falls on the
employers shoulders though like if you
have an employer who's pushing you to
meet quotas and and giving incentives
that are unreasonable in order to make
those incentives well obviously these
employers aren't thinking that if
they're willing to buy a drone sure yeah
fly around playing the song that only
plays here once a year yeah but here's
what I find interesting about it instead
of somebody walking around saying hey
listen thank you for your work
get out of here it's a drone like how
impersonal is that how big is this
factory that they need a drone I'd like
to know if it's a teenager obviously
they're not going to listen to the drone
like that's just the way it's gonna go
so what are they gonna do they're gonna
buy like like Jimmy's head phones and
they're just gonna pop them in your ear
so you hear you don't hear it
else Yeah right what I find interesting
is the fact that it's also going to
record what it sees so are they gonna
like is this oh we caught you on camera
not leaving you're suspended I feel the
Foo is saying well these are salaried
workers but then it brings me back to
well what if you're trying to meet
quotas in order to right get incentives
like a bonus or something like that
different like the Macarena or something
crazy all right in a blow to the growing
robot delivery industry San Francisco
their robots can actually go in the city
startups will have to get permits to use
such BOTS which will be restricted to
less crowded urban areas opponents are
concerned about the safety of
pedestrians particularly elderly people
and children walk San Francisco a group
that campaigned for pedestrian safety
wanted a complete ban a range of
companies have begun trialing small
robots that can deliver food and other
goods they use sensors and lasers in a
similar way to self-driving cars in
order to navigate their routes robotics
company Marvel which describes its
machines as friendly neighborhood robots
began testing in San Francisco earlier
this year
other companies such as Starship and
post mates are also keen to use
sidewalks for robot deliveries San
Francisco supervisor Norman me who
originally proposed the ban on such
robots has previously said that the city
streets are for people not robots
despite its proximity to Silicon Valley
San Francisco is falling behind other
states such as Virginia and Idaho where
there are already laws permitting
delivery robots to operate
so yeah come on I just feel like well
okay so there's sidewalks obviously are
going to be used for pedestrians but how
many pedestrians are there it's not like
pedestrians I feel like they're in the
minority anyway most people drive cars
even still we're talking about a robot a
robot that is basically benign and stays
clear of humans and drives at six miles
an hour well I have to wonder like we're
talking sidewalks I don't know about
anybody else but I have yet to find a
sidewalk that doesn't have bumps and
cracks and lead like ledges that you
could trip on and like like if a robot
comes into an obstacle where maybe they
can't get over it how does this oh
they'll get over it no problem yeah I
mean like the six wheeled machines that
they have right now they're like the
size of a cooler and they've got six
wheels and they just kind of crawl up
over like a Land Rover oh no problem at
all I get up the curb nothing right so
my question is if they already have
these robots doing deliveries in the
other states have there been incidents
where there's been concern there's been
no nothing that I've heard of anyways no
I haven't okay and even if there was
like you know they keep bump into
someone on the street and you know
excuse me sorry right at least here in
Canada these delivery robots I want to
know like do they deliver just like is
it the mail cuz there was one that was
post bots or something and there was the
groceries so surely oh you think about
an elderly person so take take it you
know okay well we're worried about the
elderly folks that are walking down the
sidewalk
all right put flip it over and say what
about the elderly person who can't go
out to get their medicine or their
groceries and now it can be delivered by
one of these robots that they just open
the door and open it up and that's thing
I have an idea I have a solution I've
got this
are you listening San Francisco this is
gonna work okay so you know how in there
on the roads you have like a car lane
and you have a bike lane a bike lane the
sidewalks have a little robot Lane I
think it's perfect I think we're still
trying to get into the whole bike lane
thing not everybody's a fan of that
the likelihood of them jumping onboard a
robot lame before bike lane but again
these robots travel at about the same
speed as a human pedestrian see what's
interesting about this though is we're
talking about robots that are on the
ground everybody's talking about drone
technology wouldn't it just solve the
problem to have drones doing what this
can this can handle something there's a
lot heavier that's delivering like
pizzas and and pedestrians
one of the fears too is that they're
worried that what if they get vandalized
by you know because they do only travel
like at a snail's pace so you know what
what if they do get vandalized or
someone breaks into them and that kind
of stuff it's a it's another concern or
underground tunnels idea yeah I don't
know about the topography of San
Francisco but if you could do
underground tunnels then have you seen
some of those people don't want to be
walking up that there he'll bring it on
robot bring it to me yeah I just don't
feel like there's probably a lot of
pedestrians out and about I don't know I
don't see a lot of them I am backslash
of facts cuz I cite your statements
who's watching this on their phone while
they're walking down San Francisco
sidewalks what no me comment on YouTube
I want one of these robots to deliver
things to me even if I were to go to the
grocery store cause it's heavy carrying
things back again I've said that I'm I
am pedestrian I'm not a robot I would
like to be able to just have a companion
robot bring my things home with me I
would like yeah it's about the size of
like a baby carriage and about like they
call it Ottoman height so think about an
ottoman how high they are pretty short
like knee height I kind of think they're
perfect not gonna lie there you go what
do you think you comment below what it's
not okay we know how I feel all right
dan TDM has been named the richest
16 million dollars this year alone Wow
yeah the 26 year old from Aldershot
England started off simply making videos
of himself playing Minecraft and Pokemon
his face is in the corner of the screen
in the ads humorous ongoing commentary
as he plays he's got more than 16
million subscribers and more than 10
billion views of all of his videos the
youtuber whose real name is Dan
Middleton did not feature in the top 10
list last year dantdm 'he's recent life
who were included a show at the sydney
opera house which became the second
fastest selling show in the venue's
history he started posting videos which
were aimed at viewers under 10 years old
at the time he was also working at a
grocery store dude perfect also made the
list with about 14 million dollars in
earnings PewDiePie dropped to number 6
with 12 million dollars and six-year-old
ryan earned more than 11 million dollars
reviewing toys on his channel ryan
toysreview
back in november dantdm said that he
wasn't prepared for the fame he got from
being a youtuber he said it is intense
being a role model for young people and
it's something he is still learning so
the most shocking for me is probably the
fact that he does live shows on stage
how how do you do that a lot of fun for
kids because I mean the kids are
watching the shows on YouTube it's like
like when we used to watch Sharon Louis
and Bram or you know mr. dressup or
right you know any of these show so I
went and saw Ernie Coombs in in theater
and he did magic stuff and he did the
dress-up thing and he'd you know
everything else that you did it was just
fun stuff to entertain children so
dantdm and other youtubers that are
focused on the the child audience dantdm
in particular is doing exactly that he's
pulling out his guitar and strumming
along and making the kids sing along to
a video that playing behind them and you
know doing all kinds of things doing
magic tricks doing games that are
interactive with the audience right
because your daughter ended up with a
contest or a contest of some sort with a
sketchy
with him does she not she was on dantdm
show yeah yeah yeah yeah she's the host
of the pixel shadow if you go to mind
test dot TV you'll see that but yeah she
was featured on on his show like all of
these these people on YouTube that are
doing these shows and making all of
these you know crazy dollars Ryan it's
nuts six years old six
it's insane he's just living the dream
well it's funny I mean as much as I find
this absolutely incredible I also look
at it and go they're just doing a video
and they're getting paid this insane
amount of money like this six-year-old
kid who does the reviews you just open
it up a box and getting excited about a
toy or whatever it is yeah it's it's
it's fair instead of raking in the cash
because even though it's his YouTube
channel he doesn't have the legal
authority Texas realistically it's it's
a team effort
right absolutely yeah for sure but it's
just I I find it so fascinating that's
something like just one person's video
can catch on and it just goes nuts
we actually have band dantdm during the
day in our house because our son is
almost old and oh yeah
we have found that there are times where
it's okay you're gonna do your math and
we're gonna go take care of this and we
come back and oh look he spent 40
minutes doing dantdm yes instead of
doing his online math it's like okay
fine we have his feed block during the
day the foo again in the chatroom below
is commenting about how you have to be
13 years or older to have a youtube
channel correct but keep in mind like my
daughter we started her channel when she
was 9 or 10 but it's me it's dad that's
setting it all up and creating the
account and making sure that the the
nasty YouTube comments are deleted
before she sees them in those
conversations to the best of my ability
and same with Ryan is it's gonna be as
folks that are really you know they're
the ones who are buying all the toys and
making them review it but here's the
thing he's this he's a clever kid yeah
and that's it that's what it boils down
to dantdm is a clever kid he's come up
with something that's unique and he's
doing a great job of it and he's found
in
and he's kept it up the same he's just
is a funny kid who just he was exuberant
and and outgoing and and that's what
makes him popular I would also like to
point out that this all happened in one
year which means 2017 okay so Ryan's a
six year old kid who opens boxes of
things and gets super excited about it
Robby you are a grown kid who opens
boxes of things and gets excited about
them open more boxes that's right
this is the way it's gonna go that's how
that's how we get rich we open boxes
that's right 20 18s list
[Laughter]
TeamViewer has issued an urgent patch to
fix a vulnerability that allows users
sharing a desktop session to gain
control of another PC without permission
this vulnerability affected versions of
TeamViewer running on Windows Mac OS and
Linux machines TeamViewer is a popular
remote support software for desktop
sharing online meetings web conferencing
and file transfers between computers
over the internet from anywhere in the
world to establish a connection between
a local computer and a remote computer
the local computer requires the remote
computers ID and password to gain
control over the remote computer a
critical vulnerability was publicized by
a Reddit user
last week linking it to a
proof-of-concept that was published on
github by a user named Gellin TeamViewer
acknowledged the existence of the
vulnerability after it was publicly
disclosed the proof-of-concept showed
how a user could modify TeamViewer
permissions with a simple DLL which
controls naked inline hooking and direct
memory modification to change TeamViewer
permissions the code can be used on both
the client and the server side allowing
the malicious user to gain control of
the presenters session or the viewer
session without permission those users
who have configured TeamViewer to accept
automatic updates will get the patch
delivered automatically however it could
take up to three to seven days for the
patches before the update is installed
those who do not have automatic updates
that will be notified when an update is
available mmm
danger so for anybody who's listening
going what's a dll hmm Robbie what's the
deal oh just like dynamic link library
did you say it wrong what I don't think
so
here's so Windows in order to reduce
resource usage to make things load
faster uses what's called a dynamic link
library they are files that are shared
among other applications so these files
can be opened by that application for
certain functionality within Windows so
if one of those dll's contains a hook
then it can be used to exploit any kind
of you know whatever the program or the
hacker wants to put in there okay now
what about naked in line hooking because
that sounds like something you'd see on
a roller derby in line hooking is like
when a when a program in this case
malicious program hooks into one of
those dll's
and overrides some of the bytes of the
code so that it will now load something
else okay so in a function so if let's
say to keep it really simple you know
when I click the file button it pops up
the file menu well that's a function so
if I can hook into that DLL that opens
that file menu and make it also execute
a malicious program in the background
then all of a sudden I've got something
happening that is not intended by the
right software developer that's kind of
what's happened here they've been able
to create a hook that hooks into one of
the DLLs that allows reverse access
without permission right you're writing
the permissions is it always super
obvious if you have TeamViewer like
could somebody install TeamViewer on
your computer without you realizing it
TeamViewer is a great application for
remote support a lot of technicians use
it sometimes like if I'm helping you out
sometimes I'll use TeamViewer to remote
in and connect and help you out but you
know who commonly uses it are those
folks the fake support callers these the
folks that call you up and say you know
hi this is Microsoft calling and we're
here to help and we've we're gonna
remote into your computer and fix this
virus that's going around and Pat your
computer and some people fall for that
you may not but some people do Microsoft
doesn't call neither does your bank
neither does you know they they don't
ask for access to your computers ever a
red flag so when they do that they need
a tool in order to do it and sometimes
what they'll do is they'll maybe use
something else and then in the
background while you while they're
connected install something like
TeamViewer or something else that but
that's not related to this DLL issue
this is you know something that you just
need to watch out for is hey this is
being smart
it gives remote access to your computer
from you know someone else right yeah
and now that it's public right so a lot
of times when there's a problem like
this it stays kind of in the background
for so long but now everyone knows that
it's there so make sure that you up like
you update and that happens you know
actually are applied and this affects
all the platforms of TeamViewer as far
as I know like this Oh Linux users are
as susceptible as a Windows user in this
particular instance so and it's a great
tool but sometimes these kinds of things
can happen and they're quick to update
it but you need to update your software
in order to get that fix exactly thanks
Ravi and big thanks to Roy W Nash and
our community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha they save Canada
this is category 5 technology TV episode
number 534 welcome to the show we've got
to take a really quick break but when we
come back we're gonna be talking a
little bit about patreon and some of the
changes that are happening there also
we've got a winner for dead affect VR
you want to stick around if you've cast
your ballot we've got maybe maybe it's
your name and if you haven't cast a
ballot we're gonna tell you how you can
do that and well we've got a lot to
cover in just a short amount of time
before the end of the show so stick
around we'll be right back
Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're terrible
actor
what this where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
now if you are one of our supporters on
patreon a patron then you probably
already know the information that I'm
about to share but I want to share it
with you just so that everyone's aware
now we've had a lot of different changes
on our patreon page over the past couple
of weeks one of those is that our
patronage is now monthly so if you're a
supporter you need to really quickly get
in there and change your pledge because
for example if you used to give a dollar
a month or it pardon me a dollar a week
now it's a dollar a month right so what
used to be a $5 per month contribution
it is now only a $1 a month contribution
so there are very good reasons for why
this change has taken place it's going
to really help us to be able to provide
some great exclusive content to our
patrons I'm very very excited about this
we've got our vlog we've got seven
episodes up already more episodes coming
and that's happening on a regular basis
but only our patrons have access to that
and there's some other stuff there for
patrons as well head on over to cat5 dot
TV slash patreon and you're gonna find
out all about that
one of the things that has happened over
the past couple of weeks as patreon sent
out an announcement saying that they're
making some changes to the fees yes that
stirred it up and I even heard big-time
a couple of our viewers and our patrons
bill reached out to me and said what are
your thoughts on this and I said at the
time you know what it's all about
building our community and if patreon
makes changes to their fee structure I
hope that our patrons will understand
that and know that the funds are still
helping us out out a great deal and you
know it is building a community right
kind of a community within our community
of patrons now today just a few moments
ago an email went out from patreon so if
you haven't seen this you need to know
patreon has in fact apologized for their
announcement about making these fee
changes yes they have reversed it and
they've said we are not going forth with
those feet changes we're going to look
at this take a different approach we're
gonna figure out how we can make this
work but we are not going to do what we
announced a week ago so keep in mind if
you were a little put off by patreon
announcement about the fee changes it
has been reversed and it will not be
going forward our patrons have access to
things like our vlog exclusive
behind-the-scenes videos and we've got
some swag for you so if you're a patron
and you have not received your swag yet
make sure you get on to our patreon page
I posted about how you can get that and
we've got a cut-off date of January 31st
let's go about yeah so you've got to
make sure that you follow through with
that so that I can get that out to you
we're starting our first shipments this
weekend so really excited about that as
well but tubs giving away stuff jeff has
take it yeah okay so you love games
I do love games and it pains me that I
can't win this because I'm part of the
show Jeff but I every week we're just
whole could - you could email okay so
we're giving away a code for debt effect
- VR now the way it works is you need to
email contest at category 5 TV and let
us know where you want
from and how you're watching so maybe
you've got your Roku hooked up to your
main TV maybe you sit there and watch on
your phone you turn or face or maybe
like me you watch it in person right not
a lot of people in the in studio
audience tonight
well I already have it's true she asked
me for one and I gave it to her Jeff but
you know what is our winner this week
this week is Bob gray Bob gray
congratulation I'm watching from Roku
from Grants Pass Oregon AUSA nice and
Bob actually sent us an email Jeff you
wanna yes what Bob said so Bob says I've
been watching for a couple of years and
due to random work schedule I work
retail my hours change weekly I seldom
able to watch live I agree that the
Orval is fantastic when I saw the
previews prior to the series launch and
looked interesting but now that it's
available on Hulu I've been watching it
and I'm an ardent fan loving your show
keep them coming
thank you Bob yeah thank you very much
Bob we yeah congratulations on the win
now if you would like to win get your
ballot in again Jeff mention its email
contest at category 5 TV we got an email
from Malcolm Malcolm says really
enjoying the show since I discovered it
a few months ago we knew something oh
who knew something like this existed
from Ontario I actually stumbled upon it
when doing a Google search to use
handbrake this is DVD ripping software I
needed to get a section of a DVD into
Pro presenter for our churches family
night and until then I had never even
heard of category 5 who know that this
has been going on for over 10 years this
past week I tried the online version of
a phonic we showed that a couple of
weeks ago and wow what a difference this
is made to the recording of our pastors
sermons it seems like you're always
covering some kind of day-to-day content
of which you have experienced yourself
and that just makes it so much
personal and applicable keep up the
great work category-five team that came
to us from malcolm thank you very much
for the comments we appreciate that that
is a true fan thank you sir
indeed I like that it's hey who knew
something like this from Ontario existed
and and it's true because you've got
some great shows out though from other
areas of the world where you typically
would expect this kind of stuff to come
out but you know for some reason people
just don't expect little Ontario
podcasts out of Hollywood I did have one
run out run-in with some buddies like
you look so familiar
Robbie show oh yeah
Robbie's show not Sacha sometimes I
aren't you from Robbie's show no I I had
it happen once whereas in a grocery
store this is years ago now but oh and I
had it happen at KFC that was the best I
went to the KFC drive-thru and they
recognized me at the drive-thru really
said you're that guy from TV and they
gave me free chicken nice so you know
being a youtuber obviously has its
benefits free chicken you could get free
debt effective there you go just tie
that right in there but you've got that
effect - you got free chicken I you are
awesome I'll tell you a joke I get
caught oh really yeah how many tickles
does it take to make an octopus laugh
I'm gonna assume the answer is not eight
tentacles oh oh
a pun we have just been banned by the
Great Firewall of China oh and that is
how we're ending episode 534 Wow
folks if you are new here if you haven't
seen this show before I hope you've
enjoyed it even if you have you've been
here before I hope you enjoyed it as
well but please let us know comment
below send us an email off of our
website category 5 TV we would love so
much to hear from you next week we're
all gonna be here we've got a lot of fun
stuff going on
here at the studio and I hope that you
can join us as well so until next week
you take care have a good one tonight
I'm just gonna tell a joke a week later
yeah
well Garvey liked it
[Applause]
