welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category five TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson it's Tuesday November 29 2011
episode number 219 nice to have you here
my name is ravi ferguson nine Hillary
Rumble greetings everyone yeah nice to
see you thanks good to be here good to
be back coming good week oh yeah keeping
it real you know good Mustang do wanna
thank you better believe it hey Dave
everybody in the chat room hello world
see everybody thanks for joining us what
do we got coming up in the news oh you
better believe there is lots happening
in the world of these people stick
around because coming up in the newsroom
we're all familiar with viral video but
a new brunswick man's kijiji has gone
viral and will tell you I blocks are
going to take a look at a starfish
inspired robot that can squeeze its way
through tight spaces wait anything to do
with robots mmm computer lessons in the
UK and beyond are terribly obsolete the
British Library is digitizing newspapers
from the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries kind of cool and lastly black
friday online sales were twenty six
percent higher this year stick around
because these stories are coming up
later in the show wow sounds huge lots
going on in the news people don't forget
if you've got a mobile device you can
check us out at mobile cat5 TV just scan
that code there and you'll be able to
launch our mobile website very cool
stuff we try to make a compatible with
every device but in particular if you're
on an iOS device you're going to be able
to actually stream that show live to
your to your device
either way you're going to be able to
actually watch the show through your
mobile device very cool stuff and it's a
good way to catch category 5 in a
portable format so mobile cat five dot
TV tonight we are going to be joined by
by sharon and reynolds who joins us from
i am a smart kid org I encourage you to
check them out it's on our shirt if you
forget anytime throughout the show there
you go it is I'm smart kid org we're
gonna be chatting about that in just a
few minutes also we've got lots of your
questions a couple of your testimonials
I got a nice note from Sammy says who
mentioned that stuff worked really
really well when we answered the
question last week so very cool stuff um
and beyond that yeah good opportunity
for you get your questions in if you've
got some tech questions yeah join us in
the chat room category five dot TV
you'll see the link there if you're on
freenode it's a pound sign the whole
number sign category five and you can
join us right there in the live chat
room and also email us live at category
five dot TV and that goes over to
Hillary better believe it so we will we
will be right back with you after this
but make sure you get your questions in
the chat room say hi it's nice to see
everybody joining us there they're
hitting the road or the dusty trails
liquid image Canada captures the action
with a true point of view HD video
camera
directly into a high-quality amex goggle
it records every bit of the excitement
exactly how you see it if my octane
isn't your thing take a relaxing
underwater adventure and capture it
forever in high definition video with a
high quality underwater camera mask from
liquid image Canada perfect for the
enthusiast snorkeler or the deep sea
diver check out the entire line of
camera masks for every sport liquid
image canada.com
but you go ahead
you
have to take it
get too hard
what you stop yes we
two
No
too far
yes three
welcome back everyone here we are with
our new friend Sharon and Reynolds from
I am a smart kid org now that video you
saw just um just now was from her
website she's going to tell us a little
bit more about her agency and what she
believes in hi Sharon thinks I'm being
with us thanks for having me on category
five guys we are thrilled this is
something like we need to think more
about cyberbullying and then how that
plays out especially in such a
technologically savvy culture that we
live in our kids are consumed with it
they it's at their fingertips every
minute of every day they can't get away
from it anymore so it's just basically
teaching them how to be smart online
given the opportunity to be creative and
free but not that the expense of other
people for sure now could you maybe take
us back to your to your beginnings of
this like what prompted you to start I
am a smart kid God org I started I'm a
smart kid last year after my son was
attacked and beaten and it was filmed
and put on YouTube so there after it
happened I didn't get any help from
anybody nobody could help us get it
offline they told me it would be there
forever I was not okay with that and
word got around and someone did help me
get it offline and I now devote myself
to helping people have other things
removed from online I basically teach
kids to create and maintain positive
online profiles and I give them the
tools that they need to successfully
deal in cope with bullying wow that is
unbelievable like such a terrible
personal experience but you know
motivated you to help other sylvain
never have to go through what your
family went very devastating it was it
was just devastating because there was
no help available people made me feel
that
um it wasn't a big deal and it is a big
deal because you know we're taught that
once something's online it's on there
forever and people don't really think
about how one little sentence or one
word or one video can be detrimental for
somebody else or for even their own like
the rest of their life yep we have
children that are killing themselves
over being bullied in cyberbullying and
that's unacceptable now could you maybe
discuss a little bit about cyberbullying
as like a whole concept and what does
that entail flee like the spectrum of
cyberbullying there's it's there's so
much and maybe we don't realize that our
little tweet could be actually a form of
yes you don't realize and that's the
thing basically cyberbullying is the
repetitive targeting of an individual or
a group that's basically what it is but
there are many other forms that don't
fall under that exact category like
something you say something like a
picture you take of somebody that you
know if they don't have you don't have
their permission to put it up there then
that is also a form of bullying so it's
it's it's a very big spectrum but it's
there yeah so would you say like if
somebody post something on Facebook and
that makes you uncomfortable anything
that makes you feel uncomfortable or as
offensive to you would be classified as
is bullying if you're targeting somebody
and you're doing something to hurt
someone and you know what you're posting
is going to hurt that person then that
is a form of cyberbullying for sure hmmm
and I think people just really aren't
aware of of what the cyberbullying is
and especially in our society we are you
know often typically very hyper aware in
the workplace of anything you say being
taken as harassment or abuse but um
maybe people aren't guarding their
thoughts online as much
or censoring yourself online and it's so
easy just to get caught up in that cycle
of just posting your quick thoughts and
then I think sometimes people get caught
up in thinking that it's freedom of
speech and so yeah it becomes a case of
well as this free speech or is this
actually am I actually hurting someone
yeah so cyberbullying differ from just
going online and saying something that
you know may be offensive to somebody
here well what it comes down to
basically is you are personally liable
for anything that you post online so the
ramifications of what you're posting
online can haunt you today tomorrow a
week later it depends on all who you're
targeting so if you have something bad
to say about somebody I would really
caution you and taking at least the five
seconds to proof read and reread what
you're what you do want to host
sometimes online something can come
across wrong too because you say
something and you've got that tongue in
cheek kind of expression as you're
saying it but the the end user reading
it may not even interpret it that way
everybody takes everything differently
and that can be dangerous I think much
so and also that when you're looking at
a computer screen ders there's no face
there so you're not seeing the reaction
of anybody else or how everybody else is
feeling in regards to what you're gonna
post so when there's no one there to
caution you or or give you the guidance
or or anything that that that's more
dangerous to because it enables you to
well keep going demon 810 in the chat
room says exactly that that text can be
taken so wrong because there's no
emotion when you're just reading
something on your screen that's fan
these days you got Twitter you've got
facebook but Twitter in particular with
micro blogging you've got 140 characters
so how easy is it to leave out a couple
of emoticons just for the sake of the
fact that hey I need those an extra four
characters use extra space is exactly
wow that is yeah it's oh my goodness you
just don't realize you really just
people people aren't aware and so with
your website and your whole organization
what are you what are your main goals
and objectives and educating people well
smart is
the acronym for social media awareness
and responsibility team what smart does
is we basically we help kids create and
maintain positive online profiles and we
give them the tools that they need to
deal and cope with bullying there's a we
have open workshops for kids to teach
them how to use the social media feeds
properly we have a support group for the
bully the bullied in the bystander and
we believe that integrating these kids
all together and given them the
opportunity to speak one another and see
how things are affecting each of them
that they have the opportunity to learn
from one another and I think that's so
important especially in these very very
very public forums in particular for the
bystander how problematic is that when
we we can everyone on your friend list
on on facebook or or anyone following
you on Twitter can can see this and
perhaps just turn to turn a blind eye to
it because if anyone's a bystander if
you're connected to them in these forums
I think my thought too is that a lot of
people are using aliases I mean I'm
looking at the chat room and old guy Jim
is there yeah and guest 5608 is you know
when did you start the the group I am a
smart kid organ we've got a gamoto there
and we've got idle chatter is joining us
in the chat room as well so it when
you're carrying a name like that people
don't recognize you you feel like
there's a little bit of extra freedom to
say things that maybe you wouldn't say
to somebody in person referring back to
old guy Jim's comment about you know
just having a kindness when when you're
talking to people not only in person but
in on the web as well smile goes a long
way a spore smiley you are okay yeah
thanks
but that's a thing like the anonymity of
the Internet is is problematic in that
like yeah people can hide behind and
maybe that's why people don't I don't
think about what they're saying because
they've got like you know this kind of
avatar and or fake name to hide behind
there's no like accountability in that
sense really but it goes with everybody
to if the adults are showing the kids to
be accountable for the Romanian and it's
easier for the kids to be accountable so
it's you know it's hard for the kids I I
I feel bad for kids nowadays I wouldn't
want to be a teenager again let me tell
you they're they're just they're over
consumed do they're over consumed with
with technology and you know we throw
all this stuff at them but no one's out
there teaching them how to properly use
it and that's big thing it's the modern
form of passing notes right yep I mean
dddd and all of a sudden hear your
buzzer goes off and you know you're in
the middle of working on a test or
something and you pull it out and know
what somebody saying something nasty to
me yeah it can be you know detrimental
to schooling and everything so who as it
under confined to the schoolyard oh yeah
everywhere they go exactly what as a
parent what can we do now my kids are
quite young but what can we do you know
I do have the concern that as especially
my daughter who's in in school now and
and you know you start to she starts to
come home with new words that we
certainly didn't teach her and so as she
gets this generation my daughter six
years old is excellent at the computer
whereas previous generation you know I
didn't even have a computer that was
considered a computer at that time so as
a parent what can we do be it through
your organization or or otherwise what
can we do to help protect our children
well first off and foremost I think open
communication is the best thing
communicating with your kids
and letting them know that you're there
for them we as parents for so long I've
told our kids oh don't be a tattle-tale
don't mean title to right you know kids
if they feel that they can't go to you
because it's either you're not going to
believe them or you don't want to hear
about it it's just always keeping the
lines of communication open and letting
your kids know that they can that they
can come to you for anything I think
that's a big thing because like if kids
are you know feeling targeted or they've
seen something a little funky online
that they don't agree with or doesn't
doesn't really sit well with them maybe
they're afraid to tell their parents
because oh no mom's can take my phone
away that's all she's gonna take my
computer away that's the biggest thing
that's one of the biggest things why
kids don't come forward is because
they're afraid that their social media
tools will be taken from them so and
they don't want that happening and
that's probably that's probably their
connection to to their real friends as
well um so your connections period yeah
so yeah it's like get maybe I could just
shut down in that sense oh yeah
definitely the lines of communication
are crucial and that open kind of
open-door policy with kids and parents
so and that way the parents are holding
the kids accountable and kind of having
that dialogue with them to you know just
check in every now and then and see what
were you talking to I know my mom would
always on msn she's like oh are you
talking to and I'd let no one one thing
cover the stream but get a facebook page
and add your kids yeah you're paying the
bills in your house kids love that rule
is at my house as long as I'm on your
page I promise you I won't comment or
like anything we're posting Barisan
photos from when you were a kid never do
that so you know as long as I can see
what's going on and I can see what
they're doing then then we have a common
understanding hmm I guess that would
help you to protect them as well and
exactly you can kind of talk to them if
you see something that seems a little
off yeah I would talk to them in person
send them a message tweet your Facebook
looks funny okay um Wow all right then
so you've talked a little bit about your
workshops that you offer what else are
you doing to help get the word out there
to you know the bullied the bystander
the bullies the parents like what what
else are you bully around this week just
past bully Awareness Week was november
13th and 19th and we hosted many events
throughout that week and we just we just
released our video it was two days
before bully Awareness Week which is a
group joint venture with I'm a smart kid
illustrated and unbelievers we all came
together and created this video which
was fantastic last year we did the pink
t-shirt event at City Hall and Barry
won't we're just working jointly with
other organizations in town just to help
kids and make them more aware and
hopefully more responsible for their
behavior when you say in town share nana
is and is this available to
international users as well most
definitely yeah yep and and that's
fabulous because I know you will be
launching a blog soon yep our blog will
be launched during the Christmas
holidays and you know we are we are a
local organization with hopes of going
national and international if there's
anybody out there that would tend to
start a smart group in your town or city
I can help you do that I would matter of
fact it's just bringing awareness and
just being an advocate for kids and
families in your community bringing
awareness to stories highlighting
stories in your own community that you
think need to be made aware and people
need to learn from its true like you
were just on the local news in our town
very last week yeah discussing a tragic
terrible story that happened to a young
family and
the young girl ended up taking her own
life as a result of torment and
cyberbullying and it's just stuff like
that shouldn't happen I really should
not have the power to make somebody else
feel as if they have to take their own
life because it's an unescapable it's
devaluation to the point where you have
no self-worth it's empty you see about
three months in a five hour radius of
Barry there have been six children that
we know of that have taken their lives
to cyberbullying the youngest being 11
the oldest being 16 my goodness that's
exciting yeah it's very frightening so I
notice in your music video that one of
the stats is surprising that many of
these kids and a majority of these kids
don't talk to their parents don't talk
to anybody about what's happening and in
fact the the girl who just recently lost
her life everyone thought she was fine
everyone thought that she was dealing
with it and able to you know it's slow
and it's nothing don't worry about it
I'm fine so what you know what what can
kids do to support their beers what can
I'm standing up stand up for the kid
being bullied that whose voice is not
being heard yes it's
it's just it's very hard for them then
you think you guys talk about abort
support and report maybe you can discuss
that in terms of of kids you know having
the nerve to you know report it on
Facebook but also what take a step
further than that go to go to a parent
go to a teacher go to the police the
abort support report thing is abort what
you're doing support give it or getting
reported immediately that's what we
teach all kids if there's something that
makes you feel uncomfortable and you
know is wrong either I you seeing it or
posting it or it you being the target we
highly suggest you aborting supporting
and reporting it's very simple to do and
so like the protocol you like for
reporting let's say like a kid like oh
no I have no one to talk to like are
there other um like forums for things
like this as you know I now have like
Facebook is upgraded where you can
report a post and say this person is
bullying me or this person is harassing
me does that ever come back to the user
to the user yeah as I would imagine the
kid getting bullied with the fear would
be if I report them it's just like the
tattletale ya know exactly is that a
fear that kids would and I think I think
survival here that's why a lot of kids
don't report it but that's where the
parents come in and yeah you just have
to be extra cautious you know you have
to understand that a lot of parents work
two jobs and you know they're double
working families now and right it's just
it's making time for your kids and just
letting them know that you're there for
them and that they can come to you with
anything that's the most important thing
that is huge it is huge so a huge part
of your organization has been to develop
a pledge yes for individuals to take and
take a stand furthermore you want to
elaborate on that a little bit sure it's
just a pledge that we encourage all kids
to take actually we encourage parents
down with their kids and take the pledge
with their children and it's just you
committing to yourself and to others
that you're not going to participate in
these behaviors and that you're going to
stand up for kids when you do see these
behaviors going on so and that's the
main thing okay and how would people go
about accessing accessing this this
pledge and also your website things on
it that you would like people to know
about okay our website wwm smart kid org
it's a we solve a lot of work to do with
it it is a work in progress but it's an
interactive website where you can watch
our video you can go to our pledge page
and it's a downloadable PDF that you can
actually print off and share with your
family or your kids your aunt's your
uncle's give it to a teacher to share
with their kids in school and it's just
a personal commitment that you're making
to yourself into the world online that
you are promising not to contribute to
the world of cyberbullying that's
terrific I think that's important yeah I
think you know I think about our viewer
base and and wonder if perhaps there are
some viewers who are watching who are
either victim of cyberbullying or
perhaps on the other end where maybe
you've said some things to people they
may be you regret maybe you don't even
realize as has affected them and has
actually become a form of bullying it's
called cyber bullying but really all it
is is just two things have changed
because of Technology because of the
fact that we can now be sitting anywhere
and be sending messages and posting
embarrassing pictures and and whatever
else and and what would you say to those
people we know kindness just so what
because I don't think every I think I at
our heart everyone's everyone wants to
be a nice person to other people chorus
and wants to be respected and you know
if I think it on and offline it's
treating people how you want to be
treated really thinking about what
you're posting before your posting take
taking those extra a couple of seconds
to reread it and you know don't post
anything out of anger calm yourself down
before you post anything there's lots of
steps that you can take personally to be
very conscientious of what you're
posting and who you're posting it in
regards to I think because people just
don't think about the ramifications or
the consequences because you think well
it's online it's not like I was angry
and I punched someone in the face or I
was angry and I did this or that like
you think it's a subtle I don't wait at
low and racket yeah that's very low end
like it's not posting a heinous video of
somebody being beaten like and so I just
mmm hundred could kids did there and
watch and believe on then that's
evidence of the kids who just stood back
and did nothing so could you not be one
of the kids that stands up and says hey
this isn't right go get a teacher go get
whatever just go do something with me
young yep unbelievable my kids have the
power it's just giving the kids the
confidence to understand that power
mm-hmm you know it's hard to be a kid
nowadays it really is in it yeah I agree
it's I feel bad for them because there's
a lot of pressures on our kids nowadays
and you know for the latest and greatest
tech gadget oh yeah the the cool factor
it's it's all of it so it's just
just the confidence to stand up for what
you know is right and be your own person
and not get you know kind of sucked in
the the the world of not thinking for
yourself exactly mega moto wants to know
if being that its technology based is
are these people that are cyberbullying
are they being prosecuted um yes there
are laws that protect our kids from
cyber bullying you are liable for what
you post online and if your child is
posting things online the parents are
actually liable as well so there are
ways for like there's criminal charges
you can be civilly liable you can be
sued so you know there are big-time
ramifications of stuff that's happening
so the law is taking us seriously no the
law is taking it very seriously and I
think it maybe even in some way
cyberbullying is is worse than other
forms of bullying because there's a
record of it there's documentation
there's not improve constant proof that
exact so what would you suggest to
people um let's say somebody posted
something nasty about me on Facebook and
I wanted evidence of that or a threat or
a death threat or whatever like what you
suggest we all do most definitely print
the page print a copy of it and save a
copy for your records you know that's
proof right there so all service
providers have agreements that we sign
for using their services so if they're
going about doing these behaviors they
can be kicked off of those services if
you bring it to the attention of those
service providers okay so so again as
parents I think it's important for us to
understand technologically how do we
print the pages how do we take a
screenshot that we can email to local
authorities with Mac you understand the
Mac better than I do how that works with
the with the pc it's pretty much the
print screen button min screen print
screen on your computer and then paste
that into an animal alt for and then it
gives you the option
to take a picture of the actual screen
okay and you can print it off that way
it actually goes into your photo files
very good yes well these are terrific
things to remember for to protect
yourself to protect people you love and
to stand up for the people who are being
bullied whether it's a post or a picture
or tweet or a video or text or a sext or
what have you definitely important
things to keep in mind that's exactly
and so you can check out you know all of
this information everything we've
discussed I am a smart kid org and maybe
what we can do is together we can all
sign I am a smart kid org pledge would
you mind reading this out for us hi mass
market org I pledge to be smart when
using information in social media
technologies I am taking a stand against
cyber bullying I will abort when being
cyber bullied I will support others who
are being bullied I will not I will
report cyberbullying when I'm aware of
it I will not join in cyber tactics to
hurt others I will be part of the
solution and not part of the problem I
am a smart kid that is terrific Robbie
and I are going to sign this but we just
want to thank sharon ann for coming and
discussing this with us and we and we
really appreciate you taking the time to
help educate all of our viewers and even
myself a little bit more about
cyberbullying and the implications of it
and how prevalent it is and what we can
do to help them end it and spread
awareness so thank you for being here
with us thanks so much for coming guys I
really appreciate it please check out I
am a smart kid org thank you this
episode of category 5 technology TV is
brought to you in part by garden gate
farms com and you can visit them on
their website for certified organic
broccoli sprout and wheatgrass juice
also check out planet calypso cap 5 TV /
Calypso you'll be able to download the
free online game there and pogoplug cat
five dot TV / pogoplug that's the very
cool device from pogoplug
alright well thank you very much Sharon
Ann it's so nice to have here I know
it's a sensitive topic and it's a even
to some degree it's a heavy topic
because we don't necessarily realize how
serious of an issue this is but it's
important for us to and I think you know
if as parents I mean I take the
perspective of the parent but if you
have been a victim of cyberbullying or
if you're being abused by somebody
online it's it's important for you to
know that there is help out there I'm a
smart kid org is is one avenue that you
can at least go and communicate with
them and find out what kind of help is
available to you but just know that
you're not alone and that there are
people that are supporting you through
whatever it is that you're going through
so very cool you ready to sign oh yeah I
left my pen already you do be I'm gonna
sign right now all right hi Hillary I am
a smart kid take the pledge I am a smart
kid all right Robbie Ferguson make the
pledge you can actually download this
pledge form right on the IM a smart kid
org you can get the PDF file and print
that out for yourself your kids and and
it be you know be aware of what's out
there and what's going on in your kids
lives i think that stat just blows me
away how few people kids talk to their
parents about this prom and the other
being cyber bullied so it's important
for us to communicate with our kids is
there anything so for sure and with that
straight over into the newsroom i know
you've got lots of great stories for us
tonight yes what's going on in the world
of news
dun-da-da-da here are the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room a
moncton new brunswick man tad for snow
blower went viral over the past week
Danny came not only a sale but job and
date offers Wei Ming Chows 900 word
manifesto on the attribute of the
attributes of his snowblower a machine
of snow doom that will cut a 29 inch
path of pure ecstasy has been viewed
about 360,000 times in less than a week
mr. chill right just plug in that sucker
push the button and get ready to punch
snow in the throat you give me some cold
hard cash I give you a machine that will
mess up a snow bake something fierce
that is very convincing I think he
posted the ad Wednesday on the
classified ad website kijiji hoping to
score a prospective buyer but since has
received over 1,400 emails including job
offers request for him to write ads some
date requests and even marriage
proposals but also a few interested
buyers in the actual snow blower I
wanted to kind of set my outer parts if
i could i really did something i really
did that better than I thought I could
he said on Friday standing outside his
home with a fresh coat of snow on his
lawn a soft robot inspired by squid and
starfish can crawl under late and
squeeze under obstacles built by team at
Harvard University this robot has
several advantages over those with
treads wheels and rigid parts which have
a limited repertoire of movements and
may have trouble navigating difficult
terrain the creator of the robot built
an obstacle course which they say would
hinder some rigid metallic robots the
flexible robot was made to squeeze
underneath a glass plate elevated just
two centimeters above the ground in less
than a minute by executing a combination
of coordinated movements the sea
creature inspired creation was
manufactured with soft materials and its
motion is driven by compressed air it
looks like it tickles yeah weird looking
uh-huh apparently Canada is not alone in
the UK the government warned yesterday
that computer lessons are out of date
and to ease too easy to do in the
English schools Google's chairman Eric
Schmidt said in August he was
flabbergasted that computer science was
not taught as standard in UK schools the
Department for Culture Media and Sport
said yesterday that classes in computing
known as information and communication
technology or ICT are insufficiently
rigorous and in need of reform the
warning cam is a part of the
government's response to an independent
review into how the UK can become the
world's leading hub for video games and
visual effects companies interesting i
variant I mean I I think about all the
web design classes I mean I'm a web
programmer right but these web design
classes and I do the quote cuz
everybody's learning to use of ways away
gedit ER and nobody can encode and with
computers everybody's learning how to
use a word processor or spreadsheet but
not computer science it's true and it's
a dangerous thing very interested that's
my two cents e 4 million pages of
newspapers from the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries have been made
available online by the British Library
the public will now be able to view the
content of two hundred titles from
around Britain and Ireland these will
include historic events such as the
wedding a Victoria and Albert and the
rise of the railways ed King the British
library's head of newspapers said it
opened up the collection as never before
the archive is free to search but there
is a charge for accessing the pages
themselves a team has spent a year at
the British the British library's
newspaper or library at colindale in
North London digitizing up to 8,000
pages a day whoa they expect to scan up
to 40 million pages over the next 10
years fantastic you know what I'm
thinking for the first time in recorded
history newspapers are susceptible to
electromagnetic pulse
interesting the newspapers could crash
who knows pretty wild stuff speaking of
wild stuff black friday online sales in
the united states are up this year by
over twenty six percent overall
ecommerce sites closed last year more
than 815 whoa 815 point eight million
dollars worth of sales on friday
compared to only 648 million last year
that's it Oh kind of a big deal by a
wide margin amazon led with fifty
percent more bargain hunters than any
other website followed by Walmart Best
Buy Target and then Apple in total a
little over 50 million Americans went
shopping online black friday that number
is up thirty five percent from last
year's levels Black Friday's the
traditional kickoff to the christmas and
holiday season shopping in the US as the
day after thanksgiving people are
frequently off work and retailers also
lay on a load of great bargains and more
discounts making it one of the busiest
shopping days of the year i can attest
to that because I've done it before and
it's crazy you can get these full
stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash and simple 10
with contributions from our awesome
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think's worthy of honor
mention send us an email at newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Hillary Rumble Thank so did you
do any online shopping for black friday
i did a little bit cyber monday cyber
monday a little bit um I I have gone the
raspberries and it was gonna fall down
but here's my trash no no not like the
world internet would crash cuz of all
sales we googled Google and the internet
crashed Lily um no but what ended up
happening to me is I I went into the
store hmm for the Black Friday Yeah
right and they told me at the at the
checkout or whatever that people had
lined up at one o'clock in the morning
to get into the store for these deals I
believe it it doesn't open till seven
gotta get your spicy dill people are
lined up
and at one o'clock in the morning so
they were sold out of the particular
item that I was looking for we needed to
get liam is getting big and we need to
get a back facing toddlers see ya
heading for the car and they were sold
out so do you do rainchecks no we don't
do rainchecks because it's black friday
right so but it's a great deal at half
price is less than half price what did I
do I went to their website that
afternoon and it was on their website at
the Black Friday price and I said what
were you doing lining up at one o'clock
in the morning very crazy i ordered it
off of the website less than half price
hey ten dollars shipping so you still
get a deal yeah gardless yeah Oh Robbie
smarter than the average bear well it's
that that's what this is the thing
though is that has online retailer our
etail becomes easier and easier and
easier and the sales start to transcend
retail and become available online if
it's so convenient changing the entire
way we shop it's so easy and the big
players I think about Amazon Amazon and
and how much they must ship and the fact
that because they've got such
relationships with the with the shipping
people companies whatever shipping
companies that they use it it's like
free shipping yeah i just bought a bunch
of stuff and if you spent over $25 is
free shipping yeah and they're not the
only ones no but it's like what's a lot
of people do so what's that gonna do to
retail it's pretty good i never have two
people the house if my Internet's down
then i gotta go to the store well how r
KS know it is then I've got 3g you know
my phone it's totally true kind of your
testimonial here came in from invincible
mutant who says hey Robbie and adorable
friends huh terrible you must be the
adorable friend first of all I thought
of sending Robbie a private message
thanking him for his help on episode
number 218 with my questions but Krista
and the co-hosts also deserve credit and
appreciation from us or read any our
questions out credits oh pardon me there
for here you go with another testimonial
for the category 5 TV crew thank you
very much for the great work and the
help I feel like I am at home watching
category 5 TV you probably are at home
but also but also at home Oh at home in
your heart not just at home on your
couch okay both oh love besides credits
also go out to the category 5 TV chat
room kudos chat room invincible mutant
wants you to know that they appreciate
you giving them quick help with their
questions from time to time and then
invincible mutant ends the testimonial
by saying guys keep it up Thanks
invincible mutant thank you always a
pleasure to have you here mm-hmm I love
getting viewer testimonials you can send
us yours go to our website category 5 TV
click on interact and you'll see the
viewer testimonials menu there be able
to submit your own we'd love to receive
them we do we love to hear from you mmm
no doubt bet it well you've sent in a
couple of your questions this week a
couple Welsh white under exaggerate but
we will try to get to your question
tonight and if not do let us know but if
you have a question for us live at
category 5 TV and of course our
beautiful chat room as invincible mutant
was saying nice to see everybody lots of
people joining us in the chat room there
blows ich cable 101 Chris Reich I gotta
go I gotta leap down to the because it's
alphabetical right yes yes yes if you
are valcon one it's it's late but it
takes me a while to get ya but hey Corp
you're 55 sock of red I like that has to
have you here Steve 5r f-bomb rd Blair
always a pleasure well I can't I
obviously can't say hi to everybody
that's in the chat room but greetings to
you we've got several guests there as
well joining us possibly for the first
time anybody joining us for the first
time tonight we'd love to hear from you
maybe private message me if you're
joining me for the first time tonight
p.m. Robbie F and that way I'll make
sure that we get to say Greed's to you
as we go into viewer questions but you
can also send us your questions in the
chat room they're like hairy Harry's
brand-new hey Harry no thank you yeah me
let me know where you're from a PM is
double click
my name in the chat room private message
I'd love to know where you're from if
you're new PM me where you're from how
many times you've watched Rochester New
York hey Gary nice to have you here
welcome welcome all right I'll watch for
your pm's yeah yeah thank you and let's
just pitter patter and get at her and go
to our first question of the evening
John Zimmerman rights to us maybe i am
going at this the wrong way but all I'm
trying to do is have a nice to t
external drive next to my linux pink iOS
desktop computer and have a perfect copy
replica mirror of the contents moved
over from my freenas 7 hard drive but
everything I've tried unison lucky back
up our sink it won't work as I write
this i'm trying to figure out why i
really needed this external hard drive
attached to my computer rather than make
it a part of mine ass it's because i
can't get the casa to link to pictures
on the nass anyone who knows how to do
that let us know the other reason was i
wanted a redundancy of that drive and a
and a backup drive I can't figure out
how to start it up with raid one with
the two drives if only one of the drives
already has that on it I have nowhere to
send this one point five terabytes I
guess of data 20 even where to send it
while he's setting up the raid one with
the two drives and he thought yeah I've
had that scenario happen not anytime
recently but back when i was doing music
production in a home studio we had our
computer and it was just jam-packed with
music and these are big fire oh yeah FL
studio zip files with all the wav files
lossless everything and i needed to
upgrade the hard drive in the computer
so what i did is i moved everything off
on to another drive and then i
reformatted and little did I know that
that drive that I moved it off to was
bad or becoming bad and failed on me so
I ended up losing a lot of stuff so the
dangers that you run like you're
mentioning about switching over to a
raid one for the redundancy that's
important raid one is when you have two
identical hard drives
in a device NASA's network-attached
storage that's what they're using so in
this device so as I save a file normally
it saves it on a hard drive and if that
hard drive crashes guess what you've
lost it yeah this saves it to two hard
drives it's called a mirror rate one so
it's always in two places this one
crashes this one's still okay you put in
another one and it rebuilds and now
you've got two copies again so it's a
real good safety mechanism but the
problem is you've got all your data on
it where are you going to put that data
if you were to set up a raid one so my
suggestion in that scenario is don't try
to do that you're it's too risky right
now you've got it on a drive that you
know is working so you're better bet is
to build a raid one with couple of two
terabyte drives if that's the route you
want to go build that as your rave one
then take that 1.5 terabyte copy
everything over don't move it copy it
verify the integrity of the copy once
it's done you can run an md5 sum on a
couple of the big files a couple of iso
files or something like that compare it
between the raid 1 and the end that will
put me the old drive and then you can be
able to see if it's identical if it
matches if that's the case then you can
reuse that drive for whatever else or
use it as an external backup or
something like that but kind of a
lengthy question with a couple of
different directions to go there using
ping iOS and trying to get stuff to sync
over to the freenas drive I would think
in like the first thing I would look at
is our sink and or r diff or something
along those lines so I'd want you to
determine or let me know what when you
say it didn't work to use our sink what
what's the problem our sink or r diff
which is based on our sinker fantastic
because it's going to look through the
files basically and basically back up
anything that has not already been
backed up or you can create snapshot
style backups where you can actually go
back in time over the course of you know
being able to let's recover the file
from a week ago versus let's recover the
file from six months ago and having the
different data there so it's a good
method to use but essentially you need
your
ask device to be mounted to that
computer as an ssh drive would be the
easiest way if that's the route you went
and you still have trouble then let me
know but I need to know more about what
failed in order to know what what we can
do to to get around that but immediately
the the crisis situation is you need to
have all your data that's important to
you in two places at all times always
had a customer who had all their photos
on their laptop they bought an external
hard drive to back up they moved all
their photos over to that external hard
drive instead of copying it so it became
the only copy it's no longer on their
laptop that hard drive got accidentally
reformatted know every use because it
looked like a blank drive so they had
overwritten a lot of the sectors which
means they can't get their files back or
another scenario is well someone could
steal that yeah someone could steal your
laptop where's the other copy you always
want to have two copies yeah especially
things like pictures you know cuz those
are the memories of you lie everything's
digital these days are video camera when
I do you know my son's first birthday
was on Friday hmm and you know great
time and of course there's dad with his
digital video camera it's m4v files
where are they how many copies do I have
backed like just in case I have a crash
so because that's the way everything is
everything's my pictures my still
pictures we don't have that big box 35
millimeter slides anything yeah you
don't so strips and negatives and ya
know you don't can't reprint unless you
got profiles true enough well let us
know how you make out this week and if
you can provide further details maybe we
can help you out a little bit more that
would be great thanks for the question
mm-hmm our next question comes to us
from Robert hey Robert hi i want to set
up some IP cameras at home so i can
monitor my home when i'm away the
problem is i believe that i will need to
have a static IP address for the cameras
I also will need to access it from
outside my LAN the problem is my
internet is set up using DHCP so my IP
address does change can I set it up or
can I set it up in my router so certain
IPS are static and internet still uses
dhcp the one router I have is a netgear
and can't remember the model number but
is an end class router what would be the
best way to do this ok thanks so so
first of all just to kind of summarize
the question a little bit so that it so
it makes sense your IP address is like
your your computers and your networks
your your your entire network of
computers your internet connection has
an IP address it's like a phone number
so if you're on the road and you need to
access those IP cameras these are
network-connected surveillance cameras
you need to know that phone number but
they're on dhcp not static static means
the phone number numbers change changes
dynamic or dhcp means it changes every
time they reenact their internet
connection so imagine if your phone
number you know imagine if your parents
hamper changed every time you hung up
the phone then try to get ahold of them
it's really really tough so then
services dave may do is suggesting din
DNS org that's a good one I use a
different one change IP com let's see
and I'm going to tell you what this does
din DNS though we rather find out what
dynamic dns services it supports din DNS
is popular so it's probably supported
you want to get one that your router
supports because what happens is when
you subscribe to the service which is
quite often free your IP address changes
and your router says oh the IP address
has changed send a ping out to din dns
and update them so now you get a fancy
little URL like Hillary dot din DNS org
and that becomes your phone number for
your computer or your entire network
right because
then you branch out from your router you
log into the router firmware and you set
up virtual server or servers so that
each camera is then accessible at a
different port so Hilary dot din DNS org
colon 2222 might be camera number one
gray right and I would bring it up
something like that so didn't DNS org
that's one yes okay so that's cool now
the way I use trying to remember their
domain I think it's change IP com change
IP yes that's the one it's got the
simplest in interface and it has been in
business for ever and it's free but they
also offer some cool commercial packages
as well for very very cheap if you want
to have like a dot-com Hillary's cameras
com that's easy to remember yeah so
that's change IP com but you want to
make sure that your router is going to
support it or that you have a computer
that's on twenty-four/seven that has
whichever services client installed all
of these will work you know you can
install software on linux and it will
automatically do the ping or whatever so
that will give you a static place to go
to connect into your server at all times
your server your router mm-hmm so and
then your router would dynamically said
you know you tell it what ports go where
cool groovy hope that helps so to
suggestions din DNS org and change IP
com I'll post links in the show notes
for episode number 219 just to help you
out cool there's time for one more
question yeah sure I think we do
actually this comes to us from Robert
again from with Melbourne Australia yeah
I have a netgear ready na s NB plus
attached to my network and I want to be
able to get a list of files contained on
the NIS and redirect it to a text file
something like how you do dir
yeah and then I my dog dog text cetera
and windows um how can this be done I
love the show keep up the good work from
a Robert in melbourne australia okay so
is it mount the question is is it
mounted to your computer is it in it is
it again mounted through FS tab as an
ssh drive for example so when you boot
up your computer you have a mount point
that takes you to that is that how it
works but what you can do like LS is
your is your command right i'll just
bring out my computer here there we go
sure dude do we have an answer to that
i'm still waiting to see i'm not sure if
he's in Australia he might not be might
not be watching watching live this hour
so like when you type LS it gives you a
list of files all right LS stash a is
list all which gives you the you know
more information about them or is it all
for me dash all that gives you more like
a dir command would in das right so then
what you do is is the same kind of pipe
so LS dash all and then a pipe so that
tells it to save it to a file temp / TMP
/ directory dot txt we'll just call it
txt so it's compatible with windows okay
so that single pipe means it's going to
overwrite the file if you want to do a
double pipe it will append hit enter now
you see it just went right back to the
terminal and now if I go if I open that
file I was going to use nano but let's
use G edit TMP directory dot txt and
there's the file it's just like a txt
file okay with the file list so now you
could set that up as a cron job for
example cron job being like a linux
version of scheduled tasks so on your
linux computer or perhaps you can log
right into the linux terminal on the on
the mass device itself if it's powered
by linux that would be another way to do
it set that command up to automatically
run every
@midnight overwrite the file in wherever
the file is located save it directly to
one of the master Ives and then it's
always accessible in the root folder of
that drive and I'd just be a txt file of
course the the more data you get on the
drive the larger that file is going to
become because it's a full list if you
do a recursive dash are right who we see
that could take a while there's a lot
going on there dash capital R whoa you
know like it stinky no one going on
going on so that could be a big file yes
indeed cool I hope that answers your
question I hope that's what you're
looking for right on and I think that's
that's all the time that we have tonight
you know the show just goes right by
time passes by here it's cuz we're
having fun and cuz of this Mike blue
Mike link will be in the show notes
that's the Yeti Pro know it's pretty
speedy before Mike yeah and we're
actually running through XL ours tonight
no you can't see well maybe you can here
you go here you go so there's a bit of a
product demonstration for you in stereo
if you're watching this on the RSS feeds
you'll be able to hear that it wasn't
stereo tonight again and it is it is
absolutely massive I mean I compared in
the in the unboxing to a rode nt1 which
I don't have access to right now
unfortunately but it is it's huge but it
sounds great that's a great microphone
that's the job I tell ya it's very sweet
well hey it's it's always a pleasure
having you here thank you i enjoyed be
fantastic having you here Sharon am sure
Nana's still backstage if you're
watching backstage pass just wave what's
the camera yes and that we will talk to
you next week next week is gonna be a
lot of fun because we are gonna be
taking a look at oh I want to show you
i'm not supposed to show you top secret
Robbie come on you're just gonna have to
wait ring yo oh you know oh oh you be
Sean you'd better stick around for next
week does that say I can't even it's top
secret just make them wait just make
wait seriously not even a little hint
she won't let me tell you let me tell
you you'll never see things the same way
again through your camera lens will you
that's your hint you're pretty awesome
we're gonna be doing a full product
review on a new product it's going to be
awesome so make sure you join us next
week and I've been nice having you here
this week email us live at category 5 TV
check out our website category five dot
TV and I look forward to talking to you
next Tuesday night sounds good we'll see
you soon toodaloo take care everybody
