welcome to category five technology TV
this guy's back we're gonna have a
really great show for you tonight now I
invented a really cool thing it's all
really cool it's a box it's a really
cool box it is it does a really cool
thing and then some company did a better
job than my thing and brought it out and
so we're gonna show you that tonight no
actually their device is super cool
you've probably had your internet go
down before but you're not home to
restart your modem or router well we've
got a device for each night that's gonna
do it automatically mr. Graham
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology Reviver computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs now I feel like I need to
live up to that category five streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamers tune in every week on roku
coding flex and other HLS video players
visit our website for more details
category five dot TV category five DVDs
a member of the tech support I don't
come on TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat five TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat five TV slash ia IB
welcome back everybody and welcome back
to this guy over here that deep voice
that you heard the technology with the
polar bears up north I just got back
from Iqaluit Callum yeah it's just like
that's like way it's I guess it's not up
there it's like so as far as Canada goes
so when people sector Canada Henry they
picture the igloos that we live in now
it was so this is the far the great
white north of canada yeah my sister
Colleen who some of you may remember she
lived in Whitehorse until just recently
hmm that's south to a Calloway is that
like Northwest Territories er it's Yukon
Yukon okay exactly but still like white
white horse is very far north and still
south of where you were I
good Northern Lights so you need to
explain to us yeah a little bit about
okay so you were here one day yeah and
then gone and then I was gone what what
what happened here I was just like I'm
Canadian eh so yeah you know we I just
thought I'd go up to the igloo good news
is that they did have a Tim Hortons up
there although it Tim Hortons sponsored
that's an entire problem it's gonna be
back
so was it work-related yes for coop is
for school I was working at the airport
yeah I was working out like the FBO at
the airport but yeah for school for me
was like going to the local computer
shop and like sorting there's a callow
it yeah what were you doing playing
around with airplanes that's pretty fun
you know I'm in the airplane well if the
military came in if like the
multi-billionaires have their like g5
jet come in I park it for them and say
hi to their dogs will see their dogs I'd
say hi to the people too but their dogs
were awesome yeah but yeah they gave
pretty good tips but you know it was a
blast you know and it's just like the
amount of like aviation experience that
it really gave us yeah cuz there's two
other co-op students from Barrie that
went up there too but it was crazy cuz
like there are some days where it's like
you could not see three feet in front of
you because the snow then other days it
was like negative 72 degrees Celsius so
no so you couldn't even go outside 72
degrees Celsius below zero and now is
that an exaggeration that must be no I
was actually outside negative and I was
working that day no doesn't seem like it
could exist on this planet
no but no this is cool though because
like we did like cold weather testing
pun intended it was cool because like
all the aircraft manufacturers um they
brought their airplanes there for cold
weather testing there you were there and
they thought yeah at the airport they
bring them - okay because you know like
they're working in really cold so
they're testing their No
there too right yeah yeah yeah so if
they work in a Calot they should work my
altitudes anywhere yeah yeah but yeah a
lot of a lot of memories that I will
cherish forever many I can't say on air
but it was it was a very fun time now
you are we know you as a drone flier
pilot yeah did you take your girl with
you oh no
so you were you were flying the big I
would enter all of drones up there it's
kind of sad so you went from flying your
drone yeah from everyday - what were you
flying what kind the whole time you were
so you were moving we did like talk Sean
Connery talk she no no no we were
handling the aircraft so it's basically
like a military flight would come in
like a c-130 or something weird
organized everything so it's like
unloading cargo personnel transport we'd
be on the radios we had like a few
charters that we'd have every day be on
the radio say hey guys what's up you're
coming in with X amount of passengers ah
yeah it's pretty fun so I don't want to
get all like radio so you were gone for
several months yeah let's just let's
just hug this out there what was your
favorite plane that you got to like be a
part of - that's actually classified
let's talk about still yeah because that
of the aircraft manufacturers brought
their planes there right so like a new
place or like like but I got to walk
inside and be like really do you get to
see anything that's like for the future
maybe I'm trying to get it I know the
best part was those the Canadian Forces
like c-17 though yeah because it's like
besides marshalling and like plane as
normal it's funny because like we were
used to like 737 size of airplanes which
are big right like they're the Air
Canada like you get on your fly around
Sunwing WestJet and then you have like
this giant c-17 comes just like the war
three or four times the size you're
looking
up at the pilots when like there you're
like marshalling the man under you're
like whoa it's bigger what the heck hi
it was really fun though
so yeah if you guys everyone to go up
north it's very fun I heard it was minus
72 up there
Oh suit is crazy if you ever go there
for sorry what do you eat Timbits no no
because that's think the only way in and
out during the winter months is by
airplane right there's no roads there's
no so you're not getting so you're
getting in you're not getting a lot of
imports and you know not eating keep the
best way literally the best way to live
up there is order your food off Amazon
like no you can that's how we survived
literally much affiliate links if anyone
here is watching up in a cow it use
those affiliate links please do ya know
cuz really because like a box of
pop-tarts is like eight dollars up there
when it's only two here right like
that's an example okay it's like three
or four times more expensive so it's
like if you can buy all like your non
fresh stuff your non perishables on
Amazon or some house like that if you
have Prime it's free shipping and it's
starin like one or two weeks up there
but literally 90% of their like cargo
jet that's like the main like people who
bring like yak are going it's just all
Amazon just rename at Amazon jet like
it's amazing it saved the communities up
there really has but uh
so Henry's little side business and
stuff
pop-tarts are only six dollars over here
at my booth should buy some stocks and
Amazon since they well yeah all I can
say is that when I got back to Ottawa
and eventually back to here thank
goodness for trees again thank goodness
for actual real internet again no
one-inch withdrawal and thank goodness
for my pup I miss my dog yeah also your
family oh yeah family's more to mom and
dad it's pretty fun it's so good to have
you back we have miss Tia and it's been
fun watching your it's
on Facebook as peels it feels good to be
back with the crowd and I miss you all
as well and it's good to be back such an
emotional manner we've got to take a
break we've got it just well come back
we'll gather our emotions and we'll be
back right after this for a limited time
get your hands on limited-edition shirts
from the category 5 TV network these
high quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and incidentally this is
558 weeks of the show wow that's a lot
of content it's 558 hours at least that
because sometimes we're known to go
overtime you know what I'm saying my
producer in California is like oh yeah I
know I had to cut that part out and no
they wouldn't of course no they just put
off whatever's coming up after the show
I'm sure there's breaking news somewhere
in the states but first Sasha will
finish the name oh yeah let's just wrap
that and if you're watching in Southern
California welcome to the show nice to
have you here hey please make sure you
comment send us an email we would love
to hear from you we'd also love to see
your pictures of you wearing
category-five apparel where'd you get
that cat5 TV slash shirts what so is
that a real thing and it's amazing nice
super comfortable easy wearable you know
it's hot I did a question in the chat
room yeah
do we have any cat5 hats coming out cat5
hats is their demand for camp five hun
you could wear one too oh yeah
absolutely
- there you go baby are you saying I'm
gonna get sunburned or something on my
scalp I'm saying you so what you're
saying you could rock a hat for sure
totally Rock is totally a beanie or if
you like wear it sideways and be like a
hipster and then put your sunglasses on
I'm absolutely into the hipster thing
totally
so I can have my category 5 t-shirt boy
blazer on top with the hats a little bit
sideways yeah no we don't have hats
right now no no let you know next week
there'll be slash hats there you go
sylvans cap 5 TV slash shirt it's a
really cool way to support the show yeah
and the shows that we produce because
any way that you can support category 5
TV now we produce this content bring it
to you absolutely free when I say that
you know you're one individual or one
family watching this show sitting down
watching this on your TV or on your
computer your smartphone and think about
all of the thousands of people who watch
category 5 TV like our average is about
12,000 a week so you think about all
those people and your contributions
you're shopping through us and
purchasing apparel and things like that
buying the things that we show on the
show through our partner links those
things help us to be able to produce
those that content right for that 12,000
people so that it's absolutely free
another way you can do it as Amazon we
mentioned Amazon oh yeah and if you're
in a callow it and you want pop-tarts
for six dollars off to do that go to our
website category five dot TV try to find
some that are maybe a couple dollars
more because it's based on percentage
deluxe pop-tarts gave us three cents but
it's there every little that helps
membership then your shipping is free
yeah there you go
I totally signed up for that I did too
because I did three great and I just
found out there's prime video and prime
music even cooler than I thought it was
I just got it to do the affiliate links
there's even more cool you can also you
can actually participate in our draw now
we're always giving stuff away but over
the past little while Henry you remember
dead Effect 2 VR yes
Oh tell us a little bit about the
experience there's dead Effect 2 but in
VR no it's like playing I'm not sure if
any of you guys and gals are gamers out
there but it's like VR dead space in the
sense it's like a horror video game set
in space you're able to move around this
ship and everything else really really
fun experience but if the monsters come
out you they come out you know what I
did while you were gone oh you don't
want to know did she go on a spaceship
we actually gave her a copy of dead
Effect 2 VR to put on her gaming rig
that she built last year oh yeah and
then because I because I didn't have a
VR headset now what does she have Henry
to the audience one day maybe I think we
should we should probably do like a
follow-up like all right okay so we
should probably do a thing where you
guys come over because we did okay
show's over folks live streaming through
my smartphone did very much purchase the
Star Trek get VR game and we have not
even opened it yet we're waiting for you
to come over it's not even been a
physical game no it's on the computer
we've never been on the bridge we've not
because I feel like it's it's your thing
right so we're just waiting for you to
come over so no pressure six pack is on
its way with Robbie sounds great
so dead Effect 2 VR backing up a little
bit amazing virtual reality experience
it is not for the kids but hey if you're
a grown person who can handle it
we're given away copies so we still have
a few left Henry brought them back from
VRT oh and we've still got a couple of
those left Henry people are just loving
it so you can actually participate in
that draw send us an email contest at
category-five dot TV when you do that
just tell us who you are you know that
can be a reference to your alias that
you use in the chat whatever can be your
real name it doesn't matter and let us
know where you're watching from how
you're watching if it's on youtube if
it's on KP VB TV cable TV channel 33 in
the high desert wherever you're watching
from let us know we'd love to hear from
you we'd love to know that you're
watching and we'd love to cast your
ballot for that game don't let not
having a VR setup hold you back from
getting the game because it will just
burn a little hole in your proverbial
pocket and then eventually you'll have a
VR hat then this is what happened to be
I know believe it's like me in my cart
on Amazon yeah I have a whole bunch of
my favorite LPS right I don't have a
record player and I know as soon as I
click YES on that set for all your LP
then I am going to have to buy a record
player
that's good motivation actually I think
so too the contest
win the game and then join me and then
spend a whole lot of money at fighting
space on these nice cool
do you use google play by any chance oh
yeah every once in a while yeah you have
like a single Android device but yes
idea yeah okay I use it for podcasts
predominantly I'm starting to learn
about like the music content especially
now with Google transitioning some
things they're switching something we're
gonna learn a bit more about it on on
the news tonight but so I'm learning my
way around the app I'm pretty new to it
but I did find a lot of my favorite
podcasts and it's pretty handy right and
category-five TV Henry is now on Google
Play podcasts yes I haven't used it
before but now I will you will and we've
been on there for what about a month now
a little bit more than a month and then
Google is like oh by the way we're
shutting down
but we're there and when they roll over
to Google mute YouTube music I should
say it's going the content is going to
transition oh yeah we should have no
trouble there category 5 TV slash
subscribe that takes you to our list
yeah that's a handy list on our website
that is item itemized by show you can
choose which show you want to watch or
listen to and you can subscribe via
various platforms so their google play
music is there for a couple of our shows
including this show tech TV which
incidentally is is great to listen to
this is true you don't necessarily have
to see everything that we're showing and
if you do you can you can just be
listening to us oh yeah wouldn't want to
listen to that for 500 plus hours we do
have to take a commercial break Henry do
you want to tell them what we're gonna
be talking about in just a couple
moments time shall I something very very
useful that would have helped a lot of
North because you know up north the the
Wi-Fi wasn't the greatest like the
Internet
it's almost worse than having no
internet because it today that's like
dial-up speeds so it's just like every
once in a while your router would shut
off or lose connection or something so
it's it have to be reset and I you
always have to go over unplug it or
everything else but this next advice
we're talking about would have saved so
much time mmm it really would have so if
you guys want to know what this amazing
invention is stay tuned
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV now
have you ever had your internet go down
what's the best thing that you can do
when your internet goes down just the
first thing that you can do to try to
get it back up I was gonna say
sledgehammer but then you said first
thing so it's start with a settlor like
the third thing ok turn it off and on
again did you try turning it off and on
again so and that's the thing if you are
there hmm so your internet goes down yep
and you can run into where the router is
right and you can unplug the power from
the router and the modem how many of you
have been through this even if you call
the ISP the first thing that they're
gonna say have you tried turning it off
and on again and that usually fixes it
right right am i right yeah my right it
reconnects and bingo bango you're back
in business
exactly so why does it happen well there
are little fluctuations in electricity
your your power may like go down just a
little bit to a few volts below and then
come back up to normal
and you may not even notice it but your
sensitive electronic devices like your
modem your router they notice it and
they lock up right when that happens you
unplug the power you let it sit for
fifteen seconds you plug it back in it
comes back up and miraculously somehow
it works again it's magic mm-hmm so the
magic of off and on again exactly one
switch the magic that we learned from
the IT Crowd Henry when you were last
here we started talking about becoming
builders becoming makers starting to
craft our own inventions and creating
things with a soldering iron and I'm
still waiting for my spaceship but yes
we're working on it okay
so far all I've been able to come up
with is a little thing that restarts my
modem when the okay so I built this
Henry ooh how's that look right it's a
box it's a box I'm gonna bring it up on
the screen just a little bit closer for
you folks so that you can see so this
box has a power cable coming out of it
which way am I going here we go so a
power cable coming out of it it has a
power Inlet right there a USB port and
that is literally it pretty simple right
nice what do you think it could do I
kind of hint it to it so with this
device what I've designed what I've
invented if you will is something so I
plug my modem in the power cord for my
modem into that okay then I plug this
which matches it it's the same adapter
into the modem okay so the power goes in
there this goes into the modem now this
USB port plugs into my router it's
mikrotik router so I'm able to actually
program that router with some customized
code okay so I built this first then I
wrote a program that pings websites on a
schedule so every five minutes it will
check if Google's up it will then check
if Twitter is up and if it's if any of
those are down it will say is Facebook
up and it will check that because my
theory is all of those are not ever
going to be down at the same time yeah
these are I think it even checks
Microsoft comm like I mean one of them
might go down but not all of them
foundations so it's like a ranking
system this this device that I designed
will rank whether the Internet is up or
down based on if all of those sites are
down and there's a list
that I've programmed into it that our
basically sites that I would expect
probably would never go down Google if
it goes down is Twitter up yeah so it's
Google is that a problem and it will it
will make that assumption interesting so
if all of them are down and more than
five minutes has passed this device will
then cut the power to my modem wait for
5 seconds and then power the modem back
up again basically simulating the fact
that while simulating somebody being
there and unplugging the power and
plugging it back in again
19:10 genius thank you you're nine times
out of ten at ten it brings it back up
that's great because but so and why did
I do that
well I'm often remoting into my
computers and in order to do that the
internet has to be up yes if I'm
remoting in and the internet goes down
who's there to restart the router right
in this case the modem that uh then my
modem died and the ISP replaced it with
the new gigabit modem and I was like yes
I got the gigabit modem it's better it's
faster it's right and it did not have
the same adapter it's a straight 110
volt into the outlet right into yeah so
this unfortunately is no longer any use
to me but guess what
chicken bite that was just step I have
young kids that was just step one yeah
so the next step will be the next one
you're like Iron Man Oh cursed right
you're gonna go I'll build the next
bigger better faster one right right
will do that because I like I'm in for
the challenge right but you notice what
do you notice about this you called it a
box it's low it's a box yeah and it's
blue because because I being the maker
that I am I like things to look like a
proper device it's a proper device
that's it's so I built it myself but it
cost me forty five dollars Oh in
components I wonder you could do better
plus my time so the inner comprar biblia
I could build it cheaper the next step
would be but I built it and it still
cost me if
a bit of money but it was the experience
and I learned and I'm learning to be a
maker and money you could buy a hamster
that runs in the wheel am i right and I
just powers the moment them all day
right so that's exactly right and that
is what we're looking at tonight folks a
hamster wheel power no would not
actually go
I forgot we changed the at the last you
know vegetarian and there's the whole
like you know yeah I gotta take good
care of the animals but what happened is
when when we reveal when we unveiled
this product yeah a company reached out
to me and said hold on we've got just
the thing for you what is that and the
company happens to be called are you
ready for this reset plug haha reset
plug that's the name that's the name of
their product anyways now the company is
called multi net and you want to be
careful as you're looking for that for
this device because there are other
devices that look similar they may be
boasts that they might do the same thing
but I've looked this is a fantastically
developed device and its patent-pending
so you're all good your yeah this is
like the real deal folks so like then
the brand name of this particular kind
of device so what does it do it takes
the same kind of premise of what I Devon
devised in my device but it makes it
into a 110 power outlet or or otherwise
so let me show you this okay here is the
reset plug ladies and gentlemen it's
like a shake should we get into the box
so this becomes an unboxing video oh
look at this yeah unboxing of a reset
plug it's unboxing is my very favorite
for this reason yeah there you go so I
mentioned 110 volt but there are 4
different versions of this so we've got
the Americanized Canadian version like
110 they've got the one that works in
Australia in Asia in Europe so you can
get resent yeah and and I say that just
so that you don't think oh well this
doesn't apply to me because it's 110 to
an outlet well they they have one for
everybody so don't you worry about that
so I'm gonna show you how to set this up
and how it works okay okay so what this
one does is it takes my idea and they
didn't copy my idea obviously they are
they won up to me on pending folks but
this is like you know I have the the
thought that hey this would be a cool
thing they actually are doing this and
doing it right it's their full-time gig
yeah this is so this is just it plugs in
and you plug in your modem or or your
modem and router because you might want
to restart both you plug them in via
like a power bar or something like that
in like yeah so it's so super duper
simple to set this up to just
demonstrate how simple I'll tell you
that the instruction manual is very
thorough and yet we're getting a full
unboxing here unboxing folks that's the
whole manual oh it's like plugging I
could probably do this oh yeah you want
to take a look I just want Taria so
we're gonna plug it in we're gonna set
it up we're gonna see what happens here
now all I have to do with this device is
plug it into power it lights up and it's
waiting for commands or something to be
plugged in to it so I don't have a modem
that I can just turn off right here
right now because then we lose access to
the show and you're gonna miss out on
everything that we teach you so what I
did bring with me Henry exits every
single show we do something where I need
to buy a thing you want to lamp okay
ladies and gentlemen this is so we've
got light right okay so what were what
we're imagining here is that this
illuminated object over here that Sasha
so badly wants
it is our modem okay so if the modem
were if the power was cut on the modem
it would look like that and then the
power comes back on and it's actually
going to be you know powered back on
okay so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
get over here on my computer and we're
gonna show you how this is set up so I'm
going to switch over to my computer here
for you so this is my Wi-Fi router and
I've set up a demo Wi-Fi access it's so
clever Henry how they've done this
because mine it has to be plugged into a
router with some software running in
that kind of stuff those came on because
it's saying it's restarting over and
over because there's no internet right
now ah yeah how this one works it's
different it actually connects to my
Wi-Fi router Wow
like as an actual wireless device yes
and if and it was that simple to set up
I just plugged it into the wall or to my
UPS or to my power bar so with that it's
can it's trying to connect to my router
and if the internet is down it will
Reese restart the power to whatever is
plugged into it being my modem and my
router right my roommates gonna love
this and here's why I have to tell you
okay
we have internet upstairs and downstairs
we have the basic apartment she's
upstairs perfect yeah remember we have
device downstairs we have the router
where the home at home we're not always
home in the internet goes down all right
so this is my Wi-Fi demo Wi-Fi okay so
what I'm gonna do is I'm simply going to
push a button on the device there's one
button that's how easy it is the lamp
just turned off okay and I just hold
that in for five seconds and then let go
and then back at my computer if I check
for wireless access points mm-hmm
they're reset plug setup just popped up
did you see that it happened just as I
brought it up so I'm gonna click on that
and I'm gonna connect so it basically
has created its own hotspot for me okay
now I wanted you to see this my Wi-Fi
set up just so you see that my Wi-Fi is
called demo wife
okay so now I am actually connected to
the reset plug okay light just came back
on because it's still trying to
reconnect so now I'm gonna go to
10.1.1.1 in my browser now that I am
connected to the reset plug I believe I
am no I've disconnected oh here it is
okay there it is again
I lost my connection there maybe I
pushed it twice so let's reconnect
always done yeah
I tend to do this there we go so it's
created a hot spot at 10.1.1.1 and it
has DHCP so as soon as I connect to it
on its Wi-Fi with no password or
anything it's going to give me access to
the to the interface and I'll just
mention now you wonder well if it has no
password where's the security in this I
have to physically push that reset
button in order to activate the internal
component that allows a Wi-Fi connection
it's connected now so unless I've
clicked on unless I push that button
it's not gonna let me do that
it says no internet but I am connected
obviously there is no internet but you
notice that 10.1.1.1 has changed it's no
longer not found it's asking me for my
Wi-Fi setup ah ok so back at my router
you remember it was called demo Wi-Fi
now this is case sensitive so I need to
enter that exactly as it is okay you
notice that it came up there that's just
because I've tested this in the past and
I know that it works my password this is
the actual password for the wireless
device the wireless service the the
Wi-Fi your router your my wireless
connection guy so I'm telling it now I'm
connected into it but I'm telling it how
to connect to my actual so when you
disconnect from it it's gonna know hey I
can connect your router nicely
Sneaky's yes ok so I can enter my
password here super secure and you can
give it a nickname if you want I'm gonna
explain a little bit about that but okay
so outage wait time how long does this
thing have to be down how long does it
have to lose connectivity to the
internet but
or it thinks internet is down I'm gonna
say two minutes for the sake of the
demonstration because we don't want to
wait five just to demonstrate it for you
how long do you want your modem and your
router and whatever else is plugged into
the reset plug to be off for before it
turns back on you can said that 30
seconds if you want to be absolutely
sure but five seconds for the sake of
our demo is good and I'm gonna submit
that now it's sent setup is complete
it's done and it is actually going to
restart did I have it up there on the
screen you did okay fantastic good I
looked up it so the light turned off
imagine that's your mode I'm okay so now
it's going to come back up and it's
going to connect to my internal Wi-Fi
which has internet so it's going to be
able to now communicate with the
internet and it's gonna say oh good
let's keep the power going there it is
my modem just came back on modem is
connecting DHCP is happening and this
device is trying to access that Wi-Fi
connections that I just set up I'm done
that's it that's it yeah as long as I've
got my modem and my router plugged into
that that reset plug it's now doing its
thing you're all set I like it do we
take it to the next level and actually
test this thing can we see this other
power cord here yes that's the internet
connection ah when I pull that power
cord the internet is going to go down
here right when that happens if the
reset plug does what it is supposed to
do we're gonna see this light turn off
for five seconds and come back on are we
ready
powers still on right modems still going
it's still trying to connect maybe the
maybe the the internet has gone down
momentarily somebody's working out at
the road and they just are adjusting
wires internet is down oh it's coming
back up reset plug is not doing anything
but if it's down for two minutes
consecutively because that's the setting
that we set so if we can carry a
conversation for two full minutes here
right we should see that the reset plug
is going to say there's no internet here
yeah let's power off right
this is 100% just for like routers with
Wi-Fi right oh who doesn't have Wi-Fi in
their house this is powers back on
it's trying now it's given power back to
the modem just like I had unplugged it
for five seconds and plugged it back in
and it's trying to reconnect to the
internet now so now I haven't plugged it
back in so it's gonna keep retrying and
if it does not have internet now it's
got a five minute window right so
internet does not now come back within
the next five minutes it will power off
again it will power cycle because maybe
there is work being done in the area
yeah something happened and so it's
going to just leave the power on for
five minutes like so smart if it has a
connection to the internet and through
that Wi-Fi connection it will just keep
the power going 24/7 for you Wow that's
called the reset plug you can pick one
up at cat5 dot TV / reset plug it's one
of those things that's like before right
Internet's still down Internet's still
down so it knows that and it's coming
back up so it just power cycled the
modem and it's waiting for the Internet
to come up that's why that happened I
just plugged it in so it takes a few
minute you know how Internet is takes a
few minutes to to come back up so much
there you have it anything else you want
to know about that device let us know
email live at category-five dot TV
quickly I mentioned that some of the
extra settings that are in the interface
they're being able to give it an alias
for example now there is a commercial
app that you can use that allows you to
control multiple reset plugs this
is perfect for someone who say has
multiple properties and wants to be able
to look and monitor all of the internet
connections at these properties okay
perfect
so you can through that app that costs
just 2 dollars a month you have access
to being able to monitor them see their
uptime status see their historical
uptime probably check them on and off
you can turn them off and on again from
a remote location through your internet
connection right so all these things are
part of that commercial app so you can
that therefore that's why you can give
them a nickname you can call this one
studio D and you can call the other one
home and so on and so forth so check it
out it's cat 5 TV / reset plug keep your
devices connected all the time with
reset plug 24/7 24/7 7 days a week 365
hours on it's got internet it's good
it's good all the other things you can
use it for - like if you have a cottage
that has internet that's even a thing I
don't know yeah you can turn your
appliances on and off like if they don't
do for it and that's a good thought like
a dare are we think about internet sure
but these days more and more internet is
necessities so if my internet goes down
I use access to my thermostat I lose
access to what what else do you lose
access to I wonder if you could turn
debit terminals in a question yeah I
wonder if you could control Christmas
lights with this is a great idea though
you could put this in the back room
where the router is where nobody has
access to it yeah and it will
automatically power cycle the modem
we've had these moments at the clinic I
work in there you go absolutely yeah so
do you notice that the power is staying
up now that's because it has made its
connection to the Wi-Fi area and it's
able to ping the web sites and it's it's
up fantastic product smart and
incidentally not a lot more cost wise
than building it myself but no time
involved yeah easy setup anyone can do
it
I have a question sure and it might be
an odd one
but can I set it up using my phone Wi-Fi
there wouldn't be any reason why I
couldn't right well your phone is
accessing your home Wi-Fi right so then
yes yes okay so the home the router at
home is the one that is providing the
Wi-Fi to you right so I can change that
you can set it to use that right what
can you use your phone to configure this
device yes you don't even need an app
but when I pull up my Wi-Fi on my phone
okay I'm gonna see the reset plug set up
Wi-Fi hotspot and then I can bring out I
can bring it up that way so yes I could
do that okay good for sure
okay whatever my computer somehow
doesn't you have Wi-Fi if yo that's
right but is here's the thing so your
thought is that if I don't have Wi-Fi on
my computer I can't configure the Wi-Fi
for this device right so it is true that
you would not be able to connect to this
device to configure it that makes
absolute sense from your computer right
but you could use your phone to connect
to that reset plug center of a SSID go
to 10.1.1.1 on my phone
change the access the SSID and the
password for your internal home Wi-Fi
right you use on your phone right and
then save it and it will connect to that
perfect yes okay use a laptop I
understand that my laptop westrom yeah
my laptop stays at the studio and then
my home computer is hardwired in yes
right and so we don't have Wi-Fi would
you access that yeah
so that's where yes absolutely I use
your phone use your tablet okay all
right you ready to head over to the
newsroom Internet is up so we're good
yay fantastic I can get this out of your
way though because I know that
Internet's down
I dropped the light bulb the whole
internet when bounds I'll take just like
boom you ready for it I think so oh good
I've been wrong before now we're working
with a like-new teleprompter devices
this week because my phone died and our
teleprompter is actually powered by a
phone right so however I feel and I
don't want to you're wearing contacts I
know I'm wearing contacts and I feel
like I should touch wood or something
but your new phone is better than your
old phone yes yes I'll be able to read
with you like really old also also these
contacts are really new so I had a
moment of distress a couple weeks is
gonna be amazing if I couldn't see a
thing
well you take it away and we'll see how
we do all right here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV newsroom YouTube is launching a
music streaming service offering both
videos and audio tracks in an attempt to
compete with Spotify and Apple music
London England has
solution to the cashless society problem
facing street performers and it involves
an investment in contactless payment
systems to Canadian banks say accounts
have been compromised
CIBC says Fort 40,000 and BMO says
50,000 customers per customer accounts
are affected ride-hailing Firm uber will
give its European drivers access to
medical coverage and compensation for
work-related injuries these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're terrible
actor what does where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV slash dream host to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five TV
news room covering the week's top tech
stories with Linux box I'm Sacha Rickman
and here the top stories were following
this week YouTube is launching a music
streaming service offering both videos
and audio tracks in an attempt to
compete with the likes of Spotify and
Apple music YouTube music will combine
millions of official tracks with the
vast catalogs and rarity rarities of
remixes uploaded by YouTube's users like
Spotify it will offer a free ad funded
app alongside premium subscriptions
costing $9.99 per month it launched
yesterday in five countries including
the US and Mexico the Google owned
company said YouTube music would come to
Europe soon YouTube music product
manager elias roman said the days of
jumping back and forth between multiple
music
apps and YouTube are over whether or not
you want to listen listen watch or
discover it's all here in a blog post he
added that the service would offer a mix
of official songs albums thousands of
playlists and artist radio Plus
YouTube's tremendous catalogue of
remixes live performances covers and
music videos that you can't find
anywhere else he promised that the new
app would offer personalized playlists
based on users streaming history much
like Spotify has discover weekly it is
understood that YouTube music will
eventually replace Google Play Music
which is the company's current streaming
offering existing Google Play Music
customers will get a YouTube music music
package thrown into their subscription
for free well Roman reassured users that
their playlist purchases uploads and
uploads would remain intact once Google
Play was phased out hmm
so Google Play is being phased out we
are on Google Play on Google Play
this is good news for us in fact oh sure
huge because now we're not going to be
on google play music because it'll be
shut down we'll be on YouTube music
can't do this
yes how many people here by show of
hands use YouTube for music YouTube for
music that's yes ish oh okay I have
recently discovered in YouTube live
because they have live video streaming
that there are radio stations from
around the world who have a picture and
they're streaming their radio station on
YouTube live yeah for them it's free
streaming for me I can listen to radio
from all around the world isn't it
awesome I love it I'm a longtime
shoutcast user like from way back in the
null soft days but I've recently been
kind of finding myself more and more on
YouTube live and that's become my source
for not only music listening but music
discovery well it's so joining so many
great artists that I didn't know India
yeah exactly yeah like the independent
scene is huge on YouTube it really and
so and like I'm a big like vocal dubstep
chillstep fan and yeah like chillstep
there are so many indie artists that are
just phenomenal right this is where it
works for me what we end up doing at
home is because we have our computer set
up to our TV we open Spotify and run the
music but then have to open YouTube so
that we don't burn images into the TV so
we're playing videos of anything oh okay
right because your TV has to be on right
because it's HDMI output yeah so you see
so now if i have google music if they
have the actual stream with video right
if they have music and video then I
won't have to open to things I could
actually change my subscription for my
right to Google or not Google for it to
YouTube music yeah but it's not natural
for me to play doubles
advocate though it's just like for free
I can go on YouTube and just look up at
like music videos and like yeah
everything else so like my only concern
is is that well it's awesome to have
like that content that you pay for but
are things gonna be like hidden behind a
paywall now on YouTube right I don't
know but as they are such an
advertisement based platform so yeah now
there will be the paywall sure but when
I discover new indie artists yeah and
then I immediately go on YouTube and I
look for their music videos I'm clicking
on those videos and what am i doing
exactly feeding that artist because
they've got ads on that exactly because
like right now at this time right now
YouTube bread is the example exact same
thing but it's video only right so it's
like for X amount of dollars month you
don't have to like watch ads right video
we're huge on YouTube red because we
burn the advertisements directly into
the video make sure you shop through our
website category 5 TV there you go so
yeah they love us there yeah right
because like it's it's awesome it's
great content YouTube's huge like and to
say that yeah anyone can become famous
for free in that sense like we can all
make YouTube account and everything else
that's like my one concern is that like
I don't want like all these new artists
to be like because YouTube's add a
really interesting stage right now right
cuz like there's like the entire ad
pocalypse that happened a few months ago
yeah there's the Adsense everything else
has been reshuffled especially like the
entire monetization policy has been
rewritten yeah yeah so like I'm really
hopeful that YouTube and Google overall
looks after their content creators for
this one because I want to see like all
these new like artists coming through
fruition like I want this to work and
please like if they do do it eventually
give it Canada because we still don't
hang out here
and yeah I know I feel yeah absolutely
and even our show like we need that
funding in order to be able to show so
when you talk about when Henry's talking
about monetization shuffling and things
like that
it affects people like us who are
broadcasting to you for free because our
monetization has dropped because Google
has said oh well that channel doesn't
have enough subscribers that one doesn't
have enough subscribers that one we just
don't like so we're a drop in
monetization on that and boom there goes
the bottom line so we'll have to see and
we'll have to see what happens but if it
is I hope it is awesome it's gonna be
great because we already use YouTube
anyways from yes exactly right so to be
able to have all these hopeful features
die pay for hopefully like it's gonna be
awesome and I love that it's not top 40
anymore yeah we're in a world where the
top 40 doesn't matter because we can
watch great music we can learn about new
music and we're not stuck just with what
the top 40 tells us we need to listen to
of this age okay Internet London England
has a solution to the cashless society
problem facing street performers it
involves an investment in contactless
payment systems
here's a casualty of the cashless
society you might not have previously
thought of the humble street performer
after all more of us are paying our way
through our way through smart phones and
contactless cards how can we spare
change to musicians on the subway
London England has a solution a new
scheme that outfits performers with
contactless payments payment terminals
the project was launched this past
weekend by the city's mayor Sadat cane
and a collaboration with busk in London
a professional body for buskers and the
Swedish payment firm eyes ëtil which was
bought this month by paypal for 2.2
billion dollars a select few performers
have been testing settles contactless
readers on the streets for the past few
weeks and con now says the scheme will
be rolled out across london's 32
boroughs Charlotte Campbell a full-time
street performer who was part of the
trial
said that the new tech had a significant
impact on contributions she said that
more people than ever tapped to donate
while she was while she sings and often
when one person does another follows the
readers need to be connected to a
smartphone or tablet and accepts
payments of fixed amounts set by the
individual performer they work with
contactless cards phones and even
smartwatches there's no details yet on
how many readers will be provided to
London street performers or whether they
will have to pay for the readers
themselves nice that's really cool so if
I'm a busker and I'm sitting there with
my acoustic guitar and I get to set that
a contactless payment I'm setting it to
million dollars I think this is great
honestly like I think that I have seen
commercials and who was it but it was
like a commercial for another like
interact or something and it was a
busker and he had one of those little
square phone things and I don't know I I
just remember thinking to myself I don't
have cable TV
don't see commercials I haven't seen ten
years Sasha
there are times you want to help people
and you can't because yes cash I was
walking through the mall to get my new
smartphone this this past right and some
little girls were selling Girl Guide
cookies right and I was case in point
and it's just like and I kind of wanted
to walk around them because I was a
little bit heartbroken
do you take Visa exactly okay so that's
exactly the point yeah I mean right now
at Cash its they ask do you want to
donate a dollar to this or a dollar to
that I'm a yes person I always do sure
you're standing there with your debit or
your exactly I'm standing there I'd
point to purchase right so but if if
it's children at the door I
I have to give them the cold shoulder
Armenia standing at the door collecting
and lemonade stand nobody's driving by
with money in their car anymore like now
they could get out and pay for their
little lemonade with it actually okay
the funny part about that is that when I
was in Air Cadets we have to do
something called tagging so it's like
you go to like your shoppers Drug Mart
or whatever you're standing outside and
collect money the biggest thing like
5-10 years ago whenever I was in cadets
half the time people are like sorry I
don't have change
I have friends still with a squadron and
they're like oh yeah we have like visa
machines and stuff now I'm like why you
guys have like they know that like the
collections for the Salvation Army at
Christmas time they have like if they
had that yeah I would I always feel
terrible like cuz I do not carry cash
anymore right plain and simple so and
you're not expecting someone to be
collecting at the door and so I feel
very unprepared so this what I would tap
this works for buskers and people
accepting donations this doesn't as much
work for panhandlers though yeah what
would they do
what would a homeless a homeless person
doesn't have access or a bank account
yeah so if we're taking the cash like if
we're actually going cashless we're
taking the cash out of society are we
now really even further marginalizing an
entire people like absolutely that's a
scary thought and and it's absolutely
true like how would I they in our city
we don't really see a lot of beggars if
you will can we just go like full Star
Trek and just rid of money and that
would be fantastic
I didn't hey that'd be great I wonder
like you see people on the on and off
ramps of the highway right yeah and I
mean some of them you you want some of
them you want to drive past some of them
you want to give money to and you didn't
and before you're in your car you have
changed because you just bought a coffee
at the local Timmy's but now Timmy's
takes debit exactly and it's tap on the
way through and you keep driving
they have an app now you can you can
pre-order kind of ways this could help
like when I went to Newfoundland and we
went through one of the trails it was
like the puffin trail and there's a
little cash donation box because
volunteers maintain the trail right but
what if they had actually inside that
box um some device that was connected
right where you could just tap right to
make your donation because I'm sure that
that box is more empty than full because
you on a hike brings cash just put in
your Visa card with like a little note
please return to yeah after charging
like a dollar
someone needs to create like just to
wrap up this story but someone needs to
create a charity of some sort or a
ministry of some sort that has a device
that uses LTE internet and is connected
to the Internet and has a tap that they
can lend out to homeless people for
example right you know are people that
are looking for work or in between jobs
and if they're going to beg for for
handouts for lack of a better term
here's a device that you can borrow and
at the end of the day because it's
connected to our network through LTE we
will pay you what was hopefully in cash
because we had a charity or a ministry
and involved as a middle person that
could then translate this tap system
into okay bring us back the device and
we will give you the cash right you've
collected they will always get the
device back because that's the only way
they'll get their money right right
otherwise it's a useless device it's
true let me get on it folks societies
where we're going but it is kind of
scary beyond that anyway to Canadian
banks say accounts have been compromised
CIBC says 40,000 and BMO says up to
50,000 customers accounts have been
affected to Canadian banks warned Monday
that they have been targeted by hackers
and that the personal information of
tens of thousands of customers may have
been stolen something that appears to
have been confirmed in a letter to the
media from someone whose
who said that they were demanding a 1
million dollar ransom from the banks
CIBC owned simply financial was the
first to warn on Monday morning that
hackers had accessed the personal
personal and account information of more
than 40 thousand of the bank's customers
the bank said it received a tip over the
weekend that hackers had obtained the
data and that after a preliminary
investigation decided to go public on
Monday the bank's senior vice president
Michel Martin said in a statement
we're taking this claim seriously and
have taken action to further enhance our
monitoring and security procedures then
later Monday morning Bank of Montreal
spokesperson Paul gamble revealed that
it too had received a tip that
fraudsters fraudsters had stolen data on
up to 50 thousand of the bank's
customers and that the party responsible
has threatened to make the data public
someone claiming to have stolen the data
sent a letter to the media outlets
across Canada
later that day threatening to sell the
information to criminals if the banks do
not pay a 1 million dollar ransom the
email ended with a sample of the
information in question the names dates
of birth and social insurance numbers as
well as account balances of an Ontario
man and woman living in BC banks are
caught in a tough spot on this issue
because they're being pulled between
competing forces they want to make it
easier to use technology to bank with
them but don't want to open themselves
up to more fraud that's a scary thing
I'm sure I know Canadian so somebody in
America should just pay because it's
only 40 bucks from the Canadian okay so
here's the thing yep thanks forever have
been known to have liked bank hours
which are not convenient to pay to
people in general because they're only
open from certain amounts of time yeah
so I don't understand the mentality now
of banks trying to like pander to the
public and make things easier and
simpler because it's actually to open
your doors yo right
it's working against everyone to have
such an easy way into accounts I did a
little bit of reading on this and I
found out how the hackers got in and it
was astoundingly simple oh it was the
security questions no you gotta forget
password and then when you go to forget
a password it comes up with a list of
security questions but the security
questions are generally like pretty easy
to guess yeah and you can't make your
own what's your favorite colors green
blue red password just like that bingo
bango right right well it should be if
you forgot your password which at the
same time like if the banks are found at
fault it's like they'd still cover you
money well they're liable absence umer
safe if the CDI sees I think so but you
have to keep meticulous look at your
account all of your information it's not
even the money the money's like your
social insurance exactly everything else
it's like buying hosting from DreamHost
like they have a time guarantee yeah if
they're down yep they'll give you a
month free or something you have to
catch it you have to be sitting at your
computer refreshing over and over during
that out is to catch it and then report
it to them and other companies I use
that example Rogers is the same and I
wonder if like the banks could do
something a little bit less comfortable
for people like if you forgot your
password come in and prove yourself in
person Facebook well you lost your
password we're shutting down your
account delicious you call that a
picture of your face we're shutting you
down
it makes me uncomfortable to think that
banks are trying to win us and because
of that they're sacrificing our security
well their business right they want
things faster cheaper easier if you
don't have to walk into the branch to do
a transaction or something then they
don't have to pay like X amount of
tellers right so they're saving money
meanwhile like
they're not saving money if we get all
hacked and all of our you have insurance
and then it's like it's a never-ending I
don't even want to go here because I'm
thinking about the banks now and you
don't want to get me thinking I'm a
customer service fanatic Oh so when it
comes to the banks I'm like customer I
am your customer but okay yes the thing
is that you have to remember is that the
villains of this world are incredibly
intelligent
so having security questions like what
is your favorite color or what was the
name of your first dog I bet you got why
mash the keypad with our palms as soon
as she said like super villain like
intelligent I just thought of like dr.
evil from Austin Powers smart we just
need to be a little bit smarter all
right okay it's never ending we'll work
on that session ride-hailing firm uber
will give its European drivers access to
work-related injuries the new
protections include sick pay parental
leave and bereavement payments uber said
it had previously focused too much on
growth and not enough on the people who
make that growth possible
we called drivers partners but didn't
always act like it said ubers chief
executive darkest force key compensation
package will be available to all goober
drivers and uber each delivery couriers
across Europe Uber's announcement comes
before an appeal hearing at Westminster
magistrate's court on June 25th where a
judge will decide whether Transport for
London should renew overs operating
licence in London after they'd withdrawn
ubers operating license in September on
the grounds of Public Safety and
security implications uber has been
allowed to continue operating in the
city while it appealed against the
decision
uber said it will provide drivers with a
range of insurance coverage and
compensation resulting from accidents or
injuries that occur while there were
working as well as protection for major
life events that happen whether the
driver is on shift or not in the US on
the other hand
uber drivers continue to fight in court
for the right to be classed as workers
so interesting I'm glad to hear that
they're making progress in it I feel
like ubers like really growing up and
they're really like yeah kind of I mean
I suppose they're they're Manning up
probably in reaction to their is that
yeah they've been closed down but the
way they came back at it and now they're
offering compensation makes makes me
respect them so much more in that I am
fairly certain that the taxi drivers in
the city of Barrie don't get the
compensations that are now awarded to
Ober you know yeah so they may want to
actually become uber drivers well if it
comes to North America right yeah where
if the benefits come to North America we
have uber yeah I just love this entire
shift because like we're seeing like
this entire like internet economy really
really maturing in this sense right
because whoever's not the only one
there's like a lot of other companies
that are online based dot say that are
like Airbnb drone bases these like these
other things that are now are providing
providing insurance so like if you're
Airbnb you write drone pilot flies or
drone is all these other things they're
wising they're yeah they're saying okay
we got you covered like they're learning
hopefully learning for mistakes that's
it is it a marketing thing or is it
actually that the company is improving
and let's hope that they're improbably
sit back and watch I'm gonna go with the
positive on this they're growing up big
thanks to Ray W Nash and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom i'm sasha Rickman's thanks
Sasha I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm
Baili Brown it's been great having you
here folks have a wonderful week we will
see you again next week
