here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
task force led by Spanish cops has dealt
TV piracy a heavy blow after shuttering
a network of illegal sports streaming
sites operating across Spain the UK
Denmark Latvia the Netherlands and
Cyprus stadia a brand new game streaming
service from Google has been revealed
and it's powered by open source
technology Apple has unveiled its new TV
streaming platform Apple TV plus at a
star-studded event in California and a
self-driving shuttle service is to be
deployed in New York City by the middle
of the year these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories in Fitness life Linux bias Jeff
Westen Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
aren't you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
at five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman in here the top stories
were following this week a task force
led by Spanish cops has dealt TV piracy
a heavy blow after shuttering a network
of the illegal sports streaming sites
operating across Spain the UK Denmark
Latvia the Netherlands and Cyprus police
arrested five suspects had identified
eleven ramshackle data centers that were
used to provide access to more than 800
channels in the largest operation of its
kind in Europe illegal streaming is big
business a quick online search will find
hundreds of websites that promised
access to big sports events for cheaper
than sports packages from authorized
sources policia Nationale said that the
investigation into this particular
piracy ring started late 2015 after
England's Premier League made a formal
complaint against a streaming website
based in Malaga the cops soon found out
that the criminals were running a highly
organised set up offering services on
subscription with packages priced
between forty and 460 pounds per month
euros o euros subscribers have been
identified in more than 30 countries
Spanish police said in the statement
that the strategy used by the suspects
was UT was to use a multitude of servers
and then change them periodically
gradually creating new web pages to form
a frame framework that in principle had
no relationship in this way they tried
not to be detected by the National
Police and continue
profiting from the crime it is estimated
that the criminal empire earned at least
8 million euros during the arrests the
police conference gate confiscated no
fewer than 12 high-end vehicles so they
were making a ton of money yeah if I'm
making 8 million euros I'm going Lambo I
guess so yeah they're not flying under
the radar that's yeah how does something
like this start I mean there's two sides
to this because there's this side where
these types of streaming services give
people a connection to home so I can see
how so say I moved to the United States
from from an Eastern country wherever
right and and I wanted to be able to
tune into my native language programming
I definitely want to subscribe to those
kinds of services so that I can access
that programming from home that makes
sense yeah like and similarly here in
Canada an english-speaking person such
as myself who would be hard-pressed to
understand any other language if I moved
somewhere that you know say they spoke
Mandarin I would just be absolutely lost
on the if I was trying to find some
entertainment right and so tuning into a
streaming service from back home in
Canada would be fantastic so what
happens when there are places in the
world whose TV networks are not
provisioning that and even here in
Canada so Rogers cable TV right right if
you go to Belize and try to watch your
Rogers TV from Barrie Ontario Canada yes
it's going to block you because they use
geolocation to say you're not in Canada
so you're not allowed to watch this
right so then we use a VPN tunnel and
all and so on and so forth but then if
my physical address has moved to
somewhere else in the world I can no
longer subscribe to that service because
I don't have a Canadian address right so
it's like this double-edged thing where
yeah there's probably there's a market
for it and a need for it right yeah it
almost feels like maybe the
broadcaster's have got it wrong like
they ever get it wrong but why is why am
I having to subscribe to these services
yeah in order to get my native
programming rights could it could it not
be the case that I as a Canadian
english-speaking individual can
subscribe to a Canadian service
broadcast service and watch it from
anywhere in the world like that's the
world wide web quit using geolocation to
block me no matter where I am I want to
be able to access it and use it and
subscribe to it and so so that maybe
pushes the end consumer to try some of
these illegal services which then boosts
their revenues which then you know oh
well I can actually get more programming
for cheaper because it's illegal in
there at all from these ramshackle
studios if you will
speaking of ramshackle studio welcome to
Studio B everyone this is category 5 TV
it's nice to have you here okay so
here's what I was thinking about it and
I wasn't thinking in terms of the world
wide mists of it I was more thinking
about the money side so they're making a
ton of money off of these these illegal
piracy streaming services like so people
are paying for the service but they're
probably paying less than the pumped-up
prices that are being charged they are
right that's a big problem so I think
that maybe it the argument could be just
that the prices are too high in the
legitimate field because it's not that
people aren't paying they still are
paying what the pirate who are they
paying though they're paying yeah the
copyright holders the the the content
creators are not the ones getting paid
for that right so if they were to lower
their expectations a little bit like if
they were to lower the bar and charge
slightly less they could be able to
compete with it I like the way you think
what let illegal content drive down the
price of legal content I don't think
that's the way it works but maybe if the
legal content were
provision in such a way that I can use
it I mean and chatroom which you can't
see during the newsroom but maybe you
think that I have no clue because it's
all copy written material and and
Canadian content is licensed for
Canadian distributorship and so on and
so forth but yes I understand the CRTC
and I understand regulations and
telecommunication regulations and things
like that but could they not say okay
well we're gonna be an international
this is all hypothetical I I don't mean
this should be the way I mean in our
world that is interconnected via the
World Wide Web should it not be the case
where our broadcasting companies are
pursuing being able to remove the
borders so whether that be copyrights
whether that be MP double-a or Rio or
whatever crtc that we would remove those
borders and say okay you're a Canadian
citizen or you are an American citizen
or you are from wherever you are
therefore legitimately allowed to access
the content from the broadcast networks
of that country that's common sense to
me I like that I like that right I don't
know it doesn't address the fact that
piracy still exists piracy exists and
and I feel like piracy will always
issues if these structures are in place
that block you but there are a couple of
things that drive the piracy industry
one of those being cost is cheaper so
people can get the service cheaper but
the average consumer the the other cause
of piracy being supported is because I
can't legitimately get the content that
I desire right I buy DVDs from Amazon co
uk and bbc.co.uk/topgear
Europe mm-hmm so if I put them in a
Canadian player it doesn't play so I
have to crack those disks it's
ridiculous it kind of is I don't get it
like I just don't just should for those
who legitimately pursue the content
there should be no borders right as
simple as that we live in a world wide
web connected world I'd vote for you
Robbie absolutely has nothing to do with
they just shut down a piracy ring but
you got me going stadia a new a brand
new game streaming service from Google
has been revealed and it's powered by
open source technology long rumored but
only formally announced at games
developer conference last week the cloud
gaming service promises to let gamers
game from pretty much anywhere they want
yeah
there's no stadia console no box you buy
and hook up to your TV instead games run
from a data center and are streamed to
you via the Internet
games can be streamed at up to 4k and 60
frames per second depending on your
connection of course the dream of
playing triple-a games on stadia on your
crummy downstairs TV your mid-range
Android or a laptop running Linux and
Google Chrome is now real Google
designed a custom controller to
accompany the service the pad has
built-in Wi-Fi and microphone plus
dedicated buttons for streaming games to
YouTube and opening Google assistance in
all it's kind of like a more varied and
more fancy and more accessible version
of PlayStation now which is itself based
on the short lived on live service
Google has yet to reveal details on
pricing and availability but has said
stadia will launch this year in the US
Canada UK and most of Europe I love the
idea of streaming gaming service and
we're finally probably there I've seen
some startups try this service I think
these types of services
and fail because the technology just
wasn't there now Google of all companies
being able to provision Gigabit Ethernet
to homes and and everything else like
the infrastructure that they have it's
wonderful you know that I'm like a lover
of like pretty much every way you could
play a game I this will be something
that I have I go for me buddy yes I want
to collect all the different weights yes
Gabe so thank you this does away so
medicinally now we've had this talk
sorry backing up so not traditionally we
have this talk yeah a few weeks back
about how platform maybe it was a while
ago but how I can't play a Nintendo
switch game cross-platform on an Xbox
one and X and so it becomes this like
okay you've you can't my kids can't play
with their friends if they don't have
the same gaming system exactly this does
away with that and I love that again I'm
all about removing those borders and and
removing the restrictions when I
legitimately own content I feel like
there shouldn't be restrictions on that
content so this takes those games takes
it away from you needing to have a
super-powerful gaming rig or a
super-powerful gaming console system
yeah and instead puts it in the data
center mm-hmm puts it on Kingston DC 500
SSDs of course yeah and and fires it up
and it's playable through a streaming
media connection I don't know if there's
gonna be high latency I imagine Google
of all companies would have thought of
that there's gonna be you know it's
something out there they're definitely
gonna work out but you're actually
playing it on their servers and their
servers are streaming the video and 60
frames per second back to your screen so
I can take it from my laptop mm-hmm in
Chrome to my TV to my phone to my
whatever device say and it there's no
restriction on the platform it doesn't
it doesn't make a difference I feel like
when we talk gu --gel listens like i
just feel like
have they do sorry I had to say it yeah
but like it's exactly what we need
remember that microphone my controller
yeah yeah they're listening they're
listening it's for gaming and so you can
talk to the children in fortnight yeah
that's what that microphone is there for
we're not getting all Shady on it I
really love this idea completely and
we'll be getting one of these now you
know how we've talked about cloud-based
services and now cloud-based gaming
that's what this introduces and it
doesn't matter if your friends are on
whatever platform exam whatever device I
can be playing it on my laptop my
daughter can be playing it on her phone
my son can be playing it on the TV
downstairs and you could be in the same
battle we can be playing together yeah I
love that that's where the internet
thing can take us right and they're
finally starting to catch on to this
Sasha they're finally catching on thank
you for listening Google unveiled its
new TV streaming platform Apple TV plus
at a star-studded event in California
Jennifer Aniston Steven Spielberg and
Oprah Winfrey were among those who took
to the stage at Apple's headquarters to
reveal their involvement in TV projects
commissioned by the tech giants the
platform will include shows from
existing services like Hulu and HBO
apple also announced that it would be
launching a credit card gaming portal
and enhanced news app the event was held
in California and Apple chief executive
Tim Cook was clear from the start that
the announcement would be about new
services not new devices it is a change
of direction for the 42 year old company
there's been a lot of anticipation about
Apple's predicted for what foray into
the TV streaming market dominated by the
likes of Amazon and Netflix the Amazon
Apple or the Apple TV Plus app was
unveiled by Steven Spielberg and will
launch in the autumn Spielberg will
himself be creating some of the material
for the new platform he said
other stars who took to the stage
included Reese Witherspoon Stephen
Corral Jason Momoa alfre woodard
comedian Kemal and the nun G and big
bird from Sesame Street oh well if Big
Bird was that big bird was there so it's
golden the app will be made available on
rival devices for the first time coming
to Samsung LG Sony Vizio Smart TVs as
well as Amazon's firestick and Roku the
subscription fee was not announced and
notably absent from the launch lineup
was Netflix which had already rolled
itself out of being part of the bundle
as far as the Apple card credit card
goes it will launch in the US this
summer there will be both an iPhone and
physical version of the card with a cash
back incentive on every purchase the
credit card will have no late fees
annual fees or international fees says
Apple pay VP Jennifer Bailey it has been
created with the help of Goldman Sachs
and MasterCard so ha Apple yes has this
tendency we think of them as innovators
but they have this tendency and if you
look at their history this is true
you'll find to follow but when they
follow they clobber yeah competition so
when the iPhone came out Nokia was the
leader and they where are they now right
right when so now if so Netflix is not a
part of this well obviously because
guess what Netflix is getting ready
because they know Apple follows they
perfect and they and somehow they they
they manage they get the ball yeah but
now with this being available on other
devices so I can put this on my Android
device too yeah we're not limited to an
Apple TV piece of equipment or an Apple
iPhone piece of equipment right so now
all of a sudden success are really smart
and I
I've not been an apple person myself no
but this is smart and I'd like to that
it's conniving I know I'd like to see
it's just work I'm just team Netflix and
I feel like I don't want them to go
Netflix has been doing some really
awesome things and Amazon is really
starting to pick up with prime and we're
starting to catch on to that as well so
to have a third player is a good thing
but that it's Apple we know they're just
gonna command &amp; Conquer I will say one
thing the whole credit card thing
confuses me but yeah it's like and also
we'll have a credit card oh yeah by the
way here you go I did you know what they
get every student to have an Apple
credit card a will and it's like it's
like the McDonald's advertising when
you're free it's it just gets in your
head to the point when you're an adult
that's all that you just you know it so
probably you could pay for Apple TV plus
with your card and get a discount on it
right probably it's the way it happens
that's how they get you okay well you
can do this like shopping with the
Starbucks app right you know what I'm
saying right so but something we'll see
we'll see we'll see will you subscribe
to Apple TV plus they're really original
with names by the way yeah just waiting
for the iPhone plus to come out but the
Apple TV plus are you gonna be a
subscriber I mean Oprah is gonna be on
that yeah Reese Witherspoon that's
another thing just to back it up for a
second another thing where all of a
sudden red flags go up for me is when
it's that star-studded that means like
that means that they know that the
product itself might not sell itself
they need to like pay a bunch of people
to come and talk about how awesome it is
I'm just saying
will you subscribe comment below that's
all I ask
a self-driving shuttle services to be
of the year
Boston start-up optimist ride will run
on vehicles on private roads at the
Brooklyn Navy Yard site located on New
York's East River this
shuttle will help workers get around the
large site self-driving vehicles are
being widely trialed around the world
but vehicle sometimes crash and some
regulators have halted tests the cars
are designed to operate an environment
of 25 miles per hour okay I can see this
working really really well at campuses
or like we've heard of using autonomous
vehicles and zoos rights and things like
that like that just makes sense Colleen
when I want to go visit her in Vancouver
yes they use the sky train the sky train
is unmanned it's it's is it is it
autonomous or is it like controlled by a
remote person looking at a camera I
don't know what I do know is you can you
can sit as though you are the driver
like it the whole thing there's not a
spot right when right so she sometimes
will pick that spot but then it's
unnerving because then you realize
there's not a person operating it right
and the only time that they ever need
people operating it at all is if there's
bad weather and it's just for the person
to press a button to say oh no that's
just snow in the way you can keep going
okay yeah I'm absolutely picturing
somebody sitting eating Donuts like
Homer Simpson pushing the buttons like
throttle up throttle down throttle yeah
that's really cool let's take a really
quick look at coin gecko the
cryptocurrency report for this week from
category-five TV and this is the market
outlook as of 1800 hours Eastern Time on
Wednesday the 27th is it the 27th of
March already as far as when we're
broadcasting live Bitcoin has gone down
just a little bit again at this at this
value $4,000 plus $3 loss is pretty
minimal that's you're not gonna feel
that folks like coin however has gone up
a little bit at $61 which at that saw
live being a dollar five plus is quite a
gain aetherium is is down just a little
bit at one hundred and thirty seven
dollars and ninety cents u.s. Manero
sitting at fifty two dollars and 87
cents to
a dollar 38 us from last week the little
guys stellite is sitting at one point
six one ten thousandth of a cent are you
ready for this game there big gainer
here terra de Coyne
oh no Estella Oh gained over last week's
numbers 0.01 ten thousandth of a cent
way to go Stella I would call that
static I would call that stellar
actually quite a bit considering last
week it was sitting at just 0.7 ten
thousandth of a cent it gained 0.46 in
the past week say so it's up at one
point one six ten thousandth of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market never
closes and it's always volatile I will
say I really love the little guys in
this Stella and turtle coin love you big
thanks to Roy W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sacha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson
[Music]
