[Music]
alright folks this is category five
technology TV welcome back we are gonna
take a quick look at the Raspberry Pi 3
B+ ladies and gentlemen I've got it
right here on the desk this is it it
arrived today from Kanna ket which is
ordered from Amazon you get these a cat5
dot TV / hai and everything looks just
like it when we loaded it with a
Raspberry Pi 3 but let's get in
you were saying you love I unboxing why
do you love unboxing so much why does
everyone love unboxing so much oh this
is a ton okay so we've got heatsink skin
on the outside of the package so Kanak
it has included a heatsink for the CPU
and the GoPro and the Ares
it's like the world's tiniest computer
folks you can use this as a home theater
PC I'm going to brutalize this box
normally I open them nice and cleanly so
that I can put them on display but no
not this time - exactly - exactly there
it is there is the Raspberry Pi 3 model
B+ so we just paused to fix the audio
the processor has better heat
dissipation which means we're gonna be
able to overclock this get a little more
speed even though it is clocked already
at 1.4 we're gonna be able to
potentially overclock this board the
Raspberry Pi 3 was a little
disappointing in that regard
now it's also got improved Wi-Fi the
Wi-Fi has been has been improved
exponentially it's now b/g/n AC and it's
2.4 gigahertz or 5 gigahertz which means
we presumably should be able to get
better speed off of the Wi-Fi and better
connectivity I'm really hoping that
we're gonna see less packet loss if you
bought a Raspberry Pi 3 model be the
first Raspberry Pi 3 you'll notice that
it does have some slowness issues on the
Wi-Fi and and so you know if you're
watching YouTube you've got to turn down
the quality settings and this kind of
thing yeah well that's the hope I mean
it's gonna be faster and better Wi-Fi
and it's got a better antenna as well
much ly improved Ethernet is also
improved it is a Gigabit Ethernet is
what they boast but unfortunately it's
connected via the USB - and because of
that even though it is Gigabit Ethernet
it actually is only gonna give you about
300 megabits per second which is very
disappointing I'll say but at the same
time even though it's disappointing
because they're advertising and
marketing it as a Gigabit Ethernet it's
still 297 percent better speeds than the
Raspberry Pi 3 which is one step down
and this is about the same price right
so it's still a lot faster but it
doesn't come anywhere close to the xu4
from Odroid for exam
so beyond that the form factor has not
changed whatsoever
everything looks exactly the same the
processor as I mentioned is faster about
19% faster the memory is also 20% faster
so we're gonna get a pretty good
performance boost off of this board
altogether and surprisingly and maybe
this is because of the better heat
dissipation on the CPU but it is
actually going to run about 4% cooler
than than a Raspberry Pi 3 perfect but
he uses more power Oh
mm-hmm and quite a bit more like 38% now
these use very little power anyways but
a 38% power usage increase is kind of
substantial especially if you got a
bunch of these running so let's compare
real quick what these look like now in
the bag there's also a power supply the
B+ requires 2.5 amp as opposed to two
point four which is what you want on
your Raspberry Pi 3 so your Raspberry Pi
3 power supply may not work with the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ because it's 0.1 amps
too low now I'm just ripping apart my
case here I do like these cases because
they're easy to pull apart easy to get
the PI out let's see I I say that we go
and then the struggle there we go so
there's the PI 3 and the PI 3 B+ model B
plus so they're pretty much identical as
far as form factor goes they really are
I mean they are identical that way and
the B+ so here's the B+ I'll put this
right back in the case that I just took
the B out of and should have absolutely
no trouble putting this in the same case
they're they're exactly the same as far
as that's perfect yeah so you're not
going to have to mess around with that
so there you have it that's just a quick
unboxing and quick look at the Raspberry
Pi 3 model b+ I am excited about some
you know the speed increase especially
the RAM being faster because the RAM on
the
berry pie has been notoriously slow
Ethernet is faster although
disappointingly slow for gigabit but
we'll see over the course of the next
little while as we do some benchmarks
how it's actually going to perform in
real world environments we shall see
have you got your Raspberry Pi 3 model
b+ comment below let us know how you're
digging it so far and how it's running
your stuff especially if you've already
used things on Raspberry Pi 3 I'd love
to know if if it works better on the
Raspberry Pi 3 plus
[Applause]
