it's Tuesday August ninth 2016 and here
are the stories that were covering this
week one of the largest torrent
metasearch engines in the world has
suddenly shut down and without warning
Chip and PIN debit and credit cards have
been shown to be insecure thousands of
seismic sensors monitoring geological
activity are vulnerable to cyber attack
IBM's Watson artificial intelligence has
saved a woman's life after having
successfully and accurately diagnosed
her rare form of leukemia and ESET is
recommending Windows 10 anniversary
update users disable Windows Defender
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere now here's another great way
you can support the shows you love from
the category 5 TV network by shopping
gear best that's the right Jeff cat5 TV
/ gear best it's an online store for the
geek streak in you or the loved ones
well of course I mean especially your
loved ones right because cat5 TV /
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock bottom prices do they
have cell phones you betcha cat5 TV /
gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked android cell phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those make a great gift absolutely from
high-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 TV / gearbest has you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own share at your
computer through the interweb yeah
I there's no way they have it all it's
true it's just a bunch of a random
electronic Sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock bottom super duper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than thirty dollars plus free shipping a
cat5 TV / gear best yeah all right you
kind of got me there Wow any other
questions for me general ah now that the
winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals on say drone
couplers oh my goodness well check this
out dude they have everything check out
over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available marked down by
about thirty two up to sixty three
percent off the regular price love it
what's the website again while you're
gonna find gearbest on our partners
pages for any of your favorite category
five TV shows like new every day
category five technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat five dot TV / gearbest so
that's easy cat five dot TV / your best
that's right happy shopping i'm jeff
weston and hear the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room torrance you one
of the world's largest torrent sites has
announced farewell to its millions of
users the meta search engine which
hosted no torrents of its own but linked
to other sites including thepiratebay
has decided to cease its operation the
surprise shuts that shut down marks the
end of an era founded in 2003 torrents
has been a stable factor in the Torah
community for over 13 years with
millions of visitors per day the site
grew to become one of the most trusted
torrent sites but now this rain ends as
the popular metasearch engine has
announced its shut down on Friday and
with a warning torrents disabled in
search of
functionality and at first sight the
main page looks normal but those who try
to find the links to tour to torrents
will notice that they're no longer there
instead the site is now referring to
itself in the past tense suggesting that
after more than a decade the end has
arrived torrance was a free fast and
powerful metasearch engine combining
results from dozens of search engines
the text reads the site's user has no
longer is no longer available to login
either instead they see the following
message torrents will always love you
farewell torrents itself never hosted
any torrent files but did have a
takedown procedure in place allowing
copyright holders to take down
infringing links now not all right shal
right holders were happy with the site
though both the riaa and the mpaa have
reported the site to US government in
recent years which repeatedly placed it
in the annual out of cycle review of
notorious markets now with torrent EU
and kickasstorrents both shutting down
the torrent community lost two of the
largest sites in a period of three weeks
something tells me the whole
kickasstorrents getting shut down maybe
the reason why torrents die EU is said
I'm out of here I think they're packing
it in I think so i think it's they just
don't want to get caught and not that
they're doing anything wrong than just
providing links but yeah getting caught
up in the attire for a move they've been
really careful you mentioned that that
they have never hosted torrents and in
react when they first launched i
remember that they did oh it was and
then they realize whoa we need to stop
rework this because we don't want to be
breaking the law yeah we would rather
fall into the gray than the black that's
okay so they changed it so and that
happened very very quickly so it's not
inaccurate but yeah they did at one
point yeah actually host torrance but
yeah it's a it is a gray area and it's a
tough thing when you know these great
sites and from our screenshot even I
mean you could download things like
Linux distribution what's exactly and
that's what I use towards for a lot of
the times is is getting some of that
kind of stuff
so it's sad to see that Torrance is gone
I love all the time I would love so much
to have category 5 season-by-season
available as torrents that would be
wouldn't that be nice what would you
think of that would you like that that
would be amazing i'd be cool i'll be a
massive file be a lot of files all in
one each magnet lang where's a mirror
like 52 episodes that are at least an
hour each those are the math Jeff how
much would that take on your hard drive
well how big is the average video file
the average show these days now if you
were watching in 1080p HD yep let's see
if I can find a calculator on this here
blackberry z10 ah disable the block the
calendar it's just such a mess ah i
think we're probably falling about
thirteen hundred megabytes 1.3 gigabytes
times yeah x 51 so you'd be looking at
66 300 / 1024 64 gigabytes almost sixty
five gigabytes per season x 9 so yeah x
9 sees well the early seasons weren't in
1080p but yeah you'd be looking at 500
gigs anyway 500 gigs half a terabyte of
tech goodness you should see our file
storage online like because we're hosted
on s3 so we host the HD 1080p the HD 720
the SD 580 the SD 360 the LD and the mp3
all on the same hosting package that is
one big so you think you need a lot of
space for your backup wow yeah all right
credit card companies for the most part
have moved away from swipe and signature
credit cards to chip and pin cards but
by this point the technology is supposed
to provide consumers with an added layer
of security and it's beginning to show
somewhere according to
researchers near vault men in Patrick
Watson researchers for NRC corporation
staged a series of malicious
transactions in a talk at black hat last
week demonstrating that they could
capture track to data and bypass
chip-and-pin protections now the
standards intent is to prevent the
duplication of cards and crack down on
stolen card usage but it doesn't present
prevent that card data from being used
or modified elsewhere in their first
demonstration the dual used a raspberry
pi to capture track to data packets in
real time via a passive
man-in-the-middle compromise they picked
up to interactions from donna entered
into a PIN pad running flawed production
software that's currently in use at at
least one unspecified vendor now while
the researchers claimed that they had
spoken with the vendor and ask them to
implement TLS connections they were told
that it couldn't be done as they ran old
hardware oh the two also showed how Chip
and PIN cards cards aren't immune to
hacks the garbled data can be
transformed into readable bits and Adam
attackers could compromise a PIN pad by
injecting a form and quickly change it
back to a customized welcome message
volkman warns therefore that consumers
should never re-enter their pin as it's
a telltale giveaway that a PIN pad may
have been compromised and how many times
have you used your PIN and you had to
re-enter it because you've hit the wrong
button well that's my fault so I know
right right so but if you enter your PIN
and then it immediately goes back and
resets to the enter your PIN prompt dots
okay that's what the talking about
because I I mean the amount of like one
is a phishing scam and then the next one
is the real one right and see nothing is
safe nothing nothing is safe we're all
doomed so I mean it's harder to
duplicate the cards but I mean if you
can use a Raspberry Pi to take all that
information you can use a Raspberry Pi
for anything pretty true you want to be
a hacker go to cat five dot TV / pie you
will instantly
be a hacker oh good time and thanks well
I wonder how that's going to apply with
uh you know like the top the tap yeah
cuz you know oh the tap chip thing yeah
yeah wonder if the same vulnerabilities
apply with the tap because it's the
machine itself you don't need pin codes
for that so I wonder if there's a vanar
ability there hmm can never know you
never know folks until the next news
story Oh or not thousands of seismic
sensors monitoring geological activity
are vulnerable to cyber attack the poor
security controls around the way the
sensors transmit data were detailed in a
presentation at DEFCON hacker convention
researchers found ways to fool and
overload sensors so that monitoring
systems would get widely inaccurate
readings now the findings have been
reported to the US computer emergency
organization that oversees the national
infrastructure and Burton bonala is a
security expert based in Costa Rica who
with colleague James Jarrah carried out
the research mr. bonala said that the
network of sensors came to light during
a different project that tried to find
and map smart devices connected to the
net to create a search engine for the
internet of things i love the Internet
of Things the diocese stood out because
of the distinctive fingerprints of data
that surrendered to scanning software
and because of their location now he
said these devices are located in
extreme environments like the middle of
the ocean and around active volcanoes
closer scrutiny revealed that it was
easy to connect to the sensors each of
which costs three are thirty thousand
dollars and see and see the data that
they were gathering and transmitting
tracing links to central servers that
collect the data revealed a series of
flaws including common default passwords
that could be exploited by attackers to
take control of the network they were
even able to establish a root shell the
highest level of privilege on the system
mr. bonella said that the risks were
associated with the network and sensors
were too low but the easy access might
be of interest to particular types of
hacked
he detailed that these devices measure
natural disasters abusing them could
lead to financial sabotage for a
specific company or country nano metrics
the company that makes the sensor system
that was probed disputed the researchers
finding saying we have always
recommended to our customers that they
changed the factory default passwords
and when using the systems on real-time
communication networks they limit access
to known IP addresses and use VPN
software Wow if there's one thing I have
learnt that when you tell people to do
something chances are they're not going
to do it you'd like to think the
government employees follow they rtfm
they do what it says in the manual you
fixing when you install a router in your
is this happens with Internet service
providers thinking about home users yes
you get a new modem from your isp what
do you do you plug it in you turn it on
you've got internet yes yep it has
default passwords other folks out there
on the internet can connect to it and
access your stuff yes so that's a home
user and it is true and it happens that
is not a conspiracy theory that is truth
change your bloomin passwords I've done
it I've I've moved into areas see all
these unsecured Wi-Fi from all the
houses oh sure and I'm like oh really oh
but I like my I share it with my
neighbor right spool okay so you pull up
so I pull up their Wi-Fi I now have a
hacker no I'm just snooping average
average am I have access to all their
files but then on top of that i decide
to type in their default router yeah
password for the admin access usually
admin password that's your in google it
you can go to the login form and it'll
say wrt54g right google default password
wrt54g admin password okay let's try it
yeah and I'm in and I've got it I'm like
oh look I have access to your router so
I could lock you out this
sure ah but a smart hacker or prying
person would not lock out the user but
instead would install sniffing software
to be able to gain their credit card
information hop sword and copy all their
personal files onto a hard drive or
whatever all of this is just home
networks not to mention we're talking
about seismic reading technology and
they didn't rtfm and they didn't change
the password so the news comes out and
we we purposefully ended the story with
the truth yes the news comes out that
these things are all susceptible to
hackers they're all easily exploited
because they're all a bunch of routers
with admin password yep well it's not
the devices per se but the people who
installed the devices didn't read the
manual yep didn't do what they were told
which is do not deploy these with the
default password that's there so that
you can connect to it set it up add your
own secure password strong password set
it up behind a tunnel so that it's eight
its SSL encrypted make sure your keys
are up-to-date see aunt follow it's got
a following a user come on and and the
one part the new story that talked about
you know this could be particularly
interesting for attacks or profit-making
like I think of things like you know the
the San Andreas Fault like imagine if
those sensors were hacked somebody
didn't change the password and somebody
decided I'm just gonna have a little bit
of fun and set those suckers off to say
sure is a you know 10 on the Richter
scale earthquake yeah and then all of a
sudden emergency services are deployed
government funds are being sunk into
something that doesn't exist so there's
that end of it yeah you could have
bankruptcies happening from that and
then something real happens and guess
what now we've we've got all our
resources over here well maybe that's
the plan or it's like a diversion tactic
agents are fit over here and now we
attack on the east coast everything's
hunky-dory on the east coast tell the no
seismic activity over there but my you
know
a money be damned I mean it's yeah it's
virtual it doesn't even exist but truth
is what happens if it was used to to
hurt human life you know that's a very
real tech tech is a wonderful thing but
we really do mess it up as a human race
some of us do but then again sometimes
we can use it to save lives sure just
like IBM the IBM's Watson has done
everything from winning a jeopardy which
was so fun to watch to cooking exotic
meals I would be interested to try those
meals but it appears to have
accomplished its greatest feat yet
saving a life university of tokyo
doctor's report that the artificial
intelligence diagnosed a 60 year old
woman's rare form of leukemia that had
been incorrectly identified months
earlier the analytical machine took just
10 minutes to compare the patient's
genetic changes with a database of 20
million cancer research papers
delivering an accurate diagnosis and
leading to proper treatment that had
proven elusive now Watson has also
identified another rare form of leukemia
in another patient the University says
it's likely to take it's likely to take
a long while before Watson and other
other AI systems are regularly providing
advice at hospitals but we can't imagine
a future where human doctors won't have
to spend ages sifting through research
to identify an obscure disease they just
plug in the right data and start the
healing process I think of the news
month and a half ago that came out about
the the robot pepper pepper yeah imagine
it's like putting Watson into pepper
sure now you no longer have a hospital
greeting robot you now have a diagnosing
like you walk in and you go pepper I
feel horrible tell me how you feel well
here's what's changed in my health my
goodness you have leukemia we would like
you to go to bay want you deduce that
from me saying hi look if you want if
you listen to stuff you should know they
talked about triage
how that works and everything so it
makes me think about you know maybe a
triage robot would be of interest and
you think oh well Watson is this massive
supercomputer artificial intelligence
they can't put that into pepper hold on
internet of things that's right okay
cloud so it's not about training
teaching downloading all the information
into pepper but rather connecting pepper
to a Watson supercomputer back-end think
about Amazon echo yes it's not all in
echo no echos just a simple little
device watch that Luke sorry but it's
connected to the Amazon Cloud Servers
and that then feeds echo with all the
information Luke sorry can you sit up
buddy you're kicking the camera dude
look sorry folks is camera off no the
camera is on boo don't worry it's all
that kind of shell all right yeah it's
my thought anyways you know and it's
interesting thinking of movies like big
hero 6 with BAE oh yeah yeah yeah like
sure why couldn't that eventually not to
that end but why couldn't that idea
shake place everybody as my daughter
calls him the squishy everybody just
needs go squishy is no Catalan just want
to cuddle oh my god last week Microsoft
is issued the windows 10 anniversary
update which includes changes to the
manner in which security status is
presented to home users the change does
not affect enterprise users now on the
home versions Windows Defender now
displays a user's protection status as
off if any non microsoft antivirus
protection including ESET is in use
additionally Windows 10 a defender
advises the user to remove their non
microsoft antivirus protection now in a
statement to ESET partners ESET has
recommended against the removal of ESET
security products this goes for other
anti-malware products as well ESET will
not issue a proactive market facing
statement at the time but recommends
disabling Windows Defender product and
notifications
and they've whip together a page for
Windows 10 users affected with the
warning outlining why users should not
uninstall their anti-malware product on
the page users are presented with the
following warning despite what Windows
Defender might suggest ESET is still
protecting you and removing it and
removing it will make you more secure
will not will not make a secure sorry
get that one right address to hear more
a dream or visit cat5 TV / ESET big
thanks this week to roy ww nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you'd like to send email it to newsroom
at category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight Leduc spies visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV the category 5 TV news
room I'm Jeff Weston
you
