hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
the fear of man part2 specifically
looking at Book of Daniel Shadrach
Meshach and Abednego and Daniel himself
you
alright welcome back thanks again for
joining us this week on you every day
maybe you're catching us on our website
new everyday talk TV or on the YouTube
or maybe on stitcher so we just welcome
you thanks for tuning in and we're so
glad to be doing this mm-hmm um we were
talking earlier about how after we do
the show I just feel encouraged you know
when we're doing is it's good to hear
yourself talk about God yes um just as
an aside where we talk about Daniel I
was listening to a sermon this week
about sharing Christ and how we need to
look in the mirror and actually share
Christ with ourselves that's very
interesting I know like hear yourself
say the gospel because it's for YouTube
so dry it may be say tune in um check us
out on Facebook and maybe you can like
write us a little message if you try to
share the gospel in the mirror telling
yourself the truths about who you are in
Christ and all right why we can trust
God anyways something cool maybe a
little challenge I might try it myself
yes any using Jen what are we talking
about today well last week we started
talking about the fear of man and just
be shared some personal stories about
where we have come under peer pressure
yeah and and gone in that direction we
also talked about King Saul and how he
actually ended up losing the kingdom
because he fell under the pressure of
what other people wanted him to do so we
had talked to me thought you know what
there are some really cool stories in
Scripture though like places where God
moved in amazing ways when people chose
to do what God asked them to do they did
not pray and not be afraid they did not
fall under peer pressure and so the Book
of Daniel is full of those stories
because the background to Daniel is
Israel had been disobedience ok so then
God actually called King Nebuchadnezzar
to come in clean out Judah and drew
alone and basically they would take
people captive now specifically
Nebuchadnezzar said look for um well
it's like look for and I just want to
say specifically he want smart guides
smart guys to bring some of the men of
Judah this is daniel 13 bring some of
the men of judah into his palace he
wanted them to be from important
families including the family of the
king he only wanted young Israelite mad
men who had nothing wrong with them they
were to be handsome and educated capable
of learning and understanding and able
to serve in his palace and then there to
be taught the ways of Babylon and so for
young Jewish men were brought into the
palace now you would know them as well
depending on what generation you grew up
with you might know them as rack shack
and Benny and Daniel you might know them
as Shadrach Meshach Abednego and Daniel
but their Jewish names were specifically
Hananiah Mishael and Azariah and Daniel
now Daniels name did change but whenever
the writer is refers Daniel he never
refers to him as the name changed mmm he
always refers to him as Daniel so what's
interesting is that in chapter one they
are confronted first off with unclean
food oh he's explained unclean food
chain it wasn't kosher hahaha anyways it
was food coming from the Kings table
yeah in it and the king was feeding the
wise guys this food um that was not
appropriate to the diet that God had set
up for the Jewish people right pretty
much or it could have been offered to
idols okay but both work so daniel said
I'm not eating that you can go ahead and
give me water and vegetables yes and
test us in this and see how we look
after 10 days well after 10 days him and
his friends who chose to not give in to
the pressure of food or from the upper
echelons of the palace saying you need
to eat this is you're going to offend
the king they didn't give in to that and
they ate vegetables and water and after
10 days they were more healthy looking
then and stronger than the other wise
guys yes who were taken yes and what's
interesting about that passage is it
said that God made the chief officer
want to be kind and merciful to Daniel
so it's like because Daniel and three
guys wanted to honor God as a result God
worked in the heart of the chief officer
to show them favor because he could have
just like been like whatever you're
eating this but God moved because the
heart of Shadrach Meshach and Abednego
and Daniel were to honor God first right
it did not matter that they were not in
their homeland it did not matter that
the family was not around to eat and
support them or to check up on the
moon's how often does that happen Oh
since mom is here yeah yeah I guess I'll
do that instead right but they didn't
even have family and friends around they
just had each other to actually be
spurring them on yeah but they didn't do
it that way either they decide well
because Daniels here I'm going to do
this they chose they chose to honor the
Lord by keeping themselves up pure by
not eating the unclean food yeah we did
mention a couple of episodes ago about
eat what is that before you yes so
what's the difference there New
Testament Old Testament yeah God said
that you know we don't have to call in
the end and clean anymore we can we can
eat it and just give thanks to him but
in the Old Testament things were offered
to idols and anyway they were told they
shouldn't eat some things right yeah
because that was part of their Jewish
culture like people called up God do not
eat these things I was just part of the
walk so
being good Jewish boys and they
desperately wanted to follow God they
said okay we will not eat those things
or and that's why what you said well you
know he were to eat whatever is set
before us because Peter really struggled
with that like this he was Jewish was
given a vision right just you know that
blanket coming down from heaven with all
of the different types of food in it and
it was hungry he was waiting for the
meal to come and the bit in the vision
it's a take get up taking eat and he's
like oh no no no I have never I haven't
eaten those animals to their unclean
yeah and that's in the book of Acts
where um he was going to be asked to go
to a non-jewish home and share the
gospel with N and you share a meal on
the end of baptizing people yeah I um so
God's preparing him to say that you know
there's no Queen and then clean yeah
because Jesus has already washed yeah
people soon yeah and so Old Testament it
really the four Jewish peach people
their culture was so important because
really that's all they had left their
land was gone the temple was gone so all
they had left actually was the law that
was in their heart right and that is you
know in the old testament hide my words
in your heart that you would not sit
against me well it was about the law
before Christ it was with the lawn
obeying the law yes but everyone fell
short and Jesus came to abolish the law
to fulfill it that he became the
ultimate sacrifice for us yes so here
are these yeah work guys and as a result
they were blessed and honored because
they chose to put God first even though
he could have died like the chief
priests or the chief officer could have
been like too bad for you out you go
you're done right but God moved God
moved and so that does take us over to
the next passage in Daniel 3 so if
you're a VeggieTales fan this would be
the bunny
and where there's a giant chocolate
bunny and they're called to bow down and
worship the bunny the bunny song is how
all my employees will show just how much
they love the bunny how nothing is more
important than the bunny but but in this
story yes King Nebuchadnezzar um set up
a golden statue and asked everyone in
the land yes well told them that when
they heard the sound of the musicians
playing they had to bow down to the
statue as if it were a god yes and
anyone who did it would be thrown into a
furnace and they would be killed so he
was exercising his power and authority
over the people but Shadrach Meshach and
Abednego they knew that they could not
bow down to any other God but the Lord
Himself so when the musicians started
playing they refused to bow down anyways
they got in trouble they got called in
to the king he gave them another
opportunity and they said dun dun dun
chapter 3 of Daniel verse 16 Shadrach
Meshach and Abednego answered and said
to the king Oh Nebuchadnezzar we have no
need to answer you in this matter if
that is the case as if you know if
you're gonna throw us into the furnace
our God whom we serve is able to deliver
us from the burning fiery furnace and he
will deliver us from your hand O king
but if not let it be known to you okay
that we do not serve your gods normal we
worship the gold image which you have
set up then Nebuchadnezzar was full of
fury an expression on his face changed
towards Shadrach Meshach and Abednego he
spoke and commanded that they heat the
furnace seven times more than it was
usually heated and I think that's
significant but as times trials aren't
going to get easier they're gonna get
hotter virally they're going to get
hotter he heated it up so hot that the
strong man that he told to bind up
Shadrach Meshach and Abednego and three
element they died yeah before they even
got to the first view it was so hot um
but what's amazing and I'm sure that you
know the story but for those who don't
then these men were bound in there
their trousers their turbans and other
garments they were cast into the midst
of burning fiery furnace therefore
because the king's command was urgent in
the furnace exceeded in the first
exceedingly hot the flame of fire killed
those men who took up Shadrach Meshach
and Abednego and these three men
Shadrach Meshach and Abednego fell down
bound into the midst of the fat burning
fiery furnace then King Nebuchadnezzar
was astonished as heroes in haste and
spoke saying to his counselors did we
not cast three men bound midst the fire
they answered and said to became true ok
look he answered I see four men lose
walking in the midst of the fire and
they are not hurt and the form of the
fourth is like the Son of God anyway he
tells them to open up the furnace and
they come out and they didn't even smell
of smoke and it's like once again they
chose not to back it would have been so
easy to bath well ok so I've had people
tell me people who are Christian say
well Carrie if we have to be culturally
relevant we have to be you know in tune
with the culture and you know sometimes
that means you know going along with
some things because we rather be in tune
with what's going on so we have
opportunity there to witness yeah but
sometimes that can look like so
compromises I know I've done that in my
own life oh we carry and I went with a
bunch of young adults and we went to
watch The Avengers and which is totally
a big movie that's in right now and
we're watching it and we're listening to
all of these scriptures that I be taking
out of context and then um one of the
character starts describing who he is I
am this and I am this and I and then
he's like I am and at that moment Carrie
and I are like he just he just called
himself God's name Yahweh which means I
am Who I am and it was subtle but it was
in comfort
it was very uncomfortable but what's
interesting is the number of Christians
that I have said that to have come back
to me and said I didn't even hear it in
there which actually hurt more because
I'm thinking why don't you slide like
you said what are we sliding into that
we don't even notice yeah these things
that are subtle hits against the Lord
and actually they weren't even that
subtle in some of the the quotes and
yeah and I understand what people say
that okay to be culturally relevant you
have to be able to relate to other
people and yeah you're we need to be
comfortable with people as we are and I
look at Jesus like we talked about a
couple episodes ago he hung out with
whoever and and it was cool yeah it was
fine and yet he also you know when he
walked into the temple he cleared up the
money changers and he was yes like a
holy anger towards things that were
wrong you have turned my tap might the
house of God or a house my father into a
den of robbers it should be a place of
prayer and like you said cleared them
out yeah and yet was so willing to have
dinner with someone who was sinful on
hers and so we see that that character
of Christ and I think that we need to
emulate that yeah you know stand up for
what is right but be so willing and
loving to be with other people i'm so
thankful for the people in my life who
have done that back to me and we need to
be asking the Lord how culturally
relevant do you want me to be like
there's a passage in Ephesians so we're
not even to look at the things that evil
people do it's shameful to mention it is
shameful to mention it and yet yeah it's
challenging because what is the balance
between being culturally relevant and
yet disobeying God
and and falling into that trap up oh
it's okay it's just TV or its okay its
no purchase it's just a game for one
night or whatever yeah um and Jesus says
if you love me or obey me yeah yeah and
that's what these three guys did they
like either bow or burn yeah like those
are the options and they owe said no to
the bowing and yes to the burning and I
love the fact that said even if he
doesn't save us we will still serve Him
because they understood that maybe God
had a greater purpose that who are they
to decide God were were obeying you so
you have to save us because there's lots
of people in this world that obey God
and yet he doesn't intervene in a way
that we would perceive as being saved
and so they are willing to lay it on the
line if you save us yay if you don't say
it save us yay and Daniel does the same
thing in Chapter six where um and the
only way I can describe it is the the
other leaders of the land were jealous
of Daniel so they went to King Darius
said you know um and only the song that
comes to mind from VeggieTales we have
some news good content areas we feel
your position is precarious there are
people here in Babylon who won't give
you your due we've got some news good
King Darius we feel your position is
precarious there are some people here in
Babylon who want to give you their do
instead of and they so they're like so
in order that people will you know honor
you you should get them to pray just to
you because they knew the only way that
they could come against Daniel was it
had to do with his God was if it had to
do with his God so King Darius and I
don't know what was going through his
mind at the time said oh yes passed the
law that only people can you know pray
to me for the next 30 days
if they don't put him in the line at
them yes and so McDaniel heard the law
what did he do he went upstairs to his
room he opened the window great read but
I liked what it said about that because
um ok it says now when Daniel knew that
the writing was signed he went home this
is verse 10 chapter 6 verse 10 and in
his upper room with his windows open
toward Jerusalem he knelt down on his
knees three times that day yeah and pray
and gave thanks before his God as was
his custom since early days and what's
cool with that I like that it says as
was his custom since early days he had
already been doing that he had already
been meeting with God in a secret place
yeah I'm getting to know God and His
faithfulness that he's going to take
care of on ya before the trial came and
then what does your verse 11 say then
these men assembled and found Daniel
praying and making supplication before
his God yeah so this asking God for help
it wasn't like oh I can't pray it was
like I'm gonna pray and ask God for help
and because he had seen it right he'd
see that he had watched how he had
intervened with the chief officer and
their food he was probably aware of the
idol with Shadrach Meshach and Abednego
we're told that that was on the plains
of Dura cuz I'm people watch when where
was Daniel well Daniel was in the palace
right so he wasn't actually anywhere
near her yes interesting okay and so
here so he probably heard about it and
so here he seemed he has watched God
intervene and here he is again but okay
food I'm not gonna not gonna eat the
food and his friends didn't bow down and
here he was he's like I'm not going to
stop having a relationship with Jesus
because it's gonna cost me something
yeah yeah I remember reading some
stories in foxes Book of Martyrs um it's
a good book to check out if you want to
be inspired and challenged another good
one is um the hiding place by corrie ten
boom yes boom boom but it looks like
boom
amazing story of people who knew
something was happening in the culture
that was wrong and they stood up for ya
God said was right and so these men come
in catch Daniel praying and they throw
them in a line in the lines and King
Darius is totally upset like hi Daniel
right and it says that he did not
receive any entertainment that night hmm
and went early the next morning and
called out to Daniel and said in verse
19 the next morning King Darius got up
at dawn and hurried to the lines n as he
came here then he was worried he called
out to Daniel Daniel sermon of the
Living God has your God that you always
worship been able to save you from the
Lions and Daniel answered Oh King live
forever my God sent His angels to close
the mat lion's mouth they have not hurt
me because my god knows i am innocent i
never did anything wrong to you okay and
it's like daniel did not rise up to
fight his battle he called on God and
that burst that verse 11 he made
supplications to the Lord he asked God
for help and chose to believe that God
would help him in however he chose to
finish his story and so in this case
he's like God knew I was innocent so he
sent an angel to close the mouths of the
lion and it's like instead of coming
under that pressure to you know oh I'm
sure I can stop praying for 13 days
since I like God's gonna be there he's
going to undo that I care about him yes
but is that because of a fear of man I'm
afraid of what they're going to say I'm
afraid of what is going to happen to me
if I choose to follow God in this way
yeah and it is a struggle especially
more and more refining in our culture
that Christianity is no longer welcome
no and we are going to have to make
choices that are not warm and fuzzy that
are actually going to get us on our
knees saying god I need your help I want
to live for you and especially at a
conference and the teacher was telling a
story about
a young man who had come from Algiers
who had given his heart to the Lord now
in Algiers they are Muslim faced country
and um and he knew that if he went home
he would be beheaded because uh well no
that's not let me back a little bit he
knew that if you when he was baptized
because that is the outward sign that
you were a believer so he had become a
Christian after coming here going to
school became a Christian and was
baptized and he's like if I go you know
if I go home then I could I could be
killed for this and so he actually felt
called to go uh-huh and the friends here
said no don't go don't go don't go and
he's like no like I feel like God is
calling me back there and I'm sure he
felt you know God saying go and tell
your people about who i am and it turns
out like they had heard back within
about two years that he had actually
been killed whoa but that was a choice
that he made like God is not calling us
to make the easy choice and not every
choice is like that no no but it is in
the slippery slope choices though i'll
just do this little thing yeah oh yeah
yeah you know what i'll just share a
really quick story and when you when you
look at the cross God is worth us yes
living for him and he's more than able
to equip us to do it when I was in high
school a friend gave me a gift and it
was actually it came with a story and
the story was about this young woman who
was feeling discouraged and tired of
choosing the right path and tired of
whatever always being with making a good
choice and the wise choice and this
friend went over to another friends
house and while she was in her house the
fried the host said if you came over to
my house and I offered you a drink of
water and I offered it to you in this
plastic cup that was all dirty and and
racked and used or I offered it to you
in this china teacup which would you
prefer
and the friend said well if all you had
was the dirty plastic up I would accept
it but I would much prefer that the
China cop and in this story it said you
know Kerry we need to choose to be let
the china cup set apart for Christ file
says touch no unclean thing and I'll
accept you but does love and acceptance
because of what Christ has done and we
need to choose to live our life as that
China Catholic set apart for him yes
because he's worth it yes awesome he's
paid the price he loves us yeah and so
it's it's worth it to ya he said apart
for him and say yes to the things of God
say no to the things of this world yeah
and there's so many other cultures where
people are being persecuted all over the
world if you want to check out
persecution net that's also a great
resource to be encouraged by other
Christians and also opportunities to
pray for people who are standing up for
what's right and not giving into peer
pressure maybe we can just pray no gin
for some of those people and for each
other all right father thank you so much
for the sacrifice that you gave through
Jesus on the cross and you are worthy
mm-hmm help us to live for you help us
to obey you help us to believe you and
know your character so that when we're
faced with the things of day-to-day life
well we're asked to give in to peer
pressure and to do things that don't
honor you help us to say no yes thank
you that you have given us your holy
spirit that we can ask you to come and
live within us to equip us to live for
you thank you for that I pray for our
viewers maybe who are experiencing
persecution right now that they would be
encouraged or and help them to have
kingdom glasses on and to realize that
that this life is temporary because it's
seen but what is unseen is eternal we're
living for you God thank you thank you
for all that you've done
we just love you and praise you in Jesus
name Amen amen do you want to say thank
you to eco alkalines for power powering
our our mics and camera camera and i'm
just reminded though that eventually
batteries didn't die but because jesus
is supernatural he lives in us when we
invite him into our hearts and he he
powers us David day by day yep amen so
true all right have a great week we'll
see you back here next week I new every
day
