tonight as a web developer myself I mean
you look at category five dot TV and
that's you know my baby that's something
that I put together the infrastructure
the backend how it works but as the
developer I can sometimes miss out on
things like bugs right I don't see it
the way that the end user sees it I see
a lot of code
I might miss out on the fact that maybe
it's hard to find the local show times
because we've got the local show times
tucked away down in the footer maybe I
need to learn that hey I could move that
up to the top somewhere and then people
would be able to find the show times in
their region a lot simpler now one of
the ways that we can do this of course
is a focus group you get a bunch of
people together you get them to go on
your website and you observe them as
they go about doing all the things on
your website and see how the experience
is for them it's a real eye-opener so
that you can see you know what is this
website like for my users hmm but that
can be expensive and it can be hard to
get people together and who has the time
and so on and so forth and this is a
focus group drastically these are not
your real diehard users right though
there are analytics you can use like
Google Analytics and that service allows
you to kind of see a breakdown of how
look from you know what did they click
on what did they do while they're on
your website but you need to be able to
generate reports and figure it out would
it be nice if you could put a camera
over the shoulder of every single person
who goes to your website and see what
they go through right what they click on
see if they get frustrated or doesn't
start rage clicking because they can't
bind what's going on and I can't figure
out why the button doesn't work wouldn't
that be nice
cool is there a way there is a way does
we're not going to be all creepy and put
a camera there that's not how this works
but we're going to look at a service
tonight that starts out as a free
service and what I mean by that is if
you've got a blog if you've got a
website that doesn't have an
astronomical amount of traffic you're
going to be able to use the free service
absolutely fine now if you're a bigger
site say a news site that gets millions
of hits well then you're going to want
invest in paying for their commercial
services that's cool
now they do offer a free trial of the
professional service but we're going to
be looking at the free surface tonight
just to show you what this can do for
you the product that we're looking at is
full story comm so let's bring that up
on my computer here welcome to full
story calm now this is going to tell you
a little bit about it you know is this
all just fancy fancy and they've put
together a video and who knows how real
this really is but let's actually sign
up for an account so you can go through
these steps of now look at the pricing
and everything like that
there's the professional account which
includes all these kinds of features and
there's 200 bucks a month but lo and
behold there's a free service and the
free service includes all these features
now I do encourage you to support any of
the services that you use and love us
but I understand too that you may have a
smaller website or you may just want
some insight into you know the next 10
days of what people are going to be
doing on your website because you just
developed a new website what's it like
for the new user what a great idea to
roll out your new website add full story
to the header and then you've got a
chance to actually have that focus group
with your real life users so this is
just kind of an introduction to the
features and it shows you what this
service is not going to have so the free
service is lacking click maps which show
you basically where people click in a
map format so think of a heat map where
you can see that's interest they click
on that so much that it's red alright so
that's a little bit different it is not
going to show you
geoip and all that kind stuff domain IP
error clicks which would be like I guess
a 404 or things that oh no this is stuff
that produces in a JavaScript error so
this is so it looks like the free
version is more to just kind of see
what's going on on your website yeah but
not necessarily analyze the code because
that's another thing this can be used
for are there bugs on my website that
I'm not seeing we have a website with
thousands of pages because you've got so
much video there well I don't know if
something from season 2 is you know when
you click on it it crashes out your
browser unless someone tells me that I'm
not going to realize it
so full story is going to help me with
that so we know about the pricing and we
know that there is a free version
available so up here we can just enter
our email address and by doing that it's
going to pop us a quick email that
allows us to activate our trial account
now the trial account again is like a
trial version of the professional
edition of full story but when it runs
out they're going to need you to start
paying for it that's the $200 a month so
during that trial version if you're
interested in you know if you're looking
for the professional version sure go
ahead and do it but if you're just
looking for the free version you can
actually downgrade to the free version
during the trial
with no fear of having to pay and you're
not going to have to enter a credit card
or anything so just for the sake of
demonstration I've kind of expedited
things by signing up and when I clicked
on the authentication email it actually
took me to this form that allows me to
log in with my Google account I'm like
hey that's easy enough so I just click
on it and say okay well let's login and
boom I am into full story so welcome to
full story folks now you'll notice that
first of all I've already added the
header code to my website so I could
start to track what's going on on our
website I'm going to show you how to do
that
when you first log in this panel is
going to be absolutely empty so you
click on settings and there is your
recording snippet so this allows you to
basically put that camera over the
shoulder of your your site visitors to
copy this code and simply throw it into
the header of your website so if you go
to category 5 TV and then I'll do a
control you to see the header and I
should see something here for full story
see that full story com now I'm using
rocket script so it condenses and minify
so it looks a little bit different than
the copy and paste but that is the
actual code that I've pasted into the
header for the sake of this
demonstration and just so that we can
see how full story works so now if you
go to category 5 TV and you start
looking around I'll give you an example
I installed this this week and I had not
yet added category 5 episode 502 to the
website so full story allowed me to see
that a user had discovered that the top
right module
here that says technology TV episode 503
live right now normally there's a
countdown there now it said five two was
going to be live tonight
well 502 already happened that night but
because I hadn't uploaded it yet my
website thought 502 hadn't happened yet
okay so then I realized oh there's a bug
there I need to accommodate the fact
that okay the show has happened we have
not yet uploaded it it still thinks that
502 is to come so that was a bug that I
discovered thanks to full story I would
never have seen that yeah so so that's
kind of one of the advantages to it as
well it's interesting to me to to find
out that your eyes are somehow
associated and connected to your mouth
that you've never realized this but when
you start watching full story you
realize people actually move their mouse
to the things that they're reading to
the things really it's really
interesting Wow try to catch yourself
see if mucker when you're reading news
stories where is your mouse cursor I
don't think you move it off to the side
and put your hands behind your back it's
actually it's a fact I see it and maybe
we'll get a get to glean some of that
tonight as we look at full story calm
but people do tend to point of stuff so
that was brought that bug was brought to
my attention as the user in fact placed
their mouse cursor over the episode
number over here on the right hand side
and kind of moved their mouse around in
such a way that I realized they were
frustrated with something or couldn't
figure something out
and they started scrolling up and down
you could tell they were looking for
yeah so 502 huh really cool stuff so
let's get a look at what it looks like
from the administrators perspective so
we're not spying on any private
information here this is literally just
this is the information of what are they
seeing in their web browser so that said
if you have a login system or anything
that displays private information
confidential information please be
mindful of that when you install this
plug-in you can actually block full
story from seeing some content you can
block it from recording certain content
and that's important as you set this up
if you have a site that has that kind of
private information now our website the
advantage to us is that we do not
collect or show any private information
on the screen plus
anything that is shown on the screen is
something that I'm going to know anyways
for example if somebody were to send in
a viewer question they might go to the
contact us form and yes they will enter
their email address but I'm the one who
receives that email I'm also the one
who's going to see the full story output
so there's nothing there that is private
that I am not already ready to write
that one private thing is not something
that I really need to be concerned with
but I could block it if I wanted full
story not to have access to that data
okay so this is what it looks like now
that the now that it's plugged in now
you'll see that Toronto has connected in
here on the right-hand side that might
be me because we're on LTE so there's
somebody in London Barry someone in
Vancouver someone in Chicago and someone
in Los Angeles on the website so if I
click play on this and notice it's just
user 483 doesn't give me any real
information that's identifying it's just
the ability to sort of see what's going
on shows me where they're located and
let's see what it shows us like now is a
really good time for everybody to get on
the website yeah go ahead yeah around
ban the website now you notice how right
now they're just kind of sitting there
on that page hmm so I can click on skip
inactivity because it's orange down
there and so that tells me that there
are some inactivity going on
I can press skip inactivity that's going
to push right over that now that user
didn't really do much they probably went
to the website and clicked on live right
right okay right because that makes
sense that is what someone might do in
this instance so I'm going to
fast-forward a little bit here go back
in time a little bit too well before the
show let's jump to 504 p.m. when we had
someone from Walsall on the website on a
Windows computer so again nothing
personally identified but this is what
they saw
so there's their mouse that's not mine
see that mouse that just kind of moved
around so they're going through the menu
I can see they are going to shop with
our partners okay and came Sam thank you
as awesome and now see their mouse
they're looking at Amazon I guarantee it
see I'll see you for now they're looking
at eBay he held them it's so interesting
it's almost like and now they've clicked
on Amazon co uk so if that was you
thank you huh but how cool that oh
they're dry maybe they're dragons some
links up to their to their tool bar work
bar and that's the end of the session so
that's all that was recorded in that
particular session super cool that is
the I moved to Amazon and so did then
the I move to eBay and so did the mouse
so jumping back just a little bit here
let's see what else we can find so yeah
show me more so enjoy it really is and
from a UX standpoint ok so here's
somebody looks like maybe they it's it
doesn't seem I haven't figured out why
sometimes it's just like an instant
maybe it was detected as a bot maybe it
was something that a caller they clicked
on a particular link that took them
straight to the content something like
sometimes I go on the website to just
check the past episodes to see what
shirt I've worn and older you got with
you thank you are out yeah like now
here's somebody looking at the pixel
shadow web site as well and and
uploading a skin so you can add more
than one website so I've added that
header code to more than one website but
we're just focused on category 5 TV
tonight so here's somebody here at about
noon today see their mouse cursor there
so they're reading one of your news
stories there Sasha here are the stories
we're following this week and okay now
they've jumped up to the top what are
they going to do the intent oh you know
what see because YouTube is an embed
iframe that's pardon me it's an iframe
we cannot see that they're actually
watching a youtube video in the middle
there right below the title of the page
so on our web site that's where the
video is displayed but here we don't see
that because YouTube cross-browser cross
domain security policies so we just see
a white square now here's somebody
looking at our statistics viewer
locations for the last 30 days and
they're scrolling up and down currently
viewed videos and so obviously pausing
there to read what the episode is about
see what's going on so you can see the
benefit of this now here on the network
now they've stopped they're on new every
day
there's the aboon - image has kind of
stood out to them our point Linux I
guess it was there Sasha and now boom
clicking on creating screencast
tutorials and Linux with me and Christa
and there they are so now the video is
playing there and they've got their
mouse hovered over the fullscreen button
I would assume because that's about
where it would be and then it skipped
over because we've got it set to skip
inactivity
and they probably watched the video at
that point and here they are looking
again at our statistics so we have to
hope that this is somebody who's
interested in advertising under network
yes so how cool is that it's called full
story comm there is a version that's
absolutely free and that's what we're
evaluating tonight and so a lot of these
do check it out that's ooh Oh
Karin Jenner who happened to be it was
it that recognized that session was that
you and is everything that I'm saying
correct did you notice how your mouse
cursor was going to the right spot and
so what you know what are the chances
here we are there are hundreds of I just
added the code the other day I've got
hundreds of videos to watch he's such a
helpful system not everyone needs this
but if you're a developer if you're
looking to build a better user
experience what a great way to gauge
what the users are actually going
through find those little bugs to find
little quirks about your website and
when you're done observing you can turn
it off and then you can turn it back on
the next time you do a big site overhaul
and it's important to note along that
vein full story will not have a
performance impact on your website how
fantastic is that so check it out it's
full story com if you love it hey give
us a thumbs up and make sure you post
your comments below as well
you
[Music]
[Applause]
