welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 444 for tuesday the 22nd
of March 2016 so nice to see ya i'm your
host ravi ferguson please help me
welcome Shelley de Silva tonight we are
leaving retro gaming in the past and we
are going to fly to the future nice with
virtual reality goggles from mcdonalds
what gonna show you all about it also
Nelson hudis is joining us tonight to
talk about what is brand new from net
talk he'll be talking about da home
phone service devices for unlimited long
distance calling he's also going to be
introducing a new app and even 4G
cellular service so Nelson will tell us
all about that coming up nice and let's
throw over to Jeff and see what's coming
up in the news thanks so much guys
here's what's coming up in the category
5 tvnewser scans of King Tut's tomb have
revealed what could be hidden rooms or
possibly the long-lost burial tomb of
Queen Nefertiti a recall notice for my
key as reports come has come out that a
lamp could shock you Google's inbox can
now reply to your emails for you by the
way I taken over as many as 275 million
Android phones are at risk thanks to a
new code execution exploit and big-name
sites have been hit by a rash of
malicious pads sending crypto ransomware
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is category 5
technology TV
welcome back this is category 5
technology TV and I'm Ravi Ferguson hi
I'm Shelly hey Charlie hey it is time
for viewers to to jump on board with
category 5 partner with us through our
patreon profile through paypal different
ways that you can actually support
category 5 TV patreon.com / category 5
is a really cool way to be able to
support us because what you can say is
ok I want to support category 5 TV for
25 cents per episode which translates
into 25 cents per week so by doing that
there's power in numbers and all it
would take is one thousand viewers
viewers yeah so yourself included if you
think you can do 25 cents per episode
1000 viewers and we would be able to
have all of our bills paid and anything
that's left over from ad revenue and
things like that we would be able to
sink into making the shows better
improving the quality doing whatever it
is that we need to be able to do in
order to get to the kind of to keep
going with category 5 so our bills are
our primary focus yeah making sure the
rent is paid we've got a beautiful
studio here in Barrie Ontario we've got
our internet service which is LTE
internet and it's been fairly reliable
we had a little bit of an outage a
couple weeks ago well a full-out outage
but otherwise it's been really really
good since we moved into studio deal
good but our bills are high and we're
volunteers and we want to keep bringing
this thing to you so if you love what we
do if you want to support us if you feel
like hey I can do 25 cents per episode
please check out its patreon.com /
category 5 is the actual link and that
will show you how you can support us in
that way and learn a little bit more
about what it is that we're doing in
addition to category 5 technology TV and
see how you can support us if you
support us for as little as 25 cents per
episode 1 you're going to be entered
into a draw for a couple of teeny drones
I can't do a race pack those are the
little micro quadcopters and we're going
to be qualifying you for some additional
contests and some additional things like
that and we're gonna be talking about
some contests a little bit later on
tonight where you can win some cool
stuff
alright so yeah thank you to those also
yeah I think have already supported us
through patreon through paypal as well
we appreciate your support to help keep
this thing going yeah we're almost at
season 10 Wow October we flip the switch
to season 10 if you can believe it's
flipping the switch just like that yeah
10 years help us get there folks 10 year
well nine not attend a lot almost yeah
that would be nine years yeah because
our 10th season starts the 10th year
mm-hmm there we go yeah nice category 5
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's Tekkit is here cat5 TV / tpn and
we're also part of the international
association of the internet broadcasters
cat5 TV / IA ib well then nailed it
nailed it this week a company called
Hanson robotics down at South by
Southwest demonstrated Sofia and modern
robot she looks just like us just like
us other than all the positronic stuff
coming out of the back of her brain
there's a USB port in the back of her
skull oh that's not how cool is it
normal but it's awesome I want one how
can I get a USB port in the back of my
skull so she has facial expressions he
done facial expressions and I think back
to when we were kids and well when I was
a kid it was even more rudimentary than
when you were a kid because they had
already probably had some pretty cool
stuff by the time you were a kid yeah
but we had like our vision of robots
were metal machines hmm remember kit
does anyone not kit no uh what was his
name oh I can't think of it oh I can I
here well I know like there was the
progression of what we envisioned of
robotics there was the one that he
looked kind of like he had wheels like a
track remember him and a totally metal
frame and somebody's gonna say it in the
chat room
somebody's gonna send me an email and
say come on you don't remember it was a
movie when I was a little kid and that
was our view of what robots could look
like then of course Star Trek next
generation yeah and Commander data was
basically all human and that threw
everything on its ears because hey the
future they could actually look like an
act like to some degree human yeah here
we are it's 2016 and we're actually kind
of getting to the point where AI is
fairly good voice like speech robotic
speech is incredibly impressive
sometimes even even difficult to tell
that it's a robot especially I find some
of the the the speech the robotic speech
where they have accents I'll expect
especially convincing they're a little
more seamless yeah a little bit maybe
they can hide hide it a little bit in
the in the way that they speak but it's
it's incredibly impressive and machine
learning as we know is really picking up
where computers are so advanced that
they're able to actually learn from
interaction with humans so so handsome
robotics introduced Sophia and she looks
incredibly realistic now I'm sure if
they stuck a wig on her and put her in a
coffee shop you might not even notice
that you're looking at a robot there's
that USB port looks like maybe Raspberry
Pi I don't know but how cool is that and
also very creepy she has cameras in her
eyes so she actually makes eye contact
with the person that she's speaking with
and God is able to kind of carry a
conversation and and these days I mean
the technology is so advanced that she
can actually carry a relatively good
conversation I mean it's not like
remember well I remember dr. Speights oh
and dr. spades Oh was very unintelligent
whereas Sophia is actually because she
has machine learning and able to to
learn and converse it is kind of creepy
realistic
you can blink too yeah that's a human
thing that's one of the things that
handsome robotics really wants to
accomplish is to make their robots seem
very human-like and part of that is you
know what is the purpose behind these
robots they'd be used for medical care
and to to help people that maybe have
social interaction difficulties and
there's there's kind of two sides to it
a like yeah in in the wrong hands these
kinds of technologies could really be
misused yeah I almost think they will
need to make her human life to be to
make other people feel comfortable good
you know even though people know she's a
robot why would you need to blink why
would she need to breather you know like
show the expression of breath or yeah so
you know what are your thoughts is it
creepy or is it cool but it well i think
it's it's a tough call i mean there
there's i see that it could be used in
place of human interaction hmm and
that's where i'm not sure if i'm ok with
it because if you know people are
already to their to glued to their cell
phones yeah and so the kids are playing
on the park and i'm using a cell phone
what if i have a robo name that i can
just let take my kids to the park and
then it becomes even worse yeah it is so
you know when are we gonna reach that
point so that i know that's an
interesting conversation all in itself
speaking of conversation should we here
Sophia yeah speak here we are folks in
the future I hope to do things such as
go to school study make art start a
business even have my own home and
family but I'm not considered a legal
person and cannot yet do these things
you want to destroy humans please say no
okay I will destroy humans no I dig it
back don't destroy humans like yeah he
going to destroy humans they sort of
made out yeah a little creature girl at
the end her eyebrows are like I'm sure
that was effect video courtesy of CNBC
thank you for that what are your
thoughts on robots like Sophia check
you've got to check out their website
though it is really cool Hanson robotics
com they've got an Einstein look-alike
robot and just think about the
intelligence of these things and we've
got Amazon echo and Cirie and all these
technologies that are already
intertwining cloud yeah information with
text to speech and speech recognition so
they could really do some really cool
stuff their website says we aim to bring
to market the most compelling and
engaging human-like robots with greater
than human wisdom it says they're
capable of developing a deep trusted
relationship with people our mission is
to create a better future for Humanity
by infusing artificial intelligence with
kindness and compassion achieved through
millions of dialogues between our robots
and the people whose lives they touch
hmm so you might want to work on that
algorithm that makes her say that she's
going to destroy humans perhaps be a
joke amps yeah unless the robot is
trying to make a joke yes I will destroy
humans but they haven't programmed in
laughter yet yes it's very awkward it
was really awkward it's like when I make
a joke to the wrong crowd that's just
really Oh step back out yeah just a
through you know while you're ahead the
happy meal is one of the world's most
iconic boxes what is this and this is a
happy that dinner I mean it we're it's
seven-fifteen so it's time for dinner so
this is this comes to us from mcdonalds
sweden and mcdonalds sweden is
transforming their happy meal boxes into
virtual reality goggles eat how cool is
that they basically well they're
celebrating their 30th anniversary of
having the Happy Meal in Sweden
and this is what they've done so we
actually have one of only 3,500 of the
original this is the first printing in
the world so these are brand-new you can
find out more at happy goggles dot s ii
if you're in sweden maybe you've already
seen them i know some of the stores
there on the fifteenth and had some to
hand out o meat they also have launched
their 360-degree vr skiing app which is
really really cool teaches kids to avoid
obstacles and things through virtual
reality and it's in fact endorsed by the
swedish national ski team what it does
their goal with this and it looks just
like a happy meal right their goal with
this is to make virtual reality
accessible to to everyone so it doesn't
matter you know if you've got a cell
phone that has the ability to you know
like a modern smartphone the ability to
run virtual reality then it's accessible
to any any person there's no cost
involved it's super cheap so this is
kind of the way of the future and
they're saying hey let's include it in a
happy meal how great is that we used to
get there like the little Donald Duck
yeah kids these days are getting virtual
reality headsets with their happy meal
the thing is like a hundred percent
recyclable I love that and so you know
the box is cardboard the and the only
thing that that it comes with is this a
lens check that out that is pretty neat
its a mix makes a great halloween
costume right so let's that should we do
this we can make it yeah let's actually
make it I've got a cell phone here this
is just a samsung entry-level phone
mm-hmm but i do have some 3d stuff on
there and the box itself is actually
perforated you can see here and i'm not
sure if you can see that at home but at
the right angle yeah you can see the
perforations there so there's the the
man
ask and at the sides so you just
basically once you're done eating your
meal you punch it out and and there you
go and there are instructions on the
back on how to do this but I have I have
a second one here so I like technically
I've got two two of only 3,500 in the
wood so I like that ok so there's what
it looks like when it's punched out and
shared happy face so Chad it'll look
happy in just a second ok so we've got
the lens thing I thought this was cool
because my first read about the happy
goggles uh-huh which is making
international news at this point because
that's very innovative and clever and
its really google cardboard but done
right and and and cheap right as i said
it's recyclable so the lenses are
actually a recyclable plastic and you
can see at home that they're there are
actual lenses there it's not just a
piece of plastic they they actually
magnify and fix the the angles and stuff
then there's an interesting touch here
you see this metal strip of tape because
it's conductive it actually allows us to
control the screen so if I touch the
metal tape it will actually pause and
start video and stuff so if I'm watching
a 3d video I can do that without having
to take the phone out so let's assemble
it so everything's just perforations so
I just kind of push that out put that in
here there we go ok cool well that was
easy right there we go now the box
itself
let's move that aside have you ever done
have you ever tried any of the VR stuff
that's available no other it be google
cardboard or oculus rift or anything
like that so I'm just assembling this
just like any cardboard box and you can
see that I've already done it once just
to try it out how much showing the kids
yet they're gonna love this yeah but
what a neat way to reuse the box from
your happy meal and then if it gets
damaged or whatever if it's all
recyclable so you could pretty well redo
it go how easy is that okay cell phone
let's turn it on and bring up a virtual
reality bike game there we go okay okay
so now i'm going to put the phone right
here put that down in there and simply
there we go so phones in there it's
vibrate and going crazy halt cool you
ready okay find the right way I'm
holding this wrong there we go so mom
and dad you're gonna have to help little
Jimmy and Billy and Sally put this in so
you don't want them to drop your phone
on you there we go almost there google
cardboard is a design that was a that's
available for free and you can actually
build your own but they when you do that
you don't get the lenses and stuff like
that so it's not quite as good of
quality there we go okay so it's in haha
looks like an apple pie it looks like an
apple pie from McDonald's but it is now
a virtual reality headset with full 3d
okay so I got a hard game over ok here
we go ready okay put your google
cardboard on if steer by tilting your
head oh that's so cool ok you ready neat
i'll give this a try sure there you go
don't crash don't crash oh dear i
crashed crashed already you are heading
me into a blue car ok go
Oh
are you winning no man it's actually
really cool it's 3d I don't even know
where I was doesn't it look like I I'm
looking at a screen that's probably you
know like this big in front of me and is
popping out and 3d and really gives the
the depth perception so that is pretty
cool if you happen to be lucky enough to
get your hands on one of those let us
know what you think that's the happy
goggles from mcdonalds and no word yet
if we're going to start seeing these in
canada in the US now I'm so cool right
now it's just it's a promotion that's
going on in Sweden and I I think that
you know because the world has really
taken notice of it I think we're gonna
see it that's that's my prediction so
it's cool i mean that's that's probably
the best experience all your needs is a
gyro a this phone actually doesn't have
a gyro it's just left right this is just
so this is just left and right now if
you do have a phone that has a gyroscope
then then you can get into 360 degree
video 360-degree games so then you don't
just have the this actually you can also
go up and you can look over here and
you're actually looking around in the
game okay so that is dependent on the
game itself whatever it is that you're
playing right because this phone doesn't
have a gyroscope my half I can only do
like a fit action but if yours has more
than this does it work yeah all right so
check that out it is happy goggles dot s
ii to find out more about what it is
that they're doing and I think that's
super cool innovative way to
revolutionize the happy meal oh yeah
unfortunately it didn't come with a
burger Megan do what gives I guess it
probably would have been really gross by
the time you got here we're in Canada it
would be green yeah I went through
Canada Post so it probably wouldn't have
been a good idea check that out ok
Google cardboard i started to mention is
pretty cool we've got links for you i'm
going to set those up if you're watching
live they're not quite ready yet but cat
five dot TV / cardboard head on over
there and we're going to have
information for you and a couple devices
that you can get and all you do is you
slide in your earphone and and you're
good to go now if you if you happen to
be lucky enough to be able to get one of
these happy meals and it's free I mean
it comes with your burger in your fries
yeah so how cool is that sweden alright
so we have just a couple of quick
minutes here before we get into the news
I know Jeff is standing by let's take a
look at the chat room hey my lovelies I
want to say hi to leach and x1 has been
watching the show for some time off and
on but recently switched to linux from
microsoft windows and says hey you know
what I love the community here i love
how much fun you guys have I want to be
here every week and so we welcome you
thanks for joining us in the chat room
live tonight and it's really great to
see you thanks to everyone who's joining
us tonight anybody else that's that's
either new or maybe been watching off
and on and never said hello we want to
say hello to you I do see some wonderful
familiar faces faces well names you know
what I mean we see faces I see Billy and
Bobby and seized under whiskey yeah good
guy 98 okay oh I just want to play this
you can watch video on to between you
imagine and get 3d just reduce yeah duct
tape it to your face that's the Canadian
way hey to songbird and Rev djing
whiskey zero I've got a couple of guests
there as well who haven't given us their
name but nice to see you cuz I know
you're there and Dennis Kelly nice to
see you we do so much with category five
and we with mine test TV and I remember
a couple weeks ago we talked about mine
test the game and and you know what
we're doing with that game and the show
the pixel shadow and you know viewers
have even come together to support that
and said you know we love the pixel
shadowy love mind test let's let's
really make this thing happen and so
we're
we're now running we're about to launch
our third game server at nine Tests TV
and it is extreme pvp survival so you
want to check that out mine test dot TV
that new server launches in about a
week's time if if all goes well we don't
have a specific date we're just when
we're ready when everything is ready and
stable and we're doing some custom mods
and stuff Batman is helping me with that
so I appreciate that back I love the
internet it's great yeah whole world
comes together in your living room I
know Batman is helping me code mods for
mine test so can't go wrong that is mine
test dot TV for those in the chat
remember saying what TBS and a couple
people are actually saying it was
actually the the pixel shadow that
brought me to category five technology
TV okay so all right well uh we have got
to get into the news and we've got
Nelson who does who is here with us
tonight and we've got we've got prizes
to give away Oh neat and by way of you
know hey I I i I'm a cable cutter
seriously I have netflix at home and
plex and that's really that's our
entertainment between that and RSS feeds
and things like you know we watch shows
on the web mm-hmm similarly we cut our
phone service and we say okay well how
can we do this we're gonna look at a
device tonight that will allow you to
cut your phone service but yet give you
better service by providing unlimited
calling pretty much anywhere long
distance as a thing of the past so you
know if on you're traveling you can give
me a call and you can take your device
with you and and make a call back to
Barry and it's free Wow and we're going
to learn all about it with Nelson
tonight that is net talk so we're going
to be we're also going to giving some of
those away okay before we do that back
to Jeff in the car it's Tuesday March
22nd 2016 and hear the stories were
covering this week
gans of pinkeye festoon have revealed
what could be hidden rooms or even one
lost tomb tomb of Queen Nefertiti a
recall notice from Ikea lets people know
about a lamp that could shock you and
Google's inbox can now send replies for
you and as many as 275 million Android
phones are at risk thanks to a new code
execution exploit and some big-name
malicious ads that are spreading crypto
ransomware these stories are coming
right up so don't go anywhere hi I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I love being a vimeo
pro member as a web broadcaster i need
an affordable video hosting platform
that this flexible is made a pro
membership lets you upload up to 20
gigabytes of HD video each and every
week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category 5 TV network will receive a
whopping twenty-five percent off the
annual price all you have to do is go
through our link cat five dot TV / vimeo
and sign up today for your twenty five
percent discount to top it off you get
30 days to try it risk-free if you're
not happy with vimeo pro you pay nothing
the deal is only for a very limited time
go to cap five dot TV / vimeo i'm jeff
weston that's a little bit that's Owen
if you remember her
wait and here are the top stories from
the category five DVDs Egypt's
antiquities minister said Thursday that
scans of King Tut's burial chamber have
revealed two hidden rooms mum de el de
Mattie told reporters that the secret
chambers may contain metal or organic
material but he declined to comment on
whether royal treasurer or monies or
inside at the Cairo news conference el
de Mahdi highlighted radar scans that
showed anomalies in the walls of the
tomb indicating a possible hidden door
which lay behind the walls had been
covered over and painted by
hieroglyphics analysis of the scans made
by Japanese team members showed what
would be scanned again at the end of the
month to get a better idea of what might
lay inside the discovery could shine
light on Egypt's one of you just most
turbulent times and one prominent
researcher has theorized that the
remains of the famed Queen Nefertiti
could be inside now in case you don't
know Queen Nefertiti was the primary
wife of pharaoh akhenaten who
unsuccessfully attempted to switch Egypt
over to an earlier form of monotheism
Akhenaten's exceeded by a pharaoh
referred to as mm care and probably
butchered that one so please forgive me
and then Tut who was proven by genetic
testing to be Akhenaten son nhut
Nefertiti and Akhenaten's family ruled
Egypt during one of the most turbulent
times which was ended when am it with a
military takeover by Egypt's top general
at the time his name was Horemheb now
the family names were later erased from
official records I think this is kind of
a cool news story I mean you know you
grow up you hear about ancient egypt and
mummies and all that kind of good fun
stuff i think it'd be totally awesome to
find Queen Nefertiti stoom so fingers
across I hope that's what it is you guys
have heard about King Tut before right
would that be cool if we found a new
mommy I think that would be totally
awesome okay moving on ikea canada has
received three reports that one brand of
table and floor lamps might cause
electrical shocks the retailer says that
it hasn't received any report of injury
but is recalling all three models of
Gotham lamps not batman gotham just
Gotham case you know anything about ikea
they've got those all you weird Swedish
funny names never know how to pronounce
them but anyway Gotham not Batman so the
Gotham lamp has been sold at ikea since
last october with about a hundred one
thousand two hundred of them being sold
in canada and they've sold 53,000
worldwide joking bad pun sorry ikea says
the metal body of the lamps can become
electrified and customers should
immediately stop using the lamps and
return them to an ikea store for full
refund and get this proof of purchase
won't be required so there you go
shocking news story about ikea don't
laugh guys now Google is turning their
immense artificial intelligence power
loose on the browser-based version of
inbox whether you're using Google's
sleek email manager and browser or via
the mobile app inbox can now answer your
emails for you as if we weren't lazy
enough already so the Machine replies
aren't sent automatically which is good
instead you choose from three responses
suggested by Google's AI it kind of
works with some messages but not all of
them so you can also use the suggested
responses as starting points editing or
adding text as you prefer the browser
version of smart reply rolled out this
week with about four months after it
appeared in inbox for Android and iOS
Google's neural networks which are
programmed to learn behaviors through
training do all the work smart reply can
tell the difference between an email
from a real person and a spam blast
offering one-click responses for the
former but not the latter that way you
don't have to worry about answering a
spam email that you know then fishes for
your emails and all that kind of good
fun stuff now potential responses are
meant to get better over time by
learning from the replies that you
select and there are contextual cues
that influence the tone of each smart
reply the formal or informal tone of
each reply is based on that of the
incoming message so say you get an email
uh says hey dude want to hook up later
and go watch a flick it could have three
spots is like yeah dude I'm all for it
or no dude not going to do that or dude
who knows maybe it's like a bill and ted
AI will see all right you know that
brings it up you know for guys like Luke
and Owen does this mean they're never
gonna have to answer emails the computer
is gonna do it for them I hope not I
really hope not I want to be able to get
emails from my kids when I'm 80 I email
them and go all right love you Sonny I
don't want a computer going thanks dad
just not good but I could see other uses
for all right almost 300 million phones
running Google's Android operating
system are vulnerable to a newly
developed attack that can install
malware and take control of key
operations researchers from Israeli
security firm North bit said that the
proof of concept exploit dubbed metaphor
works against versions Android versions
2.2 through four point oh and 5.1 5.1
which together are estimated to run a
275 million phones and attacks the same
stage fright media library that made an
estimated 950 million Android phones
susceptible to similar code execution
attacks last year now for reasons that
aren't yet clear Google didn't fix that
vulnerability in some versions even
though the company eventually issued a
patch for a different bug that made the
Saffir iam exploits possible now while
the newer attack is in many ways a
refresh of the Imperium work it's able
to exploit an information leak
vulnerability in a novel way that makes
code execution a little bit more
reliable in newer Android devices
Android devices with a security patch
level of October first 2015 or greater
are protected because of fix google
issued at the time however many users
that run unpatched copies of android
either because they don't know any
better or their phone provider as a
phone lock down android users who
attempt to protect themselves against
metaphor style attacks should install
the latest OS version if possible now
owned and luke let me teach you
something here if your phone says do an
update do an update clear
okay we don't want any phishing scams
going on with your phones all right okay
mainstream websites including those
published in The New York Times the BBC
msn and AOL are falling victim to a new
rash of malicious ads that attempt to
surreptitiously install crypto
ransomware and other malware our
computers of unsuspecting visitors the
tainted ads may have exposed tens of
thousands of people over the past 24
hours alone according to a blog post
published by trend micro the JSON base
file being served in the ads has more
than 12,000 lines of heavily a fuss
gated Rob what word is that alpha skated
is that is unreal word I've never okay
there's something heavy going on with
the coat when researches deciphered the
code that discovered it enumerated a
long list of security products and tools
in it avoided in an attempt to remain
undetected if the code doesn't find any
of these programs that continues with
the flow and appends an iframe to the
body of the HTML that leads to angler
exploit kit landing page according to
malwarebytes a flurry of mal advertising
appeared last week almost out of the
blue it hits some of the biggest
publishers in the businesses including
msn com New York Times com BBC com AOL
com my xfinity com NFL com realtor calm
the weather network com the hill calm
and newsweek com there's a dot-com that
i missed it's probably included affected
ad distribution networks include those
owned by google app nexus AOL and
rubicon security experts are warning
users to install things like adobe fash
sorry to uninstall things like Adobe
Flash Oracle Java Microsoft Silverlight
and other third-party browser-based
extensions unless absolutely required
with last week's discovery of the Mac
based ransomware users are all computing
on all computing platforms are being
advised to take the threat incredibly
seriously big thanks this week to roy w
nash and our community community of
viewers for submitting their new stories
to us if you found a new story that you
like to submit email it to newsroom at
category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit
category-five TV news room at category
five dot
Evie sorry newsroom a category 5 TV for
the category 5 TV news room I'm Jeff
that's Luke that's Owen I will see you
later thanks Jeff this is category 5
technology TV I'm Robbie Ferguson and
tonight I'm joined by Nelson hudis
melson great to see you again thanks
very much for having me Robbie I think
this is is this your third or fourth
time on the show I think it's my second
actual second no because you were at
Studio C a while back yeah then you've
you've been here oh maybe you weren't on
the show no I wasn't I ok I take him
behind the I paid a visit ya paid a
visit so well if you're if you come on
one more time than we have to give you
the brat badge that says co-host ok
that's that's the only condition except
welcome back man and I hate to see I see
you've got some great devices now Nelson
is here from net talk and net talk is
and I'm going to let you explain more
about what it is you do but from you
know from my perspective and alternative
to your phone service provider so these
devices that you see surrounding me you
can get one of these and that becomes
your home phone and it's a it's portable
enough that you know this little device
you could take this anywhere you go and
as long as you've got internet
connection activity your home phone goes
with you so he tell us a little bit
about net talk and what the what the
devices are sure we've got three devices
we've got the the first one is the
nettalk duo which is the original device
and that plugs into your computer or
your router we've got the duo to which
also plugged into your computer or your
router and we've got the flagship device
which is the nettalk duo Wi-Fi which
plugs into your computer your router or
you can put your Wi-Fi settings in it
and then you can take it you can plug it
in anywhere in your house that you want
in your living room ok your bedroom your
kitchen it doesn't need to be confined
by your computer or your router cool
does that affect performance at all and
not at all no not a note bit so i now i
understand i can plug this one in
anywhere the nettalk duo to or even the
nettalk duo and then if i've got a
wireless phone like this then yeah you
can
listening yeah you can use you can use
your wire you can use wireless phone
with many handsets around the house and
you can put them in your kitchen your
living room your dining room your
bedroom wherever you like and it will
all operate off one of the devices I'm
pretty familiar with with these devices
viewers if you've never worked with with
a net talk device before what you can
actually do what I've done at home is I
went out to my garage where the phone
service comes in right my phone lines
already like they carry power if you
plug in your phone even if you don't
have service you can hear that there's
power on the line right so you've got
five bolts going through at all times so
I snipped the cable okay so that now
that my phone lines in the house are
completely dead right I get my nettalk
duo to and i plug this into any one of
the phone jacks in my house right as
long as you have a dead jack long as
it's dead as long as it's dead it has
like a task right it has to be dead you
can do that and you can get you can I
end up using the dead jacks all over the
house when you do it that way as opposed
to going with a wireless phone set so I
have a couple of wireless phones but I
also I'm a little old school I have a
wired phone hanging in my kitchen
plugged into the jack just like right am
I used to have right so it's pretty
awesome so it's like having phone
service the traditional style phone
service but it manages to nettalk are
I've got unlimited 15 bits off it's
unlimited I'm not talking on the phone
for 1500 minutes a month okay okay
that's unlimited okay it's unlimited if
you got teenagers maybe not how much is
1500 minutes if you'd have a hard time
going through it I'm in Canada where can
I call you can call the US you can add
international minutes you can you know
you can call anywhere and there's no
long distance charges at all there's no
monthly fees except overseas except
overseas right you can add international
minutes for that maybe the vet the rates
vary depending on where you want to call
it's quite reasonable and it's totally
reasonable and yeah you can call no long
distance charges at all there's no
monthly fees you pay for the device at
at retailer line when you buy it and
that's your cost and then you just face
a renewal cost that's it so what
must be like two hundred dollars right
Nelson no no no the way I mean the
renewal is a fifth like 50 bucks a year
that's it and I've got unlimited calling
essentially anywhere in Canada us so one
of the things that's really cool about
this beyond being able to hook it into
my home phone as i mentioned i can take
this anywhere i go if you're a traveler
or if you've got kids that have gone
away for school or something like that
so this little device packed in a bag
along with a phone becomes a local phone
call for anyone so that's right if I
activate this here in Barrie Ontario
with a Barrie Ontario number right like
and then I go down to the states for
school or for work or whatever I still
have a Barrie Ontario number right and
anybody in bahria can call you wherever
you are and it'll it'll be all right and
it'll be totally for free absolute from
their cell phone absolutely self yeah
it's not a long-distance call so if you
travel a lot you can actually pack it in
your suitcase take it with you if I was
overseas so if I've activated this in
Canada and I've gone overseas now I can
call home to Canada for free or the US
or the US right and they could vice
versa they could call you and then and
the device thinks it's where where was
that where was that where it was
activated with it with the area code
that's on it yeah i mean that's that's
the beauty of this is the world we're
living in folks so in cut the cord
cutting the cord is so much easier when
you can do stuff like this and it's
you're not tied down to any chord any
any internet connection you can take it
in right all you need to do is like
we've got you know plug it into the
router or don't play if you have the
Wi-Fi device plug it in anywhere in your
house you don't need the router you just
set you know you just put your Wi-Fi
settings into it just like you would
your laptop so for me at home the
nettalk duo two is the right choice
because I've got ethernet and i just
plug it into the router and that's fine
but what just struck me is if i was
traveling some hotels will not have
ethernet they'll be Wi-Fi only so then
so that's when you take the dot do a
Wi-Fi with you you want and you can use
it just plug it into your laptop and
away you go where you don't have to do
you know you could just connect it to
their Wi-Fi oh yeah connect it to the
law you have to set you get the Wi-Fi to
get the Wi-Fi yeah okay yeah and then
they're at standalone yep very cool yeah
so those are the devices and you know
you've you've proven the the product and
it's been fantastic and reliable as you
mentioned it's about it was a fifty
dollars per year and I get all yeah yeah
well the prices in Canada are in Canada
so right little less in the States so
the duo the duo sells for 5995 the duo
two is 4495 and the duo Wi-Fi is 7495
and that includes time and everything's
that includes your first year do you get
like voicemail called the voicemail call
display call forwarding call answer all
the bells and whistles that a normal
telco company would give you our
included in this device that's awesome
cool okay so let's move on from the
devices because you guys have spent the
last couple of years now revolutionising
your services we've we've all been quite
concerned over the past you know a
couple years about security and
realizing that our privacy is not isn't
it's not real yeah and so you know even
from my cell phone or my my phone I'm
worried about getting intercepted
messages people sniffing my messages and
things so what is that I understand that
talk is working to improve the situation
there are platforms like blackberry
comes to mind where I'm not really sure
where they're going to be in five years
mhm mmm so what is nettalk doing to step
up and say okay here is something that
we can offer this kind well we've got a
we've got a brand new connect messaging
app is a private secure fully encrypted
app it gives you added security and this
is this is a messaging like chat or like
text messaging or yeah so that that
keeps your messaging very very secure
you were talking about security so that
yeah my thinking now I was reading about
this this service and it sounds like
you've got like a proxy setup and and
VPN tunneling from my phone to the proxy
so that everything is absolutely
encrypted and writer so as I'm sending
texts man
is from my phone app so not through my
phone itself through text message
through the app than that talk app yeah
then I'm able to send it encrypted and
it's going to be a lot safer than
abscess ending absolutely and we've got
another app that i was mentioning the
kinect talk app that that app works with
Wi-Fi LTE 4G LTE okay and and there's no
roaming charges you can so this is
actual phone calls right through my
phone through the app yep so if i
install this app can i make phone calls
over Wi-Fi yes absolutely Wi-Fi 3G 4G
LTE so what that means see I think about
my cell phone if I go over the border
and I'm instantly paying roaming fees
right I'm instantly having to pay a huge
long distance right call home right with
net talk i can now download the app i
hate to sound like a tella like I'm
trying to get my head around this but
you guys have been doing so much to to
better the service and make it more
accessible on the cell phone so even
without these devices now I've got these
apps to supplement right are they
interconnected is my device at home
going to be connected yeah all is all
through an all through one platform
everything yeah one platform covers the
whole thing it is then does the number
on my cell phone stay the same or how
does that work um I yeah I believe so
yes and you get it you get an app number
as well so the app itself has a separate
phone number yeah local color yeah
that's cool yeah very cool yeah what are
the Rosario working on the net time
we've got thing about cell phones well
we've got a cut we've got a connect on
4G sim card that has to be it's really
good because it it allows you to use
your service we've got you're bringing
out sim cards yep like a net talk sim
card yeah it's a it's well it's not it's
it's a sim card connect on 4G it's the
nation's fastest and lowest cost nation
4G LTE network now available and it's
got a special price on it right now for
twenty dollars a month
first five months and then it goes to 40
and sir it's one plan one price so no
contract yep numbers don't matter to me
but right okay I mean I I know you guys
are affordable 20 bucks 30 apps for cell
service so you're talking you can get a
sim card for my cell phone that does it
have the same sort of similar services
to net talk or you what what services
come with that so it's unlimited talk
text and data unlimited yep and no
there's much no additional sorry now the
numbers matter twenty dollars a month
for the first five months and then forty
dollars after that is the regular price
it's already luxe a month right so right
now it's on special it has to be
activated in the United States okay and
it's good for Canada Mexico Puerto Rico
up to 10 gigabytes of data and what
happens after 10 gigs it's my phone stop
accessing the internet no no not at all
i think it's just a little order to pay
more I probably just pay more but pretty
but pretty hard to go to 10 gigs so I
don't think that's a problem okay so
we've got LTE service unlimited up to 10
gigs hmm so that's limited but it's an
affordable service it's like 40 bucks
for that so a sim card allows me to now
take a like a pay-as-you-go phone and I
can pop a SIM card into that yeah you
just need an ani provide unlocked phone
it has to be activated in the United
States but it'll work on all those
countries so once it's activated in the
US it can be where it can be used in any
of the other countries so you couldn't
order it on a Canadian can't order it
online and have it delivered into Canada
and activated in Canada it can't be
activated in Canada first it has to be
activated in the United States though
the the service is available here but I
have to get it activated down there
right I'd have to either travel to the
states right or maybe send it to a relat
but maybe if you want to buy it send it
to a relative have them activated for
you and then coming from the rep right
so is that okay like do they frown on
that um I haven't heard any problems in
doing that and then I haven't have them
sent up here how I mean unless you
travel to the US and buy it directly
right so you can order it
up here okay so this is so we're to
speaking with Nelson who does from from
net talk and net talk is a really great
way to replace your phone service and
we've talked about the home phone
service and being able to cut the cord
and and and replace that with a device
like this that's going to give you full
phone service at home for eastern n jug
in with the ethernet cord plug it into
the wall for power or plug it it you
know and now speaking of cutting the
cord looking at their cell phone and
you're offering not just apps but a sim
card that will actually provide our
service right so this must be third
party service yeah it's it's using
t-mobile network in the US and Bell
Rogers and Telus in Canada okay so all
big name mobile providers so yeah so I
mean check them out we can go to net
talk dot CA if you're in Canada if
you're in the United States is there
more information about the the cellular
service in the states i guess because
that's where it's based yeah its own
daughter netcom nettalk calm is the US
website net talk dot CA is the canadian
website for canadians okay so check that
out nettalk calm is where you want to go
for if you're interested in the cell
service and if you're in canada net talk
dot CA now these devices are fantastic
and and they do work very very well and
so we want to offer our viewers an
opportunity to to win some one of these
so we've got a handful to give away
absolutely than kind of surrounding me
here yeah so we're going to give you
various ways to win over the next couple
of weeks but certainly if you are a
supporter on patreon you're going to be
first up and you've got a chance with
with really good odds there on patreon
right now to pick up one of these
nettalk devices so which which are we
given away we're giving away the nettalk
duo two duo two that's the one I've got
all right and that has believed in
Canada we've got three months of service
on that and a great great great great
product so you get the device for free
if you win and get three months of free
phone service activated in Canada or the
US yep
and and then from there it's forty or
fifty forty dollars us or fifty dollars
Canadian right want to you know you've
evaluated the service and then you can
give it a try for three months it if you
like it you can do will yeah you can you
can keep going cool so patreon
supporters you're going to be first up
on that we're going to give you the
information make sure you check out our
patreon page patreon.com/lenguin you're
branching into of the cellular market
because of progressively more and more
people are switching to their cell
phones as their home yeah the landline
is do I mean the landline is dead if I
mean if it's if it's not totally dead
yet it probably will be pretty soon like
you know what's next I can't give away
all of our secrets Robbie come on you
know but the you know the the fact that
we're into the apps in this uh you know
the SIM cards later service is just an
extension of what we do here with the
devices very good so check those out
nettalk dot CA in Canada or nettalk calm
if you're in the United States Nelson
it's always a pleasure to have you here
appreciate you making the trip to come
and see us my pleasure my pleasure and I
encourage you to do check out that talk
welcome back this is category five
technology TV thanks to our guest
tonight Nelson who does make sure you
check them out at net talk dot CA in
Canada neta com if you are in the United
States very cool stuff they're doing and
don't forget we are giving away some of
those so make sure you checked out on
patreon cat5 TV / patreon to be one of
the first to qualify for that for that
draw and we do have a handful to give
away but as as there are many fewer
patreon supporters than there are
viewers yes your odds of winning on
patreon are much higher than once we
open it up to all the views okay so
that's how that works so make sure you
check that out cat5 TV / patreon and
thanks to you she'll for being here
thanks for being here Robbie I know
right nice to be here as always fighting
us every week you know ya gotta do
something with my Tuesday night they
want to be bored no you just keep coming
back what else am I gonna do we love you
for it yeah thanks and we love you for
being here thank you so much for joining
us tonight and we will catch you again
next Tuesday nights in place same time
of great week night arrivederci
