welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 363 for Tuesday the
second of September 2014 tonight we're
going to continue our series on
WordPress administration do-it-yourself
style we're going to learn all about
software updates how to back up our
wordpress blog just in case also how to
tweak the settings in the firewall that
we've already previously installed in
our WordPress installation so that we
can keep those hackers at bay we've got
an awesome prize to give one lucky
viewer from the category 5 merch store
so get nestled into the chat room
category five on three node and don't go
anywhere this is gonna be a fun show
here's what's coming up in the newsroom
Microsoft is 20 days to answer China's
inquiries or else Mozilla accidentally
leaked developers personal info for
about thirty three consecutive months so
if you use bugzilla stick around we'll
tell you what's been leaked and what you
need to do about it a warning for
parents loom bands have been found to
contain cancer-causing ingredients and
know it in small amounts do you own an
HP laptop last week's recall seems to
say you could be at risk for fire and
finally we all giggled when Amazon
announced they try delivering stuff via
drones but maybe they were serious no
more giggles Google is google is
actually doing it they're testing
delivery drones in Australia these
stories are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha germain des
Hillary rumbles
Kristen wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
introducing Beltone first a
revolutionary new hearing aid so small
you can hardly see it so comfortable you
can hardly feel it for the first time
ever you can control hearing aids
directly from your iPhone pick up the
phone listen to music and use your
hearing aids like wireless headphones
hear everything that matters try Beltone
first for a free trial call one eight
hundred Bell tone now this is category
five technology TV episode number 363
hey I'm Robbie Ferguson i'm kelsey
johnson thanks for being with us tonight
thank you for showing up it's great
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
category 5 TV / tpn and the
International International Association
of Internet broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib
i'll tell you what i am excited about
something with studio d those of you who
have been following along studio d is an
exciting project we are moving category
5 technology TV and we're moving into a
much much much bigger space this space
literally see your screen have you got a
17 inch screen we literally have 17
inches to work with yeah that's pretty
much it so the 19 inch tits it's not
much different folks we literally this
is how much room we have pretty much so
we're gonna we're gonna make it bigger
batch down all the walls it's gonna be
awesome but one of the things I love
that's gonna be in studio D is green
screen chroma key imagine being able to
float through vistas while we're doing
the show I think it could be a lot of
fun that could that could be great
during the news segment in particular
think about the newsroom right virtual
newsroom awesome what about our annual
kind of dress up halloween specials
where we can actually put ourselves into
the universe that we are depicting
one of the cool things about chromakey
these days green screening blue
screening whatever you want to call it
green screen the difference is green
screen is for digital film blue screen
is for the old-style real film like
actual moving tapes or kissing
cartridges cassette so when you see
green screen and blue screen that's why
everything is going green screen people
say well why is it green now it used to
be blue well because now we're digital
so it's not analog anymore we don't use
the blue quite as much so green works
better in digital so with green screen
it's really cool because you're seeing
more and more people starting up YouTube
channels yeah doing their own chroma key
at home and doing all that kind of stuff
but how do you get the kit how do you
get all the stuff that you need to do it
you got to go over to a place like this
cat five dot TV / green and I'll tell
you why I'm bringing this up tonight
Kelsey why fifty percent off today Wow
fifty percent cat five dot TV / green
head on over there they've got
everything that you need in order to
start your own chroma key studio awesome
stuff cat five dot TV / green that's
pretty good it's where we got Arquette
you saw it here on the show its
outstanding yes so if you ever had a
dream of starting a green screen flying
the kids like Superman I'd be cool I set
them on a green box or something okay
put your arms out kids I'm going to turn
on the fan no limit to what you can do
it'd be great I'd be amazing also don't
forget to check out our mobile website m
dot cat five dot TV there it is and that
that way you're gonna be able to see the
show live see it on demand listen to it
live listen to it on demand one of the
greatest features of the mobile site is
that it's designed specifically for
mobile so in order to conserve bandwidth
or to make it safe so that when you're
driving you're not distracted by a show
it has the audio features as well so you
can just listen to the show rather than
actually streaming video saves you a lot
of bandwidth while you're on the road so
you're not running out the data bill and
it also makes it a little bit safer as
well so that's mcat five dot TV
go check that out I mentioned about
studio D I'm very very excited about it
you know if you've been following along
cat five dot TV / studio that we're
making excellent progress day 19 has
just come and gone and we got the
drywall pretty much up if you believe so
we're over that hump of okay now we're
you know we're figuring out the problems
we're tearing everything out yeah now
we're at the point where we're putting
everything in we're starting to build
rather than tear down making it look
nice it's a very exciting time it
doesn't quite look nice yet I'm not to
let's just say I'm a novice so I'm
learning but I've got some great friends
who are willing to kind of teach me and
helped me out so here's a real quick
clip for you from cat5 TV / studio you
can also find all the videos at our
youtube channel called linux tech show
which you can get straight to by going
to linux tech show.com I'm a rookie
now that you just showed me like how I
did it no you know what happened here I
did that knocking job look at this
corner this corner looks good right and
I neeson this corner look really good
too but then I got into this corner and
my trowel was a 12-inch trowel and so
when I went down this one was already
half dry let's stand there laughing and
jeering at me I Drive why can I not
forget along
sure
don't understand why they're so mean to
me hahaha I just said they're nice so
you have been so kind though thank you
so much for all your support find out
more about the project cap five dot TV /
studio and again we've got all the
videos up there we've got ways for you
to contribute to be a part of the studio
D project it's it's an exciting time for
category 5 we are just about to start
season eight season eight starts at the
end of this month I can't believe it wow
that's that's crazy yeah so make sure
you check it out cat five dot TV /
studio we both took a breath like we
were both about to say something so i'll
take a drink what you're gonna say i
doesn't say anything is for breathing i
was reading because people do that you
know they breathe okay you gotta agree
with me right that was kind of like okay
well i'd like to say hello to those who
are new on our website category 5 TV not
a whole lot of names this week but an
interesting fact is that Tennessee Frank
just registered on our website TN buddy
been joining us in the chat room for
about 17 years and finally decided to
take the plunge and register to be a
part of this free community thank you
nice to see you thank you for finally
joining it's about time my friend he
just had to feel the waters make sure
yes all right fine this place is pretty
cool I'll register next years after he
starts watching finally shows up yeah
that's it a couple more names there
we've got ten lad yes ten lad and so
rotten Walden woodham welcome something
along those lines hey yeah thanks for
registering on our website category five
TV you know like 10 lad and whoa Tom if
I'm pronouncing that even close to right
I don't even know because we haven't got
to know you don't know you from the chat
room you're new on our website you're
registered what took Tennessee Frank so
long
just saying just putting that out there
jot says that Tennessee Frank never
wrote just just never registered because
he had no idea how to do it I could
learn a lot from the show yeah week
after week we said go to category 5 TV
here's the website head over there click
on register it's free let's you be a
part of this free and amazing community
I must say let's say so yeah cheers um
all right well I guess that's uh that
kind of leads us into our future tonight
I mean we're ready to go it's the best
show ever tonight oh yes we've been
planning for it I kind of wanted to you
and I have one thing in common that we
need to discuss some time on the show
and maybe I should just as a trail off
as we were talking about studio D
because i was on thinkgeek com and
looking at some of the things you do to
decorate the new studio and one of the
things was a TARDIS door covering I love
thinking think he was awesome absolutely
could you imagine a TARDIS as I would
love that so much big doctor who fan
right so what if they have a new season
the new series I like it I think Peter
Capaldi will be great as the new doctor
I'm not so sure about the new intro kind
of title thing I'm not sure I enjoy that
very much but what are your thoughts on
the doctor I heard a truck going by the
new studio yeah and it was revving its
gears and it sounded exactly like the
TARDIS really hmm like that sound and I
can't do it with my face but I opened
the door and I was like dr. it's just a
truck it's just only a chat truck what
would you think of a TARDIS door I be
cool i'd love that so much we go work on
that yes huh anyway alright so we're
continuing our series tonight about
wordpress and blogging have you ever
done in blogging yourself or your
feeling the waters of YouTube kind of
yeah I did for my radish car after class
I had to do a blog I didn't keep up with
it very much that's as it was a
wordpress was it that blogger vlogger
okay so you used a hosted service rather
than doing it yourself can I think yes
so all to the alternative to that it to
using a hosted service like wordpress
com or blogger any of the ones that are
available is actually doing it yourself
yeah getting over to wordpress.org as
we've done over on the show and actually
downloading a copy of the WordPress
software self-hosting it on something
like the hosting platform that we have
at cap five dot TV / dreamhost reason
you might want to do that is because
rather than paying an annual fee to host
a blog you can pay an annual fee which
in that case is only seventy dollars
less than wordpress com WordPress is one
hundred bucks a year right if you want
to have your own com so works out to be
a cost savings plus you get email and
all that kind of stuff yeah so there are
advantages there but the problem the
disadvantage is you don't have somebody
to maintain it for you yeah and if you
want someone to maintain iya it maintain
it properly for you it's gonna cost you
hundreds of dollars a year and just
having somebody do it for you plain and
simple wordpress com blogger they'll do
all the maintenance for you your blog is
not too likely to get hacked and if it
does they'll probably patch it restore
from a backup and your back up and
running you didn't have to pay any extra
for that service it's all part of the
service but when you host your own you
do run the risk of getting your site
hacked yeah and you having to be the one
to deal with that little scary thing and
that's not always you know helpful for
the person running a blog because they
may not have the know how to fix it even
yeah and it's a scary thing because
sometimes people say okay well I want to
have a wordpress blog and so they'll
just go download and install it never
really realizing that you have to have
some secure you know a bit of a security
mindset when you're doing that that's
partially what we've set out to do with
this series so for those of you who do
or don't use WordPress it's it's
kind of the premise of just
understanding the security that you have
to take into Maya into into your mind
when you're setting up this kind of a
thing yeah be it wordpress or just the
the whole paradigm of setting up a
website and administering it yourself we
just gotta be security conscious so
that's what we're setting out to do with
this series works out to the benefit of
WordPress users because we're
specifically working with WordPress
through the course of this so we're
working with Sasha dramatis calm sashes
website is coming along nice and she's
been enjoying becoming a blogger she's
one of the co-hosts here at
category-five technology TV check out
Sasha derma descamps so on her website
this is what we've been setting up here
let's see if I can find it there there
we go we've got it all up and running
her blog looks fairly decent we haven't
got to theming yet that's kind of one of
the next things that we're going to be
doing but we're getting there as far as
the actual setup of the blog we've gone
through instant obtaining installing
configuring WordPress doing our first
blog doing some some imagery setting up
a featured image all that kind of stuff
setting up the blog itself and we've
also touched on some of the security
aspects of running a wordpress blog for
example installing the software called
word fence which is a free plug-in that
you can install a that's a free version
available i should say and that works as
a firewall to protect your administrator
back-end to protect your website from
somebody actually hacking into it and
causing damage to the site also it will
it will advise you if there are any kind
of security exploits that have gotten
into your site so it's a very very handy
feature to be adding to your blog you
can never just deploy a wordpress blog
and just trust that it's going to work
and it's going to you can't just leave
it because exploits are discovered and
exploits are exploited I was looking at
a customer's blog today Kelsey because I
found it odd that there were a fair
number of attempts to log in I thought
well that's kind of odd because this
particular customer only really blogs
about once every week or two they're not
a hugely active blogger they're not in
there
logging in 15 times a day kind of thing
so I was starting to see a trend that we
were getting about 15 to 20 attempts to
log in to this blog per day which is not
a high number but it's something so I
started looking through the logs and it
turns out that they were actually
guessing at usernames and passwords
trying to get into this person's blog
Wow so one of the things we're going to
learn to do tonight is SAT word fence to
immediately deny access to those users
we want to make sure that if there is
somebody trying to guess your password
that we're going to block them
completely word fence by default is
going to do that but it's going to give
them 20 tries in order to try to hack
your account before it actually kicks
them off what do they do then they
change their IP address using an
anonymous proxy or possibly a botnet and
that means they've got computers all
over with a virus installed that they
can use in order to try to compromise
your server so the problem with that if
you can imagine if I had a hundred
different computers all around the world
infected with my virus giving me access
to their IP so now if I use my computer
and I try to hack your site and it
blocked me after 20 tries then I just
switch over to the next computer and I
try to hack your site it gives me 20
more two different IP addresses coming
from a different source so in the larger
the botnet the more chances of actually
getting compromised there are because
they can just keep trying even after
they get blocked there are free services
that make it fairly easy for these kinds
of hackers or script kiddies to try to
get into your website so we're going to
try to secure that for you tonight
Kelsey one of the ways that we can help
protect our wordpress blog is by keeping
it up-to-date it sounds a little bit
cliche because we all know oh yeah you
got to run your windows updates and
you've got to install the updates on
your computer it's important to have
those installed because as exploits are
found they are patched and you can
install the fixes WordPress makes it
extremely simple so i want to show you
tonight how to go about patching your
software but first we need to understand
how PHP works how the file system of a
system such as WordPress works in that
if you have plugin
is that you've downloaded and installed
let's I mean WordPress you saw in
previous videos here on category 5 it's
really really easy to add features to
WordPress that's awesome but you
download and download and download and
what if one of those plugins becomes
compromised right so if you've got 10
different plugins or a hundred different
plugins installed and they're not
actually officially created by the
people who make wordpress they're
created by third parties and what if one
of them gets compromised so if that
happens you need to keep things up to
date but the other thing that can happen
is there are plugins that are installed
that you're not actually actively using
and so we as web site administrators
tend to think oh well because I'm not
using it it's not a problem well that's
not how PHP works or how file systems in
general work because if the files are
sitting on the server and they can be
compromised they will be compromised it
doesn't matter whether or not it's
actually being used on your website if
they're installed they're accessible and
they can be compromised so the first
thing that we want to do tonight on
sashes blog is take a look at our
installed plugins we're going to go to
plugins and go to installed plugins and
we can see that there are a couple of
updates here you'll see that akismet has
a new version available and we've also
got one forward fence security that is
available so I know the word fence is
one that we're currently using now
akismet on the other hand we're not
actively using it comes with WordPress
it's a reliable program it's not a
problem but we're not using it so we're
going to delete it yes we're going to
delete those files because we don't want
files residing on our server that aren't
actually being used why use up the space
why bother to risk having an exploit but
also you saw that it was waiting to have
an update well why should I waste
resources updating software that I'm not
actually using by deleting a kismet of
course that leaves us open to receiving
spam because it akismet is the default
spam filters but you'll remember in the
series we've installed a program called
anti-spam b which is a free anti-spam
system i'm going to delete Hello Dolly
because it's just a silly little thing
that we don't need
and we're just going to do some real
quick cleanup so now you can see that
we've got some nice clean stuff just a
list of the probe of the plugins that
we're actually using now WP author slug
you'll remember that i installed that
with Sasha here at the studio on a
previous episode of this series and it
didn't seem to work very well I was a
little bit weird because I've used it
before and it works really really great
but I realized this week and I wanted to
share this with you werd fence actually
offers the protection for protecting
your author slug which means if you're
if you're if you're logging into your
blog is Kelsey yeah you don't want to
reveal that to the public well WordPress
out of the box is going to actually tell
people publicly that you have the
username Kelsey so now they don't have
to guess your patent your login they
only have to guess your password they
know for a fact that your your login is
Kelsey right that's a little messy yeah
let me show you the feature in word
fence just so that you know that it does
exist i'm gonna go word fence options
and we're going to scroll down nearly to
the bottom here that's okay prevent
discovery of usernames through author
equals n scans so that's automatically
checked that is the default so that kind
of prevention is already in place with
word fence and so it's actually a bit of
a conflict with this plugin that we
installed last time so i'm going to in
fact deactivate WP author slug which we
previously installed we don't need it
because word fence provides that
protection and now that i've deactivated
it i'm going to delete it there we go
now we'll see we don't have to updates
waiting we only have one update waiting
so that's going to be a little bit
faster we're not wasting resources on
something like a kismet that we're not
actually using word fence is the one
that is currently waiting to be updated
so it's good to know that wordpress can
be updated really really easily gone are
the days where you have to download
packages and try to apply those packages
to your installation if they make it
very very very very very simple let's
see how simple this is there's an
updates button up at the top here says
one plug-in update is available I'm
going to click on that I will see the
word fence is waiting to be updated
there's a new version 5.2 point one I
have five point one point six installed
I can view the details about that
version but what I can do is just click
the check box and go update plug-in and
could it be that simple it really is
looks yeah it looks pretty simple so it
actually goes out to the web downloads
the package deploys it updates it now
we're up to date now if we go back to
updates you'll see that everything is up
to date word fence is now ready to go
there's going to be a new there we go
it's ready to go done okay it's pretty
good real simple so the next thing that
I promise you is a well when we're
working with our wordpress blog we want
to make sure that we always have an
up-to-date backup and this goes for
anything you know that I am a stickler
for backups I don't like to see people
lose files and when you've been blogging
it's a lot of work I would hate to see
you lose your blog let's say if someone
hacked and deleted all your post and you
didn't have a backup whoops so how are
we going to remedy that you know that
we're doing this on the cheap we want to
do things as much as possible with free
plug-ins so I'm going to show you a
great little tool that's going to do
this for you were going to go plugins
add new and we're doing this in order
because I don't want to do the other
things that we're going to be doing say
if you know if we don't have a backup so
I only have to do this once because once
I've installed the plug-in it's there so
this plug-in in particular is called up
draft plus all one word so now search
plugins there you go updraft plus backup
and restoration for wordpress 5 out of 5
stars and we're gonna go okay about a
five is what we want it's kind of good I
would have five sound really good me see
how easy this is to install logans once
you know what you're looking for and you
want to be careful what you install I've
even seen an antivirus plug-in once that
was actually deploying viruses one
people's blogs and it was officially in
like it was in the search so you would
install this antivirus product and it
was actually sending viruses to the
users at of your blog that's really odd
malicious good at all so that's already
in well I was really club draft plus
there it is yeah so now you'll see on
settings updraft plus backups and I'm
going to click on that and I would do
this you can schedule it I'm going to do
this periodically you can go through the
settings and set things up but I'm just
going to go back up now because I really
want to just know that I've got a good
backup because I've made some changes
today to my blog two sashes blog in this
case right that are pretty critical to
moving forward because I don't want to
have to redo them I don't want to lose
these changes so I'm going to run a
backup so that I never lose what I've
done so far and this also backs up users
it backs up the vlogs themselves and
you'll see that it's a nice little Ajax
tool that goes through back backs up
everything your database your your
entries your pictures that you've
uploaded and it's done the backup is all
set ready to go so you can restore that
I've had it happen where okay that now
that I've run that back up I ran an
update and that update happened to have
an update to the theme for the blog and
it broke everything oh it was nasty but
then it went okay now this is putting
updraft plus to the test let's go back
and we're going to restore I say okay
well let's click on restore and you see
your backup and it says what do you want
to restore and you click on restore and
it was instant like that Ridley and boom
my site was back up and running there
were no problems now it was still
reverted now is reverted to the older
version of the theme but it allowed me
to figure out what was going on before I
then patched and updated so having
updraft plus is a key thing especially
when you're maybe not a PHP programmer
and you want to be able to keep your
blog up to date but you don't want to
lose things should something go wrong
right right so
handy handy feature absolutely free and
so then the final thing that we're going
to look at tonight before we get into
the news is just taking a look at word
fence and in fact I think that we are
we're going to head right into the news
right now and we're going to come back
to this we want to look at word fence
because it is a fantastic firewalling
system for our blog but we want to take
into account well what happens if
somebody is trying to brute force our
username and password in the login
system so we want to actually block them
we want to stop them in their tracks and
throw their IP to just know can't login
that's what we're going to do right
after the news stick around if you're a
wordpress user you'll want to see this
if you're not you just want to
understand the ideas the concepts behind
website security and please feel free to
get into our chat room category five dot
TV say hello don't forget draw bot is
going to be joining us as well this
evening and we're going to be giving
away a prize so if you're not in the
chat room you can't win make sure you
get into our chat room category five on
freenode now with the news here is
Kelsey here are the top stories from the
category five TV news room following
claims by China's competition regulator
last week that Microsoft wasn't fully
given fully cooperating with its probe
into the software giant it's now going
microsoft three weeks to start talking
as noted in a report by routers the
state administration for industry and
commerce SIAC saic sorry has spoken with
Microsoft's China vice president david
chen and has subsequently demanded a
written explanation within 20 days from
Microsoft regarding questions over
compatibility issues in Windows and
Office the investigation into
Microsoft's operations in china follow
raids on the company's chinese offices
in july and warnings from the saic to
microsoft not to interfere with his with
his investigation scic has also visited
Accenture's offices in china in search
of Microsoft documents at this time it
was thought the investigation stemmed
from Microsoft dropping support for
windows XP nos still widely used in
China
saic has since accused Microsoft of
violating China's and type monopoly laws
since jun 2013 over undisclosed
compatibility issues in windows and
office in addition to bundling of
software and documents authenticate
authentication Microsoft's new obstacles
in China come as the government
reportedly begins ramping up efforts to
build the nation's own operating system
oh poor Microsoft oh we're building our
own operating system let's give the big
guys a really hard time whoo nice job
China yes she fears he woo just kind of
throw that in at the end huh yeah I
think could that be planned never know
users of the mark Scylla developer
network and bugzilla testing system are
advised update their passwords after a
pair of data disclosures were reported
in August Mozilla is doubling down on
its security procedures after reporting
two separate incidents in which
developer information was
unintentionally publicly disclosed the
most recent incident was first reported
by Mozilla on August 27th it involves
information disclosure on 97,000
developers the landfill bugzilla dot org
development system for the bugzilla bug
tracking platform left developer
information including email information
and encrypted passwords exposed publicly
for approximately three months maxilla
estimates that the disclosure first
occurred in on May fourth during a
migration of a testing server with a
database dump containing the user
information maxilla is now changing its
testing process to not include database
dumps users of the landfill dogzilla org
system have been a advice to change
their passwords as a result of the issue
hmm so I glean from that we've got a
problem with the Mozilla developer
Network and bug bugzilla yes so if you
use those services make sure you change
your passwords frightful that they have
this exploit going for three consecutive
months and didn't realize that hey
uh-huh we've basically publicly exposed
our entire database of users yeah it's
frightening yeah who does that anymore
yeah come on like just like hospitals
and stuff in the US no one else you not
to point any fingers oh but really who
does that anymore yeah thought we
learned last week toy retailer the
Entertainer has withdrawn loom band
charms from sale after they were found
to contain high levels of cancer-causing
chemicals what loom bands yeah these are
those nice bracelets of the kids make
they're so cute and all they're sharing
them at school and stuff that's scary
stuff parents kids are back at school
yeah we got to hear this because that's
a little bit frightening when the kids
are sharing this stuff back in do tell
more great test showed one charm
contained forty percent of band foul
AIT's a chemical that makes plastic
flexible with EU law stating that point
one percent is the legal limit point one
point 10.1 is the legal limit there 0 d
% yeah don't buy them Danny really okay
I got kids that are young my daughter
has brought home loom bands before yeah
not good there's more isn't there yes
different colored loom bands can be
woven into bracelets and charms added
the packets in question had foreign
writing on them and the Cee stamp
indicating they were within European
safety law upon searching up for the
product we found them to be Jack brand
loop and charm loom bands foul aids can
be found in carpets wallboards color car
upholstery in fittings and certain
cosmetics and pharmaceutical drugs about
seven have been banned under EU
legislation for being potentially
damaging to do to their carcinogenic
properties
not scary that's absolutely frightening
so if your kids wear loom bands I don't
know if it's it's hard because I don't
know if it's all of them we know it's
this particular package we did a search
based on the reference number on the sku
and it's and it comes up as loom bands
and you know yeah just frightful so keep
in mind carcinogenic chemical compounds
within these elastic and not the
elastics themselves but the charms that
are used on the kids put on these
bracelets and yeah decorations and
jewelry's that they that they're making
and sharing with their friends as
friendship bracelets and things like we
used to with GIMP remember that stuff oh
yeah so they're they're making them
giving them out the charms are
carcinogenic they cause cancer forty
percent versus the legal limit of point
one point one and you get young kids
with these and they're putting them in
their mouths that's that's frightening
so I would I just to be safe take them
away from your kids yeah quietly okay
just to be safe yes please do HP is
warning customers to check your laptop
cord to see if it's at risk of
overheating hewlett-packard and federal
regulators on Tuesday recalled six
million power cords sold between 2010
September 2010 in June 2012 with some HP
and compaq notebook computers as well as
certain docking stations they were
warned the cords could overheat and
catch fire of 29 reported cases too
involved burns and all and there were 13
claims of property damage the Consumer
Product Safety Commission warned the
recalled power cords should be unplugged
immediately HP provided provided an
online tool for customers due to
determine if their court is recalled
which you will find at ww3 HP com
alright
it's a interesting like cords catching
on fire what will they do next David I
guess it's one of those things though
right that is the cord that goes into
the transformer you probably even the
manufacturers probably don't think twice
about you know find the cheapest
supplier yeah people in the chat room I
hear what you're saying about you know
keeping things kind of to the US that's
one of those things so yeah if you've
got an HP laptop that was sold what it
was it twenty ten to twenty twelve
September 2010 to July 2012 so you might
want to just double check on that cable
they're cheap anyways to replace so if
you feel that it's getting warm I might
just replace it because you don't want
it to suddenly catch on fire aren't you
while you're out you leave your laptop
charging i'll be interesting not really
interesting though would it well scary
frightening yeah but just tragic oh yes
especially a nice HP laptop oh yes my
laptop oh so pretty good costs lots of
money google has built and tested
autonomous aerial vehicles which it
believes could be used for goods
deliveries the project is being
developed at Google X the company's
clandestine tech research arm which is
also responsible for its self-driving
car project wing has been running for
two years but was a secret until now
Google said that it had that its
long-term goal was to develop drones
that could be used for Discipline for
disaster relief by delivering aid to
isolated areas they could be used after
earthquakes floods or extreme weather
events the company suggested to take
small items such as medicines or
batteries to people in areas that
conventional vehicles cannot reach
Google's self flying vehicles project
was first conceived as a way to deliver
defibrillator kits to people suspected
of having heart attacks really the idea
was that the drones would transport the
equipment faster than that an ambulance
the prototype vehicles that the company
has built have been suspected
successfully tested by delivering the
packages to farms in Queensland
Australia from neighboring properties
Australia was selected as a test site
due to a GU Google calls progressive
rules about the use of drones which are
more tightly controlled in other parts
of the world ah see and I've seen this
here and bury in ontario canada and and
i guess there was the whole kerfuffle
about the news reporter that or no the
runner was at the runner that got hit by
a drone Oh didn't get seriously hurt or
anything it was still an issue but
they're saying that you can't fly these
drones without a license now and that's
as plain as that you can buy one I've
got one sitting right there you can buy
it but you're not allowed to take it
outside lose your license if you have a
license which is like drone pilots
license mm-hmm so if they're a little
more lacks in Australia than hey more
power to Google that's kind of cool yeah
I think it's neat and their drone
obviously looks a lot different than
anything I've seen it's more like a
plane than a helicopter we're used to
the quadcopter kind of things yes but
way to one up amazon who says we're
gonna do drones and and deliver the
goods that are purchased from our store
cluster faster like they're not fast
enough but google delivering things like
defibrillators medicine for disaster
relief too that's awesome that's it
makes sense right look you think about
an area i would think say toronto even
bury during rush hour you cannot get
through it'll take you an hour to get
across mapleview when it normally takes
you five minutes yeah no traffic i'm not
exaggerating there and something like
that if there was an accident and they
needed a defibrillator and they couldn't
get an ambulance there they could just
fly it right in get it there immediately
or maybe the ambulance could control it
when that'd be neat if they fly this
thing ahead of them oh yeah that'd be
here's a defibrillator that could be
useful no life saving situations were
life or death I don't do something see
Google's doing some good for the world
folks you go Google where does it end
though yes
when does the payload change yes from
defibrillation to destruction I hope
that google is gonna take over the world
anytime soon you don't they don't have
to take over what they already own
that's very true gosh well but you can
get the full stories of the category 5
TV news room the category 5 TV news room
is research researched by Roy w Nash
with contributions by Tennessee Frank
and our community of viewers if you have
a news story that you think is worthy of
on-air mention email newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Kelsey Jensen Thank You Kelsey
Jensen tonight's show is brought to you
in part by Beltone learn why Bell tone
is the choice of millions when it comes
to fantastic hearing care check out
Beltone first a revolutionary made for
iphone hearing aid visit Beltone com or
for free trial call one eight hundred
Beltone now this is category five
technology TV thank you so much for
joining us tonight you can get your
questions in in our chat room category
five on freenode and kind of drill in
the chat room into you because we got
something to give you and you got to be
in a chat room also we've got the cat
phone yes vacuum and charging so if you
want to give us a call say hi get your
question in that way or if you just want
to say hello to us up here in canada
give me a call to 545 count five TV Dean
that's 25 45 cat5 TV call us we will
wait for your call you ready to give
this away yes let's do this draw a bot
is standing by we've got a couple
questions that have already come in as
well so we are ready to answer your
questions and please ping me in the chat
room say hi and I will do my best to
answer any questions that you may have
and kelsey is also watching that so
alright draw bot is a system that goes
out to the chat room gets all the names
pics from them at random and we deliver
a prize so what do we have tonight we've
got to category 5 premium stickers to up
so we got light and dark so if you've
got a silver laptop the dark ones going
to go great if you got a black laptop
the white ones gonna go great the
lighter one
get ready it's time now ladies and
gentlemen to give one of these away I
see a lot of great names flying by here
we go draw bot is in the chat room hey
kakek cool dude gwg these are our
premium vinyl stickers their high
quality they will not leave a residue no
matter what you stick them to so you
don't have to be afraid they're so good
that you can actually peel them off of
the surface you stick them on and stick
them on another surface and they're
still going to work just fine you stick
them on your windows with no residue you
can stick them on your car they will
stay there you can even put them even
put the one of these on a mug and put it
through the dishwasher about 15 times
before it actually started to come off
that's pretty good worked out real well
so it was a nice way to brand a mug as
category 5 TV good luck everybody rd
Blair J Blake 58 Garvey al kit Pete
Tennessee Craig I tried to say Pete real
fast Pete 486 29 there you are nice to
have you joining us in our chat room
tonight for the first time in a million
years seems the little old school
doesn't it welcome rd blair cirrus logic
everybody oh it's going by too fast
folks who's it gonna be we need robot to
start speaking we need to install like a
text-to-speech engine so that would be
great get a big could be awesome the
doctors fate so does draw bot ladies and
gentlemen here we go the winner tonight
of a 2 up
premium vinyl sticker from shop category
5 not TV is
short
I am so pleased that John finally won
something whoo so these stickers and now
yours
John has been really very very helpful I
don't know if you know this at home
through the course of studio DS
development all the work that I've been
doing over there it has been a ton of
work so I have very little free time to
get things done around the show and and
jawed has actually volunteered to pitch
in by providing the show notes over the
past several weeks so he's been keeping
that up to date for us so I say you know
I'm happy that he's won but you know a
little tongue-in-cheek because he used
to 1 win everything but it's been a long
time hasn't it my friend so draw bot
done good congratulations jot who joins
us from the Netherlands oh yeah there's
been a part of the show since season one
wow it's pretty long time pretty long
time season eight it's coming up yeah
couple weeks well we got a couple of
questions kelsey take it away all right
first question comes from Spector I
think I'm pronouncing that right I'm
spectre-5 he has a wn7 weezy stable
patrician set up on my computer which i
use from video editing only i use KDE
and live for video editing but i need to
get the updated version which is not in
the weazy rep oh I tried using testing
but it was too unstable how can i add
KDE and live from debbie and jesse to
with weezy also i have seen a way to
have debian use at PPA which is this a
good idea I'm really trying to stick
with the stability of it and and trying
not to switch to another one give her a
high-five folks for braving those
questions because I i I've said it
before but the co-hosts here are kind of
my proxy to bring things down so if
anyone viewing this right now said what
like guys are you saying I'm in my head
no yeah I with I'm like what what and
this is where Robbie excels
understanding all the gibberish ok so
the guys got a video editing software
called KD and live ok and that software
is available through the repositories or
repos in this case that you have with
your operating system so weezy is the
current stable version of debian it's
the the current version of this off of
the the Debian operating system right so
right windows XP Windows 7 Windows a
kind of you know that's how they named
their operating system debian is you
know wheezy and that's the current
version they had squeezed previously and
so whoa the problem is is that with
debian stable the software often falls
out of date they think well that's lousy
how come you've got a linux operating
system and all the software is out of
date well it's actually a good thing
because this is why they call it Debbie
unstable all of the software that you
can install through the repositories by
default anyways are going to be
considered stable they've been highly
tested there they've been tested against
other software in the operating system
in that version of the operating system
they believe it to be stable so then you
get into the the testing releases of
debian and you can get a newer version
of KTN live so you have the latest and
greatest software the the latest and
greatest version of the software but you
lose the fact that it's considered
stable I think Kelsey though the thing
that that happens here and what Specter
may have may be kind of humming and
hawing over is we think okay if stable
has this version and unstable or the
testing operating system has this
version that must mean that it is
unstable that it's going to crash all
the time yeah because we see we're
conditioned by Microsoft if something is
unstable it's really unstable now well
it's just not considered production you
know that you may run into little issues
I don't know how severe it's probably
not going to be that bad don't consider
that the testing branch is actually
unstable to the point of unusable it's
not that it just means that they're
still testing it they're still testing
it against other software before they
put it into the stable branch so it's
going to be behind as far as installing
so I'm just going to get over to Debian
package lists so that is debian org
slash distrib / packages and you can
take a look at any version of software
that's there so we're gonna look at KD e
is a KD I would say yeah and live let's
try it KD and live there it is okay did
you do when I actually find the package
i might be at the wrong spot let me just
take a quick look here what do you say
yeah i've never heard of KTN live what
kind of video editing software is it I
believe it's a nonlinear video editor
that's quite nice that's free and it
works very very well it's it's kind of
it's been growing over the years and
we're really starting to see a couple of
different packages as such as open shot
KTN live they're really starting to get
up there as far as non vaniya nonlinear
video editing goes so that's where you
can have like timeline based video
editing and you think powerdirector
style or Windows Movie Maker is that's a
little bit more drag and drop to yeah
but what a huge fan art movie maker no
I'm just trying to put it into context
so you know what what it is let's see
here come on packages dawn
okay there we go packages debian org of
course then I did a search for KD n live
okay so this is what I'm talking about
so old stable had a really old version
of Katie on life so if you're on squeeze
you're going to have zero points 7.8
wheezy the stable distro of Debian has
zero point nine point two it's quite
current however Jessie the testing
distro has zero point nine point eight
so it's even more bleeding edge you'll
notice that Sid the unstable branch is
the same version so it tells me that you
could go to testing which is more stable
than unstable than Sid and you'd still
get the zero point nine point eight
version and you won't you shouldn't have
any problems but you do have to kind of
you've got to take that leap to get into
testing right yeah and maybe we should
do that on the show take that risk for
you and show you how it goes and you got
to determine if there are features there
that you really really want so let's
head over to KD and live dot org and if
you go download you'll see okay let's go
to debian and you'll see the Debian
packages here's how to install it and
then they actually go into oh here's how
you can in fact switch to the unstable
branch so that you can upgrade your
operating system because your dual
booting and that's specifically what
you're doing with your system why not do
it give it a try use clonezilla to back
up your computer and then you can always
fall back right so good luck I think
your best way to go though is going I
should just reiterate Debian is a
package manager based operating system
so if i install something there are
what's called dependencies so if if this
program is going to do a particular
thing it may need other programs to
allow it to do those things right so
with a new version so zero point nine
point eight it requires these also to be
up to date a different version so that's
why you can't install KTN live in we
easy in its latest and greatest version
because all these other things are older
versions too and you can't upgrade these
things without breaking other things or
so you really have to upgrade your
operating system to a testing or
unstable mm-hmm and that's just how it
is if you want the bleeding edge you've
gotta go full out and take the bleeding
edge you can't go swimming if you don't
want to get wet so that's very true good
luck let us know how it goes alright and
what you choose to do and and check it
out alright thanks for the question
we've no more questions well what do you
not it was one question just one
question came in in the child question
Oh what do we got here Roy dash saying
giving us him so a piece of wool should
we take a look we should all right Roy
IW nash great guy who helps us out with
the newsroom will always give him a
chance to tell us what was blonde what
is it he said this powerful piece of kit
appears to run you've been to out of the
box the guy in the video mentions
running powering up running a script and
you have a desktop running and it's you
boon to you unity de could you um
membrane up I've just brought up the
email the link we go this comes to us
from Roy w Nash nvidia Jetson tk1 nice
if you need a night a slow powerful
system cool tini tini tini see those
kind of like an all-in-one I wouldn't
mind checking out the video we'll take a
look at that what I'll do I'll uh I'll
and as it is it says Oh tag huh wonder
how it's related here chatroom I'm gonna
give that to you and by now i want to
know how much this thing is that's yours
with 200 200 pounds yeah that's like
3,000 canadian dollars probably just
kidding but that's cool okay we love kit
that is like that's basically a little
itty-bitty tiny computer with everything
kind of built in well that's so you
think about being able to build that
into anything I once took a motherboard
and I took the the handle out
the drawer of my desk and I put the
optical drive where the handle was and
then I put the motherboard underneath
and and it had it was a fully decked out
computer in the drawer of my computer of
my desk thats hanging out no desk space
right these kinds of things take that to
a whole new level because you can put it
in little things right I would love to
take something like that right so you
take that piece there you get an old you
get to a just a thrift store or
somewhere that sells old video game
consoles find a super Ness system or see
if you can find a broken one didn't get
a real deal get on to classified and
find a like an old Nintendo
Entertainment take the guts out of it
that's why I say like find a broken one
you don't want to use to a good one
because that's classic and then replace
the guts with an actual computer
motherboard like that looks like it'll
be about the right size for an NES
that'll be I'm amazing you mad then you
got your any acid a convert it to a USB
controller or something putting a USB
port in the front and that would we need
I would like that although I'm noticing
at the top there of that it says
exclusive to maplin in the UK hey now so
we have to actually order this through
Roy w Nash so Roy's taking orders I will
take 10 let's just see how much they
actually cost ya shipping to Canada
would be brutal yeah that's cool thanks
for sharing I posted that the chat room
i will put a link for you in the show
notes for episode number 363 time does
fly by hey chat room nobody called us by
the way we have a phone specifically so
you can call us call us were lonely 2545
cat5 TV we're actually at a time but i'm
just giving you a hard time yes
get over to studio doc cat nope army
category 5 no one of my cat five TV /
studio Kevin bring your own website
alright well that's one of them but a
million of them it's been about at I
mean it to be fair to me cat five dot TV
/ studio I've been there all hours today
I actually took the night off at the
studio I was this close because there's
so much work to be done before the
weekend I was this close to saying we
need to pre-record something and just
put it up because there's no I just
didn't even know if I could make it
today it's that busy at the studio where
is sanding getting the drywall up doing
coats getting ready to prime getting
ready to paint it's so exciting can't
wait to take you there and you can get
over to cap five dot TV / studio to find
out all that we're doing check it out
please help support the project as well
and thank you to those who have already
and continue to do so it's all the time
that we have practically folks yes just
a few seconds to give shouts out in the
chat room I see Ryan 512 nice to see a
DJ quad as well and I mentioned that it
kind of flew by but Pete 48 629 it
hasn't been on IRC for quite some time
so being into our chat room here which
is hosted on an IRC server freenode kind
of takes takes them back I gotta say it
is a little bit old school I had to
retrain myself and all these old IRC
commands from the 90s oh boy when I kind
of took over so and I'm still kind of
relearning here Pete so yeah totally
takes us back but it's still exactly
like it was yep still awesome still
reliable still works really really well
so three node we are category five on
freenode that's our camera or you can
just get there through our website which
is cool we've got a web-based chat room
as well they can just bring it up on our
interact menu you see the chat room
there you can join us at any time
participate in contests and things like
that very cool kelty it's always nice to
see ya see appreciate your coming to the
show tonight and I'm excited about
studio D I think probably and I talk a
lot about studio D because it's really
my whole life when we're not working its
revolving around studio D right now most
of those of you who have been following
know I think the next time that you come
to the show you'll probably be in studio
D probably be in studio D zone that
unreal folks that's crazy it's unreal
exciting so we gotta go I gotta go do
some sanding so oh boy great night I'm
enjoying it I'm learning a lot
thanks everybody thank you yeah boy we
hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
