[Music]
tonight we're looking at a program
called the GNU image manipulation
program it's short form is called the
GIMP and you can find out more about it
at gimp.org gim P and what is cool about
this okay you've all heard of Adobe
Photoshop correct and it's pricey it can
cost a lot of money if you want to do
some image editing we've all used
Microsoft Paint we've all used you know
whatever is that our disposal to do
basic image manipulation
well the GIMP is very very good it's
like a professional image editing suite
but it is available for how much money
how's that for an infomercial we're
selling it tonight we're giving it away
for free for all time they've been doing
this for 20 plus years and and it is
evolved obviously in that amount of time
to a full suite it's fantastic right but
it's hard to get our feet wet it's hard
to jump into a new program it always is
so tonight we're going to show you some
of the very most basics just to get you
started using the GNU image manipulation
program well you know that we are Linux
lovers and so you're thinking to
yourself I don't have Linux and you know
do I have to install Linux in order to
get the GIMP yes yes you do no you don't
I'd like to say yes and please do and
and we would encourage you to try Linux
but the GIMP is available for Windows
Mac and Linux absolutely free
okay so and truth be told if you're
nervous about Linux which you shouldn't
because it's amazing but if you're
nervous about it perhaps and starting
with something like you could get you
thinking oh wait there is there are
programs available start to say the
alternatives out there and realize hey
LibreOffice is actually a really good
word processor an excel cell compatible
spreadsheet program and and the GIMP is
a really great image editor so
mmm all right so let's check it out I'm
gonna bring it up on my screen that is
the GNU image manipulation program I've
got a just a picture that I've loaded up
there and there's a couple things that I
can see that is wrong with that picture
first of all we can see that it is it's
been taken with the camera kind of Wow
it's crooked it's sideways it's whatever
I want to fix the orientation of that
image so that's one of the first things
we're gonna do so let's get into it all
I need to do to familiarize myself with
the GNU image manipulation program is
get used to the right click and the left
click working together for us so you'll
see you know there are menus up here and
all that kind of stuff and there are
tools over here that are very very
helpful but a lot of the stuff that we
need to do is done just by right
clicking on the image and then we can
find what we're looking for now I am
using what's called single window mode
just to give you a nice kind of
experience out of the gate and that is
turned on by clicking on Windows and
then single window mode and I'm using
gimp 2.8 there is a newer version that's
available in betta and you know I've
encourage you to use what's stable as
you get into it as you get started okay
so simply right clicking on the image
and then going to image and then
transform I'm going to see a couple of
things that are I'm gonna commonly use
I'm going to use these quite often so
it's important to familiarize yourself
with where are you gonna find these
things so right clicking and image is
where you're gonna find a fair bit of
the things that we're gonna look at
tonight first of all I want to change
the orientation because it is its
vertical for some reason so transform
and all I need to do is I need to rotate
it 90 degrees clockwise and there's my
image so as simple as that it's done and
done three times the other way yeah
exactly
now if I press 1 on my keyboard it zooms
way and what that does is it shows me
the image in its full resolution so
that's the actual picture you can see
that it's pretty high resolution well
Robby how high of a resolution is this
image traditionally it can sometimes be
tough to figure that out well if you
look at the GIMP interface right up at
the top here it actually always shows
you right on the on the title bar
so this one is 34 36 by 1933 so it's
good high resolution my 1080p monitor is
1920 by
ten eighty so if I want to use this as
my desktop wallpaper I need to get
familiar with what's called cropping now
we're gonna look at resizing tonight too
but if I were to take this image and I
was to resize it watch that castle in
the background there if I took that and
I go 1920 by 1080 now it is proportional
that's a fluke that's fantastic but if I
did that and then hit scale now the
image has been scaled down to 1920 by
1080 this is just a fluke that it
happened to be 16 over 9 just like my
monitor but you'll see woah the castle
is really really tiny in the background
there I don't really need to focus on
these cars over here so what I'm going
to do instead is I'm gonna do what's
called cropping I do want that 1920 by
1080 resolution but I want to focus on
in on the castle we're not going to zoom
in on it because then it's gonna get all
grainy do you see that I'm not sure how
well that translates but it starts to
get really grainy if we were to zoom in
see ya so if I go back to 1 to see it at
full size and then I right-click and I
go image canvas size instead of image
scaling I'm going to now set my width to
1920 and my height see how it's it's
done that right I can drag around but
now it's it's this weird it's this weird
shape if i zoom out a bit see that yeah
so instead I'm gonna go canvas size 1920
by 1080 is my resolution of my screen
and that is 1080p so it's created this
little box here to show me what I'm
actually going to be cropping into so I
can move the image around and I can put
the focus on the the castle on the hill
there you go I love that feature that's
something that I find Photoshop is
really lacking in is that canvas kind of
cropping tool I really love the ability
to to move around on that canvas figure
out where I want it and then hit resize
remember I'm not actually rescaling see
the canvas is actually see that dotted
line that's the original image size Oh
but now I've cropped it to exact
in 1920 by 1080 the cars that are along
this dirt area here are gone but the
focus is now on this castle yeah yeah so
there you go so this is now 1920 look up
at the top 1920 by 1080 well let's say
we have a 720p need or maybe we're going
to post this image on our blog now if I
was going to post it on my blog and it
was about the castle itself I may want
to get in a little tighter let's turn on
proportional cropping for the canvas
size and let's set this to something
like 600 and look at how tiny that is
now I can get right in there and I'm not
changing the resolution like I'm not
changing the dots per inch of the image
so now if i zoom in that's the that's
the full resolution of that original
image it's just that I've cropped out
the sides so see that it's the same it's
just I've cropped out the sides if
however I want to keep the the entire
scale like I can see all the stuff
around I can see the hill I can use
image scaling instead so image now that
I've already cropped it scale image and
this is where we do need to make
absolutely sure that we have this
proportional linking enabled yeah so if
I do let's say I do 700 there it
automatically changes the height to 394
which is 16 over 9 to 700 so if I didn't
have that set watch what's gonna happen
and you may have this happen if you
forget to enable this link here let's
change this to 600 and then hit scale
notice it left the height as 1080 so now
my castles gonna go weird it's gone
squishy so that's why proportional
linking is really important between the
height and width if you are scaling you
don't need to do that if you're cropping
so now if I change this to 700 it's
gonna create a smaller image I've linked
that together 394 is my width or my
height pardon me 700 is my width now
same picture only smaller
yeah it's 16 over 9 which is the you
know the widescreen of my display but
it's smaller now so perfect for
uploading to my blog or whatever else if
I go that is the full size of
as you see it on the screen right now so
as I mentioned if I wanted to I could
crop without using proportional scaling
let's say I need a perfect square so now
we've got 700 by 394 I could go 394 by
394 and now I can move around that image
just like this this is again an image
canvas size okay so we found that with
right-click image canvas size so now I'm
going to create notice I've turned off
the link so that doesn't change the
height automatically I've changed this
to be exactly the same as the height and
I've dragged this to move it around and
now I'm gonna get this nice little
thumbnail that is a perfect square okay
so I think there are good use cases for
that so that's really quickly you know a
couple of little tips for you tricks to
quick image editing but the one final
thing that you need to be able to do is
now save your image we need to use it
online we need to be able to actually
put it online and it can be a little bit
daunting and confusing if we're not
familiar with the tools at hand
typically we're used to saying save as
and if I do that it's going to default
to this xcf format and xcf' is the gimp
format and it is like a P PSD okay
Photoshop document so it contains the
layers and everything else it's not
something that you would upload to a
website like a JPEG right is that
because it would just wouldn't be
readable as it it's so that you can then
use that file and edit again so let's
say I put some text over top of it by
saving it as an XC F so save as now I
can go back and change the text without
having to redo all the cropping so it
can be very very handy and it's a good
way to keep master files and things like
that but it's not ideal for what we need
here which is to upload a square image
to our blog so instead I'm gonna go file
and we're gonna go export as be careful
not to click overwrite because if this
isn't like a family image that you've
just cropped and changed you want to
leave the original image as it is and
save a second copy that's all kind of
part of our backup abilities so now I'm
going to call this you know square if I
could spell that would help square
Castle
image dot jpg it's important that I
specify the extension JPEG is something
that's going to be compatible with web
so it defaulted to a particular
compression or quality 100 means this is
going to be the best quality that this
image could possibly be it's also gonna
be big right how big it's at 394 by 394
it's a pretty small image but we can
actually shrink this down quite a bit so
let's show an image preview and that
preview is actually going to tell us the
size of that image so see this one
hundred and ninety nine point five
kilobytes now if I go down to 99 percent
it just dropped to 168 98 is 135 for a
picture well it depends on what you're
doing with it and how big the images
this way like scale wise okay if it's
for print you want to have really good
quality like go with 98 percent and just
let it fire but when it comes to the web
you want to find that happy medium if
you're emailing photos to family and
things like that you want to find that
happy medium for hey it's a pretty small
file it's gonna email real quick and
they're not gonna be annoyed that you
know they just got this on their LT in
or having to pay recently married person
who has all these really big feature you
want to send them if I want to send to
somebody what size should they be well
again
depends on the scale but so in this
particular case I don't think it's a
number it's not like it how many
kilobytes how many megabytes obviously
email is limited to like you know if you
go over five megabytes some email
servers will still bounce that back 25
is pretty normal but if you go over that
it's probably going to bounce and it's
gonna take a little bit of time is gonna
annoy people but what we want to do is
not find the file size per se we want to
find that happy medium of hey I can't
tell the difference in this preview
window between let's see where I start
to tell the difference
I'm starting to see the difference it's
starting to go a little bit grainy I'm
gonna go up to 70 so 70 is forty two
point three kilobytes and I can't tell
the difference between 70 quality and
100 quality 100 quality is one hundred
and ninety nine point five kilobytes so
if you can tell the difference between
them
good Anya I can't tell so now I'm happy
with 70% quality so keep in mind the
lower the quality the more the
compression okay the worse the quality
see that I can see that but up at about
70 now even thirty nine is looking
pretty good but I can see a difference
between that and a hundred so if I go
back up to 70 it looks real good it's
perfect it's forty two point three I'm
gonna hit export and now I've got a copy
on my desk top of that image and there
it is beautiful so now I've got the
perfect scale the perfect shape and the
perfect file size for that image and
that's all done using a free program
program now these are really really
basic kind of get let's get into image
editing steps right to show you that hey
you know this can be used to scale your
photos and and resize them and put get
them ready for your website or whatever
else you want to do posting them on
Facebook if you're you might want to
make them a square for face into this
and want to download this super awesome
program we have lots of past episodes
we sure do we can find a lot of good
resources on our website category 5 TV I
guess just click on search and type in
GIMP
jimp there's like a plethora of give
tutorials it's incredible probably knows
FaceTime
so check it out gimp.org is the website
where you can download it for free if
you are on linux you can get it in your
repositories just do an app to install
gimp or however you love to install your
packages
[Applause]
you
