welcome to category five technology TV
this week okay we've got another
Kingston DataTraveler 2000 to give away
so if you cast your ballot it could be
you speaking up Kingston we're gonna be
speaking with Cameron from Kingston
Technology and he's gonna be sharing
with us about their new enterprise level
SSDs we're gonna be learning all kinds
of things about how innovation has been
moving forward with Kingston with SSDs
in the enterprise so like raid arrays
how is garbage collection working well
that's a question that I'm gonna be
asking so stick around we've got a lot
of great information coming right up our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show I'm Robbie I'm Sasha
it's episode number 601 thank you so
much for being here with us this week
we've got a great show planned before we
get into it I want to do a quick
check-in on our ad blocking server from
episode number 5 199 it's a DNS app
block you're using piehole on and now I
installed it on an O droid hc1 right a
ka home cloud one really cool device we
stuck a Kingston SSD in there and it is
it's doing a fantastic job for us with
this device we well I was shocked to
find that I had nearly well 40% of a
little more than 40% of the websites
that are being accessed according to
this device are being blocked that's
incredible
and last week that was my reaction what
is going on like what are we surfing for
that has that many ads that 40% is being
blocked and as it turns out Sasha I
found that my
cryptocurrency mining tools were
actually the the so the the
cryptocurrency pools were part of the
block list by default in piehole so my
cryptocurrency hashes we're actually
being rejected by my DNS server and so
they're going into the abyss and it's
just wasted cryptocurrency hashes can
you just take them out of the block list
there well that's that's what I need to
do next so my next step is to see if I
can figure out while I can from the logs
but see which cryptocurrency mining
pools are being blocked okay and add
them to the allowed list the whitelist
right and see I want to see if that
overrides the blacklist right if if it's
as simple as that I'll be a very happy
camper otherwise I've got a nitpick
through these default lists probably
fork them on github and figure out where
it's being blocked and actually modify
that I'd like to figure out which ones I
want to whitelist and actually override
write the lists that's my intention so
we are seeing that the ads are being
blocked throughout our network which is
fantastic Internet is running faster
than ever before because it's not
serving up advertising on our internet
service at home right but I want to get
that result because I'm basically
throwing cryptocurrency hashes into the
wind would there be any reason it should
or they just got kind of I guess they
got put in there they got punched into
the list yeah yeah I guess you know
sometimes the cryptocurrency can be
misconstrued as being malicious when
it's benign and so if you're actually
using crypto current and maybe maybe
it's to protect people who aren't
actually crypto mining from being like
infiltrated and from being exploit yeah
so that people aren't using my bandwidth
in order to crypto mine for themselves
right I don't know but I'm gonna see if
I can get that fixed so Before we jump
into tonight's show I want to remind you
to subscribe to us on YouTube and also
you can click that little bell and that
will help you to receive notifications
whenever we're live or whenever we post
new and exciting content
tonight we've got a fantastic show
planned for you Cameron Crandall is a
senior technology manager at Kingston
and he helps to lead the engineering
efforts and the new and current products
and he also serves as the technical
adviser for Kingston sales marketing and
public relations lately he's been
instrumental in overseeing the launch of
Kingston's new lineup of
enterprise-grade solid-state drives
Cameron thank you so much for being here
with us this week Thank You Cameron I've
got some great questions for you we want
to go right into it
first of all businesses demand fast
performance from their storage whether
it's an in-house server hosting Network
shares or perhaps it's an internet
facing web server IT admins like myself
we've got a need for speed my man
probably because realistically when
things get slow it's us who have to hear
the complaints so being a technology
leader yourself kingston must receive a
lot of requests for more speed or higher
capacity from you from your customers so
my question is from your perspective
what our customers looking for and i
guess how is that influencing Kingston's
innovation as well so yeah great
questions so yeah both capacity and
performance are our drivers in the
industry today
specifically in the data center what
we're being asked for is definitely
higher capacities but also performance
consistency from the SSD in the data
center there's very much now a
distinction in performance between what
a client SSD delivers and an enterprise
SSD delivers and over the last I'd say
three to four years this concept of
performance consistency and what they
call QoS or quality of service has
really become key to the buying
decisions you know by IT administrators
and storage architects so
they're not necessarily looking for peak
levels of performance they might find on
a datasheet but give me that performance
consistently right yeah now when I hear
QoS quality of service I think about my
internet connectivity you know we're
doing this interview over Skype so we're
using QoS technology in order to
delegate packets so that our feed is
really good during the interview so how
does QoS play into solid-state storage
so it's funny you mentioned that the
term QoS actually came from Ethernet and
a networking bandwidth it was the the
the guarantee quality of service or
performance you would get from your
internet provider so it's been that term
has been adopted by the SSD industry but
it relates to the consistent delivery of
i/o performance from the SSD and latency
performance so what a datacenter
customer wants in their storage device
today for server workloads is consistent
levels of i/o delivery from the SSD as
well as consistent latency we can't have
big latency spikes in our application
and we can't have I Oh cliffs occur that
show up in the end applications
somewhere because that's a you know a
poor experience on a website that is a
ecommerce site that is slow where you
potentially have a buyer that moves away
from the site and goes and purchases
somewhere else so sure datacenters today
are really looking at and designing
their own test to test SSDs for this
performance consistency we cannot
deliver a client SSD to a data center
customer like we could you know five six
years ago today they're demanding and
this level of performance consistency
your storage devices that they're buying
yeah and I think that that's probably
being pushed by like we're using
virtualization more than ever we're
using network-attached storage and I
scuzzy devices more than ever so this is
shared resources against many different
servers many different
web services databases and things like
that so that consistent speed is is
really important to us in the data
center and in business Cameron can you
tell us what's got you personally really
excited about the new Kingston data
center DC 500 SSDs and also kind of how
they differ from previous generations of
the drives sure so we've we're probably
best known for client and consumer SSDs
in the marketplace um if you if you were
you know in an industry event and you
asked somebody what they thought of
Kingston SSDs they'd probably say hey
they're a great you know client or
consumer brand and I might find in a
retail out gaming my friend me I'm
gaming it yeah but we have been selling
enterprise-class SSDs for the last
probably five or six years but our
product portfolio has been quite small
we've had kind of one or two drives in
that segment and we've got you know
great a great customer base from our
DRAM relationships and we've been able
to sell our SSD our enterprise SSDs into
those into those customer bases now
moving forward with this new DC 500 line
that we've just launched we've added two
drives to the line and we have three
more drives coming out before q3 so
we're really exciting the line yeah and
really going after different tiers of
enterprise business
we're heavily focused still on SATA
today even though nvme is kind of the
big buzzword we're finding that in in
the in that in the typical channel that
we sell to there's still a lot of serial
ata being used in data center servers a
lot of the tier 2 and tier 3 cloud
companies are still heavily based on on
SATA yeah so so the DC 500 is is a SATA
SSD offered in two different endurance
levels and then we're going to be coming
out with another product SATA product in
that lineup and then we'll move to two
nvme products to help those same
customer you know heavily on SATA today
transition to NBA Wow okay I want to
circle back to the
but first of all you mentioned that
you've got two different models that are
gonna be coming out so we've got the R
and the M so we're gonna see DC 500 R
we're gonna see DC 500 M so for me as a
c-suite executives looking to purchase
well if one is less money than the other
like where what what's the difference
like why am I looking at an amber saz an
R for example so the R stands for Reed
centric workloads and M stands for mixed
use and those are closely tied to the
endurance level of an SSD so typically a
data center customer that's looking to
source SSDs for their servers and
storage arrays they're looking at
performance and they're looking at
endurance and most data center customers
that are making that purchase probably
already have an idea of the endurance
level that they're looking for in their
SSD so they're looking at either like a
sub one drive right per day SSD or
they're looking for more endurance at
either a drive right or maybe a little
bit over one drive right per day so we
offer two different categories and just
like you said there's a price difference
between those the V R and the M are
being more read centric so if you had an
application that you know was more you
know 90 to 95 percent read/write from a
cost standpoint you'd you know you would
be better off buying a DC 500 R if you
had more of a workload I had a balance
of mixed reads and writes you're gonna
be writing to that drive more so you'd
want it you'd want to outfit the server
with the DC 500 so it's really workload
specific and that we know from industry
analysts that the the majority about 80
81 82 percent of the SSDs that are
deployed into servers today require one
or less than one drive rate per day of
endurance so we're going out that bigger
kind of bucket of business and
opportunity we're not going to be
producing you know 5 and 10 drive rate
per day SSDs that's a very competitive
segment
in a much smaller segment of the market
okay so with onedrive right a day
immediately the thought that comes to
mind is what kind of capacity are we
looking at with the DC 500s so both
models the AR and the M they're offered
at 489 sixty one point nine two
terabytes and three point eight four
terabytes Wow so those are those are
quite large capacity am i right in
thinking based on your description here
what's coming to mind with the UH with
the two different models the are in the
M is that the R is going to be more for
like to say it would be perfect solution
for say a a web host who's exactly we're
uploading files to it once in a while
but realistically it's all read data
it's people visiting the website versus
the is the M would be more for say an
internal storage for my business network
where we're opening a lot of files and
saving those files back to the network
drive is that right accurate that that's
very accurate okay our main customer
base that we're going after with these
drives is the tier two and Tier three
cloud companies the hosting co-pays yeah
they you know they're they're still
heavily SATA today they're you know
they're looking for the kind of a sweet
spot in capacity is nine sixty and one
point nine two terabyte mmm-hmm
we've got some some demand for four four
terabyte but most of the volume that
we're seeing is in that one in two
terabyte capacity range sure when you've
got you've got lots of drives in an
array it's going to give you a much
higher capacity once you've got eight or
twelve drives in there right which
really makes me think now I'm sure like
in an hour standard PC we're used to
having maybe one or two SSDs in there
and and so the difference in power
consumption is going to be negligible
between say an SSD and an old-style
spinning drive but in a data center as I
say we've got each server in the rack is
going to have eight or more
ssds in it or spinning hard drives just
switching those servers so our existing
infrastructure so taking those servers
that have 8 12 24 drives in them if we
switch those to SSDs are we gonna reduce
our electrical usage by any notable
amount yeah absolutely so we we we were
doing these tests several years ago and
when SSDs first came out and we started
putting SSDs into into servers and it
was kind of a two-fold effect you were
getting the benefit of lower power
consumption but your the the performance
you were getting out of the SSD array
was was you know many many times over
almost 200% Wow
what you are getting from from the from
the hard drive arrays you know typical
you know 10 or 15 K rpm hard drive
you know consumes quite a bit of power
right sure so and like you said scaled
up in in arrays of 8 16 and 24 you know
you can you know reduce your your power
footprint by quite a bit by just going
to SSDs and in fact you might even be
able to reduce the number of physical
devices even with an SSD and get more
performance than you're getting with
hard drives right storage arrays and
servers that are built with hard drives
today are scaled out with hard drives to
get performance that capacity may not be
being used but that they're they're
scaling hard drives to get the
performance out of them so if you don't
have to scale that if you don't have to
scale hard drives you're getting the
benefit of reduced power consumption and
greater performance with fewer drive so
it's the concept of doing more with less
yeah I expect that with spinning drives
we have to have them spinning 24/7
because you can't wait for the drive to
spin up it's gonna take between 4 and
maybe 10 seconds to spin up and nobody's
going to wait for a website for that
amount of time so SSDs like Zippity zap
they're always on now we've got to take
a really quick break we're speaking with
Cameron Crandall from Kingston
Technology about their new data center
drives and the state of solid-state
drives in enterprise servers
when we get back we're going to be
learning about how Kingston is
addressing the shortcomings of the aging
SATA interface and how their new drives
deal with latency as well as garbage
collection stick around for a limited
time get your hands on limited edition
shirts from the category 5 TV network
these high-quality shirts are
manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
this week we're speaking with Cameron
Crandall he's a senior technology
manager with Kingston Technologies SSD
product engineering department and not
only does he help to lead the
engineering efforts for new and current
product offerings but he also serves as
a technical advisor lately he's also
been working on bringing you their brand
new enterprise SSDs before the break we
learned about the new data center DC 500
drives but if I'm going to invest in new
storage drives for my company I need to
know how future ready my investment is
and how the upgrade will impact
performance for my business in the years
to come
we need to have fault tolerance that
goes without saying so if a drive fails
we can seamlessly replace it and then
have the array rebuild the data but I've
heard Cameron that in the past trim has
been a problem for SSDs so we'll call it
garbage collection it doesn't
necessarily work well when you put
solid-state drives into a raid array
this of course leads to high latency
over time which is not going to be good
for the data center or the in-house or
server performance but yet the
advancement of technology is still
driving us to replace the old spinning
drives in our server with solid-state
drives so my question for you Cameron is
how is Kingston addressing the issue of
garbage collection and is it something
that we still need to be concerned with
in 2019 yeah absolutely so so garbage
collection is a necessity on any SSD so
you have you have you have you have two
processes you've got garbage collection
which is initiated by the on-board SSD
controller on the SSD itself and then
trim is actually initiated by the file
system because the file system knows
where the invalid data blocks are so it
can send a command to the SSD to do that
housecleaning so the to work kind of
side by side just know that trim is
filesystem initiated which has to be
passed through a driver and on to the
SSD and then garbage collection is an
internal routine that's
on the SSD to keep the drive clean and
the blocks clean ready for new rights to
come in but both processes are trying to
come to accomplish the same thing which
is basically keep the drive in a clean
state so that when new rights come into
the drive it can process those rights
quickly and you don't have latency and
i/o cliffs and a lot of that firmware
tuning that I talked about earlier on
with CUNY tuning for QoS goes into how
we handle a trim command that comes in
from the host and how we initiate
garbage collection to maintain steady
state performance over the drive so
there's firmware techniques that are
used there are over provisioning
techniques that are that are done on the
SSD where we set larger portions of the
flash aside to do these background
operations efficiently so there again I
can't stress enough today in today's SSD
world how different a client SSD is from
a server SSD and tuning for QoS as being
really the key priority at Kingston for
data center SSDs we put a lot of time
into making sure that we're delivering
performance consistently going to your
question about you know trim and being
able to pass a trim command through a
RAID controller right a lot of that has
been solved a lot of the ring
controllers and the file systems now are
compatible and that trim command can
come through to the SSD that sits behind
a RAID controller in the early days that
was not possible but a lot of that has
been solved today fantastic now is attic
is that like a Linux kernel thing is
that something that we have to like is
this hardware related as far as the
backplane goes or is this where does
that come from it's it is in the kernel
okay so software update software perfect
yeah that's perfect
and I want to circle back now before the
break we were talking a little bit about
SATA and how serial ata
is is still being used in
the data center and in business and as I
think about aisle performance and the
overall speed of our servers we're kind
of approaching this point or maybe we're
already there Cameron where Storage
Technology is actually finding a
bottleneck introduced by the controller
itself now your new drives the DC 500s
they're extremely fast but they're still
limited to the SATA speeds
since the typical server backplane is
still using that bus interface so for
those of us whose need for speed is
borderline an on obsession what is on
the horizon as far as something faster
goes you talked about nvme and I think
nvme and the server what could be on the
horizon for us here Cameron yeah so the
great question so yeah we've been
building SSDs with hard drive interfaces
for the last 12 years and there are many
many debates in our industry about this
subject and obviously nvme was developed
to address this problem the issue is
that the the the number of SATA and SAS
sockets that exist in the world today
are literally in the billions so it
makes sense for SSD companies like
Kingston to develop SSDs with interfaces
that have you know literally billions of
opportunities for for socket placement
but definitely so nvme was developed as
a a better interface for flash-based
SSDs the the Tier one data centers that
are out there and these are all the
household names that that we all know of
here
they move to nvme you know pretty quick
actually a couple years ago okay so
their head their heavy nvme today in the
channel though they're still we're still
seeing SATA used heavily primarily
because SATA even though the the SATA
interface is a performance bottleneck it
still delivers very very good
performance
and I would say what we've done was
Satta over the last several years is we
keep improving the SSD technology and
really our little like I was talking
about around QoS and even peak levels of
bandwidth performance we've been able to
really refine the the performance
capability of of SATA SSDs so they've
been able to go out on this long runway
and still be very viable solutions at a
lower price point than nvme today nvme
still carries a price premium over SATA
it is they are coming together but until
until we're until nvme and SATA at price
parity I think you're still gonna see
customers that you know don't have that
that that huge performance requirement
they're gonna stick to serial ata until
they're at price parity or you know the
system manufacturer forces them to go to
nvme sure yeah that's awesome I mean I
can't wait to see what's next so just as
kind of a final thought here Cameron so
let's let's just put a scenario out
there I'm a business exec ed minister
I've already got storage servers in my
rack and I just want to increase the
performance increase the throughput by
changing the drives is it advantageous
for me to pull those old spinning drives
and and switch over to DC five
hundredths oh absolutely I mean there's
an immediate mean justjust like we saw
on the client side I mean it is you know
we all saw kind of a night and day
difference on our persecutors like our
desktop computers laptops switching to
SSDs it's like night and day
absolute is it is so if you were to you
know you know you know put you know four
eight sixteen twenty-four dc5 hunters
behind your existing rate controller
that you're using for with spinning
discs you're gonna see giant giant
benefits in got everything io
performance you know I ops go go
shooting way up bandwidth performance is
going to shoot way up your latencies are
gonna go way down so absolutely they're
there that upgrade model
still very much is is a is a benefit
today very good
Cameron Crandall is joining us from
Kingston Technology Cameron thank you so
much for joining us today and
congratulations on the release of the DC
500 as well we're very very excited
about this this new drive you're welcome
thank you very much all the best we've
got to head over to the newsroom Sasha
thanks Ravi here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom a task force led by Spanish
cops has dealt TV piracy a heavy blow
after shuttering a network of illegal
sports streaming sites operating across
Spain the UK Denmark Latvia the
Netherlands and Cyprus stadia a brand
new game streaming service from Google
has been revealed and it's powered by
open source technology Apple has
unveiled its new TV streaming platform
Apple TV plus at a star-studded event in
California and a self-driving shuttle
service is to be deployed in New York
City by the middle of the year these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week stop
texting
slight linux bias Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you your terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat 5 TV slash dream host I'm Sasha
Rickman and here the top stories were
following this week a task force led by
Spanish cops has dealt TV piracy a heavy
blow after shuttering a network of the
illegal sports streaming sites operating
across Spain the UK Denmark Latvia the
Netherlands and Cyprus police arrested
five suspects and identified eleven
ramshackled data sensors that were used
to provide access to more than 800
channels in the largest operation of its
kind in Europe illegal streaming is big
business a quick online search will find
hundreds of websites that promised
access to big sports events for cheaper
than sports packages from authorized
sources policia Nationale said that the
investigation into this particular
piracy ring started late 2015 after
England's Premier League made a formal
complaint against the streaming website
based in Malaga the cops soon found out
that the criminals were running a highly
organized set up offering services on
subscription with packages priced
between forty and four hundred and sixty
pounds per month euros o euros
subscribers have been identified in more
than 30 countries Spanish police is said
in the statement that the strategy used
by the suspects was u T was to use a
multitude of servers and then change
them periodically gradually creating new
web pages to form a frame framework that
in principle had no relationship in this
way they tried not to be detected by the
National Police and continue
profiting from the crime it is estimated
that the criminal empire earned at least
8 million euros during the arrests the
police conference gate confiscated no
fewer than 12 high-end vehicles so they
were making a ton of money yeah if I'm
making 8 million euros I'm going Lambo I
guess so yeah they're not flying under
the radar that's yeah how does something
like this start I mean there's two sides
to this because there's this side where
these types of streaming services give
people a connection to home so yeah I
can see how so say I moved to the United
States from from an Eastern country
wherever right and and I wanted to be
able to tune into my native language
programming I definitely want to
subscribe to those kinds of services so
that I can access that programming from
home that makes sense yeah like and
similarly here in Canada an anglish
speaking person such as myself who would
be hard pressed to understand any other
language if I moved somewhere that you
know say they spoke Mandarin I would
just be absolutely lost on the if I was
trying to find some entertainment right
and so tuning into a streaming service
from back home in Canada would be
fantastic so what happens when there are
places in the world whose TV networks
are not provisioning that and even here
in Canada so Rogers cable TV right right
if you go to Belize and try to watch
your Rogers TV from Barrie Ontario
Canada
yes it's going to block you because they
use geolocation to say you're not in
Canada so you're not allowed to watch
this right so then we use a VPN tunnel
and all and so on and so forth but then
if my physical address has moved to
somewhere else in the world I can no
longer subscribe to that service because
I don't have a Canadian address right so
it's like this double-edged thing where
yeah there's probably there's a market
for it and a need for it right yeah it
almost feels like maybe the
broadcaster's have got it wrong like
they ever get it wrong but why is why am
I having to subscribe to these services
yeah in order to get my native
programming rights could it could not be
the case that I as a Canadian
english-speaking individual can
subscribe to a Canadian service
broadcast service and watch it from
anywhere in the world like that's the
world wide web quit using geolocation to
block me no matter where I am I want to
be able to access it and use it and
subscribe to it and so so that maybe
pushes the end consumer to try some of
these illegal services which then boosts
their revenues which then you know oh
well I can actually get more programming
for cheaper because it's illegal and
they're doing it all from these
ramshackle studios if you will
speaking of ramshackle studio welcome to
Studio B everyone this is category 5 TV
it's nice to have you here ok so here's
what I was thinking about it and I
wasn't thinking in terms of the world
wide mists of it I was more thinking
about the money side so they're making a
ton of money off of these these illegal
piracy streaming services like so people
are paying for the service but they're
probably paying less than the pumped-up
prices that are being charged they are
right that's a big problem so I think
that maybe the argument could be just
that the prices are too high in the
legitimate field because it's not that
people aren't paying they still are
paying what the pirate who are they
paying though they're paying yeah the
copyright holders the the content
creators are not the ones getting paid
for this right so if they were to lower
their expectations a little bit like if
they were to lower the bar and charge
slightly less they could be able to
compete with it I like the way you think
let let illegal content drive down the
price of legal content but I don't think
that's the way it works but maybe if the
legal content were provisioned in such a
way that I can use it I mean and
chatroom which you can't see during
the newsroom but maybe you think that I
have no clue because it's all copy
written material and and Canadian
content is licensed for Canadian
distributorship and so on and so forth
but yes I understand the CRTC and I
understand regulations and
telecommunication regulations and things
like that but could they not say okay
well we're gonna be an international
this is all hypothetical I I don't mean
this should be the way I mean in our
world that is interconnected via the
world wide web should it not be the case
where our broadcasting companies are
pursuing being able to remove the
borders so whether that be copyrights
whether that be MPA or RIA or whatever
CRTC that we would remove those borders
and say okay you're a Canadian citizen
or you are an American citizen or you
are from wherever you are therefore
legitimately allowed to access the
content from the broadcast networks of
that country that's common sense to me I
like that I like that right I don't know
it doesn't address the fact that piracy
still exists piracy exists and and I
feel like piracy will always issues if
these structures are in place that block
you but there are a couple of things
that drive the piracy industry one of
those being cost is cheaper so people
can get the service cheaper but the
average consumer the the other cause of
piracy being supported is because I
can't legitimately get the content that
I desire right I buy DVDs from Amazon co
uk and bbc.co.uk/topgear up mm-hmm
so if I put them in a Canadian player it
doesn't play so I have to
crack those disks it's ridiculous
it kind of is I don't get it like I just
don't just should for those who
legitimately pursue the content there
should be no borders right as simple as
that we live in a world wide web
connected world I'd vote for you Robbie
absolutely has nothing to do with they
just shut down a piracy ring but you got
me going stadia a new a brand new game
streaming service from Google has been
revealed and it's powered by open source
technology long rumored but only
formally announced at games developer
conference last week the cloud gaming
service promises to let gamers game from
pretty much anywhere they want see ya
there's no stadia console no box you buy
and hook up to your TV instead games run
from a data center and are streamed to
you via the Internet games can be
streamed at up to 4k and 60 frames per
second depending on your connection of
course the dream of playing triple-a
games on stadia on your crummy
downstairs TV your mid-range Android or
laptop running Linux and Google Chrome
is now real Google designed a custom
controller to accompany the service the
pad has built-in Wi-Fi and microphone
plus dedicated buttons for streaming
games to YouTube and opening Google
assistance in all it's kind of like a
more varied and more fancy and more
accessible version of PlayStation now
which is itself based on the short lived
on live service Google has yet to reveal
details on pricing and availability but
has said stadia will launch this year in
the US Canada UK and most of Europe I
love the idea of streaming gaming
service and we're finally probably there
I've seen some startups try this service
like these types of services and fail
because the technology just wasn't there
now Google of all companies being able
to provision Gigabit Ethernet to homes
and and everything else like the
structure that they have it's wonderful
you know that I'm like a lover of like
pretty much every way you could play a
game I this will be something that I
have I go for me buddy yes oh I want to
collect all the different ways yes Gabe
so thank you this does away so
medicinally now we've had this talk
sorry backing up so not traditionally we
had this talk
yeah a few weeks back about how platform
maybe it was a while ago but how I can't
play a Nintendo switch game
cross-platform on an Xbox one and X and
so it becomes this like okay you've you
can't my kids can't play with their
friends if they don't have the same
gaming system exactly this does away
with that and I love that again I'm all
about removing those borders and and
removing the restrictions when I
legitimately own content I feel like
there shouldn't be restrictions on that
content so this takes those games takes
it away from you needing to have a
super-powerful gaming rig or a
super-powerful gaming console system
yeah and instead puts it in the data
center mm-hmm puts it on Kingston DC 500
SSDs of course yeah and and fires it up
and it's playable through a streaming
media connection I don't know if there's
gonna be high latency I imagine Google
of all companies would have thought of
that there's gonna be you know it's
something out there they're definitely
gonna work out but you're actually
playing it on their servers and their
servers are streaming the video in 60
frames per second back to your screen so
I can take it from my laptop mm-hmm in
Chrome to my TV to my phone to my
whatever device let's say and it there's
no restriction on the platform it
doesn't it doesn't make a difference I
feel like when we talk gu --gel listens
like i just feel like they have they do
sorry I had to say it yeah
yeah but like it's exactly what we need
remember that microphone controller yeah
yeah they're listening they're listening
it's for gaming and so you can talk to
the children in fortnight yeah that's
what that microphone is there for we're
not getting all Shady on it I really
love this idea completely and we'll be
getting one of these now do you know how
so we've talked about cloud based
services and now cloud based gaming
that's what this introduces and it
doesn't matter if your friends are on
whatever platform exact whatever device
I can be playing it on my laptop my
daughter can be playing it on her phone
my son can be playing it on the TV
downstairs and you could be in the same
battle we can be playing together yeah I
love that that's where the internet
thing can take us right and they're
finally starting to catch on to this
Sasha they're finally catching on thank
you for listening Google has unveiled
its new TV streaming platform Apple TV
Plus at a star-studded event in
California Jennifer Aniston Steven
Spielberg and Oprah Winfrey were among
those who took to the stage at Apple's
headquarters to reveal their involvement
in TV projects commissioned by the tech
giants the platform will include shows
from existing services like Hulu and HBO
apple also announced that it would be
launching a credit card gaming portal
and enhanced news app the event was held
in California and Apple chief executive
Tim Cook was clear from the start that
the announcement would be about new
services not new devices it is a change
of direction for the 42 year old company
there's been a lot of anticipation about
Apple's predicted for what foray into
the TV streaming market dominated by the
likes of Amazon and Netflix the Amazon
Apple or the Apple TV Plus app was
unveiled by Steven Spielberg and will
launch in the autumn Spielberg will
himself be creating some of the material
for the new platform he said other stars
who took to the stage included Reese
Witherspoon Steven Corral Jason Momoa
alfre woodard
comedian Kemal and the nun G and big
bird from Sesame Street oh well if Big
Bird was there Big Bird was there so
it's golden the app will be made
available on rival devices for the first
time coming to Samsung LG Sony Vizio
Smart TVs as well as Amazon's fire stick
and Roku the subscription fee was not
announced and notably absent from the
launch lineup was Netflix which had
already rolled itself out of being part
of the bundle as far as the Apple card
credit card goes it will launch in the
u.s. this summer there will be both an
iPhone and physical version of the card
with a cash back incentive on every
purchase the credit card will have no
late fees annual fees or international
fees says Apple pay VP Jennifer Bailey
it has been created with the help of
Goldman Sachs and MasterCard so ha Apple
yes has this tendency we think of them
as innovators but they have this
tendency and if you look at their
history this is true you'll find to
follow but when they follow they clobber
yeah competition so when the iPhone came
out Nokia was the leader and they where
are they now right right when so now if
so Netflix is not a part of this well
obviously because guess what Netflix is
getting ready because they know Apple
follows they perfect and they and
somehow they they they manage they get
the ball
yeah but now with this being available
on other devices so I can put this on my
Android device too yeah we're not
limited to an Apple TV piece of
equipment or an Apple iPhone piece of
equipment right so now all of a sudden
success is really smart and I I've I've
not been an Apple person myself no but
this is smart and I like that it's
conniving I know I'd like to see you
it's just work I'm just team Netflix and
I feel like I don't want them to go
Netflix has been doing some really
awesome things in Amazon is really
starting to pick up with Prime and we're
starting to catch on to that as well so
to have a third player's a good thing
but that it's Apple we know they're just
gonna command &amp; Conquer I will say one
thing the whole credit card thing
confuses me but yeah it's like and also
we'll have a credit card oh yeah by the
way here you go I did you know what they
get every student to have an Apple
credit card they will and it's like it's
like the McDonald's advertising when
you're free it's it just gets in your
head to the point when you're an adult
that's all that you just you know it so
probably you could pay for Apple TV plus
with your card and get a discount on it
right probably it's the way it happens
that's how they get you okay well you
can do this like shopping with the
Starbucks app right you know what I'm
saying right so but I something we'll
see we'll see we'll see will you
subscribe to Apple TV plus they're
really original with names by the way
yeah just waiting for the iPhone plus to
come out but the Apple TV plus are you
gonna be a subscriber I mean Oprah is
gonna be on that yeah Reese Witherspoon
that's another thing just to back it up
for a second another thing where all of
a sudden red flags go up for me is when
it's that star-studded
that means like that means that they
know that the product itself might not
sell itself they need to like pay a
bunch of people to come and talk about
how awesome it is I'm just saying will
you subscribe comment below that's all I
ask
i self-driving shuttle services to be
deployed in New York City by the middle
of the year Boston start-up optimist
ride will run on vehicles on private
roads at the Brooklyn Navy Yard site
located on New York's East River the
shuttle will help workers get around the
large site self-driving vehicles are
being widely trialed around the world
but vehicle sometimes crash and some
regulators have halted tests
the cars are designed to operate in
environments of 25 miles per hour okay
yeah I can see this working really
really well at campuses or like we've
heard of using autonomous vehicles and
zoos right and things like that like
that just makes sense Colleen when I
want to go visit her in Vancouver yes
they use the sky train the sky train is
unmanned it's it's is it is it
autonomous or is it like controlled by a
remote person looking at a camera I
don't know what I do know is you can you
can sit as though you are the driver
like it the whole thing there's not a
spot right well right so she sometimes
will pick that spot but then it's
unnerving because then you realize
there's not a person operating it right
and the only time that they ever need
people operating it at all is if there's
bad weather and it's just for the person
to press a button to say oh no that's
just snow in the way you can keep going
like yeah I'm absolutely picturing
somebody sitting eating Donuts like
Homer Simpson pushing the buttons like
throttle up throttle down yeah that's
really cool let's take a really quick
look at coin gecko the cryptocurrency
report for this week from category-five
TV and this is the market outlook as of
1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday the
27th is it the 27th of March already as
far as when we're broadcasting live
Bitcoin has gone down just a little bit
again at this at this value $4,000 plus
$3 loss is pretty minimal that's you're
not gonna feel that folks like coin
however has gone up a little bit at $61
which at that saw being a dollar five
plus is quite a gain aetherium is is
down just a little bit at one hundred
and thirty seven dollars and ninety
cents u.s. Manero sitting at fifty two
dollars and 87 cents down dollar 38 us
from last week the little guys stellite
is sitting at one point six one
ten-thousandth of a cent are you ready
for this game
they're a big gainer here turtle Oy oh
no Estella right ok gained over last
week's numbers 0.01 10,000th of ascent
way to go Stella I would call that
static I would call that stellar gained
actually quite a bit considering last
week it was sitting at just 0.7 ten
thousandth of a cent it gained 0.46 in
the past week say so it's up at one
point one six ten thousands of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market never
closes and it's always volatile I will
say I really love the little guys in
this stellite and turtle coin love you
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-5 TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson all
right we've got to take a really quick
break when we come back we do have a
so if you've got your ballots in well
stick around that winner could be you if
you haven't sent in your ballots what
are you doing dude Helen will tell you
how you can qualify for an upcoming draw
as well cigarette
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequents
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV episode
number 601 nice to have you here this
week if you've been casting your ballot
to win a Kingston DataTraveler 2000 now
these things are awesome this is an
encrypted flash drive 64 gigs of storage
and it uses hardware encryption so you
just have to punch in your passcode here
and it will decrypt the drive and then
you plug it into your computer or your
TV or whatever device because there's no
software needed right it's all built in
the decryption the ability to decrypt
the data is built-in to the device in a
hardware level and you know that it's
safe because it also will erase your
data if you put your password in wrong
like 10 times or presumably if someone
steals it from you and punches in or
wrong so it's super cool you got to
remember your own password but for the
for the person who finds it if you drop
this and it's got confidential data on
it and they start pushing buttons it
will wipe the keys which allow it to
decrypt so then the data can't be
recovered it's an awesome little device
this is like whether for business or
personal use whatever just keep it in
your pocket
it is fantastic we've got one of these
to giveaway right now but before I do if
you haven't cast your ballot yet
all you have to do is just email us
right do you remember the address its
contest at category 5 TV yes yeah she's
got a contest at category 5 TV just tell
us your name where you're from where
you're watching from how you're watching
we'd love to hear from you and with that
ballot we're gonna cast you into the
next draw but for those of you who have
cast your ballots so far we've got you
tonight so here we go if you see your
name you're in the running oh yeah good
luck all right Peter yeah Scott Scott
Chad and Joel and Simon look CGI grass
David
William of a data traveler mm is Dean
Myers Dean congratulations you are the
proud new owner of a Kingston
DataTraveler 2000 thanks for watching
category-five technology TV thanks for
casting your ballot and congratulations
on winning all you have to do dean is
send us a quick email just to let us
know where we should ship this to and we
will send that off in the mail this week
all right
that is pretty much all the time that we
have this week I just really quickly
want to say thank you to those who have
been supporting category 5 TV and of
course we are raising funds for our
replacement Wirecast broadcast server
it's on the way out and I'm really
starting to feel it after hours after
the show this week I have to sit down
and do all the editing right it's been
brutal because we've got like a burnt
motherboard whatever else is going on it
needs to be replaced and so we need to
be able to buy the components to do so
and so your contributions thus far have
really been helping to be able to start
bringing in the components I've got a
power supply I've got a CPU cooler
we've got inline motherboard some
storage we've got all the components are
coming in and we've also got to buy the
processor that's pretty expensive in
there like we may there's all kind we're
building it ourselves so it's gonna be a
lot of fun you can't do it right here
but so for those of you who have
contributed it contributed to that I
appreciate it for those of you who are
interested in doing so just head on over
to donate category-five TV we appreciate
that also our patrons you can become a
patron at patreon.com slash
category-five and that's that's it
that's all the time that we have this
week so just a reminder we're on twitter
at category 5 TV I'm personally on
twitter at robbie ferguson if you want
to follow me I follow back also we're on
YouTube as category 5 TV and if you
prefer to watch little edited down
segments of the show you can find Linux
text
at Linux tech show.com you can watch us
on Plex Cody you can get those channels
via our github page github comm / cat5
TV and of course our main website is
category 5 TV that brings everything
together into one happy place so you can
find everything in one spot
category 5 dot TV until next week take
care bye everybody
[Applause]
