hi welcome to new every day my name is
Kari and my name is Jed on today's show
we're going to talk about the fact that
you just even get out of your chair so
join us right after this
[Music]
and we stood
okay and welcome back to new every day
so whether you tuned in we're on the
road again and Jen and I were like hey
we haven't done a road show in a while
so let's just get back in the car and
see where we end up and one of the
things that we wanted to talk to you
about was this whole concept of getting
out of your chair I was on a personal
retreat last week and I received a text
from I'm not sure if it was you or four
lips Miller to me I think I pictured a
sunset the pyramids is there a pyramids
of Barry Barry I did look like the
pyramids of Barry I know I can put the
picture up and she totally was like
check this out and Shelly who he's met
before on the show said yeah I'm
watching it too and I'm on this personal
retreat I haven't really told anybody
where I was because I wanted to be
personal and and so I'm like wow and I'm
looking at it through the window and I'm
like Amateur Night
yeah that's really
maybe I should go check that out and
then it was like Jen you need to get out
of your chair if you're going to go and
experience that sunset I thought do I
really
ah so nice and my chick it's so nice and
my chair was comfortable and the thing
is I didn't really know where the end
point what right I just knew that I
needed to drive West because if you
drive West long enough you're going to
see a sunset right and so in my mind I
just want it to be the very very best I
didn't want to waste my time right and
so often that plays into the way I go
about planning things is like well I
don't want to waste my time I don't know
how to planning to turn out and and I
almost talked myself out of seeing the
sunset that would have been ashamed it
was beautiful it was so I literally am
like let's do this did you get out of
your chair I got out of my chair yeah
and I literally I just checked that on
my iPad the directions that I thought
might get me to where I needed to go and
as it turns out I was in sitting in
Midland or kind of Tang wishing which
are two communities that are very close
together and I just picked a spot on
Georgian Bay that I thought I might see
the sunset you like looked at a map and
everything yeah you're so good I like I
like looking at maps I need to know how
far could I look at the time I
calculated the time to the sunset
because we can do that for everything
for the weather app and I also nurse so
she's not hiring you and I just said you
know what I'm going to do it and so I
literally on the way to the sunset I'm
like dear Lord Jesus dear Lord Jesus
please please and this is how Bowls I
got please hold off the sunset till I
see it and I'm like wait a second what
possible he did that for king hezekiah
in the Old Testament
your pastor and so and that story in the
Old Testament is King Hezekiah wanted a
sign to prove that God really was going
to heal him and the prophets of the like
matter through the shadows yeah well he
wasn't going through the shadow he was
going to ask God but his he was a
mouthpiece for God so God is saying I
cannot enter the court pen scratches or
back pen stuff and there's no problem to
move it forward ten steps it was going
in that direction anyways and so that's
why the king said no no move it back so
he literally moved it back ten steps
which meant the Sun Luna yes
four went on pause right as I fear so no
it would have had to go back you're
right because it moved it back ten steps
and what's interesting as it's there's
documented proof like geologists or
whoever those time people are has a
boundary figured out that we have
misplaced or there's been a certain
amount of time misplaced in the earth
like Joshua's one where he made the Sun
stand still over Gideon and then this is
another time and it's actually
documented proof that night earth had
yes and it's just like that is so
amazing so at least you're going to save
something of it no no I'm thinking about
them how that happened I well you've got
right and that's the cool part so I'm
like okay so excited to stop light and
I'm gonna pull over
oh yeah so you're going to go around the
corner and then just pull off to the
side very good
so anyways I'm on my way and I'm
watching it and the Sun technically goes
down at 8:30
anyways so Mike Lauren just me a Hillman
on Freya please and I got to the spot
and I was like wow wow God is that ever
good so if you want to just like pull
off anywhere here sure I would appear as
a Colt Ranger
sure and I got there it was like that is
so unbelievably beautiful like I could
not believe it was that amazing really
yeah because it's like the beauty of the
Sun type of the winter the beauty of the
sunset was so wonderful and so I just
was like wow I'm so glad I got out of my
chair I'm so glad I got out of my chair
and it just really encouraged me as i
sat there I would have missed that if
you hadn't gotten up I would have missed
that if I hadn't have gotten up like I
was thinking it really struck me of how
many times God taps us on the shoulder
and says I want you to go do this I
wanted to experience this and and in the
thing as I did count the cost like it
was very clang mat Jesus says you know
we are to count the cost right who
doesn't sit down to count the cost so I
did I i sat down and got my motto I
figured out how much time I had and how
long is going to take me and I just went
for it
I'm like I have the time I have the gas
what are you waiting for
I think so often that's what we struggle
with is like oh what am I waiting for
like I was I waiting like literally for
God to write it across the sky yeah and
sometimes I think I know for myself and
for other people it's like we're asking
God to like get up and move us yeah and
yet I've been given like set function
and feet that work and have a car or you
know all God would you just like just
help that person move well I have a car
I can help them move later I can do it
yes and if he's asking us to do
something I just I want to say yes I
agree but that's the hard part it's like
what
those things that hold us back from
getting out of our chairs like that's
like what are those things and so we're
going to talk about that when we come
back we're going to want you to think
that where are those things that prevent
us from getting out of our chairs and
responding to the tap the Lord on our
shoulder so we'll be right back after
this
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
know what you're terrible actor what
does where acting comes into play I
don't know where Isaac you're supposed
to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the route put your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site five sign up cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost still fulfill the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV / dream host hi
everyone thank you for tuning in and I
just want to say thank you so much to
our partners if you go to our website
new read at evening and click on our
partners can you can see all the amazing
people organizations who make this show
possible
yeah when we left you threw it out there
what are the things that keep us from
getting out of our suite right and I
think one of those things that keeps us
from getting out of our C's we just feel
we don't have enough time hmm like our
tanks empty like our tank is empty like
when we just decided to jump in the car
and and head oh we just we just decided
we didn't want to miss this opportunity
and sometimes when we're planning to do
this show it's hard to schedule the time
yes so you're both working we're
indifferent we work in different cities
and just making that happen is really
challenging in the head you know what we
just gotta get in the car and we got to
make it happen but I looked at my gas
gauge empty empty so I'm like we gotta
fill up first now am I ever glad we did
and it's less ya know go ahead
something that's off vault because it's
so it's so interesting because we often
think what am i ready right am I ready
for whatever God called me to do and one
of the things that we often don't feel
ready to do is to talk on the show like
that we so that's you know I like to
have stuff thought through yes yes and
so I when I was on retreat last week I
was reading through two books one one of
the books was called leading on MC by
Wayne Cordeiro and one of the things
that he says is that one of the ways to
make sure that we're always filled up is
that we look after the major five areas
of our lives that none of us ever look
after okay so whatever faith okay
relationship with God
friends family okay self and health now
how are self and health separate self is
like he experienced two years don't ever
think if I'm spiritual to watch movie I
don't ever think it's an spiritual to
just spend some time for yourself
because we because what happens that we
repor ourselves out so much and we give
give give give give give give so we
actually never take any time for self
like a personal retreat and be time for
yourself or maybe you're just going to
bake something because you like to bake
okay or you or you crochet or
you like and like going for a run
because you want to go for a run
so that would be health like what are
you doing to actually pour into yourself
like maybe it is going on a vacation for
being creative or being creating usually
it's the being creative part so playing
like learning how to play an instrument
or sing a song or being a part of a
drama like what is that daughter what is
that thing or what are those things that
pour into yourself and then health is
like and I love the way you talked about
you said you need to make sure that
you're eating properly and that you're
sleeping properly and however I get
busted if you got to eat down pretty
good you don't have to sleep down and he
he's like like as he gets older because
it he says like 9:30 p.m. p.m. looks
pretty good because it's he has like the
scientific um proof yeah to say that the
more sleep we get before or tonight the
better we feel I've heard that yes yes
and it says like his Sabbath would go
from sunup to sundown so it's this whole
idea of redeeming the time on the front
end and I thought about fascinating oh
it would be from sundown to send them
right sundown to sundown and so to
redeem the time on the front end so when
wake up in the morning a little bit
earlier we can spend time to the Lord
and we're ready for the day because our
bodies actually do better if we go to
bed earlier not so we can sleep in he
didn't say so we could sleep in he said
so actually you sort of like adjust your
time and the earlier you go to bed the
better you'll feel early to bed early to
rise makes you healthy wealthy in life
that's I have heard that yeah I didn't
make it out
so it sounds so cool and it's true
though so he said pour into yourself
pour into your health and then you have
your face your family and your friends
and my mom was just up over the weekend
and specifically to go and see my uncle
and aunt and we went to clog them which
is wonderful but as I was leaving I was
like I need to I need to spend time with
my family more often because work can
take over now Carrie is really good at
spending time with her family she did
that I also live close by and that
really helps that is true yeah and so
when they don't live close by how is it
that you're going to spend time with it
like are you going to call them on the
phone or are you going to Skype them are
you going to okay I have a day off so
I'm going to drive and visit them or I
think sometimes even and although this
is an easy way out but writing a letter
or sending an email with some pictures
like just to be engage like if you have
we nieces and nephew sometimes from the
best things you could do is write them a
letter and maybe put some little
trinkets in it and then send it off to
them so they say that you know I'm
thinking about you and so I just found
it so interesting but he said put those
things first yeah and then put work in
around it like schedule that time I know
yes for many people they're like I have
no idea how I would even begin to do
that because like I have to go to work
but I just don't have time but you had a
very interesting sort of oh like an
object lesson yeah an object lesson and
I thought was really clever so it was
this video that I watched and I actually
ended up using this for a project at
University of on time management okay
and it represented different things but
anyways this guy this professor comes to
the front of a class and he's got a
bucket it's a clear bucket and then he
puts some big stones in filled it and
says to the class is it fall and they're
like yeah oh and then you took a
container of pebbles and shook the
pebbles in and they all fit in between
the rocks and said okay now is it fall
they're like yeah well so then took a
container of sand put it all over the
pebbles on the rocks shook it in and so
does it folder like
like or it's really fall out I did a cup
of coffee poured the cup of coffee I
said it's full now and they're like oh
yes and he said the big rocks are what
is most important in your life and they
have to come in first the other things
in your life you know it might look
different for different people that's
never presented pebbles yes they need to
come in after the big things if you put
the pebbles in first right wait a layer
and you try to put the big things on top
and it would overflow it would would be
too full but if you put first things
first I think with CS Lewis said if you
don't put first things first everything
becomes second and there are there are
no more first thing so if you don't
determine what's first in your life and
you're forever chasing after seconds and
many ways I really like this object
lesson about putting first things first
and I think it's in Matthew that says
seek first the kingdom of God and all
these things will right although after
these like it'll be taken care of like
we seek first God and I feel like on the
one hand it's not wrong to watch a movie
in order to take time for you yeah but I
want to be in the place that if God says
no you need to actually give up this
time and do this for this person I want
to say yes right and no it's not wrong
to to crochet or to play music or do
those wonderful things you know what I
mean yes because it says out of you will
flow rivers of living water
it's a filling up and then he slows out
of that way it's just bits of River
right I don't feel like is it fill up an
app or out fill up in a poor out but I
could say on empty
but if Holy Spirit lives in us and it's
like is it not a continual fountain yes
and yes okay looks like we are we are to
be filled up so we can be poured out
because it says there a thorough
scripture says I am empty Lord fill me
up and but yet it's a streams of living
water and yet we know that in a very dry
season that even streams will become dry
like they'll become dried
it's like that's we see it all the time
at the end of a summer right when the
heat has come and yet when the fall
comes again
then the water starts coming in the
winters which are smells and if there's
a reach so I think there's a cycle to
things but at the key it's like have we
majored on the major things which is our
time alone with God always has to come
first so that everything else right so
that we can be ready to do everything
else and so no I want to you know be
ready for whenever God taps me on the
shoulder to go out but it is based on
like you know have I spent time alone
with God first because then we can
always when our when our relationship
with God is full right we've spent time
with him we spent time serving him then
that's good that fills us up to always
have it says to be ready with a word of
testimony and be ready
right but that comes from spending time
with God and so ya know there like I
always want to be ready but part of the
being ready because I think some people
can be like just give give give give
give give give give give and then they
do grudge the giving because they never
pour time into themselves like to
actually take care of the things that
they want to because I think I think can
almost become like a martyr complex
almost like I have to give I have to
give I have to give I have to give like
because God's going to be upset with me
if I don't do it and and so I think and
that's not why God he doesn't want us
with that mindset like if I if I don't
do this because I think sometimes we
might think that God asks us to do
something but at least we see the need
and it's like well I can do that but God
might be saying I know you see the need
but I don't want you to do it cuz I'm
waiting for this other person to come
and do it and as soon as you jump in and
do it then that takes away from them the
opportunity to do it and I see in church
all the time at like you know people who
are doing 6 7 8 9 10 things and you have
a church of 200 people and you only have
10 people serving because they're like
well I can do that
oh I can do that and so it's not to say
stop doing things is to be mindful of
the fact that are you pouring into your
family like are you pouring into your
friends and so it really is this balance
between you know what are the things
that God is calling us to get up out of
our chair and go and do right we want to
be filled up we want to go do the things
God is called see we won't miss out on
anything but have we actually poured in
through those five things enough because
sometimes you know I think we can be so
in the word in the word in the word but
no people interaction oh yeah right so
that's where verse bombing comes in so
Kerry can be like oh I had this
experience family like damn you should
have forgiven them and she's like well
don't you know Kerry that unless you
forgive and you won't be forgiven and
she's like I just want to talk about my
day right but because I think we can be
so steeped in what are what we spent
time with God but we don't have enough
interactions to know how do we live out
the word I had someone described like
Christians when we just like introspect
and we're always just about ourselves
are always all together we're like it's
like when you are here yes it's like a
big pollen really smells bad when you
spread it out and like invest in other
people it causes yes so you need the
both and yeah so we are called to get up
and go out of our get out of our chair
but our hearts better be ready well full
you know when I was talking about the
analogy of the bucket with the rocks in
yeah he poured a cup of coffee on last
and the class said what's the cup of
coffee he says that to say you've always
got time for a cup of coffee with a
friend
nice so this week you're going to have
someone up for coffee you take someone
out for coffee we believe that you
probably have time to take someone out
for coffee or maybe it's over lunch but
you should have that conversation if
some learners or whatever so we want to
encourage you to seek to get out of your
chair
the spend time with the Lord so then get
out and go and do whatever it is it is
on YouTube especially have an extra copy
so when you've left deplete expensive
clothing
fourth gear and then you know
you
