[Music]
this is you everyday with Jeff Weston
and man screws
well hello friends my name is Lawrence
Cruz and welcome to new every day I'm it
was talking off-camera with my friend
James Burgess author of the book here
beyond the breakers and we decided that
we think there's enough in the heart of
this author right now to just go for
another show so thank you so much for
tuning in if you're looking for Jeff
Weston he's away on business
so he'll be back soon and we'll look
forward to huh co-hosting again James
thanks again for coming on the show
my pleasure we we enjoyed the last time
together and I remarked how your heart
was captivating and I loved hearing the
passion seeing it feeling it and that to
be alongside like here's the the book
here's the author this is a brand-new
extra I've never actually had that
privilege yeah and so it's it's a great
thing so thank you so much for talking
to us about the compass it's almost like
a template if you will yeah right of how
to navigate through what this art
mastering the lifetime art of
exploration and it's a great template
yeah and we talk significantly or at
least well about a lot of things but the
southern part of the compass
representing our past yeah and where
people would be stuck and I believe the
word recovery came up there and that's
where if I'm not mistaken like there's
there's a there's something to mine in
this subject in your heart can you can
you enlighten us talk to us about about
this or whatever helps is on your heart
James we look we we give you full reign
here just to speak to us today well when
you talk about recovery we sometimes
will get into that place where it seems
like a never-ending tunnel that we have
to travel down and and it's almost like
well why am I still here why am I still
doing these things why and sometimes we
can actually in our in our Christian
walk we can we can get into this place
where we're always
to the altar we're always going to the
altar we're always trying to lay the
same thing with same thing and there's
nothing that snaps a lethargy or an even
a depressed apathy than purpose nothing
snaps it faster than purpose in my books
so I wrote in the book concept called
deaths destination displaces despair and
what I what I'm writing there is I'm
trying to express that my frustration of
all the wonderful cloudy terminology
that we use in modern church culture is
you know you have a destiny well I don't
know what that destiny is well in order
for you to make progress you have to
actually open up a map and put a
destination on that map and then what
happens is you will guide your ship in
such a way as that it will heighten the
potential of you getting to that
destination your your behavior changes
okay I think okay you're helping me I'm
on to something because yeah I've been
in those meetings where people said you
have a destiny and you know what I
believe it mm-hmm but then like go ahead
and saying okay great I got a destiny
now what yeah and I feel like you're
addressing that well it's not just gonna
be given to you I you know I know that
God has great things for you and for me
and for you
but some of these things just aren't
going to just kind of be handed to you
there there are things in our character
that need to be developed perseverance I
I made the mistake of asking God in
James James where it talks about if you
if you have perseverance you lack
nothing and that was a two-year lesson
that I got we had a we had a breaking of
a business breaking of relationships and
my kids were we're very affected by that
journey but the the end conclusion when
my sons were looking at me with tears in
their eyes to say daddy what happened
and I just prayed this in my own
spiritual walk I just quietly looked
into my son's eyes as a little boy and I
said son money can be replaced time
cannot so destination displaces the
despair so if you if you don't have that
locked in point of progress if you don't
decide
you want to achieve and we work with
people to establish you know weekly
daily you know daily weekly monthly and
then lifetime kind of achievement right
destinations that's what we help people
do so what happens is I ended up taking
that that time as very objective now I
didn't enjoy it it was a two-year walk
and but but the concept of perseverance
is that my life is valuable it's too
valuable to be wasted so when I'm
looking at the world around me and
asking them to pay attention to me for
whatever reason if I don't believe my
life is valuable why should I expect you
just to do the same Wow
right so I'm I'm trying to find that and
I did not have counsellors around me I
did not have treatment people to help me
get through that right so destination
displaces despair no okay jams gonna
sorry I'm getting not at all I just I'll
tell you I'm just also I'm wanting to be
sensitive to what I'm feeling in my
heart here I'm thinking there's somebody
watching quite possibly and you're
you're you're one of these people you've
been dealt a broken situation like James
just said and and like you just said and
it took you two years now and perhaps I
don't know maybe you were spinning or
didn't know were you I I don't know but
for whatever even even if you just from
day one said I'm gonna do something
about this it was a two-year journey
right yeah so these things take time and
yet some of us you know maybe you're
watching or you know somebody they don't
they're not they don't seem to be able
to get out of that place of what I call
it brokenness disillusionment it hurt
all of the above and had a whole bunch
of other things too and James I'm
hearing you say that you have found a
key not now I know you're not saying
it's the only thing but if you've got a
tool that actually helps people get
unstuck is that correct yeah oh my
goodness II I I just feel like I want to
say to someone I like it's it's me I
need this at times hey
we get a highlighter out here for a
second and say we're listening to an
author that God has placed things in his
heart to help people get unstuck from
places that have caused you to be stuck
where your that's not they that you
don't need to be stuck there and that
there's such a privilege to be able to
move forward and now again so picking up
what did you say something displaces
destination displaces despair it's
keeping our eyes fixed now there's
scripture that talks about keeping your
eyes fixed on Jesus the author and the
perfecter of your faith and keep going
I'm just showing a man you know I just
want it I just want to bless people out
there that are attuned to their their
Word of God and I want to bless your
heart today that that in a spiritual
sense fixing your eyes on Jesus is is
that one thing that's going to really
help you win the world or when
temptation does come in well how do you
stop temptation well the the who takes
up your whole field of view so you know
just to encourage you there but but in
life and and when we are impressed upon
to be fruitful in life there are certain
points that we need to establish and
hold ourselves to that path I remember
when I first started my consulting
business way back I really was in
self-doubt and I said well well Lord you
know what what if I made in your image
what part of your image do I represent
and will the world want that and I
created this timeline on my wall in my
office and every day I put my what I
really wanted objectives and then I'd
write down every day what I actually did
to push me forward because I didn't have
a coach I didn't have a counselor to
help me get through that so everything
even yeah while they're doing yeah but
the days that I walked down and I was
going to say you know I'm gonna pop on
my computer and surf the YouTube or
whatever I felt I felt like I didn't
have it in me I felt like a flat tire
that that timeline was a visual and it
was like when I wanted to give up the
timeline said is my life
so cheap that you'll invest all this
time and then in a moment of ration or
guilt or self-pity
I'll just crumple it up and throw it in
the guard
you're speaking yourself with them
that's right so when I'm looking at that
graph if that's what it shouted to me in
this Bureau Oh actually so that's good
coming coming to working with
entrepreneurs and that one of the couple
of value valuable points that I've
learned from my friends and clients and
business is well you know people ask
people what does it take to get to
success right what does it take to be
successful and I had a good friend that
I often quote and he was a very
well-established man in business and
that question is always a shortcut right
it's always somebody trying to attempt a
shortcut to get to success
okay stop walking on my toes he just
said he just calmly looked at the person
and he said learn to endure learn to
endure so that kind of brings out the
concept that if you want a successful
life you want a successful ministry or
you want kind of flourish let's use that
word instead yeah then you need to have
a very very strong sense of the value of
time this is not something you're going
to get back God gives you liberally time
but once you spend it it does never it
doesn't come back so you have to
understand the value of time and that
doesn't mean that we walk around like
you know we're jittery
you know our seconds are going what it
means is I'm not going to waste I'm
going to be very diligent to to to be
discerning how I'm investing my time
okay okay so this is the comment that I
believe you said to your children right
and you repeat what you said like I said
money can be replaced time cannot so I
rather than taking my my partners to
court or whatever the dispute was yeah I
decided that I made the decision and I
did it with my wife's blessing as well
that I I will allow God to deal with
that and I will walk with my family and
be present for my sons that was
important to me oh my so but here's the
second the second connection to the
value oh I'll tell you what what do you
think really quick yeah you really quick
good is self-respect okay we're gonna
plotz right there what a great well
thanks for making not easy friends we're
here with author James Burgess hey
there you go beyond the breakers
available on amazon.com or amazon.ca and
please don't go away come back after a
message from our sponsors Thanks stick
around for more from new every day for a
limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts we left at a place we were
talking about this hyphenated word
self-respect okay man I'm all ears man
can you can you bring us in I think
that's all you need to get started again
yeah tell us about this subject here
what were you saying to us it's it's a
huge discussion in Christian circles
about finding your identity in Christ
and I've always found that that to be a
very big big picture that I almost
nebulous I couldn't really you know
identity and things and it's a journey
III not going okay that but I I was in a
place where and I think it's in the book
here too but I was in a place where I
was praying and I said God you know I I
I don't have anybody you know mentoring
me through to this place of strength I
don't have it I can only depend on you
and you may find yourself in a position
right now where you're by yourself you
don't have people around you that
understand your circumstance
or you feel like they don't so I'm gonna
give you five declarative encouragement
and I'd like to pray for for your
audience if I could my goodness yeah my
heart is open because it'll cap it we'll
finish off with one really huge
encouragement I think we'll set some
people free so and and and for those of
you out there you might kind of go wow
you know it sounds a little ABC is James
but but trust me on this
I'd like to pray for you well I'd like
to say this to see him in reading the
book and being privileged to spend some
time with you in the recent days
listening to you again now James like
hey I'm I'm a believer here no I get it
this isn't just some static nonsense or
formulaic idea and for that I'm very
thankful like I never suspected that it
would be but yeah I just want to say as
well to the odd you who are watching and
it's true like because I would lean on
the side well hang on a second here I
need to be I need to check it out and we
need to yeah but I can commend James to
you here that this is something worth
listening to so we're all ears James
let's let these five declarative
statements yeah so you know in a moment
of crisis I prayed and said god help me
and he spoke into my heart he said James
what you have is precious and so right
now I'm praying for you I'm praying that
you would take the time be honest before
the Lord and journey in your book and
and discover or or meditate on those
ideas of well what are my gifts what are
my talents because God I was made in
your image
and and I have a reason for being here
and what you have is precious and I
challenge you to research the mitten the
word precious and it'll provide a whole
new three-dimensional meaning to the to
that declaration so I pray right now
that what you have is precious
yeah identify it bring it out into the
open write it down and feel it through
the second declaration is that what you
have been given this for a purpose so
father I just pray right now that you
make people's purposes well known and
open so that they could see it in an
obvious way that there is a reason for
the gifts the talents the passions that
they carry and the pressures and
sometimes those those feelings of you
know lord I need you they'll come out
and they'll all merge into a sense of
purpose purpose helps us to put
destination on the map and destination
displaces despair so father the
declaration of what you have been given
is for a purpose I lay that upon our
audience today
the third declaration is where you will
be going is offensive and I know that
word offense carries a lot of weight in
certain conversations but let me just be
clear on this
that your life is not meant to be
stagnant when I say offensive I mean to
take new ground you're not meant to
stand still you're not meant to just
kind of wonder and wander you're meant
to take new ground and sometimes you are
going to offend people by doing new
things but that's ok that's not
necessarily your problem so I just pray
right now that where you're going is
going to be offensive you will take new
ground you will have new purpose so the
forth declaration is what you will
accomplish is awesome
I lay that heavy mantle of expectation
on you because God did not put you here
for nothing he has given and invested
talents into you if you think that you
lack the skill then you go find help
with that you go find something is going
to lead you through that mentor you
through that or push you through that
now what you will accomplish is awesome
not necessarily in the eyes of thousands
and millions of people may not be but in
the live one if you make an investment
in the life of one person God's going to
remember that God's gonna remember you
for that so what you will accomplish is
awesome think beyond yourself invest
yourself in the lives of people around
you so the last prayer I have for you is
when you are finished
you will have no regret father I just
pray right now that you release people
from the disappointments of the past
that the new things that you're going to
put in front of them are going to be
meaningful they're going to be
challenging and they're going to be
blessing on them and and that you will
set them free from the constraints of
yesterday so that they can March and
walk into their preferred future God
there's so many great things that need
to be done in the world today so many
things of influence and people that need
to be invested in I just pray right now
that what you have is precious what
you've been given is for a purpose what
you will where you're going is offensive
and what you will accomplish is awesome
and when you're done you'll be free from
regret so I thank you Jesus for the
patience and the interest of our
audience today I thank you for the work
of my friend Lawrence and yeah amen Oh
James I'm gonna leave you this one last
statement that's already we've got
it's time it's time for us to encourage
our brothers and sisters in the faith
it's time for you to have an attitude of
discovery and not one of continual
recovery
let's go west okay
so no longer can we we have a couple of
seconds what let's get rid of let's not
stay time to have an attitude of
discovery and not continual recovery
it's time that's selfish for us to
continually look to try to get things
perfect you're never going to be
completely ready for anything and
there's never gonna be a completely
perfect time to take a risk so then
let's take the risk
what well what is faith right what is
faith let's do it some of you what a
James thank you for that oh yeah yeah
that's good just leaping from your
spirit like you receive that today
friends I do how about we just say no
longer am I gonna stay some of us might
even wallow actually as I was driving
here in order to do this episode I heard
there was a teaching on on my satellite
radio actually about some people who
just like to stay in pity city that it
become so familiar that there's
comfortable there yeah and I'm hearing
you with grace and with love be that
friend who's going to be honest enough
to say hey take the step out of that
place you don't have to live your entire
life in recovery but instead well okay
great well what does that look like then
how about the spirit of Christopher
Columbus upon us how about that a that
compass or the sails damn the torpedoes
we're gonna win because there's no other
way hey but victory and I think it's
good and some of ya wonderful word of
encouragement I hope you receive it as a
word of encouragement go ahead and get
out of that nest like the little baby
eagle it's time to fly yeah and and they
fly don't they when I and it may feel
scary but what they fly we were talking
just the other day and it was a word of
encouragement to people that sometimes
you stand on the precipice of the big
wide experience
and you say Lord how can I fly I feel
too heavy with baggage I feel too too
broken to be nimble but the Lord then
will remind you that you making too many
assumptions that you were made to soar
and that he will fulfill his promise for
you and in you James I'm glad you got is
there any more oh yes that was worth the
price of admission right there friends
you just made that was amazing
James thank you so much I'm seeing again
that phrase that I highlighted earlier
it's about mastering the art of
exploration and and and you've got the
word the lifetime art of exploration
well said and Lexi that's one of those
sentences where that says it all
like you think man there's no that you
don't need to spit anything out there
you me that's just all good meat right
there mastering the lifetime art of
exploration thank you so much for your
time and giving us of your experience in
these couple of weeks James how long
have you been a coach can you tell us
that I like it like you mentioned
earlier well this is a coaching and I
wanted to dive in but you were rolling
along so good I didn't want to interrupt
yeah now it's over 20 years
why don't you man I'll tell you what you
look good you look good I got to bring
that up yeah you're well know just in
the middle I just actually was wondering
maybe if I could have the number of your
barber would that be okay sorry it's
really cheap I'll tell you what it's so
so great to be with you thank you for
tuning in why don't you consider doing
this share this with a friend I actually
think that what we've heard today is so
valuable you know somebody who perhaps
you think is stuck maybe they are stuck
and we're not saying anything bad about
them but because we we all know what it
is to have man life is constantly
wanting to us to anchor us it's
constantly wanting to anchor us to
places that will keep us from where what
God has intended us to be you know
someone like that perhaps you can say
hey I'd like you to listen to this
effort
so it may be the very thing that just
encourages them to get moving in the the
art of exploration it'll be a
life-changing moment for them and here
it is to the glory of God where I love
your phrase where they'll find their
preferred future in Christ and bring him
glory and honor well thank you so much
each one for tuning in
may God richly bless you and that we'll
see you again next time catch a new
episode of new everyday every Friday
morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku kodi plex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
