welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 329 for tuesday the
seventh of january 2014 happy new year
happy new year here we are the first
show of 2014 mmm better believe it
welcome welcome everyone we love having
you here I'm Hillary Hey oh yeah I'm
Robbie nice to see ya thanks for being
here we are so excited to have you here
because we're kicking off the new year
with some new news some new moves okay
firstly skype has been passed what I
know crazy secondly in town will no
longer use minerals mined in conflict
zones to build its micro processors and
they're rebranding the mcafee antivirus
thirdly Netflix is charging they're
changing their pricing to keep you from
sharing your account you thought you
were sneaky and sharing it but guess
what they're onto you so more devices
means more money and lastly this it has
been apparently been legal to sell
gaming consoles in China for the past 14
years but now a gaming console sales is
finally coming to china after the
government has lifted the band these
stories are coming up later in the show
can't believe that a ban a ban on damn I
can't sell you a console cuz you're in
China is this true folks we're gonna
talk about it tonight we're also going
to be extending the feature set of the
free GNU image manipulation program
making it even that good er yes more
gooder it's a competition for the best
image editing software an alternative
for adobe photoshop we're gonna make it
really really awesome tonight so much
time and so little to do so wait a
minute strike that reverse
thank you and don't go anywhere it's
gonna be a great show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha germain des
Hillary rumble
christo wells Eric Kidd and your host
Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV it's so
good to have you here and let's say we
give away something right off the top of
the show well you know we love free
stuff we love rewarding our faithful
viewers and since the new year we're
gonna start it off right with a special
prize frog from ESET $25 visa card its a
prepaid visa gift card worth 25 smackers
you can use that on anything what is
that is expected some visa card this is
like the prepaid visa right so yeah 25
bucks robot is in the science is going
through yahoo names i cover the number
mmm there it is it's a card under my
finger I gotta get number cuz it's real
cash monies tender right there okay
let's say we change up the music a
little bit let's see let's see who is in
our draw okay so you've been casting
your ballots via email this week live at
category five dot TV I see sense or if
bring cowboy kick again what's beaten up
now it's getting fast harder harder to
read here luck everybody this is for the
$25 prepaid Visa card from ESET and of
course if you're in Canada or the u.s.a
make sure you go to cat five dot TV /
ESET and you'll be able to check out
their product and also make some
purchases there or if you're outside of
Canada us you can also go to ESET com
for international sales cat five TV /
ease
before a $25 visa gift card can't go
wrong with that what will you use it on
if you are the winner many possibilities
picking up folks good luck to all this
is the first giveaway of 2014 hey who's
it gonna be who's the lucky 2014 baby
zone winner is
let's meerkat
you are the proud owner of a $25 visa
gift card from ESET he said calm and cat
five dot TV / ESET that is so fabulous
now I know that's pretty odd off on like
it's obviously awesome for marvelous
meerkat however you're probably thinking
oh man I wish I had a gift card or a I
just why can't I win Wow here's a
scenario where it's win-win all around
with our latest fundraising efforts for
category 5 on our studio build through
fundraiser project we are doing a little
something-something for every bit of
money that you contribute towards our
effort you will be issued a gift card of
the same value for various places so
petro-canada if you wanted a fifty
dollar gift card for petro-canada you
would contribute that fifty dollars but
wait Hilary I need to put fifty dollars
in my gas tank so are you saying I can
donate fifty dollars and put fifty
dollars in my gas tank and it will only
cost me fifty dollars what what I'm
saying is you give you win and catagory
five benefits all in one you're using
money you would use anyway that's the
neat thing yeah you need gas there's
like subway there's starbucks cards
there's a bunch of different ones so why
wouldn't you want to do that I don't
understand so if you want more
information that explains it's a little
bit more die tactically and clear and
shows you how to do it you can check
that out on our website a cat5 TV /
studio I've received your question what
if we are not in Canada or the u.s. in
that case with this particular
fundraiser cat5 TV / studio of course
the gift cards are for canadian and
american company right so you can't
necessarily walk into a petrol canada
and get your gasoline if you're in the
UK so if you're in that situation then
there are a couple of different options
you go to cap 5 t be /c just to make a
standard contribution and we appreciate
every bit of help that that you put into
the show because this is what what keeps
us going but also is what's going to
inevitably help us to expand the studio
and grow into our new studio space
bringing a better camera things like
that but also the other idea that
somebody had shared is well there are
two ideas that come across behind now
first idea was somebody said can i
donate and then have the gift card sent
to the studio and donate the gift card
and I thought that's really interesting
oh so somebody has actually contributed
you know so be at 25 or 50 dollars so
then we get a donation and then the
subsidized gift card arrives for another
twenty five or fifty dollars Wow and
then we can put gas in the tank or
whatever and that helps us to pay
regular bills very kind and then of
course the other comment that I received
by email was you could contribute even
if you're in the UK or wherever if
you're in the Netherlands if you're in
Germany you can donate through cat5 TV /
studio and then have the card sent to a
loved one or a friend in Canada yes and
it becomes a double whammy because
you're provide you're giving a gift to
somebody and you're contributing to the
show when all around so we appreciate
though everyone who has contributed thus
far it's been amazing to see all the
support from our friends world-wide
people and that's why we love the show
is because it is a worldwide show
weren't able to help help everyone from
the Netherlands to Australia to Barrie
Ontario so your room thank you everyone
for helping us out people commenting in
the chat room they love the mug where
can I get one of these amazing mugs I
can tell you it's a little bit heavy i'm
kind of like not shaking as i set it
down it's like oh wow this or something
good mug is that the new category 5 mug
that you can get for like fifty dollars
is it twenty dollars no guys you know
what this is for it really has its a
four-dollar mug and did i mention that
the category five stickers that we're
sending you and that you can also
purchase in the category five store
which is coming later this month what
these are
Lionel they are cool you can stick into
a mug they obviously look good obviously
their dishwasher safe it just keeps
getting better and better it's a new
year people who knew that I would order
stickers that would be dishwasher safe
just for you we go all out here so well
what a hoot what a hoot and a holler
there you go okay if you got a mobile
device go over to m dot cat5 don t be
very important yes because it's awesome
duh so no brainer mcat five TV that QR
code if you have reverse it just a
little bit because you can do that if
you're watching this on an RSS feed
wrong cat 5 DB and you can scan that
with your mobile phone we've got live
video live audio if you want to listen
while you're taking the train and of
course you can watch on-demand video as
well very cool so cool Wow as you guys
know category five dot TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's deck it
is here you can check that out at cat
five TV / tpn and good i'll just mention
really good coverage of CES this week
Podcast Network make sure you check it
out take a little look-see as well we're
also a member of the International
Association of Internet broadcasters and
you can check that at a cat5 TV / IA ib
you still have any windows XP machines
in use maybe at the camp anywhere yeah
maybe ha possibly it's time to start
thinking about it folks april eight
windows XP is no more gone kablooey I'm
gonna have to get on I can't use it past
april eight and some people say oh yeah
you can you can keep using it it works
like a charm it's windows XP okay
windows XP can you believe it came out
in two thousand one seems like a
lifetime ago 13 years we're talking okay
the first iphone was not even announced
until two thousand seven the first
iphone so we're talking six years before
the
phone was even announced Google was only
a small company back when XP came out
400 people work there it was privately
held couldn't even be traded on the
stock exchange interesting 2001 folks so
we're talking really old software but
really what it boils down to there's a
big problem Microsoft is pulling support
on windows XP but continuing support for
windows 7 windows 8 of course those are
the new ones that they want you to
upgrade to yeah so why is that a problem
imagine I'm a hacker cuz we'll just you
know pretend I'm a hacker they probably
dressed just like this and I am wanting
to exploit your bank account information
I'm wanting to take over your identity
I'm wanting to use the power of your
computer to create a botnet so that I
can mass mail people and trick them into
installing my software that gives me
access to their bank accounts I can use
your computer for that what's the best
way to do that it's to get into your
windows system it's to trick you into
installing something that you don't want
to install so where the problem lies is
that when a windows XP support is gone
April 8 2014 what happens is they're
still releasing patches for Windows 7
and Windows 8 so they say oh we found
this really big exploit for Microsoft
Windows that lets hackers access your
computer and take over right so the
hackers are sitting there going oh okay
because they know that they're not
applying that X that fix to windows XP
anymore that's a so basically what
Microsoft has done is they've handed
them this exploit on a silver platter
and said look at this you can now get
into the system unless they apply this
patch but the patch does not apply to
Windows XP so the first thing that
hacker is going to do is reverse
engineer the fix gotcha and see what the
problem is then test that exploit
against windows XP and lo and behold
it's not going to take long before one
of them actually matches up because they
are shared code bases and they're going
to say oh look haha this exploit for
windows set
also existed in Windows XP there are
still X number of millions of users on
Windows XP now i'm going to distribute a
virus through email that automatically
circumvents all the protection that
exists for windows XP and you're done
freakin they've got your email accounts
they've got your identity they've got
all that they can lock you out of your
accounts imagine logging in to your
online banking and it says your password
is incorrect you go what and your
money's drained and then you go on to
Twitter and you can't login but
somebody's posting a bunch of
obscenities to your Twitter timeline or
Facebook or sending things to your
friends so there's a lot of scary
potential you have to get off windows XP
if your computer is about three years
old or newer then it's possible that
maybe windows 7 would take even if it's
about five years old there's there's a
potential that your computer could be
good enough to install windows seven
maybe windows 8 but then you need some
extra you need a better processor for
Windows 8 certainly Linux is a good
alternative and if you've heard this
word Linux you've probably heard it here
on the show you're using Windows XP you
don't want to have to rush out and buy
new hardware just because windows XP is
coming to an end you have to get rid of
windows XP plain and simple there is no
option and I'm telling you that because
it's critical and it's going to be
critical anyone who stays on it is
basically a ticking time bomb yeah
seriously so you know every Java exploit
that comes out which is a big one every
Adobe Flash exploit that comes out which
is another big one yeah they're not
going to fix it for windows XP hmm so we
got some big problems so check out Linux
I like point Linux and you can check out
the links through our show notes episode
number 329 of category five dot TV point
linux i just want to make sure whether
it's a yeah it is a dot org point linux
org another popular one is ubuntu you bu
n tu com debian is a great one our
clinics folks in the chat room what what
linux brands and versions do you like
but point linux these are called flavors
so they're just different versions of
linux
but i really like point linux debian
ubuntu is very popular a little bit of a
different a little bit more of a curve
learning curve to get into a boon to
because it's different interface point
linux is pretty familiar if you're using
Windows XP you're not going to have any
trouble getting around Reb D Jenk says
use linux mint is another good one
masterminds yeah says manjaro and quite
a few thumbs up for linux mint and
another one from dennis kelly four-point
linux so so there are some alternatives
to upgrading to windows 7 windows 8 and
linux is it so check it out we've only
got till april eight get to know okay so
tonight we are going to take a look at
the gimp talking about free software can
you image manipulation program any time
i say the gimp its GNU image
manipulation program it's basically an
alternative to adobe photoshop but it's
free breathe if you've ever tried to you
know go and buy photoshop or if you've
ever had to do it it's very expensive
and it's image editing software it
allows you to do some really cool stuff
but it'll cost you a lot of money to get
it and we're got me i bought it around
version 6 i think so before any of the
Creative Suite came out and then they
brought out the Creative Suite go come
on so I just bought it and and you know
there is an upgrade path and you can pay
more and give the newest version you
know and when I say I just bought it was
like a year or two later that they
brought out the brand new version it was
so spectacularly better the GIMP it's
free it's always free and if they bring
out new in hansen's new versions it's
free free you don't have to worry about
Oh they've changed everything and now
I've got to go out and buy more no it's
still free waste fee it'll run on
Windows Linux or Mac sounds like
somebody's having fun with a bouncy ball
we need that soundproof studio folks
keep the contributions kind of thing so
with the GIMP okay you can install it on
any system we're going to take a look at
it tonight but one of the other things
not just our the enhanced are the
upgrades free but also a lot of the
enhancements to the GIMP are also free
so if you want to make it better
there are other pieces of software
filters plugins that are released for
the GIMP that you install separately but
that now enhance that software and it
gives you commercial grade filtering
really cool special effects for your
photos and it's also free 3 all around
houses work where they make their money
that's what I'm one its support if you
want to buy support you can buy support
write the software itself it's gonna be
free for you let's take a look at my
computer I've got the GIMP installed
there it is GNU image manipulation
program I'm running point Linux by the
way see how easy it is to get around
Thunder graphics there we go there's GNU
image via nation program okay so once
we've got that okay it's free it's easy
to install on your computer if you're on
Linux it's super easy just go into
synaptic package manager and you can
install basically any software that's
available for your computer so if I
bring up synaptic which I'm going to
need mm-hmm it's going to ask me for my
super user password there it is so this
is a software installation program if i
type in gimp you'll see that GIMP is is
there and i can install it looks like
there's an upgrade ready for me but i'm
not going to do that just now so for you
in typing gimp and just go mark for
installation i already have it tonight
what we're doing is we're going to
extend the feature set by adding a
couple of extra plugins they're also
available in the repositories on point
linux if you're running a piece of a
version of flavor of linux that doesn't
have these tools available for you in
the default repositories what i'm going
to do i'll include links for you in the
show notes for episode number 329
different versions of linux will have
different repositories those are
software sources on the internet
pre-installed point linux comes with
everything that we need in order to get
what we're looking for today so in my
quick filter here the first one that i
want it's a tool called FX foundry and
it's found in gimp dash plugin dash
registry and you'll see now I've taken
the liberty of already pre installing
all this stuff just so that it's ready
for us for tonight's demo
you want to mark for installation next
one GIMP dash this one's going to be
this is called gimmick G ' m.i.c but
we're just going to go GIMP dash GMIC
and there it is again we want to install
that particular tool gimmick is amazing
it's basically the the closest to
commercial filtering that you're going
to get for gimp without paying any money
it's absolutely free it's really really
awesome we're going to take a look at
that tonight show you a couple of the
features so literally that's all that I
had to do hillary in lemma easy to
install it I just highlight I just
search it I mark for installation and
then I click apply it downloads all the
tools all of the software and it
installs it for us and now those
features are a part of my GIMP
installation if you're on Windows or Mac
the process is a little bit different
because you do have to get it on the web
and download the installation packages
for these particular filter set we're
using Linux tonight and Linux is a lot
easier when it comes to getting software
because you don't have to go out there
and try to find it yeah it's all built
into your package manager your other
nice thing about that is that you can
trust that you're not getting viruses by
accidentally you know if i type in skype
in google and i go to install skype but
i'm actually getting it from some shady
website that's also installing a bunch
of junk yeah then that's a problem we're
with a synaptic package manager as long
as you haven't instance by default out
of the box you're getting saved saw safe
software that's so good mm-hmm all right
so let's take a look at some of the
features that are available to us within
these new tools so I all I've done is
I've just brought in a couple of
pictures that I've taken hill nice
there's a picture of a bird cute there's
a picture of I've those guys yeah
there's a picture of my daughter
sniffing a flower how cute and a picture
of my beautiful wife Lulu on the boat so
what I want to show you a couple of
different things i'll just open up the
bird first I just right click on and go
open with GNU image manipulation program
and there are several feet filters that
are available to us in the GIMP but the
the two that we're looking at tonight is
effects foundry because we've installed
that
and gimmick okay gimmick stands for
Gracie's magic image converter and those
are the two that we're looking at so
with effects foundry one of the things
that we can do is simply sounds like
there's something sorry guys this is the
beauty of live television you don't know
what his basement it's it's totally
unpredictable and unexpected but it's
real life real live here folks reality
TV pretty much we're gonna show you how
to do picture editing we're gonna have a
screaming baby over this side we're
gonna have a bouncing ball over this
side hey that's what it is bro knows it
is it is all right let's press on to
your little birdie over here and see
what's what are you ready let's do this
okay so there's my beautiful bird all
right right click go effects foundry
what this is look at all these tools I
encourage you to play go through try
them out and we're gonna do the same
thing with gimmick okay but under photo
you'll see effects and there are some
nice things here such as make wonderful
oh I like the sound of that what okay so
let's click it and we say okay we'll
just leave everything as default make
wonderful enhances the contrast and it
brings up the brightness it adds a
little bit of a Gaussian blur just to
give that kind of aura of it's almost an
effect that you see in wedding
photography yeah nature photography and
it does look really really pretty
especially when you've got lots of light
tones that's why works for wedding
photography because of the white dress
and the nice outfits and are in and it
just brings out the vibrancy of the
photograph so that's just with one click
well you know like to click on the
filter there's another one that's really
nice under layer effects and it's called
the Orton effect and I'm the reason I'm
showing you this is because it's kind of
similar in the way that it does things
but it does it with a little bit more of
a contrast II layer and what it's
actually doing you'll see that it's
actually created a couple of different
layers here so I've got my original bird
layer and then I've got a sharpening
layer and an out-of-focus layer the
autofocus layer gives us that
kinda like a little bit of a softness to
the photo so is it romance like that so
that is again it's all automatically
done through the filter set nice it's
gonna work differently for every photo
because the lighting in every photo is a
little bit different so you play around
with mixing and matching effects and
you're gonna find some really cool stuff
let's close out of this photo because
it's it's probably you know it's a
pretty big close-up it doesn't have a
lot of background to work with let's try
well let's start with a picture that has
Hilary in it so I think that'd be nice
gee whiz okay so let's cut this bald
nerd out of the oh stop okay few
different things that we want to do so
I've just cropped the image a little bit
here just to give us something nice to
work with so the image there is a little
bit dark and again really really simple
to go effects foundry photo effect make
wonderful I possibly could be my
favorite how could you possibly make
Hillary any more wonderful it just it
basically just kind of brings up a lot
of contrast eNOS and almost like a
changes the saturation you can see that
on your screen that it just adds some
nice effects so now let's say okay I
want to use the quick mask tool which is
this little grid looking thing down at
the bottom first thing I want to do is a
control a which is going to select all
or I can right click and go select all
and then click on that button down on
the bottom left-hand side of your image
and that enables quick mask now when we
get a paintbrush tool and we can set the
size of that paintbrush not quite so
good fungus much to learn there there a
little bit too large there we go okay so
now I can paint Hilary nice okay this is
quick mask this allows me to paint a
selection so once i'm finished painting
her it just is a really really easy way
to create a nice selection around
somebody knows it has a soft edge so it
doesn't have to be perfect in this case
now if i turn off quick mask you'll see
that I've got
border Hillary gotcha so my selection is
on not Hillary but it's actually on the
outside you see how the selection is
going so anything that I do is going to
happen to the background so if i run any
kind of filter so let's see what happens
if I now turn the background by using
photo effects vintage film effect it
doesn't want to work with a marquee so
let's I want to show you some of the
exciting things that come from gimmick
and tonight I'm kind of working between
these two different plugins sets because
we're really bringing up the feature set
of the GIMP gray and so with this
selection i want to show you something
in gimmick that is really really neat so
under filters gimmick at the very bottom
there you're going to see all the
different stuff okay so i can actually i
can change anything using this filter
set oh and it looks like sorry I've got
a layer there that was created by the
last it's believed that layer okay let's
finish your quick mask
sorry my undo has kind of broken on that
let me just fix it here I'm gonna just
check yeah it's me there we go
pretty good it's a couple of undue undos
ok so now if I go filters gimmick now
you can see what I've done is I've
created the ability to actually work on
the background in such a way that it's
not going to affect Hillary it's going
to affect everything that's around
Hillary why that matters is because we
can do some really really interesting
things with a background quite easily
all right well that's not a perfect
example because I've only done kind of a
rough outline but where it really
matters is when we're working with a
photo and we can go filters gimmick and
let's grab something interesting such as
riddle asst ok so it adds this real kind
of sparkly shimmer to the photo it needs
to actually create the effect so it's
just doing that now and there you go so
you get this really interesting kind of
shimmer but see we only want to apply
that to the background right it's pretty
cool what it does to our logo like my
teeth looks so bright let's do that
effect again notice I brought back my
marquee right I'm going to reapply
rodillas just a feature of gimmick I
will see as soon as that's done that now
we're going to get a very interesting
effect because Hillary is not going to
be a part of that effect because our
quick mask has brought her right out of
the photo so now we get this and we've
got this kind of really fun funky kind
of almost almost discotheque like it
effect right looks like I'm celebrity
and the paparazzi are like flashes me
all the flashes okay so let's minimize
that I'm going to allow you to see that
later on we're going to include that as
one of the pictures on the show notes
let's open up this picture of my
daughter and I want to show you how that
same effect can be used to really
enhance
that's a photo such as this so I've
reenabled my quick mask and we're going
to quickly grab the quick mask tool
let's make that a little bit larger
there we go and what I'm doing is I'm
painting in my daughter because she is
going to become selected so that she is
separate from the background when i run
this effect it's only going to apply to
the background itself mm-hmm okay here
we go almost there I'm doing a really
really rough job because we are running
short on time for tonight you get the
gist but you get the idea and I really
really encourage you to try playing
around with effects foundry and gimmick
okay so now I've got tally now let's
grab a smaller brush and let's get the
flowers that she's holding just you know
what I'm just gonna grab one let me get
the main focal flower there it is okay
I'm just painting that in with quick
mask which i already showed you there
now you know how to do the happy and I'm
going to grab the stem as well so I want
a really really small brush to just kind
of go along the stem there we go and
we'll leave all the other flowers that
are in the bouquet there we are just can
I give it a bit of an edge and I got to
turn back off quick mask and let's apply
that same effect we're going to go
filters gimmick notice the grass in the
background how it's just brought it
right up preview there's the preview so
let's see what this actually is let's
run this is exciting kind of neat eh I
really like it this is category 5
technology TV triple w category five dot
TV is where you'll find us tonight we're
looking at the free GNU image
manipulation program we have applied to
different feature sets to filter sets
the effects foundry feature which is
found in the GIMP plugin dash registry
meta package in your favorite package
manager on linux and also gimmick which
is found in gimp dash GM ic4 gimmick
this is just applying the Riddler's
effect I'd love to show you so many
different effects look at that there it
is it's done
now we've got this really neat I think
almost surrealistic yeah realistic
effect now I'm going to bring up my
levels because I really want to finish
this off and I'm going to go into I'm
this is not part of the filters that we
are installing and trying we're just
going to change the levels and we're
going to bring up the brightness so that
it really fixes those shadows on her
face and gives us a just an awesome
surreal almost began to side yeah world
that she's standing on and how
interesting is that it just brings the
photo right out yes gives us the subject
so so many different things that you do
with effects foundry and gimmick I
encourage you to check them out they are
absolutely free and include lakes for
you in episodes episode 3 29 s show
notes as well as some pictures from
tonight's demonstration and we'd love to
see what you come up with so feel free
to email us live at category 5 TV send
you send us your favorite examples of
how you've been able to use these tools
to do some really cool stuff with the
GIMP and we'd love to see those and we
may even show them right here on the
show and give you some viewer power oh
you love it there you have it gimp.org
is where you'll get it sounds good to me
people and now it is time for the news
which I always liked
here we go you ready for this ready
skype has been hacked by a group
claiming to be the Syrian electronic
army the group posted anti-surveillance
messages including a message telling
people not to use email services
provided by Microsoft the owner of skype
the hackers posted on skypes Twitter
account and blog don't use Microsoft
emails hotmail and outlook that in your
accounts and selling the data to the
government the post has since been
removed skype has acknowledged that it
was hot but said that no user
information was indeed compromised hmmm
that's a little bit ominous no I mean is
what if this is somebody who actually
knows something that we don't know and
but maybe they're just playing interfere
people are all about this whole NSA and
you know all the stuff that's been going
on lately in the US no knows we have no
way of knowing just be careful people
Luna's torvalds father said that lynus
was approached by the NSA to try to get
him to put spying code and Linux this is
great and he said no heck no but what's
to stop somebody like Microsoft cuz
they're closed source right so how would
we know what they put into skype I don't
know yeah best that we don't even think
about it sometimes it's better just not
to know yes hmm moving on speaking at
the consumer electronics show in las
vegas intel CEO announced that Intel
will no longer use minerals mined in
conflict zones to build its micro
processors and urge the entire industry
to follow suit gold tungsten and other
materials you or other minerals are
using electronics manufacturing are
mined in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo and the surrounding countries
production and trade of the materials
are often controlled by armed groups
Intel's policy comes after increased
international pressure for technology
firms to investigate the source of their
raw minerals
at the same keynote session Intel also
announced it would be scrapping the
mcafee antivirus brand name and
replacing it with Intel security the
move is intended to sever the connection
to the software's original founder John
McAfee mikha what do I say I say happy
it's different for everybody but I say
yeah Kathy I meant McAfee sometimes I
say McAfee but that's not right ya hear
people McAfee mr. McAfee told the BBC he
was elated by Intel's decision saying i
am now everlastingly grateful to intel
for freeing me from this terrible
association with the worst software on
the planet claiming these are not my
words but the words of millions of irate
users so the guy who founded mcafee
antivirus is saying he is so thankful
that Intel is changing the name of the
software because he doesn't want to
associate at all that it's driven a
drink let's just say that's terrible so
Intel security so we gotta remember to
keep our keep yourself away to keep in
the back of our mind that has actually
McAfee as far as the software goes so
probably not the best move when it comes
to decisions but I mean you put a name
like intel on it now all of a sudden you
expect that it's good oh yeah it's
magical backing up a little bit
interesting that they're going with
conflict free almost branding mm-hmm and
actually standing up and saying this is
how we're doing it we're gonna go
conflict-free yes I've never really I
admit and I'm a little ashamed as I'm
hearing your story that I've never
really thought about it I'm very mindful
about slave labor yeah yes people who
are being mistreated by their employers
but to think that entire industries
would be controlled by violence is a
scary thought and almost to me like you
kind of wish that that kind of thing was
only in existence in the movies but
obviously that they're making this stand
says that they've found something
maybe that there's um you know maybe you
know something along those lines then so
move I wonder who's gonna follow suit
hopefully everyone will get it together
be more conscientious so sharing your
netflix account with other users to curb
the bill I'm sure some of you done it
next licks may have a way to combat that
with their new pricing model the change
means selected customers will pay more
if an increased number of people log
onto the account at the same time users
would pay seven dollars a month to use
one screen to watch Netflix this would
then rise to ten dollars if three
screens were being used simultaneously
and presumably the price will go up
based on the numbers of screens or
devices the company said was only
testing these options right now for some
of the new users currently subscribers
pay a fee of eight dollars a month for a
standard service that allows them to
watch a different shows or movies on two
screens at once or they pay twelve
dollars to watch a cross up to four
screen would this change affect you
interesting that I just discovered that
we paying the 799 a dollars a month for
Netflix we're allowed to only watch on
to simultaneous screens but i only found
that out by logging into my billing
profile and saw that there was another
option for twelve dollars that gives you
four screens so it's never been a
problem yeah i think when you think Oh
two screens what's the you know that
seems limiting but realistically I don't
ever have it playing and two devices
when you think about it I've got the TV
upstairs we've now got a TV down here I
might we might have the kids watching
something up there now and I was
watching something there realistically
it's never going to happen where we need
more than two so it makes sense that
okay well yeah if I'm sharing it with
mom or dad and my brother and everybody
else alright University at it oh boy
don't come on guys it's only hate bah I
know that's why I'm saying I'm like
before we rent movies would be like five
bucks five bucks a movie ya know
unlimited I know it seems a little crazy
to me that it happens and so it sounds
like a legit a good
way to curb that to me cuz you know
they're running legit business they
gotta make money from their 40 million
users what's 40 million times eight
dollars Oh doodle wish I bought into
that stock I know earlier I mentioned
over now but whatever okay anyways
moving along hmm the Chinese government
has temporary lifted a ban on selling
foreign video game game consoles I can't
believe that's even real I know I know
wow so this is paving the way for firms
such as Sony Nintendo and Microsoft to
enter a very lucrative market these
people are thirsty further gaming China
band gaming consoles in two thousand
citing their adverse effects on the
mental health of young people a gray
market in the sale of consoles has
continued in the country but partly as a
result of the band pc gaming dominates
capturing two-thirds of the 13 billion
dollar market Wow sorry they dominate I
read that wrong the pc gaming has
dominated it is saving the government
said that it would allow foreign firms
to make consoles with in shanghai's free
trade zone and saw them in china after
inspection by cultural departments
sounds like a lot of control it is a
control issue I can't believe they'll
really and I haven't been allowed to
file this time they don't sell wii and
sony playstation 1 2 3 4 and xbox I know
there's a real thing shocking to me I
don't know I just don't know but if you
want to get the full scoop on these
stories you can check out our website
category 5 TV / newsroom and the stories
that you hear each and every week our
contributions from our fabulous
community of viewers roy w nash in
particular and if you think of a news
story where they were on i mention
Santa's nina at newsroom at category 5
TV and i'm hillary thanks oh I'd love to
hit some viewer questions tonight yeah I
am so sorry folks the past couple weeks
last week I was I was flying solo too
and i miss pro
to the end of the show I had another
gift card to give away i had viewer
questions on standby and just realized
the time was getting away with me and
just held it together and did the rest
of the show but I I end up yeah I wept
under the desk Oh half hour after the
show taking why didn't I have time for
viewer questions so you're owning my man
Roddy I am only one man and I will read
the questions and you will give us the
answers thanks hill this comes to us
from Mike in Germany Mike I've just seen
show 323 on YouTube and I saw your
suggestion to use the NS jumper on
Windows 8 alrighty that's cool tool but
i don't use windows 8 most viewers use
linux linux distro absolutely i would
love to see a tool under linux do
anything that in mind that could um
compared to achieve a similar function
and he presently uses mint 15 KDE and
while you're looking that up he also
goes on to thank you for your answers
and your enthusiasm he loves the show
and because I love the show as it is now
no need for virtualizing sets and and he
likes the kind warm natural feel of our
team in a real home but did you hear the
noise the children the ball Joffe look I
know I hear you though it is you know
it's comfortable set we we like where we
are but um how do I say this I got a
growing family I got three kids upstairs
a dog a dog at two birds yeah and a
wonderful wife she is very patient and
long-suffering in letting us continue
this show but there comes a point where
she starts saying and I say this in all
love but truthfully and and completely
honestly we need the space we gotta get
the studio out of the house we gotta get
moved into the garage that's why we
bought one of the reasons we bought this
house was it has an unfinished garage I
don't care really if we move into the
garage and we just bring all the same
set that's cool that's what will happen
if we can only afford to do the
renovations because Clark we're gonna be
able to buy extra stuff will just be
using the same
to ask the same everything the same
brick wall because I don't know if you
know this or not but it's not real brick
robbief it's a magic of television oh
yes don't tell but we can roll it up in
the garage but the fact is we do need a
soundproof area we needed to coerce
heated air conditioned and sound proof
enough that you know that if the
neighbors are hammering yard we're not
going to hear it on the show right so
there's all that but as far as the look
goes it doesn't have to be virtual sets
it's just that's something that we would
like to have the ability to do yes we
don't have to do it that's not what the
whole fundraiser is about it's about
getting the thing out of the house and
continuing on because we're in season 7
and we want to keep this going to season
10 season closed forever until I'll be
this gray hair old guy on category 5
it'll come and we'll still be doing the
show because we're gonna have to grow
into a new space sign of ours so but
thank you I appreciate the comment for
sure so back to the question the further
the thing that came to mind when I'm
thinking about DNS jumper and all that
is named bench so I brought up synaptic
package manager because i think it is in
here named bench yes ok so before i even
you know before i even touch on that
yeah i know that you don't run windows
necessarily but remember you can use a
virtual machine to do this and then you
can write down the IP addresses and
deploy it to all of your computers on
the network everybody has a Windows
system somewhere I mean you might have a
laptop that has windows on it or maybe a
desktop if you don't just stick a
virtual machine on there download a free
copy of windows starter edition which is
available at modern IE modern dot IE
pardon me on the web we've shown it on
the show before and it gives you a
virtual machine and then you can just
put it up and you can run the windows
tool grab the IP addresses it for the
DNS servers but there is one called
named bench I'm not sure if it's exactly
that it's not going to be exactly the
same thing here's a screenshot from
synaptic package manager
and it's a benchmark tool it's not as
sophisticated as the one that I showed
you this one you could kind of feed at
your your name server your DNS server
and you and it also scans the you know
the ones that it knows of and it tests
them and it picks which one is the
fastest but then you got to manually
change it anyways mmm I just not like
the windows one that will automatically
update it right and that's part of Linux
security but true there are ways around
that so unfortunately you video yeah
really it's one of those cases where the
best tool happens to be a windows tool
and it's just the way it is but named
bench is something for Linux compare I
think the best thing to do would be to
install a virtual machine and then go
back to the episode where we talked
about it them and use that tool and
that's perfectly okay to do that that's
what virtual machines are for so that
you can boot up windows do the thing
that you have to do with Windows but
then get out of it and you're still in
linux and Linux is your core operating
system and that's how you surf and
that's how you work that's pretty cool
so don't mind using virtualization for
that makes sense to me thanks for the
question very cool got another question
um well it's an interesting little
tidbit yeah I'm coming to us are old
Saul hey old salt I came across a
program called at fast it's supposedly
and enhancement for apt-get for people
like me who have slower internet
connection have you ever tried it and if
so what's your opinion on it is it
something you think you'd recommend and
they old salt list the link on how you
get that yeah apt fast definitely I
would recommend it if you've got a slow
connection what it does is it it's like
a front end for apt-get which is a
command line installation tool for Linux
so it's debian based linux so debian
ubuntu mint that's based on debian point
linux all of these use apt-get so apt
fast is a front end for slower internet
connections that taps into some download
accelerator software so that as your apt
get installing instead you're an apt
fast install it uses a download excel
reiter to get it faster oh so yeah if
you're installing multiple things you
get your stuff a lot faster and it will
install quicker sure why not there are
some drawbacks in that you know not
everything is faster but hey if you can
accelerate some of it then why wouldn't
you not why not the actual the actual
download process is what's accelerated
the installation process is not because
the installation process happens on your
computer the apt get our apt fast update
process is not faster because it's
downloading the repositories not the
files right that makes sense but it's
where the Deb packages are coming down
to your computer that's going to be
notably faster on a slower kirkin
computer slower internet connection so
if you have a slow internet connection
than you do it do it why wouldn't you do
it come on fast not fast what if that's
in synaptic I'm gonna look that up while
you're looking for the next surrogacy
just because old salt had provided a
link which I'm happy to ya show notes
let's see if apt dash fast it's not in
the repositories hmm so yeah what i'll
do is i'll post links for those who are
interested in app fast in the show notes
for episode number 329 as provided by
old salt cool thank you all wrong and
the question love it here is a question
pertaining to our show in particular
from kev oh hey kev oh um wondering just
getting the video off of youtube cost
you money if they are getting the video
off you judge copyright life so about
the time you experience that high
capacity of downloads I found that Mira
was downloading old episode with Li
input this happens time to tie in with
other podcast I just cancel everything
go through each podcast checking the
episodes and only start the downloads I
don't have um so if youtubing category
five episodes doesn't cost you he'd
rather just get them from YouTube sure
yeah thank you very much for the
consideration first of all keval want to
say hey nice to receive an email from
some people in the chat room also
agra moto saying hello and just nice to
hear from ya I'm in her tummy in a while
um so thank you for the question I well
ok was a YouTube all right what is it
boil down to okay when you when you're
using maro internet TV you're
downloading from somewhere where are you
getting it from you're going to get it
from our CDN which is quite costly to us
if it's one of the most recent episodes
if it's one of the older episodes is
coming from a very very cheap host it's
very slow you'll notice that it's it
downloads a lot slower if they're older
episodes so that those are all fine it's
the newer episodes that cost us money to
download when it comes to YouTube it's a
little different YouTube is interesting
because they actually pay us when you
watch so it's a totally different
scenario totally different system okay
so the more YouTube views that we have
the more people who click on the banners
and and get the advertising on YouTube
and stuff you think when you're watching
a video using YouTube can be kind of
annoying because there's a lot of little
three but three minute videos and with
those three minute videos if you've got
to sit through a one-minute commercial
before you watch it that's frustrating
yes I can be a little like you're
watching music videos and you gotta play
list up in every music video has a one
minute commercial before it that's
annoying because if song is only three
and a half minutes with category 5 it's
a one hour show so if you sit through
that one minute clip it's not a big deal
and every time you do and whatever you
know if you follow any of the links on
YouTube that are advertising they
actually pay us for it so it helps us
with the bills it makes a big difference
YouTube really does I'll be honest with
you we're not getting rich anytime soon
that's for sure but all here's what it
boils down to the past six months our
expenses have gone way up because our
viewership is up everybody who downloads
through Mira internet TV as I say or
through any you know we talked about
we're going to be bringing out a roku
channel we had
that on hold right now because quite
frankly there's just not enough money
there on a month-to-month I never want
to operate with debt when it comes to
category 5 I never want to be spending
donations where it shouldn't be spent
I'm doing my absolute best to you know
we're holding on to everything that was
donated for the build so that we can
spend it on the build I don't be eating
into that with other expenses because we
wanted to have a roku channel know so we
put that on hold because that cost us
money but with the increase in costs
over the past six months or so also
YouTube has increased yes in what you
know people are watching on YouTube and
they're watching Linux tech show calm
they're watching category 5 TB on
YouTube and so that increases and so
we're actually getting monthly I'll say
contributions from google that are
almost offsetting the cost of running
all the RSS feeds mural internet TV so
it's interesting that it cancels itself
out yeah we're not having to sell things
we're not having to have 15 minutes of
advertising every episode of category 5
that some shows do because your views on
YouTube actually pay for all the other
views it's an interesting fact that's
interesting so and I really hope that
one day youtube views will get to the
point where we're actually making a
profit because again we sink that right
back into the show and if I could be if
I had a thousand dollars or 2,000 or
3,000 dollars I could up and buy a
really nice camera which may not sound
like a big deal but we buy it once and
we'd have it for everybody set and the
show would look fantastic and it's as
simple as that that's our biggest
downfall is the video camera that we use
so you know if we can get to that point
with YouTube and that's great so thank
you very much for the question Calvo do
watch on our YouTube channel subscribe
like the videos comment on the videos on
YouTube that helps to people don't
necessarily realize to watch it as one
thing every time you like and comment it
actually bumps up our standings well I
didn't know that
really big difference and subscribe to
the channel too because when advertisers
look at us those are the ones who pay to
make this happen right when they look at
us they say oh how many people are
subscribed to on YouTube and we're
fortunate that it's fairly high i mean
we're never you know it's always over a
couple thousand people or whatever which
is not a lot compared to how many people
are actually watch I so pleased you
subscribe but it's it's substantial
enough that it's it's not like 500
people kind of thing or subscribe to our
channel it's more than that yeah makes a
difference for sure Thank You world for
youtubing us yeah continue that lad to
you to pump out the video in every way
that we can Rev d jank saying that we
should bring out the show in 4k can you
imagine what's neat about 4k or 1080p
this cameras 1080p for example so i can
do stuff like this right it seems like
we've got another camera angle but
really we're working within the 1080p
space in a 720 frame so if we had a 4k
camera we'd be able to you'd be able to
see the the pimples on my know we could
zoom right in on it digitally and you'd
be perfect quality so it's not about
having 4k video it's about having a 4k
source right being able to work within
that space that would be amazing that
would be amazing i'm not one of my goals
1080p will be fine sounds good to me hey
Robbie we got we got time for another
question or for a special special oh you
want it ah yeah I just thanked self well
here's the thing people I love free
stuff event I love giving I'm a gift
giver it's my love language so we want
to give somebody another gift card Wow
$25 prepaid visa from ESET thank you
ESET for our viewers tonight who win
this and and our previous winner earlier
tonight all you have to do is email me
live at category 5 TV with your address
we've got your card right here any
here we go there's the two of them for
tonight to $25 prepaid visa we're ready
to send that off to you so here we go
sweet draw bot is back it's going i'm
seeing these are your ballots that have
come in through live at category 5 TV
and i'll just let you know tonight is
the last time that we're using the e
mail ballots next week draw bot will be
back in the chat way these have come to
us by email and the reason that i did
that Hillary this week and last week is
because I wanted people who are watching
on YouTube and mural internet TV and one
of those be to have a chance yeah
because not everyone can participate in
the live show by being part of chat as
much as we love our fans we understand
if you can't watch at 2am we get it we
appreciate any of you who are we
certainly do namely there are some
watching tonight
and the winner here we go here we go for
$25 visa prepaid cards rent cowboy
way to go
your ballot in at the last minute
literally we were just about to get our
prep done tonight got your ballot thanks
for sending it in love it well done so
congratulations all you got to do is
email me your address I don't need
anything fancy just got to be able to
write your address the envelope and send
it off so congratulations sprint cowboy
perfect all right well hey but all the
time that we have another busy show
flies by dinner thank you for watching
so great to have you here hilary i do
i'll just let Rob gore know that we've
got a picture here that we've been
passing around and as we're signing off
I'm gonna get you to simply sign this
picture Robert Mercer will certainly do
that there's Obama wonderful true fan
true friend here you go here's our fancy
marker leave enough room for the
diamond-studded gold frame that he's
going to put oh oh maybe just sign
somewhere around you you're wearing dark
in the picture yeah I'll just do it
across them in a perfect self all right
you go ahead and we're making this
happen for you rock or cocktails just be
you sorry okay i'm going i'll do a while
the music plays
all the time we have folks thanks for
joining us this week next week erica
lynn lon it's going to be joining me and
we're going to be hacking a nikon DSLR
with one bonus Simeon Pilgrim is going
to be joining us from the nikon hacker
group you don't want to miss out that's
next Tuesday night seven o'clock eastern
time and we'll see you next Tuesday see
hell night we hope you enjoy the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category 5 TD and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
