welcome to category five technology TV
everybody nice to see you this week
we've got a great show planned for you
we're gonna try to cram it all into an
hour we are gonna learn to convert an
old laptop computer into a Chromebook
exciting it's gonna cost you zero also
Asha we're gonna have the discussion
about how libreoffice 6.1 is treating it
and if it's really up there with
Microsoft Office or not you're gonna
have the discussion in just a few
moments time stick around
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players the
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPM and the International
Association of Internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome back for
another week here at category five
technology TV it's so great to see I
hope you've been having a wonderful week
I can't believe it's November already I
know just like that like that you pay
the rent and then the rents due again
it's come on that is the life of an
adults yeah just to introduce ourselves
if you're new here I'm Robbie
I'm Sasha yeah now Jeff Jeff sorry did
you yep who said that I've been gone
forever in a day who just started
watching in season 12 or like who's that
guy I know that charming ginger sadly
this is the first episode I've been on
this season because work has been so
insanely busy what you've been up to
everything every everything and anything
essentially coffees no not quite
actually I've been traveling across the
province for the most part doing
contracts and stuff like that so it's
been you know very very busy and living
in hotels I heard that you had some
vacay in there somewhere actually this
week is vacay this week it's this week
and that's like
yep well I did have PKK two weeks ago
but right now it's faking and that's why
I'm here
I wasn't here two weeks ago because I
was out of the country where were you
well we went to Washington DC then
Myrtle Beach and then West Virginia
sounds like a really busy vacation like
daughters really relaxed it was really
really good no no we drove you drove so
we drove to Washington everything there
is free except for parking food and
lodgings so like we got to check out
what's free like all the attractions
Smithsonian all that kind of stuff what
yeah that was amazing
yes that sounds cool yeah it was it was
great and the kids absolutely loved na
and they loved the night in the museum
movies and so the second one is battle
the Smithsonian so the whole time we're
walking around the Museum of Natural
History which the second movie took
place in yes my daughter's walking
around with a piece of pen or a piece of
paper and a pen and she's journaling
everything she's seeing because one of
her friends from school wants to know if
the magic tablet that makes everything
come to life at night is there and can
she draw it so we didn't find that
tablet but we did find an Egyptian
tablet that I took a picture of and we
printed off when we got home and they
were super excited but yeah then we went
to Myrtle Beach and just chilled at the
beach and had fun for a couple of days
just relaxing and then visited some
friends in West Virginia that's
fantastic and did an early trick treat
their community yeah their community
does trick-or-treat on the Saturday
before Halloween yes in West Virginia in
West Virginians yeah just in the little
town originally and and so if it's bad
weather then they'll move it to the
Sunday night and if it's bad weather
then they'll move it to the Halloween
night but this way you've got people who
don't have to worry about school or
weather yeah three kicks the Gators
break me home country roads it was
amazing is one of the only places in the
States have been to and reason why I
went to West Virginia was I bought
myself own mountain bike and then I
thought I should probably mountain bike
on a mountain so I drove to West
Virginia dedication right there and
there are some mountains there yeah
yeah that was way more intense than I
had intended I should have started with
like no value so sheltered lie love the
mountains I love here from those of you
who are watching in West Virginia or the
surrounding area and I just say hey yeah
absolutely I know last year when I was
down there hunting there was some viewer
after that when I came back been to
they're like oh I'm like half an hour
from there and I couldn't remember who
it was cuz I was gonna say hey I'm
nearby
but right I forgot who was so I'm sorry
I completely forgot about you he didn't
fit not you it's me yeah what about you
guys what have you been doing cuz you
know I feel like it's been year he had a
normal Halloween but you know what it
was nice because it was not raining the
one night so that's what Marsh man was
here it was awesome it was awesome but
it was like rain the whole time yeah so
it really felt like it's like welcome to
our country and it's like the most
visible fall weather ever and could've
been worse over this name
Halloween came just so you know and then
just October 31st it rained all day long
and then when we had the kids out it was
alright it was dry see I missed it was
alright I was way away from here kids
had a fun time that's good I'm glad
yeah do you guys get trick-or-treaters
coming to your door that you miss them
all I had a really good turnout at our
place yeah so we always miss kids but
we're out with the kids so we never oh
right so you put the bowl out no no no
we've tried that so we we do the like
answer the door when kids are coming
around and you might get three or four
kids but then strangely
if you put out a bowl full of candy it
disappears it will all be gone go bigger
when you put out the bowl you get
thousands of kids it's amazing it's or
just one kid with thousands of sugar
rush it takes is three kids and one
teenager pretty much yes see I like the
fact that they don't come to the door
because then I've got candy to snack on
Dave does that Dave we're will I guess
whether do I usually work the late
enough that I don't get to hand out
candies because
home after the trick-or-treaters I'm
coming on right but if it's nice weather
he'll go and sit out in the driveway
because we've rent a basement apartment
so he'll go sit in the driveway and hang
out with the kids and hand out candy
wears masks and right and just have a
good old time yeah if it's bad weather
that he sits inside at home eating the
candy because the kids don't know to
find us there anyway like they wouldn't
seek out our door they go to the right
so we either aggressively find the kids
to give them candy or we eat it
ourselves
you're what I miss about Halloween is
you can't go all out with the super
crazy scare the kids tactics anymore
this is not it's not it's not socially
acceptable like I remember these them
with katanas it's just well came not far
off I remember sitting out front in a
chair with like a coverall suit stuffed
with straw so that's sticking out
everywhere so they so I look like I'm a
scarecrow legit pumpkin on my head
holding an axe right and then as people
come to the door it's like the kids say
you can't do that now because it's like
somebody cut you know get me with an axe
that said now you can like for 300 bucks
you can buy like a an animatronic yeah I
know what's not fun I did see one it was
like it was like a scarecrow and it's
holding the ball and it's just like this
and it's just a scarecrow it just looks
innocent enough yeah and you fill the
bowl with candy and the bowl has a
hidden motion sensor okay and as soon as
a kid reaches in to grab it this thing
just goes real love it yeah I love it
you get that kind of thing these days
yeah that's an animatronic or raspberry
pie perfect that's true we had fun what
are you up to technologically wise are
you doing anything with tech these days
I've been actually ripping apart not
literally but redoing all of my
raspberry pies in my oh joy okay trying
to just clean up the system because I've
got that leo ask it that's right I've
got because I've got the Plex pie I've
got the turtle miner I've got okay
the retropie so kind of doing a refresh
and updating those and I recreated if
you can call it that my bluetooth issue
from two years ago oh you probably did
yeah well yeah like where I've
reinstalled everything and now well
connect to the Bluetooth devices I don't
remember what we did to fix it I don't
know see I went through past episodes
because I'm like I know we talked about
right but the thing is I don't think it
was the main feature was kind of like
the banter at the beginning so it didn't
get tagged with anything so it's like
everything we're talking about right now
it's just gonna get lost it's not very
good
yeah so I'm stuck trying to figure out
why my Bluetooth won't connect no
because when they're plugged in it shows
up but then I unplug and it's like okay
I find it I think it's got something to
do with not recognizing the MAC address
I don't know I'd have to look at it
again Jeff yeah bring it back in but
that's what I'm doing
yeah mining turtle coin what I was you
were until while the pool we're using
cheese our algorithm I just have an
update ask what pool are you using right
now well I updated no I haven't updated
since the the pool closed down and
actually the last couple of days I've
been noticing and that on the triple
cord discord they're saying everybody
spread out
the pools you're in yes because there's
two main pools that everybody's hashing
to and I'm like okay I'm just gonna wait
till this is resolved it's a tough
situation because you get so crypto
mining you know people with their
devices using CPU GPU mining to get
crypto coin you know you've got turtle
coin for example it's really really easy
to mine because it's so plentiful right
now right so what happens Jeff is
everybody centralizes their mining power
into a particular pool right because the
more mining power there is the more
likely you are to get payouts right and
the higher the payouts and the more
frequent the payouts right so who
chooses a pool that only has ten miners
exactly oh you go for the one that has
ten thousand miners because you know
you're gonna get payouts right and we
had been using a smaller pool yes and it
was working great and then it went to
fund and so all of our house
power was being discarded so we're not
actually monetizing any of that not not
getting any payouts from that really
disappointing
so unfortunately stay away from mining
garden so now if you reinstall our cat
5tv miners then you'll be able to mine
to our current pool which admittedly is
one of the main pools and it's a tough
thing it's I wonder if there's a way to
program the miner so that once a like if
it pings the pool I don't even know if
that's the way it works you know and
after it gets over certain many people
that are hashing to it that it switches
to a different pool you can set up
multiple pools later and by doing so it
will fail over to the other pools but
okay programmatically yeah we could work
that out but as it is it's really so so
the problem with centralization with
cryptocurrency if everyone's mining to
one pool then the other pools are not
getting the hash power so they're not
able to get any blocks right or it takes
a very long time to get blocks and so
all the blocks are happening in this one
central server mm-hmm and you think oh
well that's great that's where I want to
mine because they're getting all the
blocks well if that one server is
getting all the blocks or a majority of
the blocks how can I say well with
kryptos blocks or else it'll spread
spread up against everybody but if
they're not read if they're if they're
yellow in the pool yeah yeah like if you
and I were in the same pool and Sasha
was there we would all get a portion of
that block but here's the smaller
portion compared to if it was just a few
of us in the pool takes a little bit
longer but then we get reports all equal
is but the problem is is that if it's
all in one place that one place will not
be able to pay out right that's why like
mine together is giving 500 turtle at a
time you can't increase your threshold
for payouts because they just can't
handle it because they have so much
mining power they're getting so many
blocks like a block every 30 seconds so
and when they pay out to the thousands
of miners that are connected to their
pool it's a massive payout yes like you
think about electronic banking these are
like payouts going out
these miners and so they have to keep
those payouts really really small
otherwise they're gonna like they're
gonna basically freeze up the blockchain
yeah you can't do that yeah that won't
be able so by centralizing using other
pools moving our hash power to other
pools it gives an opportunity for kind
of a the whole turtle coin Network to
the outside some relief and and
hopefully kind of decentralized a little
bit now you know what's neat about this
as I'm working through my Raspberry Pi
switching to my or droid today to get
matching to switching to because I was
mining with a Raspberry Pi now he's
gonna use the I'm gonna use the Odroid
because you want to get more hashes of
how they vote four times the hash rate
yes or three at least but what I like is
that the Oh droid has very little power
draw and I and hopefully I'm not you
know ruining a news story later today
because I don't know what they are but I
saw yesterday they announced how much
Bitcoin is caused taking up an energy
cost it's now more costly from an energy
standpoint to mine Bitcoin than it is to
mine gold it's cheaper to mine gold than
it is Bitcoin now that's incredible yeah
and I'm like I've got a little or droid
working on turtle coins so just I'm good
with that
so is this why we mine Minero and yeah
yum and turtle coin and stellite not so
much Bitcoin because it's so expensive
to mine Bitcoin right but it makes you
go why would you then invest in a
Bitcoin mining facility when just go
mined gold
it's cheaper okay yeah but would you put
it in contacts like that it's like oh my
goodness is that really what it's come
to
so I'm so glad that I'm monitoring with
my Android working out 500 turtle coin
at a time that's right
yes low and steady wins the race that's
it that's it now we need a rabbit coin
we gotta be quick you gotta be quick
that's the thing
yeah check what anything new in your
tech world you know yes there has been
something new and it's funny and some of
you may know this but this week at work
I was trying to change over the
documents in my system that I print for
patients to fill out so they were
created as a Word document but I was
opening it in a LibreOffice scenario and
it was askew like there was every all of
the text was everywhere and I thought
okay I can do this so I like I changed
fonts I moved things back I use little
wingding characters for checkboxes cuz I
couldn't figure out what the checkboxes
were I press save went back in nothing
saved oh so you did all the work I did
all the work so then I message I
messaged in the chat room I'm like guys
what am I doing wrong
on our discord right and so then I found
out I was using their own check boxes so
I thought okay well that must be the
thing so I go in redo it all again
because nothing saved and it didn't clue
in to me like nothing saved right it
wasn't just the check boxes none of my
changes right so I go back in and I
change it all again and then I put in I
I couldn't insert the check boxes this
is where all of a sudden it all came to
a head I I asked I asked what am I doing
wrong and it was in some obscure spot
not obscure actually but for me it was
so it I tried to insert it and I
couldn't insert these little tick boxes
and so I was pulling my hair out and I
messaged again in discord and mostly
because I wanted to figure it out alone
which was never actually gonna happen
Robbi remoted in he you found that I
just had an old LibreOffice you had old
version of LibreOffice installed now
couple things were true about your
scenario one you've got a new computer
right so it was really easy to upgrade
okay because having a new computer
you're you're you're able to install the
latest and greatest
right so we're able to get on to
libreoffice org download the new version
install it hmm versus like my home
computer
I built it two years ago almost a year
and a half ago it's like ancient khun's
installed Ubuntu at that time and it
wasn't an LTS and so re EOL there's no
updates to it and I really need to
upgrade it but in order to do that I
need to pull the hard drive put in a new
hard drive installed those do a dual
boot with Linux because I want the kids
to be able to use both and logic work
it's a multi-tenant environment I've got
five people using that computer mm-hmm
your system was breezy because it's a
new computer right new OS so I just
simply uninstalled LibreOffice installed
six point one installed the stuff that
we had shown previously on category five
to make it operate and look and feel a
lot more like Microsoft on right which
incidentally if you go into YouTube if
you go on to just anywhere on YouTube do
a search simply search for making Libre
Office more like Microsoft Office you'll
find that video and how has that been
for you it's been great ok so so it
turns out like I was raised in like
Microsoft Office so I was raised so it's
so intuitive because those are those
little differences or things that I
guess just makes sense to how I I learnt
the system right the paradigm is similar
to what you learn exactly so then I
could find what I was looking for is
slightly easier and then it's like the
47 check boxes per page that I had to
insert we're super easy saved it went
back in no problem keeping in mind Sasha
you're saving this in Word format not in
ODT that's correct
cuz I want it to be available across the
whole clinic for anybody to open and
print because some of the doctors
have legitimate copies of Microsoft
Office and some of the workers do not
but I'm happy not to I really really
really like leave your office which is
why I was really trying to get the
answer myself I so badly wanted to
figure it out but it was Monday morning
I hadn't had enough coffee oh thank you
so much Marsh man for all of your kind
words as well because I'm pretty sure
what that computer is gonna go through
the window if I had to change a checkbox
again right when I am gonna make changes
like that to a file yeah I'll do a
couple of changes and then I'll save it
and then I'll open it again
yeah just see if it worked yeah because
I have been there too many times where
I'll do all the work
I'll do all the work then I'll save it
and it's not there I'm not even like I'm
not going to lie to you I did not do
that what you did but I would even
further there is more than one document
I changed I changed them all like a file
folder the possible progress exams all
of the marking sheets learning from this
okay changed it all spent like hours and
then went to open them and thought did I
not save this just sounds so painful
like it's so funny just says to me I saw
you I walked past the clinic and I saw
you and you were smiling I must not have
been Monday good morning no it was today
yeah I was going to the gym Oh yep
question quickly in in our discord the
FEU saying I thought ms word reads ODT
just fine
this is a question and I think if you
have a reasonably current version
Microsoft Word I don't know like 2013 or
something 2012 if you have 20 2007 or
earlier it's not gonna support ODT
definitely not but I know I have so
one of the organizations that I'm
involved with some of our laptops have
libreoffice some of them have legit
purchased copies of Microsoft Office
sure and I know that when I create a
document in ODT and they switch over and
they open it in their 2013 version of
word it does not fully translate
properly there's something within the
formatting margins that always goes
wonky so I would say it's not a clean
transition but generally they can it's
kind of funny that I feel more confident
to open a word document and save a Word
document in the office that I can feel
is going to be yes and usable on
Microsoft Office as well as LibreOffice
versus the scenario the other way around
yep a LibreOffice document being opened
and saved in Microsoft Office yes and
it's funny because what I like with all
we'd purchase for laptops yes and I put
libra and all them because I'm like we
don't have to buy licenses this is great
this is cheap and two of the individuals
kept sending documents back and forth
between their home computer and then
like oh just doesn't open properly so
they got for it so they went in and
spent the money and bought these
licenses and I'm like guys really
because they just couldn't handle the
transition Microsoft just couldn't open
it properly yeah now that I tackled this
I'm tackling calc because we have some
excel we have some Excel spreadsheet and
lummix I get excited about Excel we and
we print them out for patients on on the
daily and I can't open them right now
because I have calculate date it when I
go to print them it prints like 25
percent on the page like it scales it
right down but now that I have tackled
yes I feel ready for another maybe I'll
wait till Monday - I'm a spreadsheet
junkie so if you need a hand you like
okay I feel like we're at that point
with LibreOffice 6.1 where it's really
getting very good at compatibility
mm-hmm so you know we've got a great
word processor we've got a great
spreadsheet application and
then some it's got presentations for
doing PowerPoint presentations and
things like that right so it's a great
application now with 6.1 we're getting
more and more great compatibility yeah
so are you finding just to wrap up are
you finding that it feels more like
Microsoft Office and is more compatible
with other systems in the in the office
yes - both yeah that's a win
give it a try libreoffice.org it's a
free download for Windows Mac and Linux
and if you've got anything older than
6.1 just note you probably want to
upgrade you're gonna get those latest
and greatest features to make them
compatible do it it's worth it
definitely indeed we've got a quick
break when we come back we are gonna be
learning how to take an old laptop and
turn it into a Chromebook the room go
stick around for a limited time get your
hands on limited edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high-quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap Phi
TV slash shirts to support us and get
your official Network shirt today cat5
dot TV slash shirts
well back this is category five
technology TV and it's episode number
581 nice to see you I'm Robbie sash is
here Jeff's here it's the whole gang
mm-hmm and tonight we are learning to
repurpose that old hardware yes do you
have any old laptops kicking around I do
do yeah I think my laptop is about nine
years old
yeah I've got that old netbook that used
to use here now I've got yes an old
refurb that I put up here for yeah for
tonight the netbook was so eh oh my
goodness yes it's an acer aspire one and
I don't know if it's good enough to
continue using but even with Linux on it
even Linux feels too heavy on it yes and
I think that's because we're at that
point now where even Linux in a lot of
cases I know there are things like DSL
and and stuff that's built for older
hardware Lubuntu is another good example
is Ubuntu but really to have a fully
functional Linux desktop it takes more
resources than those things have right
Chromebooks okay are becoming more and
more popular because they can use lesser
hardware mm-hmm but the operating system
is so incredibly streamlined that it
doesn't rely so much on the hardware
that you're using it instead relies more
on the cloud all right
software-as-a-service on being able to
tap into the virtual infrastructure that
is Google right so if I was using like a
Chromebook I would use Google Docs stuff
like that absolutely Ken yeah and so by
doing that Google well you use like
Drive and you use their Doc's platform
and you use their built-in stuff to do
documentation spreadsheets all that
stuff it saves it in the cloud but it
also utilizes their network
infrastructure their server environment
to run the software in your browser
which is good so it means even if you
have a slow computer as long as you've
got a pretty good internet connection
the software is just as fast as it would
be on a very fast computer right because
it's not relying on the computer itself
true that I can do a quick search online
for Chromebook and I know that any of
the Chromebooks that are available for
purchase are probably pretty decent
right but there's the first one is
sixteen hundred bucks
what else have we got the new
Chromebooks so there's one for C this is
where things start to get unreal 249
bucks 649 $12.99 okay that's getting a
little a maybe I just want to see it
that brush might as well just buy a
laptop you may as well buy a laptop and
put Linux on it yeah but that three that
249 whoa here's one for $4.99 okay
here's one for $2.99 yeah I can I can
swallow that so here's the thing that
you got to ask yourself so people say
okay well with a Chromebook mm-hmm
I can't install software I can't put my
regular applications on and this is a
wonderful time for Linux lovers because
the paradigm is shifting the paradigm
has almost shifted to the point where
that doesn't matter anymore right
okay and when I say that what I mean is
Linux as an alternate to Microsoft
Windows writes an argument has been out
there for some years saying oh but I
can't install insert name of application
that normally is for Microsoft Windows
on Linux right whether or not that's
true you can use wine you can use
VirtualBox whatever but that's been an
argument so now with things like Chrome
OS and I'll say it let's say iPads okay
Android tablets smartphones mm-hmm let's
look at those Android tablets smart
phones your Samsung phone yeah what's
powering it
Google electricity Android Android being
powered by Google's infrastructure and
operating system yeah so again it falls
into hey this operating system is so
streamlined that even on this hardware
which is not very powerful compared to
my massive desktop computer it runs
really really well right now take that
and put it into a laptop and say okay
here's a Chromebook so yeah you can't
install the same applications that you
can install on Windows but we're used to
that right because we've been using our
smart phones we've been using our
tablets we're starting to get used to
that paradigm where all right we find
applications that work on this platform
and what works for us is great
so all right I can spend 249 I can get a
decent little Chromebook or I'll go back
to my first question how many of us have
a couple of laptops kicking around right
I do and so so let's take a look
cloud-ready is a operating system that
you can download and install absolutely
free on your old hardware now I say old
hardware because this will repurpose
your old hardware into a mock Chromebook
ok so if you've got an old laptop you
can turn it into a Chromebook and so I
say old hardware that's a great use case
if you have new hardware and you just
love that maybe you don't use anything
other than the Internet how many of us
do anything other than our web browser
these days I know that they're right I
know you can comment I'm gonna get it I
yeah I mean Matt but many don't right
I'm in a school situation right now yeah
where we use only Google Docs
there you go because not everybody has
access or knowledge of anything else so
we just use a van cool we have your
school is awesome because you think
about that and you think okay well the
Google Docs is free right unless you're
using a lot of it it's free exact and if
you're using a lot of it it's like five
bucks a month do you guys like use
Google Docs to like hijack the teachers
notes
uploads here no no no the latest thing
with school now is people will load a
wet
the word document and there'll be three
people working on typing out and you'll
almost get verbatim because one person
types out quickly the other people fall
in line correct the mistakes and then
fill in the gaps and so you almost get a
verbatim slip nobody yes it's great
students are using an oscillator they
don't actually happen in class all right
so because a lot of the stuff now I
don't mean to generalize and I know I'm
gonna get comments and people saying
well I need to be able to install this
and that I know I know so same here this
yes this isn't for everyone
well it's for maybe it is for everyone
but maybe not for every device right my
main computer yeah I need those extra
applications but there are times when I
wanted to sit down with a cup of coffee
and just get on my my book face get on
to my email do a couple of things online
and I don't need extra stuff so why not
repurpose old hardware right but it will
work on new hardware too so I don't want
to give that impression that this is
only for old hardware no it will work
great on new hardware as well but this
is not a dual booting operating system
this is something that you install and
it is the exclusive operating system on
the system so on my laptop actually
pulled my hard drive and I put in a new
hard drive in order to install okay so
that we could look at it tonight so
cloud-ready
from Neverwhere is actually it's like
chromium OS but it's been streamlined
and they've got a update process and
they've got enterprise and education
versions of the platform in order to
bring Chrome OS to regular PC hardware
and by that I mean you do not have to
buy new hardware you can use that old
stuff that you got kicking around if
you're a school you've got old computers
kicking around this isn't just for
laptops you can put it on desktops as
well and it's absolutely free so let's
get started say hello to cloud ready and
you've got three different versions
personal home use o2 wealth two buttons
anyways but three versions home use is
free so keep that in mind this for
personal use only don't put this into a
business education and enterprise will
you say well I just want to try it so I
want the free version for home I don't
want to buy the enterprise version well
the enterprise version has
a free trial so keep that in mind if
you're looking for something for
business or education use still go to
the business education but request a
free trial and then you'll be able to
check it out it's like a buck per
student so it's not reasonable so for
personal home use we can just get the
free version and it's a little different
in its way of deploying so you're gonna
read a little bit about it I encourage
you to do so and go through the hardware
compatibility guide which is going to
allow you to search for your particular
model make sure that you are compatible
now in order to install this what I did
is I actually downloaded the USB maker
on Microsoft Windows on one of my
computer's there is also a USB maker for
mac and Chromebook so how is that
different it's not like an image file or
an ISO file like we're used to it's an
actual image maker so you download the
software which then creates a USB flash
drive for you very much how Windows 10
does it okay and then that USB flash
drive now becomes your boot disk in
order to install the operating system
okay so as soon as I get it up and going
for the first time off of my USB flash
drive all you're gonna be greeted with
is this kind of lower menu here and if
you click down at the bottom right now
I've already installed it here but I you
will have a button up at the top that
says install cloud-ready and when I did
that earlier today I recorded the
process just to show you how incredibly
simple this is so remember it's going to
wipe out everything on your computer
here is as simple as it is one click I'm
going to install it's going to warn me
at that point
don't forget this is gonna wipe out
everything on your computer are you sure
and I click Next and that ladies and
gentlemen is the entire install process
that's it that's as easy as it gets
on my old laptop like really old laptop
I have a very old tiny thing that I
thought hey I'll try it out on it is
breathing new life into it it took about
25 minutes to install on this bad boy
with its i7 processor
about three minutes and then while shuts
down so then I'm greeted with a black
screen and I'm okay well what's going on
here it's just a blank screen right and
then I push the power button and boom
cloud ready Wow and it's up on the
screen and Here I am in chromium OS just
like that so this is in all essences
I've now converted turned my laptop
computer into a Chromebook Wow so this
is built specifically to be like that
cloud based computer so you've got
access to your Gmail you've got access
to now I've added that app you've got
chromium installed out of the box it
even has the capability of installing
things like VirtualBox which on an older
piece of hardware is kind of crazy but
what this does now look at how easy that
install process is so what that does is
it allows me to now on a little bit
better hardware install other operating
systems into chrome Chrome OS er my
Chromebook so that if I'm limited in any
way now I'm not limited I can install
those Windows applications if I have
Windows installed in VirtualBox for
example so it does not have the Google
Play Store however we're able to install
a lot of stuff and you can get through
here and you can you can well let's see
what the webstore says so oh it is
it's the Chrome Web Store okay so very
very similar stuff so you're able to
install your Chrome OS apps just as you
normally would what I really do like
about this especially when I think about
using it on lesser Hardware is that when
I set up my Gmail when I set up even my
my background my desktop wallpaper when
I set that up on my old laptop at home
and then when I came into the studio
today and I fired this one up having
just installed it everything was exactly
the same because it's loud right it's
associated with my Google account right
okay so no matter what
Chromebook cloud a cloud ready book that
I use right whether it's a desktop or a
laptop or whatever I'm gonna have my
same set up my same software my same
configuration my same desktop wallpaper
even it goes that far because it's all
cloud based you would just need an
internet connection that is lit and
would it matter what kind of internet
connection or what speed or anything
does it well as you can expect Sascha if
you have a very slow connection which is
becoming more and more rare these days
you're absolutely even with LTE internet
like on your cellular phone piggybacked
off of your like to your computer it's
gonna be fast fast enough for in browser
document editing okay
so I've actually transitioned most of my
document editing to to Google Drive also
Google Docs does all my editing and then
I'm able to share it with you guys so
you've got access I mean showing rights
and things like that the stuff that we
print is all done on Google Google Docs
now know what that should help like not
knowing how much data this would take up
is does that like all of your files and
your settings become part of your Google
storage yeah I think you get part what
is two gigs with Google and as I say if
you go beyond your limits it's like it's
$5 a month to increase it to whatever it
is right you'd have to look at the
pricing I don't know their pricing model
but but that is something to be aware of
and and the reason I think that I don't
know the pricing model is because it's
so cheap right well it's five bucks a
month
that's all I pay and it's and it gives
me email calendar storage everything
else but I'm not a power user if you
will but this has allowed me cloud ready
has allowed me to convert my laptop into
a Chromebook for free okay I can't
emphasize that enough now I've got new
life into older hardware that's my
scenario that's what I wanted it for my
newer hardware I'm gonna have full OS
azan like Linux or Windows right where
else but on my older hardware I can put
cloud ready on it and now I've got
book that will sync with all of my
Chrome OS okay systems now I know in
discord there is a bit of a conversation
going on about patching and stuff and
I've never used a Chromebook so how does
updates work is it a like you have to do
a fresh install or do you get an alert
just like you would on your phone that
says hey there's a software update
update well this is one of the reasons I
love cloud ready versus like just
vanilla chromium OS or or one of the
other options that are out there cloud
ready specifically so the company
they're called Neverwhere they have
created an update process or they
haven't created it it's based on
Google's infrastructure so Google for
their Chromebooks push out updates right
okay but these are Chromebooks that you
have to pay you know at least the
cheapest one we found was 249 bucks some
of them are 1,300 you have to pay for
those so the infrastructure is there so
what Neverwhere has done is they've
created a similar kind of server
environment that updates their clout
ready systems but it does it a little
bit behind Google oh so when Google
pushes out an update its bleeding-edge
will consider it right there's a lot of
potential for bugs there's a lot of
potential for problems and systems so
instead the approach that Neverwhere has
taken is to wait out the update a little
bit test it a little bit more internally
then push it out to all their clout
ready says I don't like that and then it
comes out on your system it updates
itself automatically you're good to go
there's nothing I hate more than hey
we've got an update and you can't use
your software until you update it's like
but the bugs right or blue screen of
death if you update yeah exactly yeah
this is a really great option yeah check
out Neverwhere dot-com just like it
sounds never wear comm and grab cloud
ready today it is free for your home and
this weekend is the biggest sale of the
year at gearbest
double 11 just in time for Christmas
shopping with massive savings and a
billion dollars in coupon rain gear best
double 11 this weekend at cap 5 TV slash
gear best
welcome back during the break we were
just chatting a little bit about the use
case oh yeah making basically a
Chromebook Anna and I do see like the
fou mentioning that you can get used
Chromebooks for like 80 bucks free free
okay just not out there so you're
mentioning about your children and yeah
so a year and a half ago when we're just
gonna start homeschooling our oldest we
were looking to like I said to my wife
I'm like you know there's gonna be some
online stuff let's get a laptop form but
we didn't want to buy a laptop we
thought maybe a Chromebook or something
like that but the problem was at the
time a lot of his schooling came with
CDs or their loftware that that's cool
yeah and so it's like you know that's
not gonna work we nee actually needs
some so we went out and built a desktop
for him to use but I'm looking at this
now because in the last year all of his
schooling is transitioned online or it's
still the physical book that's what
happens and a lot of schools are
actually changing to chromecast so this
would be amazing the fact that I've got
this nine year old laptop sitting at
home I haven't fired up being here and a
half I'm gonna wipe that sucker out put
YES on there and ideal because part of
the issue is the computer has all his
games and all his stuff and so you know
we walk out of the room to go do
something and come back it's like oh
that's minecraft that's not ok you know
it would be nice to have there's that
but it'd be nice to have a computer
where none of those apps are on there
yeah but we know you'll do is work yeah
and and from one computer to the next
it's the same as documents it's the same
spreadsheet it's the same I love
especially because my school does we do
use the Google Docs right so I can do my
homework like on the fly on my
with my Google Docs I can be on this and
this is Linux right no problems I can
just pop on into Chrome beyond that and
I could you could what else do you use
this for use it for disk or to use it
for google doc that's it
anything else email maybe Gmail ID yeah
Gmail yeah so I can totally do that on
this one of the things I love about the
whole scenario talking about how it's
like the same from computer to computer
computer let's say that one crash and
you had cloud ready on it great it's
still all in the cloud all your Doc's
all your images and all that stuff okay
so you haven't lost anything even if
that crashed or got stolen nobody has
access to it because the files aren't on
it so even if they did steal it they
don't have access to your files but you
can then take the replacement one
install clout ready on it login boom
your files everything is back right
where was your applications everything
perfect okay now can I fighting over the
computers move on to that exactly about
ready computer know can this be
installed on something like a PI no ok
x86 only oh ok it has to be x86 platform
they recommend four gigs of RAM or more
ok it will run on two gigs of RAM but
you're not gonna get the best
performance so I'd recommend right stick
with four days of mourning it's actually
a really green option because really if
you're sitting around with just old
hardware eventually it's just gonna be a
waste
right like and now it won't be you can
really extend the life of you can take
that a waste and breathe new life into
it exactly for sure I love it check it
out again just a reminder for you never
wear calm and it's free for you sasha
we've got a head over to your news room
are you ready for it I sure AM I can't
do an accent oh ok alright here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 dot TV newsroom a side
channel leak in Intel skylake and cabi
Lake chips allow attackers to pilfer
crypto keys and the issue probably
affects AMD
cpu's to iran apparently infiltrated the
communication network of CIA agents who
allow their secret websites used to
exchange messages with informants to be
crawled by Google several popular
verified Twitter accounts have been
hacked by scammers to promote an ad
using Tesla Voss Elon Musk's name and
likeness and one of our favorite SBC
makers is now making an affordable Linux
powered smartphone and tablet with KDE
plasma and we have the inside scoop
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with the slope Linux by us
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost
I'm Sachi Rickman in here the top
stories were following this week a side
channel leak of Intel skylake and cab
you like chips allow attackers to pilfer
affects AMD CPUs too over the past 11
months the processors running our
computers and in some cases phones have
been have so come to a host of attacks
the exploits threatened to siphon some
of our most sensitive secrets say
passwords or cryptographic keys out of
the silicon micro our architecture or
stop by traditional security defenses on
Friday researchers disclosed yet another
leak that has already been shown to
exist on a range of a wide range of
Intel chips and may also and also other
makers to port smash as the new attack
is being called exploits a largely
overlooked side-channel in Intel's
hyper-threading technology a proprietary
implementation of simultaneous
multithreading hyper threading reduces
the amount of time needed to carry out
parallel computing tax tasks in which a
large number of calculations or
executions are carried out
simultaneously the performance boost is
the result of two logical process
processor cores sharing the hardware of
a single physical processor the added
logical cores make it easier to divide
larger tasks into smaller ones that can
be completed more quickly in a paper
scheduled for release soon researchers
documented how they were able to
play the newly discovered leak to
recover an elliptic curve private key
from a server running in an open SSL
powered TLS server the attack which was
carried out on servers running Intel
skylake and cabi Lake chips and a boon
to worked by sending a one logical core
a steady stream of instructions and
carefully measuring the time it took for
them to get executed the specific timing
allowed port smash to deduce the key
being processed in another logical core
of the same processor the researchers
feel remote login scenarios are the
biggest targeted threat in this scenario
malicious use with credentials logs in
via SSH for example then compiles the
exploit code and runs it to extract the
information from other processes running
in parallel ports mash currently poses a
threat mainly to people using computers
or services that allow untrusted people
to use the same physical processor these
users should pay close attention to the
research and carefully consider the
recommendation for the time being the
risk is for others is likely low but
that could change more with more
research ok so if you remote into my
computer am I at risk if I yeah do you
know well yes I trust you there you go
ok ok so if somebody calls me and remote
since my computer because they say I
know yeah they say your computer is at
risk then that has to do with like spear
phishing campaigns and attacks where
people trick you into giving them access
right that's a different thing because
that's something that you have fallen
for ok so if if I call you up and I
pretend I'm from Microsoft and I say I
already detected a virus on your
computer I can remote it and fix it for
you as not Robbie like as Robbie you
know you can trust me but if I was that
Microsoft person and I fell for it and
you gave me access you're basically done
for you've given them access it's like
people say I had an antivirus I don't
understand how I got a virus well did
you say yes when it prompted you are you
sure you
want to run this right okay right so if
you authorize that that's a bad scenario
you have given access so this case with
this case with this particular type of
exploit what it allows to happen is that
parallelized tasks so services that are
running in parallel on a single CPU so a
single computer processor can then be
grabbed by an unauthorized task okay so
let me give you a scenario yes I have a
server this is a scenario this is not
reality
I have a server and I want to become a
web host okay so I've put my server on
the Internet
I've co-located it somewhere I've got
firewalls in it I know what I'm doing
I've got a patchy installed I've got
Maria DB installed and I'm ready to rent
out some space it's got a lot of power
it's got a lot of storage space Jeff
wants to build a web site so he brings
it to me and says I want to put it on
your web server and I say ok I'll set
you up an account boom boom boom
your software is installed your web site
is good to go it's up right now Sascha
comes to me and you say ok I want to do
a blog so ok I've installed alright
we've set up your software now Sasha's
got her blog set up now Joe Blow user
over here calls me up and says ok I'm
ready to build mice my thing I want to
install this so ok here you go boom boom
boom boom boom you're all set up now
we've got three people in a multi-tenant
environment who all have access to the
same physical hardware but typically and
traditionally and in my secure
environment you only have access to your
files and other things you only have ax
access to your things but what we don't
realize is the Joe Blow user over here
has written some software to allow him
to access the stuff that's going on on
yours right right so on your website I
didn't know but you're actually selling
some software on your website and so you
use cryptography to convert the credit
card numbers that are passing through
your site into encrypted data right so
now this Joe Blow user can grab that
decription I'll grab that credit-card
information that's passing through this
is a theoretical but it can now grab
that information that they should have
no right to access because it's running
on the same computer on the same
processor that typically each user would
not have access to each other's things
make sense but now because they've got
this exploit they can access that data
that decryption that those those codes
that otherwise they should not have
access that can be used for
man-in-the-middle attacks that can be
used for for data theft for financial
theft for cryptocurrency theft for
identity theft did I say that yet for
any number of basically theft any any
information that passes through that
server now can be exploited that is
susceptible to that type of exploit so
you would know that you are at risk if
this is where the research has not been
officially announced in such a capacity
yet where we understand what we need to
do right okay
so what we do need to do is at this
point be diligent in that I need to say
as that web host mm-hmm that Joe Blow
users doing something weird yeah CPU
usage keeps skyrocketing but it's some
process that I don't recognize and their
website is nothing so I don't understand
so you sort of but would most hosts
watch for that good host will right okay
fair enough
okay and I say that like like I think
about dream host for example hmm which
would be a prime example where this kind
of thing could be used to attack because
users have SSH access yeah
and they have very strict environment
set up for VPS and for for
compartmentalizing individual tasks not
only users but tasks so that their
sandboxed in and of themselves because
that's what they do that's their thing
yeah but they're not me the Joe Blow
user who I'm not the Joe Blow user don't
get me
not that user I'm the guy who has a
server and wants to rent out some space
right or share it with my friends or
share it with other people and sell some
space so okay very simple scenarios to
give an example that makes sense I think
yes but could be any number of things
and when there's more research we'll
know some more oh absolutely
yes and this is a scenario where I'm
saying okay well I've granted access
keep in mind somebody could hack into
SSH yeah somebody could hack into your
SSH account if you've got a wide open
server with no firewall like CSF lfd
that's watching for failed login
attempts and then blocking IP addresses
thousands of those in the past couple of
weeks I've had thousands of those
whacking away at my server five attempts
you're blocked right that's how it
should be hmm okay I ran apparently
infiltrated the communication network of
CIA agents who allow their secret
websites used to exchange messages with
informants to be crawled by Google the
communication leak was believed to have
stemmed from a simple Google search
suspecting the u.s. had agents and
sources within its nuclear program Iran
began to hunt for the mole after a
double agent showed Iran's government
one of the sites they were then able to
use Google to identify other sites the
Intel Intel agency was using and began
to intercept the communication
essentially each of the web sites had
common elements between them that were
found using Google searches identify one
common element identify all the sites
using that material to link them up the
report from Yahoo News states because
Google is continuously scraping the
internet for information about all the
world's websites it can function as a
tremendous investigative tool even for
counter espionage purposes once Iran was
able to track down the sites their
techniques were given to other friendly
countries who in turn used the
information to weed out the CIA's
communication channels in their own
territories as well sadly this has led
to the capture and execution of at least
30 agents
well an official quoted in the report
claims the agency had become too reliant
on the system which was originally
intended to only be a temporary
communication channel and had left the
relatively insecure site up far longer
than intended and used it to send
information that should have been
reserved for more secure channels the
official says the issue was that it was
working well for too long with too many
people a defense contractor for the CIA
claims that he warned the agency that it
was using insecure communication systems
in 2008 and again in 2010 when he
started suspecting the channels had been
cracked a year later he was sidelined
and fired by the agency a move that he
claims was retaliation for not shutting
up oh this is a really sad story because
it's impacted human lives it's such a
you know a broad way at the same time I
and I want to be careful how I say this
I feel like this has been a common news
theme where there's been some sort of a
military mess up with technology that's
resulted in private information going
out there like it was what about a year
ago that there was cellphones for a
secret military base that was people
were using yeah Fitbit and it was
tracking where they're running and also
in you getting all this data in there's
one spot in the middle of the desert
it's like you would think that this kind
of stuff would be on the forefront of
their minds when it comes to security
but maybe it's so easy to overlook I'm
so comfortable is the problem I think
people are super comfortable with
technology that they use and it it's I
think the secure sites probably mirror
the insecure sites so easily that you
just imagine security in it right I
think that the communication techniques
probably and I don't know what they are
for the CIA but I think that the
communication channels that they would
use that are secure mimic the ones that
they would use that are insecure to make
people feel comfortable with the cross
right so so it gives you a false sense
of security when you're using the
unsecure communication challenge
channels you wouldn't know that you were
putting yourself at risk in any way it's
up to the CIA's
I think I think if you're a secret
operative you're gonna know that
whatever communication method you're
using there is whether secure or not
there's always a risk to it but I mean
like I think about back when Obama got
elected as president of the United
States he wanted his Blackberry and that
was a fight for like six months that the
Secret Service said no you not get a
blackberry because it's not secure
enough even though blackberry was crazy
secure and they ended up creating and I
remember he was coin is called the brach
berry because the Secret Service made
their own cell phone for Barack Obama to
use but I mean that's going back what 10
years now yeah well so was this system
well yeah the thing ten years ago
someone was saying internally that this
is not safe
this is not secure great but in any
workplace including the CIA Secret
Service's is everyone a computer geek
you know a computer tech no I mean
unlike the movies which will make us
think that every operative can hack
every system right it's not the case no
it's not we're all individual people
with our own experiences and our own
capabilities and so to put that
expectation that the individual
operatives should know better than to
use a system that's unsecure that's not
fair to put it on them yeah what is fair
is to say well okay first of all those
operatives trust that the infrastructure
that's in place by their employer and in
this case the government is secure main
trust that that is the case and no
questions asked yeah but it does lead to
and I mean this is like kind of going
out there but the fact that you know
it's being you know tracked by Google
and that's the big issue here and that's
what led to it the fact that we live in
in this tech world where nothing is
private anymore like everything you do
on your cell phone
everything you do on your computer like
your data mind a thousand ways from
Sunday and I mean heck what is the
Facebook's got 57,000 different
categories on you just on the way that
you use it is it reasonable to expect
that there's gonna be a way to
completely block off from the world any
sort of data mining
if you're a hermit disconnected hermit
that's the old God say you'd have to be
disconnected if you're using tacky or
somehow gonna give that information off
the problem isn't that that there isn't
privacy the problem is that you're led
to believe it's private when it's not
like I say you you're led to feel trust
for the system exactly when you really
ought to know that anything you say or
do on your computer or phone is totally
traceable totally trackable the
difference is I would assume that with a
CIA agent that they would be given a
special device and they would have you
know some level of encryption or
something but that's not this this
issue's it's like the Google was just
tracking it right
it was indexing it yeah as simple as
that that's all that happens and so this
was an online system so what should they
do intranet acceptable to that but an
intranet would be only accessible by
their people or at least a VPN something
that you know how can Google access this
to index it in the first place because
it's on a forward-facing server that's
accessible and they do that because they
want their people to be able to access
it when they're at home and when they're
in the field and when they're overseas
and you don't want to have trouble
accessing the communication system of
course hmm but by doing that you're
opening it up to severe security
exploits now I mean not knowing how that
all that indexing works I mean Google is
just one search engine you've also got
you know no no no no Jeff there Google
is every search engine yeah you know but
you've got Bing and you've got all these
other Microsoft's thing they keep trying
to get me to use Bing it's not Chandler
but do you want to Internet Explorer or
something no but how like how could they
block all indexing service I mean
there's crawl bots everywhere no they
can't if it's forward-facing so if my
can if my server that runs that service
is accessible on the Internet so this is
an internet connected network mmm
interconnected network of
Computers okay it needs to be a private
network so VPN and I say VPN that's a
private network or an intranet which is
an internal network those would not be
accessible from the outside world unless
you had the credentials in order to
access them
so my device could have VPN access to
our VPN but Google would not be able to
access it because Google does not have
access to our right and so that would
then prevent those kinds of things so
more we've got to move on I know but
more emphasis has to be put on that
individual who in in the IT and the
thing said we've got to do something
here ok we need to listen to those IT
people when I say to you that you need
to have an off-site backup solution for
your work because if you ever had a fire
and you don't have that drive off-site
lost all your patient data yes right you
need to listen to me
that's a serious thing right you haven't
she's got a good backup it's true but
you have to listen to those folks
they're giving you those warnings
because we're not all computer nerds
outside of this room that's because I
love all your faces kind of like oh we
can't all let's reword we can't all be
computers yeah they're smart several
popular verified Twitter accounts have
been hacked by scammers to promote an ad
using Tesla boss Elon Musk's name and
likeness British fashion retailer
Madelyn film distributor path UK and us
publisher Pitt Pantheon books were among
those whose accounts were taken over by
scam artists the scam used Promoted
Tweets where twitter is paid by
advertisers to make a tweet appear to a
wider audience scammers targeted several
verified accounts denoted with a blue
tick and changed the name and image to
that of mr. musk the tweet then urged
users to part with a small amount of
Bitcoin a digital currency - supposedly
receive more several other verified
accounts which were also taken under the
scam artist
girl appeared in the tweets comments to
claim that they have received Bitcoin
from mr. musk by using accounts with
Twitter's own verification mark again a
blue tick it makes the account appear
more legitimate at first glance and thus
may fool the reader into thinking that
it's official the scam is made to seem
more trustworthy as various other
compromised accounts reply to the tweet
claiming that it works but many of the
posts still bear the hallmarks of a
classic scam included frequent spelling
errors like Bitcoin and Capote and
requests for money the account handle
itself is also incorrect a legitimate
tweet from Elon Musk would read at Elon
Musk beside the blue tick in this case
it reads at peeth UK the account
originally belonging belonging to the
film distributor pat paid the UK this
tweets have since been deleted with many
accounts recovered though some were left
blank while waiting for their owners to
re-enter their name and profile picture
mm-hmm okay so totally off topic but on
topic Elon Musk wasn't breaking SEC
rules when he announced the deal it was
a spam oh I know really nothing about
Twitter other than some people really
use it more than I would but a blue tick
is that all it takes well the blue tick
denotes that it is an official account
so when you see Elon Musk and it has a
blue tick you think that is officially
Elon Musk because that we have been we
talk about the complacency we we start
to trust what we're used to so I just
that I see it I trust it the blue tick
means it's a verified account but it's
no different than going fight it it's no
different than going on Facebook and
finding out that you know Robbie
Ferguson has tried to add me over five
different accounts and the one Robbie
Ferguson has all male friends the other
Robbie Ferguson is all female friends
the other Robbie Ferguson has no frame
kind of trick exactly this is a smart
scam because that bluetick does make me
feel like that is a legitimate account
Twitter themselves have confirmed that
is indeed the Arnold Schwarzenegger
that's why the bluetick is there so in
this case what they've done so let's say
you have a blue tick because you are
absolutely I am so sure Shashi Rickman
so blue tick blue tick and it only
happens for famous people so I don't
have a blue tick but let's pretend I did
Robby Ferguson has a blue tick that's a
problem you Jeff is a hacker Jeff is a
hacker who do I need to be you need to
be bald nerd you're the number one bald
so you have a blue tick of Sascha
Rickman yes I have a blue tick as Robbie
Ferguson Jeff is a hacker who wants to
trick you into thinking that Elon Musk
is saying send me your money right we'll
send you something else so you hack my
account
you've never touched Elon Musk's account
those who think that Elon Musk was
hacked are wrong right you hacked my
account I have an official tech because
I'm Robbie Ferguson but I had a stupid
password and so I was easy to come to
three four five seconds you've hacked me
you've put Elon Musk's picture on my
profile and you've renamed my profile
where it used to say Robbie Ferguson it
now says Elon Musk I still have the blue
tick right so now I send a tweet you
sent a tweet as my account with the blue
Tech and I'm Elon Musk and it looks
legitimate Lee at first glance unless
you scrutinize it it looks like at Elon
Musk I would like to know how and why
these scam artists are so bad at grammar
and spelling because that is always here
but but who I guess trademark is it like
this is their calling card
yeah like support this if you want
bitcoin bit quick yeah they won't be
quick they don't want bitcoins I'm
missing Bitcoin how is it any different
I mean like was the last week there was
a massive raid in India for all of those
CRA scams you know when you get this
there's the CRA we have a warrant for
your arrest here in Canada yeah
this is a big one going and there's
people that are calling back and go
here's my credit card and it's people
who are not savvy to this stuff but how
is it any different I mean if they scam
1000 people and they get what I got baby
cares they got a lot of Bitcoin I guess
yeah I'm sure they did I people were
trusting those blue ticks and sending
their bit quake everywhere so to take it
one step further just wrap up the
discussion so we understand what
happened here so he hacked my account
made it look like er Musk Elon Musk now
tweeted with the check and then you also
got hacked so Jeff has hacked you and he
has a blue tick as who's who's legette
Bill Gates Bill Gates Bill Gates blue
tech you are now back gates with this
picture so now Bill Gates responds to
Elon Musk's tweet and says I did it you
can do now Elon Musk and Bill Gates with
the blue tick on each of their little
tweet says right thumbs up do this send
Bitcoin bit quake yeah send your bit
quick today one of our favorite SBC
following the demise of a boon to phone
pure isms libram 5 seems like the next
big thing in the budding world of Linux
smartphones purism has already partnered
with big names like gnome and KDE and we
can expect the device to start shipping
in April 2019 that said it seems like
another hardware vendor is looking to
develop its own Linux smartphone and
it's a company we already know and love
Pyne 64 is working to create inexpensive
Linux base based smartphones and tablets
KDE neon creator jonathan rozelle
revealed this at open source summit
Europe edition pine 64 founder TL Lim
confirmed to its to its Foss that the
devices are called pine phone and pine
tab pine 64 community at min-woo cos
Erickson ski tells us that early that
the early pine phone development kits
have been already sent to key developers
active development should start next
week the pine the tab is almost complete
and is awaiting relevant software
supports for the pine phone while the
details won't officially be announced
until FOSDEM in February here's what we
know
it runs Linux there will be support from
more than two different major projects
on launch it has a 1440 by 720p IPS
panel panel screen and sleek modern
design features the front and back
cameras are 5 megapixels each they're
aiming for higher-end production
materials with hopes of a Gorilla Glass
sandwich with glass on both the front
and back of the pine foam pine 64 plans
to implement a better IO into the pine
phone than is available on most
commercially available phones and the
design is modular allowing the swapping
and upgrading of components such as the
LTE capabilities the pine phone will be
priced between 115 $179 us and will be
available barring any unexpected delays
as early as late 2019 there isn't a lot
of information available about Pine tab
just yet is it still being developed and
the official announcement will go out at
FOSDEM next year as well but what we do
know is it has a 720p IPS panel and is
built for education and budget use with
a target price of about $100 u.s. one
cool feature we can reveal about the
pine tab is that it includes a magnetic
keyboard that connects to the pine tab
with pogo pins two USB and doubles as a
protective cover sweet yeah 150 bucks I
can do this I love pine sixty-four they
make some really great products we've
looked at like the a 64 a 64 LTS and the
Rock Pro the right 64 I mean they make
single board computers much like the
Raspberry Pi but much more powerful
right right you know how that pine like
the pine kind of look for their
computers is like the two sandwich kind
of glass with yes right so I'm picturing
like my my new phone this is what you're
seeing in your mind's eye right holding
an a 64 plus sandwich I'm picturing like
the phone is there and then like there's
the cases and then there's like the
little like I know that you'll make it
fancier than know what I'm picturing
good it's incredible because I just
picture it's like so unique the design
of the actual pine sixty-four computers
I can't wait to see what the phone looks
like see oh I like this idea what I'm
wondering though is in a in an open
market and I say that term loosely like
the United States where there's so much
ability for competition yes you don't
have that kind of market in Canada
you've got the three major cellphone
providers that basically like set their
own marketability as far as cellphones
how is this kind of phone gonna make its
way into Canada because the cellphone
compels you how sir how you're gonna see
it on category five TV we're gonna tell
you that it's unlocked then you can use
it with any of the major phone providers
okay but will you be able to buy it in
store or strictly why would you buy it
no no but this is the thing if you want
to get mass-market sale you need to get
into the stores is that true is that
true in for the 19 if for the average
consumer who's gonna walk into a
cellphone store they're gonna go oh I
see my highway I got I see my Samsung I
see my Google phone I don't see a pine
64 nope sorry
I need a pine 64 am i at the average
consumer you know cuz you're the bald
nerd right now are you the average
consumer are you gonna when you know
that the pine 64 pine phone is available
right like people will line up for
phones and and if I really want a pine
phone which I do
which I do yes I'm going to get it I'm
gonna order it online and I'm going to
insert my SIM card and I'm gonna use it
yeah and that's gonna be and it's
cheaper than me getting on a contract
well I agree I totally agree after that
as you go yeah for that reason like I'm
all over it but I think
people they're gonna go oh this deals
going on right now at Beck's cell phone
company they're not gonna think that way
I'd like to generalize at Jeff and I
like to I like to give the consumers
more credibility than that in that when
because we shop around now we don't walk
kiosk and say what do you recollect one
thing you what's the one that you
recommend because I know I'm just gonna
get swindled right that's the world that
we live in sure no I do research and I
look at reviews online if they can get
these on Amazon they are gonna get
blasted with five-star reviews that tell
all about how yeah the pine phone is the
pine tab inevitably plays out exactly
like that I truly do I have very little
faith in consumer I'm sorry for your
loss I just I I think we are a bunch of
sheep generally we are sheep and
somebody says go here and that's the
pasture we go to my sheep as your
Shepherd by a pine phone when they come
out they are going to be incredible and
yes we love their company yep we want to
support openness and when I say old us
open platforms open software and
community developed software yes and the
ability through i/o and through modular
design to be able to do stuff that the
iPhone can't do right
Dilbert ten times the price there'll be
no planned obsolescence in at the pine
what planned obsolescence you can just
take out the LTE and put in the new one
okay great okay then okay here's my
argument to seal the deal
okay how are you gonna and this is not
bashing the phone but if it's only five
megapixel camera how are you gonna get
all those selfish socialites doing their
duck face on five megapixel as opposed
to the 12 megapixels they're gonna be
like my duck faces that is good if I was
buying a phone for the camera for the
camera then I might want to see some
sample images right which we will
provide right which we will provide I
will be part of this on boxing there we
go I will test
the phone oh my god a week of selfies I
will up okay firstly I didn't even know
a selfie was called a selfie for a long
time I thought it was called a face II
so fantastic I will be the one is there
gonna be a pre-buy I don't know yet
look I know after Foster I want to know
if there's a pre-buy because so many
people like they want to pre-buy i would
love to buy on what we do know is that
there are some development units that
have been manufactured and shipped yeah
there will be more development units
that will be manufactured and shipped
and then at fosston we will know more
right this is in February of 2019
February so there will be units
available in the community like
community members and developers in
particulars select developers will have
access to these and will start to learn
more so I have to wait for months we
have to wait for more rent and I can't
wait for more rent payments yes we can
go on and on about pine stuff keep up
the great work
plasticity fourth I'm very excited about
this big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson yet I'm
Jeff Weston thank you everyone for
joining us this week I hope you've had
as much fun as we have or even just a
fraction of the fun that we've had and
then it would be the best night ever
that true story and I look forward to
seeing you again next week great to have
these two by my side Jeff great to see
you again next week
no oh I'm sorry I'm out in the bush next
week are you what are you doing
hunting we're back in the states no but
an hour and a half from here over
Bancroft area okay all right yep taking
out the whitetail I wish you no luck at
all
and on that note have a marvelous week
have a great time
thank you regardless of everything else
thank you and we will see you again next
week
take care of a buddy bye
[Applause]
you
