for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 2 98 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the second of april it is 2013 nice to
see you welcome everyone Hillary how are
you doing fabulous how are you doing
good doing good how was your easter oh
you know lots chocalate lots of food
sounds rough the hard life you know
three straight days of chocolate and
then the chocolate sales afterwards any
about it yeah it was good now I'm here
like well the kids got all these bags of
chocolate and I didn't get any bags of
chocolate so buying bags of chalk for
half off I can do that yeah that's
exactly what totally but yeah I'm good
I'm I'm a little I i was super hyper and
then i think i had like the sugar sugar
but actually be like ah that I had a
hunk of chocolate icing before I came
and just like that he had some chocolate
instr eggs there now there's some
insecure so yeah like why you're
inviting to the show don't worry perfect
by the end of the show we're bouncing
off the walls how about you how you
doing at home nice to see ya thanks for
being here tonight mm-hmm we love having
everybody we got a lot happening this
show don't you know sure do coming up in
the news get this oh yah oh yah oh yah
oh yah oh yah source gaming console it
yeah oh yeah q sound effects Apple is
having trouble securing the trademark
for the ipad mini hmm an electronic
implant has been designed to reduce
obesity and lastly displayer brings us
one step closer to holographic with an O
with an interactive touchscreen that you
can't touch and has no screen what does
all mean stick around cuz these stories
are coming up later in the show we've
already hear more
sounds cool always does I'm excited to
hear about luhya as well that's a
content even watching forth for some
time so cool study seat I see two people
in the chat room and that nice to have
everybody joining us live tonight if
you're watching on YouTube hey check out
our Google+ hangout as well because
after the show tonight we're gonna spend
a couple minutes just chatting with you
hanging out backstage and you can ask
your questions interact hangouts are
cool that way because you can actually
talk back to us oh yeah and we can just
kind of hang out hence the fancy name
hangouts how do you like that tonight
what are we doing we're gonna be looking
at android OS 4.1 we're gonna be
sticking it on a pc we're gonna be
running it on linux but it'll work on
windows on mac on any kind of hardware
you can throw at it we're gonna be able
to run that operating system using what
virtualization ooh it's all free oh
there for the taking so mr. ground we're
gonna be showing you how to do that I
mean that's kind of exciting I'm excited
to learn to see what does this all mean
we'll find out what does it mean guest
Harry nice to see you jot a Jameson
invincible mutant hey all right what
else have we got well we're gonna have
to take a really quick break but in the
meantime just before we do that I want
to make mention as well we're talking
about mobile devices tonight android
I've got my ipod touch here and if
you've got an iDevice all you have to do
is go to over 2m cat five dot TV scan
that QR code and you'll be able to bring
up our mobile website which is kind of
cool because you can actually watch the
show live from your device you can watch
it on demand afterwards if you don't
catch this live you can watch it through
your through your mobile device yeah
wherever you are while you're driving
around but hopefully someone else is
behind the wheel yeah it's great for the
kids you know your kids watch category 5
handling the iphone or the android
device how you like that i love it that
works pretty sweet huh my kids call it
the daddy show they do ya gotta be quiet
for the daddy show quiet down
on the daddy show start that's pretty
much how it goes it's cute alright get
we're gonna take a real quick break
we're going to be back right after this
don't go anywhere at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance that rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
you are watching category 5 and category
5 TV is a member of the protect podcast
network if it's tech its ear as well we
are members of the international
association of internet broadcasters
awesome thanks he'll want to say
greetings to our new viewers tonight
those who have recently just registered
on our website we've got Ebron we've got
scooty duck 42 who we saw in the chat
room last week it's nice to have you
joining our actual web community by
signing up as a registered viewer on our
website giga flux like flux capacitor i
presume like well we got 10 point 21 you
got lots or whatever so this is a
combination of the power that it takes
to power the DeLorean and the device it
is required for time travel so welcome
giga flux nice to have you here sick
twin turbos it's the theme seems to be
about fast cars hello so nice to have
you joining us sick twin turbos g-man
nice to have you joining us as a
registered viewer now on our website
category 5 TB in Steve m57 great having
you here as well you can register on our
website category 5 TV it's free and
you'll be able to get some of the cool
features that are only available to
registered viewers are just showing you
like just before the show well
I I get an email because I subscribe to
all this stuff because I like to know
that it's working fair enough it's kind
of cool though you get an email you know
if you ask for it because we don't spam
or anything but I got an email here that
says hey by the way Hillary rumbles
going to be in the studio we're going to
be talking about virtual virtualizing
android 4.1 on pc hardware category 5 is
live click here yeah that just comes
it's like you know I'm cruising around
like Oh what am I gonna do tonight oh
wait category 5 is just about on kind of
warns yeah it's like better than TV
Guide it will show up in your inbox and
tell you when the show is happening
that's cool and if you miss it you can
actually opt in to receive kind of like
the the episode afterwards so if you
missed the show it will actually email
you the show and you can download it or
watch it right in your browser whatever
you want to do kind of cool stuff talk
about ease of use that's just a couple
of little things that we threw in there
for you screw deduct 42 it's nice to see
ya sounds like they've gotta scoot
what's that it's nice seeing you hope
you can catch the show on the download
after the fact category five dot TV
alright shall we get to it pitter patter
let's get at her straight to it does he
show folks we're always moving shaking
here that's it let us begin with our
first question of the eve data comes to
us from m allen west hey m allen west
thanks for your question here we go hi
Robbie the program called blue stack
plus a DW underscore mod underscore
launcher is for windows and mac only it
will smoothly let you run most android
games and software on your computer is
there any software out there that i can
use on my linux desktop that'll be able
to run android apps PS love your show
yeah Cheers ok so we're reusing blue
stack to run android apps on windows or
mac how can we do this on linux and one
of the things that's neat about the day
and age that we live in right now is
that we don't need to turn always to
emulators in order to get things done we
can turn instead to virtualization
which is a cool technology it seems a
little bit overwhelming when you're
first learning it because to think that
you can run multiple operating systems
basically multiple computers on a single
piece of computer hardware as a little
bit like whoa hurts my brain thinking
about I remember when I was just
learning virtualization it seemed it
seemed crazy to be able to like
multitasking is one thing but actually
being able to swap between different
operating systems so I could have
windows running in Linux and another
linux distribution and whatever else all
at once running in virtualization but
it's amazing technology and it allows
you to do so much and it allows you to
do things like testing or playing
android games on a Windows computer or
on a Mac or on Linux so how can we do
that on Linux well let me tell you I
bring up my browser nice and simple
we're just going to get things started
what we're going to do is we're going to
grab a piece of software that is
available for you on whether whether you
be on Windows Mac or Linux so I'm going
to go and ro v m dot org it's short for
kind of like Android virtual machine but
it's and r OV m dot org so there we go
it's kind of like a blog layout you can
read all about it find out what's new
from dan the developer he was formerly
involved in creating the bill droid
application which was kind of like a ROM
based android kind of system but now
very focused on virtualization which i
think is amazing so let's let's actually
get this thing set up tonight I can do
this in real time nothing is
pre-recorded so we've got so much room
for error and if you follow along this
is a good opportunity for you to kind of
learn how this is done so on this
website here hmm I'm going to go into
download here we go there's a few things
that I've got to explain to you first of
all you see all these ova files oba
files are fantastic because they are
basically their virtual box or virtual
machine appliances so in this case it's
an open format they are virtual
appliances and open virtual appliance
so all of these files are distributed as
open virtual appliances they're very
very easy to deploy on your computer
which is basically to say install them
now the first thing is is that i do have
virtual box installed and you're going
to need that that goes without saying so
I'm just going to actually bring up
VirtualBox just to show you what it
looks like keyboard was lying in there
for a second here we go virtual box is
the actual platform that were going to
use the software that allows us to
virtualize and here's where things are
neat because VirtualBox is available for
Windows Linux or Mac so it doesn't
matter what platform you're using you're
going to be able to do what we're
demonstrating today so it's completely
agnostic as to what operating system
you're running but it gives you
virtualization technology within your
computer sweet yeah so see if I can get
that up here I love unity I love it that
is sarcasm thank you for clarifying
that's the beauty of live 10 television
entertainment folks remember the days
when you can just click on applications
system tools Oracle VirtualBox no more i
say i like those days we're going to be
looking at a mate driven linux
distribution very very soon we're just
waiting for the final release we're
gonna be showing it to you so that's a
fork of Nome too so I'm looking forward
to that I'm looking forward too bad come
on unity don't just don't dare we go
beauty there that is VirtualBox my
friend so you notice that i are i
already have windows seven installed and
i've got a couple of little servers that
are running debian those are that's all
very very cool so what we want to do
today though all that to say yeah i've
got virtual box installed you're going
to need VirtualBox how much does
VirtualBox cost nothing it's absolutely
free gives you virtualization technology
in your computer whether you be using
Windows Mac or Linux go over to
virtualbox org
you can get your hands on that if you're
running Linux you can find the
installers already in your favorite
repositories you can bring up into
software Center for example and install
virtualbox or if you prefer you can use
the repositories that are provided at
virtualbox org that's going to make sure
that you have the absolute latest
version as opposed to what they release
in the Ubuntu repositories so back to
the website that we're on here which is
the and r OV m dot org come on oh let's
bear with me as I deal with it okay
lubuntu bug here folks it's all good
yeah cuz these things happen
occasionally so it wouldn't be real life
unless we showed what could happen in
real life we haven't even gotten to the
feature yet and a boon to is well it is
what it is you know this thing's got a
mind of its own yupo p Wow oh my
goodness why is it opening I think
what's happened is it's decided to open
every application between my down
literally is going through my dash and
open up okay every single application
okay I'm gonna close this as Heather
frantically tries to get a screenshot of
the chaos that's clothes clothes clothes
for it are all right eyes I'm back to a
normal desktop oh boy beauty this is
this is it Pete this is I'm gonna talk
really nicely to mark right now mark can
we please just proceed with the feature
who's mark that your computer we'll just
pretend
this is a reverence to like a 1982 pop
no this is a reference to the gentleman
who created a boon to for us and the
south to integrate all these wonderful
nevermind yeah I'm thinking of someone
else okay so here we are on this and r
OV m dot org website we've got the
downloads up here here's what I want to
explain to you so we know what an OVA
file is now and you see here there are
many different versions now there's the
TP another TP with G apps and Houdini in
flash then we've gotta pee and we've got
another P and we've got a tee and we've
got a tee so what on earth are we
supposed to do here what are we supposed
to download well we just have to
understand what each of those represents
so t is for tablet p is for phone Oh
seems simple yes alright so just keep
that in mind so do you want to download
the T version which is tablet only no
phone features do you want to install
the P version which would be phone
features but no tablet features or in
our case we want to go with TP which is
tablet and phone features and the reason
we want to do that is because some apps
will only install on an android phone
and not a tablet so it's good to have a
TP version then you basically have the
all-round system that gives you tablet
and phone functionality on Android fair
enough alright so we're going to also go
with the version that has google apps
and houdini and flash it just makes
things kind of more functional out of
the box because we're going to have the
ability to install apps and things like
that so here we go okay there we are
we're going to go with the TP version
with G apps Houdini and flash click what
do you want to do open with Oracle VM
VirtualBox or in your system because i'm
running ubuntu that's what it gives me
you might just save it and then from
VirtualBox look at what you can do you
can go file import appliance that's
another option in my case I'll just tell
you know what I'm just going to actually
open it with virtualbox here we go 20
seconds
look at it go yeah so what we're
actually doing here Hillary is we're
downloading all of android OS and it's
already created into a nice little
appliance for us which VirtualBox takes
and sets up a virtual machine which
emulates all the hardware that's
necessary to run android OS nice yeah
done all the hard work for us because
it's an OVA file it's already set up
it's already configured thank you cam
has done a fantastic job of setting this
up for us and and it just works out of
the box right it's just gonna just gonna
go so here we go a couple seconds left
here the anticipations on rolling me
firefox download manager should have
like some intense music okay here we go
so these the appliance settings that is
going to give you all right we can leave
everything as is but for me I like to
set reinitialize the mac address of all
network cards it's usually best to do
that in a lot of scenarios it just
creates a new mac address for the for
the card kind of based on a random
algorithm so that you don't ever end up
with two network cards that share the
same mac address which would be a
problem so we'll just check that off go
import very very simply this is just
going to quickly create a virtual
machine and install it and it's good to
go so now my virtual machine I should be
able just to double click on this and
we'll see what happens now what we're
doing is we're actually booting up
another operating system within our
Linux computer or you might be on
Windows or Mac and there we go it's the
Android bootloader and this again is
Android 4.1 so we're just going to let
that boot
now I've got my android tablet I got to
say it's it's pretty fantastic and we're
seeing more and more we're gonna be
talking a little bit later you're
mentioned you're going to be talking
about that yeah gaming console which is
powered by Android so I think we're
seeing more and more the gaming is going
the route of Android we looked at the
mini pc from rikomagic a few weeks ago
and you notice one of the things is that
will this would be great for gaming up
on the TV somebody said to me well
what's the use in it and then you start
realizing that well now oh yeah is
coming out so there's a big you know
push for android on the TV kind of thing
gaming is going to be revolutionized by
the fact that it can just be purchased
from google play a couple bucks for a
game and play it up on your screen so
things are really changing that way and
the mobile operating system is kind of
becoming interchangeable with the
desktop and things like that this is
also great for web designers and things
if you want to be able to test your
websites make sure that they work with
an Android tablet for example you can
run it this way using virtualization
cool yeah so let's set up our account
this is it's actually booted and go
start if you have a google account you
can add it right now i'm going to say no
just to skip over it all right do you
want to get a google account i'm going
to say not right now we just want to get
booted up and running you want to use
Wi-Fi location i'm going to disable that
you want to let Google Apps access your
location i'm going to say no to that
because I like the privacy of saying no
to that time zone good to go with
Eastern Standard your name Robbie
Ferguson that's you all right that is me
all right I agree that we might get some
updates from google thank you very much
my tablet remember this is actually a
virtual machine but it thinks this is a
tablet is all set up and ready to use so
I'm going to go finish there we go we
are in android OS so hey it says touch
here or push okay there we go and there
we go so i can click on there there's my
apps Oh
press and hold no problem we know how
that works and I can see that you know
this is a fully functional android OS
but the one thing that we're missing
here is 3d acceleration we're currently
running in a 2d kind of environment so
we want to actually be able to run games
we want to be able to run 3d
applications so we need to actually set
it up to do that so how we're going to
do that there's a couple of things that
we need to do first thing I'm going to
do remember this is a phone it's a
tablet right I don't have anything open
so i'm just going to kill the power i'm
going to hit the X and it's going to say
what do you want to do power off the
machine there's really no shutdown per
se it's not like a Windows or Linux
computer where you going to go shut down
it's a phone you're turning off the
power so now that it's powered off I'm
going to right-click on and go settings
and go to display now these are the
settings within VirtualBox ok so this is
the virtualization so under settings and
display you can see enable 3d
acceleration that's going to give us the
ability to use 3d acceleration within
our android tablet our virtual android
tablet so I've turn that on and now i'm
going to double-click a game we're going
to boot that thing up we also we're
gonna go through that same process again
where it's just and I didn't have to
boot it up the first time obviously I
could have simply just set that set in
first and then boot it up but I wanted
to show you that hey this is a real
working yeah android system so now that
I've booted up for the second time now
that I've already got everything
configured remember this is a tablet so
it thinks right so I'm going to push my
finger there which is my mouse right and
drag to the unlock with my mouse and now
I'm unlocked so now that we have the
ability to run 3d on this Hardware this
virtual hardware we need to tell the
operating system that hey ok we're going
to use 3d here so i click on my apps
menu there and we're going to go two and
roe vm configuration there are two
things that I need to do here the first
thing is I want to enable Hardware
OpenGL so that's now that I've got 3d
acceleration I can support that and I
can turn on OpenGL hardware
now I want to go force status bar
because one of the things that you know
is that I don't have a multi touch
device in order to control this it would
be really really helpful if i had that
status bar at the bottom that allowed me
to just go home put on my home screen or
go back so this is going to actually add
the status bar to the bottom that that
allows me to to navigate a little bit
more easily with a simple mouse okay so
when I do this your system i'm going to
be very clear here now that i've enabled
opengl i will not be able to boot this
up in virtualbox anymore okay so let me
be very clear with that once you've
enabled opengl within Android OS through
and row vm you are no longer going to be
able to boot up the virtual machine so
be mindful of that okay i'm going to
show you why that is and how we get how
we actually operate this but with in
virtualbox you're going to lose access
to that machine it's not going to go
save and it's going to say do you want
to reboot we've made some settings
setting changes here that are going to
require a reboot so I'm going to say yes
and it's going to power off and do a
reboot now while I'm while I'm waiting
for that I'm actually going to go back
to and r OV m dot org in the down part
me the download section and scroll down
to the andro vm player okay so they are
available for Windows Linux and Mac OS
now I'm on a 64-bit linux so I actually
want to get the 64-bit linux and row vm
player this is now for 3d accelerated
graphics this is what we require in
order to run our virtual machine so i'm
going to actually open that with archive
manager now I have this I'm going to
extract this now remember that of course
if you're running Windows you're going
to download the Windows version be at
32-bit or 64-bit probably if you're on
Windows 7 you're going to have or
Windows 8 you're going to have 64-bit
most likely if you're on Mac 64-bit
you're going to download that version
I'm on a 64-bit linux so I'm going to
download the appropriate version to my
operating system and so on okay so i'm
just going to extract that to my desktop
just so that i have it in a readily
accessible spot okay there we go show
the files and now I've got a folder
called andro vm player ok now if i go
back to my virtual machine which is
still running you'll notice what did i
say you're never going to be able to
boot it again it's rebooting it's just
sitting there and not really going
anywhere so i'm going to actually double
click on andro vm player which I've just
downloaded and extracted and I'm going
to run that when it looks like it is
going to boot but that's fine what I'm
going to actually what I can actually do
is now I can close that ok power it off
I'm going to run that andro vm player
and this is going to become our new
front end for that virtual machine so
it's important to do these steps in the
order in which we've done them here
we've installed the virtual machine into
virtual box is ready to go but we and
we've set it up for OpenGL support but
now we want to use the android vm player
in order to actually run that virtual
machine so now that we have the virtual
machine installed it actually shows up
in this list in andro vm player ok so
that's the actual virtual machine that
we imported into Oracle VirtualBox so we
don't want to power it on from here
anymore because then we're not going to
have the proper 3d we want to use the
android vm player ok so you can use
preset resolutions if you have a you
know display that will support that in
my case I want to actually set it to
720p and full screen so that it fills
the screen for you and now i'm going to
click run before I do that I'm just
going to move my virtual box over here
so that we can see that it's actually
going to trigger the virtual machine
using headless VirtualBox instance so if
I hit run this is kind of cool it's
going to prompt us first and say ok
there's a couple settings that we need
in order to
run in 3d accelerated mode so do you
want to do all this stuff so i'm going
to say yea enable hardware acceleration
set up my network adapter and now it
says starting the vm and notice what's
happening on VirtualBox on the bottom
layer there it's actually begun starting
the virtual machine all right here we go
that's cool so you can see down here
it's running mm-hmm and over on the
right-hand side it's actually just a
black screen with a bunch of kind of PID
errors and you know weird things like
that you don't really see so now if all
goes well now see it says impossible to
detect the vm IP address so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to actually
close that and then I'm going to hit run
again it's going to try to connect to
the virtual machine again which is now
running already and now almost there run
that again vm player ok let's try
connecting a game there we go okay third
time's a charm we're connected so now
we're connected using OpenGL and it is
going to support full 3d so we're just
waiting for that to boot up I'm going to
hit f11 on my keyboard to bring that up
full screen and now you can see that I
have a full OpenGL enabled Android 4.1
so if all went well I should be able to
do things like live desktop and things
like that to show that that we do indeed
have OpenGL support so let's let's try
that live wallpaper I mean here we go
load up some bubbles and there we go set
wallpaper beautiful so now we're running
a virtual machine with full OpenGL
support we can set up our Google Play
account which you're going to need in
order to install applications and things
like that so you can go into the Play
Store it'll prompt you for your user
information your credentials yeah do you
want to use an existing account or
create a new one for example and notice
again at the bottom there
added the status bar which gives me the
ability to move around a little bit
easier using my mouse okay so basic
android usage is to say okay well I want
my browser on my desktop so I just hold
in browser and then I drag it there and
pop it onto my desktop so now anytime I
want access to my web browser I can just
click on it and it goes oh cool okay and
now again I've got a home button at the
bottom so i can click on that to get out
so that is a fantastic and and quite
simple way to be able to run android on
your standard hardware and again this
will work on mac linux or windows i'm
doing it on on linux and there are a few
different things you know i can do other
stuff too like i can get out of full
screen by hitting f11 and keeping in
mind you know that this is a virtual
machine I can I can move it around my
screen I can be doing other things it's
really really cool and just remember to
use that andro vm player in order to
launch your virtual machine from now on
now that we've configured it for opengl
if you don't want 3d if you want to just
use it for testing websites and things
then you can just always leave that
setting as unset yeah and use just the
standard installation you can use
virtualbox to boot it up so that's
Andrew vm from and r OV m dot org do
check that out and as I said excellent
for testing websites and things of your
web designer love it and a lot of fun
yeah that looks angry birds on your
linux desktop how perfect how perfect
that's what we do here we just pretty
much look for ways to get angry Birds
onto your devices yeah so now we just we
just killed three devices with one stone
that well that's windows and linux and
mac so how do you like that angry birds
should be a sponsor in a call you know
who to call to 545 228 588 are you have
it all right till you're ready for the
news oh it's just it's not time you know
it is high so you haven't fine no i
can't bless and here we go speaking of
fun
oh yeah oh yeah these are you story
comin atcha you may remember us
mentioning that we a gaming system way
back when when they were raising money
through the project for the project
through Kickstarter well the time has
arrived the new game console which
experts say could disrupt the industry
has begun shipping to customers nice yes
it some cost just ninety nine dollars
and runs Google's Android operating
system games on the system will be a
fraction of the cause of traditional
console games more compatible to those
found on mobiles and tablets the company
has begun sending out consoles to the
first supporters of the project while
other interested gamers can pre-order
the device at Julia TV that's oh you why
a TV excellent Apple has been denied a
trademark for the popular iPad Mini by
the US Patent and Trademark Office the
Trade Mart applicant trademark
application for the tablet was turned
down because the name was merely
descriptive and not create a unique
meaning they said but Apple still has
until July to persuade the patent office
that's a smaller tablet tablet differs
sufficiently from its iconic sibling in
similar news google has failed to secure
the trademark for google blue because
it's literally just blew in trying to
bring email into the 21st century we are
faced with a challenge how do we
completely redesign and recreate
something while keeping it exactly the
same the answer is gmail blue
you click on compose the button can post
blue the word compose itself blue bold
face is blue underline is blue italics
is blue as well you write in the body of
the email the font comes up blue you'd
have to make it blue it is blue it just
is blue and that reminds us google went
all out with April Fool's jokes this
year if you weren't impressed by the new
gmail blue you may have been astounded
at the new technology behind Google
knows a state-of-the-art search system
which not only allowed you to search by
smell but also smell the things you are
searching for want to know what the
inside of an Egyptian tomb smells like
Google knows knows from the treasure map
Mobe mode of google maps just shutting
down youtube until 2023 sprucing up the
street view image of your house and a
brand new export to 3.5 inch floppy disk
feature on analytics google really was
the ultimate prankster this April Fool's
crazy what do you kbase scientists have
designed an intelligent microchip which
they claim can suppress the appetite
it's makers day it could provide a more
effective alternative to weight loss
surgery the chip is attached to the
vagus nerve which plays a role in
appetite as well as the host of other
functions within the body the chip and
cuffs are designed to read and process
electrical and chemical signatures of
appetite within the nerve the chip can
then act upon these readings and send
electrical signals to the brain reducing
or stopping the urge to eat okay let me
get this straight so if i go to eat when
I'm not hungry it electrocutes me you're
not hungry okay this is like taking that
little Winky pig that is a motion sensor
to the next level ever seen one of those
he open the fridge and point coin I'm
supposed to like make you make you feel
bad and feel bad about emotional eater
whatever late night snacks this one will
zap you I don't think it really does Wow
it's kind of scary it seems really
interesting
the developers say that unlike gastric
banding the chip would reduce both
consumption and hunger pangs and was
therefore more likely to be effective
human trials of the implant could begin
within three years oh and we may be a
ways off from a holodeck but a new
product which essentially puts the
display in air is called displayer and
it's making its way to the market just
well there is a new generation computer
device forming the image in the air
operated with the fingertips much like a
traditional tablet displayer is entering
the advertising market with its first
interactive air screen the Russian
company introduced its innovative
product on March fifth at sea bit and
hanover germany and has been receiving a
lot of attention for a holographic life
display that is so cool cool you can get
these full stories online and read a bit
more about them a category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by where aw gosh with
contributions from our amazing community
of viewers if you hear something cool
happening on the interwebs and the
wonderful world of technology send us an
email at newsroom at category 5 TV from
the category 5 TV news room I'm Hillary
rumble exhale tonight's show is brought
to you in part by quarter II electric
and quarter II electric com also get
over to Netflix at cat five dot TV /
Netflix they're going to hook you up
with a free one month trial of the
service and it is fantastic you're going
to love it cat five dot TV / Netflix and
of course tonight show is also brought
to you by nettalk duo Wi-Fi check them
out at cat five dot TV / phone to cut
just slash your phone bill by completely
eliminating it nice that's how we do a
folks like it we love it I love using
technology to save money hey who doesn't
because most of my technology costs me
money so how do you like that
how do you like that well we should hop
into some viewer questions i think i
want to say hey to everybody always want
to give greets but i know that we've got
lots of new viewers watching on YouTube
this week linux tech show calm is our
brand new channel and it's been
receiving rave reviews and we've been
getting a ton of viewers there we'd love
to have your subscriptions though I mean
it's fantastic when we've got your views
but get over to linux tech show com
that's going to forward you over to our
YouTube channel and it's a special
channel where you just get little
snippets of category 5 technology TV but
make sure pleased that you subscribe and
watch all the videos and like them and
show your friends yeah post them on
Google+ post them on Facebook post them
on Twitter Daniel air like them on on
YouTube favorite them like what else
could you do with our videos pretty much
anything yeah embed them into your
websites and blogs definitely did you
know that we do not block our videos
from anywhere because we want to share
the good news you ever been on YouTube
in it and you're you know you're using
your computer you early let's say it
happens quite often on a mobile device
you want trying to get a video and it
says this is not available to you advice
and a side so annoying you know why
people do that no I never knew why
because they can't get paid for your
view on just like come on folks it's not
all about the money it's about I want
the video to be accessible to you so
we've said it so that all of the videos
are entirely open to anyone who wants to
watch them now we don't have any control
if you've got a firewall at your place
of business or something like that
blocks YouTube that's out of our hands
but we're certainly not going to block
things on account of you getting around
the advertising or something like that
so just be mindful of that but the
advertising helps us out so you know
don't don't use an ad blocker on our
sites because we try to be non intrusive
but it does help us out I'll just pay
the bills q times where a free show
people free this
power is for free I will just give it to
you download it through the microchip
that they're going to implant in your
Vegas vagus nerve fantastic never be
hungry again despite the fact that we
always talk about food I know i'm just
like where we started the show talking
about chocolate i'm actually wanting you
I'm kind of waiting for you to pass it
over and then too bad you guys we're
talking about this microchip microchip
heroes chocolate now while I still can
only maybe after i read it is super long
class you read that and then you can
have like three or four okay thank you
for sharing alright people i know you're
dying to get some answers this comes
just from Mike hey Mike hello Robbie i'm
using linux mint 14 mate i have set it
up as a samba server but also want to
enable ftp so that I am able to use G
for you in some cases while the ftp is
working ok the problem i'm getting as
many other people from what I gather is
that the newer versions of feet s ftpd
oh yeah seem to have a bug causing the
jail function not to work I've looked at
a number of pages like help pages online
but I'm finding them confusing and I'm
can't really follow them is it possible
for you to give me an easy-to-understand
example in the form of a vsftpd dot conf
file mom and any command line
instructions and I mean need in order to
make for the jail users to in order to
give that day at the moment I've created
a user through the users and groups GUI
who is set up and is
under privileged user I'm awaiting a
copy of my current file for you to look
at I've seen reference to creating
separate user files and awesome propane
used chroot files but I've tried that
and I've been unable to get on the work
i think i'm missing something somewhere
and we need to figure it out okay many
thanks in advance Mike I I don't I don't
pretend to be a vs ftp d guru but I do
know about system config vsftpd I'm
going to direct you toward that it's on
sourceforge and i'll give you the links
for it let's take a quick look this is a
GUI that comes specifically its it's
specifically for vsftpd which is the
very secure ftp Damon I'm very thankful
that's up there because it makes me
sound like I know what I'm talking about
so you'll see that that it gives you the
ability to to set up a jail list and and
can help you because it's a GUI and I
think you know it's great to be able to
do things in the terminal but sometimes
it's easier just to use the GUI because
you've got a desktop on there anyway so
it just makes it simpler so check that
out it's i'll post the link actually in
the in the chat room right now just so
that you haven't and of course i'll also
post the link to to that software the
vsftpd config in the show notes for
episode number 289 perfect I think
that's going to help you because it's
specifically designed to help you do
those things now I don't know about the
jail bug jailing basically just so we
understand what jailing means it if a
user connects into ftp you want to lock
them down to a certain folder on the
computer you don't want them to be able
to browse private areas of your computer
there and if you're sharing your ftp and
allowing other people to connect you
don't want them to be able to go back
into your e.t.c folder and look at your
configuration files or go into other
user folders and download your documents
and all that kind of stuff and private
things that just would be a mess so
jailing
and down to a particular folder on that
computer that said it's always a good
idea to I mean if you're using FTP by
I'm kind of an anti ftp advocate because
I just don't like the lack of security I
use SSH especially because you're using
a linux computer I'd be looking more
toward SFTP SFTP and that could actually
be what's happening you might be trying
to set up SSH ftp SFTP which is a little
bit of a different thing because it's
it's set up through ssh so if that's the
case then let us know because vsftpd is
your ftp server which is unsecured so
there you have it yeah there's also you
know there are lots of resources and
it's a big question because vsftpd is
like an entire you know it's a server
for ftp right in front configuration
I'll set up cat five dot TV / vsftpd
that will take you to a document that
kind of helps you set things up let's
actually bring it up on the screen just
so that just in case that's helpful to
you or anyone who wants to do it cat
five TVs our URL shortener so I've got
vsftpd just like that okay hit enter
that's going to take you to an article
on Linux home networking com that walks
you through the entire process of
setting setting it up and and how it
works and you know why it works and how
you're supposed to set up I've also got
this other one which I've now set up at
cat five dot TV / vs f TP jail okay
without the d and when you go to that
one it's going to take you to this
article this forum post pardon me which
have found here they're talking about
the same kind of thing where you're
having trouble with with jailing and
this user kind of goes into some details
that they've actually used system config
vsftpd
is amithab and apparently they have some
very noisy advertisements on that
website so i just have to close that
real quick your speakers that come from
yeah whoa I hear music it's the heavenly
semaphores yeah but that's that that
should help direct you anyway so here's
hoping let us know I'm not the vsftpd
guru that's okay love SSH that's the way
I go enough mm-hmm thanks for your
insight oh I got it actually another
email from him oh yeah awesome I think
it's from him or another mic oh it is
from him me again just one you're
welcome to your show on Tuesday night I
really watch the video of it on
Wednesday and on the show you welcomed
Mike this is like his username oh yes
Mike gate comer miss okkk comer dg8 km r
got it so it's not like gamer anyways as
a new viewer not sure if you spotted
that in fact it was me hey it is my call
sign on the radio I don't the pc to
control one of my radios which is the
Flex 5000 a nice defined radio
manufactured in the US this is the link
to their website oh he attaches it cool
if you're interested in looking flex
dash radio com it looks like that's very
cool so this is like ham radio
operations I should have known so loads
of our viewers love to use the hem
radiance it's a lot of fun and it's
old-school it's like I love to receive
real legitimate mail you know it's just
that's that's the way I am yeah cool and
it's also need to figure out who's who
as well with the chat room and different
pieces usernames and your note who's
emailing us and yeah because we don't
always make that courtroom that
correlation so yes sometimes it's hard
hard to keep everyone straight it's just
so many friends thanks for the email
Mike yeah pretty cool got me another
email just us from m allen west Oh from
before as well we are hey MLM west sing
here's some fun linux and open source
news
we love it what is it a linux
distribution was on TV show person of
interest hey I've noticed that I've been
at school have you seen that show I have
not Oh Hillary what are you watching
right now I'm stuck on the island of
lost my I'm like sucked right in yeah so
you've gotten so you've gotten through
all the the mysterious polar bears yeah
and I've made my way to biz smoke
monster y-yeah made it through that and
I'm on to the wild people of the island
the other night yeah so that's where i
am right now yeah really good have you
met Benjamin Linus yet yeah there's
how's that for a Segway folks have you
met Benjamin Linus in lost I'm not she's
not actually met not real life okay well
he's coming soon hmm okay hmm Benjamin
Linus finally met Jesus in person of
interest what Benjamin Linus is one of
the bad guys and lost yeah and his
counter the guy who works with in person
of interest is the guy who played Jesus
in The Passion of the Christ boy this is
Kathy so so you got good guy bad guy
it's hilarious anyway the person of
interest is an amazing show I gotta pull
this up but it and we're not even
sponsored by them I don't even know if I
should say it but we'd like to eat we've
really been enjoying it it's a really
great show there's a little plug for
free yeah okay well let's bring up the
email yeah he says I want to see but I
have noticed that they run a boon to on
the show and I've seen different flavors
of maybe debian and different things but
i have seen unity on there and or it
could have been gnome 3 that's true
tortue so this is from a melon west ok
yeah let's see what he sent us here
folks are you watching person of
interest at home love to know if you're
following along with us bring us all
together
yes ah fun how it all works out all
right got your email up here okay we've
got a couple of links here that I wanted
to pull up okay so what do we got we've
got a youtube link so this is probably
video it's only nine second so I think
we can play it there we go yeah oh yeah
here we go there we go yeah that's
definitely a flavor it's not ubuntu it
has now we see a couple of telltale
signs we see applications down at the
bottom left so I'm thinking that and
this is a file space application I can't
remember the name of it but it actually
shows you the the files on your hard
drive in a graphical representation and
I've got terminal window over on the
right they do it's funny how they use
linux to make it look like they're
hackers there you go and Benjamin Linus
AKA finish oh wait yeah I have seen him
yeah i lost i have we have okay just
really complicated to explain but yeah i
know what's going on now you do okay
alright that's cool that is yeah we love
love the reference yeah and then there's
another interesting little tidbit yes um
that gimp was used on a sci-fi show
called face off sci-fi show face off sci
fi the network oh yeah okay oh right
faceoff where they used um photoshopping
techniques and things like that to
create all these kind of illusions so
they in fact use the GIMP than this
relic how cool is that yeah hmm hey
we'll post links because it's easier for
us just to post links in the show notes
episode number 289 rather than actually
showing them on the Mesilla it's a
little bit easier hmm thanks for the
note that's cool that is interesting so
if you care to see those it's a category
5 TV go to the episodes and find episode
number 289 you'll see the links there
cool mm-hmm what else we got him Wow
anything at all or anybody in the
chatroom have a question for us what
about peeps in the chat room someone's
at Dennis Kelly's asking about criminal
minds does the geek chick uses it I
don't know all right then somebody
investigate that report back okay there
you go all right well hey if there's no
questions in the chat room I want to
talk to you about Facebook and and some
of the concerns that surround the things
that you like on facebook let me tell
you a little story I'd love to hear it a
good friend who is you know that he's
not gonna post anything objectionable on
his Facebook wall just not him it's not
his nature and all of a sudden some very
vulgar things appeared on his facebook
profile here and of course he's at a lot
he thinks he's been hacked somebody's
actually hacked my facebook account
that's his thinking so he changed his
password and then deleted the post and
then the post showed up again well how
did that happen how did the hacker get
back into my profile when I changed my
password and the fact is that he hasn't
been hacked at all have you ever seen
let's say I like Canadian Tire a store
here in Canada yeah so I like it on
Facebook have you ever noticed that
every few months or so all of a sudden
it will show Robbie Ferguson and here's
an ad from Canadian Tire and Canadian
Tire has a sale on patio furniture this
week and it's showing as if I wrote it
right I'm even notice that some things
yeah stuff like that have you ever
noticed something like that on your
facebook walls because you liked it and
you've basically authorized their pages
to post on your wall on your profile
right so what happens and what happened
to my friend here is that he's a con
asked machine he loves to win stuff or
at least to try to win stuff I can't
play so how many times you get this
where you know okay like our page and
we'll put you in a draw for a new iPad
like our page and we'll put you in a
draw for this or that or a new house or
a vacation and I am pretty sure from
watching his wall on occasion that he
likes all of this stuff because he
thinks he's going to win oh I'm sure
he's won a couple cool things and that's
great but what happens is ok so this
some obscure website says like us to win
an ipad ok I want to win an ipad so I
like them and then I forget all about it
and then six months later unbeknownst to
me that was actually a bit of a scam to
get people to like their page and now
they are blasting be it you know
objectionable material or advertising or
some other thing through your wall and
through other people's walls of people
who have liked that in order to win an
ipad or whatever device that is that
they're hoping to win yeah and so you're
frantically thinking oh no i've been
hacked all of these posts are coming up
on my wall and my friends are distant
unfriending me they don't like which is
like yeah that's like the worst thing
that you could do to someone on facebook
for the record for my friend i just kind
of I removed their posts from my wall
temporarily and put them back when they
when they got it fixed but here's what
happens is that they they've actually
let you've liked a page you've forgotten
about it you've left it liked and so now
they have the control at any time to
start posting things on your wall weird
yeah and apps are another big problem
because people don't realize that if you
add apps to your to your Facebook you're
actually authorizing that app the app
developer you're trusting them to treat
your stuff privately and so you think
well I've set up all the privacy rules
on my profile so people who aren't a
part of my friends and family can't see
my stuff but then I installed this game
that I've never heard of before it seems
pretty cool played it a couple times and
then I forgot about it and it's still
installed on my profile well that game
has access to all of my friends
and all of my posts and all of my
pictures and it's not really a game it's
actually some kind of malware that's
watching me and watching my friends and
maybe saving the data for aggregation
later who knows there's all these kinds
of things you just got to watch out what
you like what you add to your facebook
profile and and just be wary of that and
my friend is a perfect example I'm sorry
that that happened to him of it it's
tough to because now you gotta you gotta
work on getting your reputation back you
know cuz people who follow you on
facebook or follow me on Twitter or
something if all of a sudden I started
posting vulgar things yeah you're gonna
think it was me regardless of if it was
some page that I liked six months ago to
win an ipad right you're just gonna
assume that it was me and you'll
probably stop following me I would hope
you would Robbie mm-hmm what are you
saying what's going on here well that
makes me want to like go on my facebook
and just be carried a watch what you
liked yeah cuz I you want to make sure
it's legit I'm similar cuz I'm a contest
er yeah I liked a gum company the other
day so I can get a free sample of gum in
the mail yeah which I got but now I'm
like oh great so so now you stay like
enough and that's a hard thing and it's
unfair to those companies because maybe
it's a legitimate gum company who
legitimately needs your likes in order
to market their material but they
basically now have been authorized to
post their gum ads on your profile so do
you want that I've noticed nothing I
think a lot of the real companies
respect it and they only post very
occasionally for sure but then you get
ones that start posting really nasty
things and that's where it all goes bad
yeah freaky yep so watch out folks that
is your word of warning for today a
little insight and tip words and wisdom
from Robbie I hope you enjoyed the show
and I hope you had a fun time for yet
another week of category 5 next week is
episode number 290 can you believe it
dude almost 300 people almost there
we've never missed a week we take no
break her creme we have been not even
for Christmas we were here Christmas Day
singing you Christmas songs that's the
dedication you get from us okay it was
pre-recorded we did did it on the Sunday
before oh yeah but it was real he was
still an episode yep yeah Hilary Rumble
fans you will be so impressed she will
be returning to us again next week can
you believe that maybe Hilary overload
so don't miss the show episode number
290 very special episode will be here
next week so take it easy we'll see you
next Tuesday night thanks for joining us
tonight
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV be checking
for local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
quality digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada you see you next
time thanks for tuning in
you
