welcome back to new every day my name is
Carrie and my name is Jen and on today's
show wearing part three of the adventure
begins because we want to know about the
power it will take spring the key oh
yeah
thanks for tuning in to another episode
of new every day we are in third part of
our apt series Jen we're talking about
the power power of the Holy yeah and
what's interesting is because we are
2,000 plus years into this the church
age and so when we talk about the Holy
Spirit it's just like oh yeah we get it
and get it Wilson to us get it some of
us don't really get it there's so much
cloud around the Holy Spirit some oh yes
but we actually want to just go right
back to chapter 2 of Acts because Jesus
has promised the Holy Spirit he said you
will be baptized with the Holy Spirit
then he said wait in Jerusalem for the
promise of the father yeah and it's the
holy spirit that is that Jesus gives in
order to complete the mission so he's
been given this mission he's been given
he's given this mission to his team
which is now complete with Matthias and
so now they're probably wondering how is
this even going to happen because you
have to remember he gave the mission
yeah before he gave the power to
complete the mission so they give me
thinking like ah we got the car where
there are no gas in the car bingo got
the car but no gas in the car so are we
going to get to Samaria and beyond right
right because I they could probably wrap
their mind around Jerusalem right they
might even be able to wrap their mind
around Judea and Samaria because Galilee
was actually on the other area of
Samaria so they could probably maybe
maybe they would go into Samaria a
little bit because I had to get through
Samaria in order to get yet to gally but
this whole idea of beyond or the ends of
the earth they're like what what are you
talking about but what's interesting is
that in chapter 2 but the coming of the
Holy Spirit it's actually on the day of
Pentecost and so mmm this was a feast of
Israel and so there were people from all
over oh yes all
over the known world where it was in
Jerusalem because this is one like he
said a mandated feast they came together
three times a year and this is one of
those feasts and they all had to come to
the temple so there was a lot of people
there there was a lot of people there
from all over so why don't we why don't
we read that passage so do you want to
read it larger chapter 2 verse 1 this is
the new canoe King James Version chapter
2 when the day of Pentecost had fully
come they were all with one Accord in
one place and suddenly there came a
sound from heaven of a rushing mighty
wind and it filled the whole house where
they were sitting then there appeared to
them divided tongues of fire and one sat
upon each of them and they were all
filled with the Holy Spirit and began to
speak with other tongues as the Spirit
gave them utterance and there were
dwelling in Jerusalem Jews devout men
from every nation under heaven and when
this sound occurred the multitude came
together and were confused because
everyone heard them speaking in his own
language they were all amazed and
marveled saying to one another look are
not all these who speak Galileans and
how is it that we hear each in our own
language in which we were born parth
ians and Medes and Elamites those
dwelling in Mesopotamia Mesopotamia
Judea and Cappadocia Pontus and Asia by
fri gia and Pamphylia Egypt and the
parts of Libya adjoining Cyrene visitors
from Rome both Jews and proselytes
Cretans and Arabs we hear them speaking
in our own tongues the wonderful works
of God so they were all amazed and
perplexing to one another whatever could
this mean others mocking said they're
full of new wine yeah crazy yeah because
we've read this passage lots lots of
times but this was the first experience
and I'm sure they are wondering like
what is going on because here says they
were all together and a sound like a
blowing of a violent wind Cain that's
the NIV and
as I was reading over this passage one
of the questions that came up was what
what have you ever had an experience
with a violent wind have you oh yeah I
remember being in Myrtle Beach which is
in Virginia oh boy this is bad news this
is the state on the on the eastern
border myrtle beach is one of the
beaches on the atlantic ocean i was
maybe set babysitting seven kids at the
time from like baby in my arms to like
11 12 year old kid right so seven at
once like all together because I was a
lifeguard so you know why not take them
down to the beach don't worry don't
worry I don't control so as I'm holding
the one and there's a few in the water
this huge windstorm picks up and the
wind was blowing so much that the sand
felt like little daggers going into your
skin and you're holding a baby i'm
holding a baby and i have two kids in
the water and the wind was so much with
the water that the kids actually
couldn't come in like they could not
like right there Lord you've got to get
those kids in and they were able to get
in and then we literally pushed our way
through the wind and we were told later
on that day that it had picked up a
grown six-foot a tall man is probably
like 225 pounds I had picked him up and
throw him his arm was all scratched and
bandaged cuz it actually picked him up
and thrown him what and I was just like
oh God thank you so much for saving us
yeah cuz he could have like what those
kids around I know cuz he's like we baby
and like children like their problem
might have been 11 maybe oh like so 11
yeah like 11 967 that's crazy no and so
when it says you know like Oh violent
winds it wasn't like a little
tongues of fire ya know and it and one
of the other question is when you think
of fire what do you think about like I
think he hate pain yeah power power
uncontrolled yeah purification yep in
Canada we often have trouble with forest
fires especially on the western coast
and they can just ravaged whole
communities yeah cuz they're just
untamable so when you read this and it
says suddenly I sound like a blowing of
a violent winds came from heaven and
filled the whole house where they were
sitting they saw what seemed like
tongues of fire that separated and came
to rest on each of them now remember
it's not just the 12 disciples it's like
oh yeah I gather there 120 or maybe more
now yeah they are all together in the
upper room and it says all of them were
speaking tongues as the spirit enabled
them and it's like it's you know it's
like the tongue came from heaven landed
on the individual and then they were
able then to speak in another language
because it goes on to say now they were
staying in Jerusalem god-fearing Jews
they heard this sound a crowd came
together in bewilderment because they
heard them speaking their own language
so they were making noises but they each
person then heard it in their own
language that they were born yeah
language from their birth yeah so it's
like all of a sudden Peter starts
speaking in like the Mesopotamian
language and thaddeus starts speaking in
another language and but for the purpose
that people would hear the massive
message yeah the wonderful works of God
they were declaring the wonderful works
of God yeah and here's what's so cool
when Jesus said you're gonna go and
you're preach you picture the ends of
the earth he equipped him with the Holy
Spirit but they were also all these
people they're from everywhere yeah
under heaven so they were hearing the
good news and then they Peter stands up
shares the good news of what Jesus did
yeah tells them to repent Lee repent and
there are many saved that day yeah it
says 3,000 were added to their number
and then they then could go out back to
their communities and that's what starts
the ripple effect this exponential
growth of the church yes then you have
the Holy Spirit or Jesus call someone
like Saul who becomes Paul and then he
travels around to all these pockets that
were that were growing these little
churches and he encourages them and
write some letters and then the church
builds and builds and builds and then
here we are today time for commercial
break there's been an incredible con
that's a code in the culture evolution
and millions of years is the greatest
myth ever forced on the minds of men Big
Bang evolution millions fear people just
believe it blindly how can you not
believe that somebody designed all of
this we know he exists because
creation
it's not just faith we have science it's
really on our side welcome back we're
jumping right back in again Jen so
Carrie I just shared with us how these
tongues of fire that came from heaven
landed on the people in the upper room
and then peter out of the power of the
holy spirit was then able to share the
good news with all the people from all
the different known areas under the
world under under the Sun all the known
areas and then they took the message
back to their different areas and then
Paul went and so it was as a result of
the holy spirit moving equipping them
that they were able then to take the
message to all of the world yep and you
gotta remember this is what Jesus said
would happen but he said it before he
gave the power right and we had talked
about that the fact that Jesus said this
is what I want you to do here's the
message of the kingdom and then here's
your team and like you said okay now
where's the gas to get us to where we
need to go yeah and so the gas is the
Holy Spirit it was the Holy Spirit that
equipped them to speak to all of these
people and its really interesting one of
the questions that that came up in my
study was how do you feel about talking
to people in other languages or other
cultures like are you comfortable with
it and when it asked when when i read
that question was like huh why am i that
way because I I don't think I understand
I have a fear of not being understood or
not making myself known and I never once
thought about asking Jesus to help me
I'm just so I'm feeling a little
convicted right now because I've been on
missions trips and you know just
realizing at those times I remember I
actually led games with kids and other
languages which was great and we went to
on a missions trip to Quebec and some of
I can speak a little bit of a French but
we ended up
like talking to the kids about who Jesus
was and it was just like okay am I
willing to take my little bit and
surrender it to god so that he can then
do what he needs to do to accomplish the
purposes of the kingdom but that fear is
always there that I don't think I know
enough I don't know i don't mind avi
understand culture I don't know enough
about their language I might not want to
offend them yeah yeah that's so true and
yet I the people whom I've met from
other cultures have just so enriched my
life and given me a different
perspective and as I've gotten to know
like I've got one wonderful friend from
India and as I've gotten to know him and
it learned about his culture and his
love for his family and his love for God
and and just just so many little things
now when I meet someone else from that
culture I already have this wonderful
representation right and and experience
with this friend and so I find myself
seeing people from india with with new
eyes and i now have a place to actually
start talking with them right and i
actually met two other people um who
i've been working with from india and
I've been able to talk to them and be
like oh yeah I know about this place in
whatever and then they were able to
share with me that they're Christians do
so just so cool like how God works yeah
and what I'm thinking about is the fact
that it would have totally have blown
the disciples minds when Jesus said
you're going to go into all the world
because for a Jewish man you were not to
interact with any other nation right
other than you know those who were
Jewish and that was like God was
separating the Israelites for himself
they were special people the
representation of of like God working in
their lives right so he didn't want them
to be to like cross contaminate with
other cultures because they worshiped
foreign God's yes and it would pull them
away from the relationship with God but
now this new thing with the Holy Spirit
it's like he is for all people from
every nation there is no one special
there's the Holy Spirit's for everybody
yes the gospel is for everybody yes and
I find that wonderfully refreshing right
and I think that you know the church has
a bad history in North America we've got
the the story of the residential schools
where the church stepped in and pulled
the Aboriginal people out from there
their communities out from their
cultures and they were trying to
indoctrinate them and change them and
and force force church on them force
religion on yes and they lost their
beautiful culture instead of sharing the
gospel and allowing the Holy Spirit to
do his work in their own culture and
it's just such a black spot on our
history where I think that we didn't
write not the right way to share Christ
with people right and I think because
what can happen is like well this is the
way it worked here so that means I'm
going to take the way that it worked
here and I'm going to go to this
different culture or these different
people and it's going to work the same
there and Goddess saying no let my
spirit guide you like you have all of
your experience you know who I am like
that's you know I'm going back to when
they chose the disciple they knew what
the scriptures were and that's how they
knew they needed to have another apostle
right so we as kingdom ringers weird to
know what the Bible says but then we
surrender at to the Lord say okay Lord I
know you've called me to fulfill your
mission now take what I know it's your
the power of the Holy Spirit then you do
it yeah like lead me guide me equip me
and you know take away that fear you
have other cultures and I think that's a
huge stumbling block for so many people
I don't know enough I don't speak the
language and yet it's very clear that if
you need to speak that language God will
equip you with the ability to speak that
language and we can't be afraid of it
like if you've ever been afraid of
receiving the gift of tongues because
you don't know what what is God going to
do well I think you need to surrender
that fear and just say Lord if you want
to give me the gift of tongues it's
going to you for the the furthering of
your kingdom hmm and convict my heart
for not being willing to risk
save that because it's the it you know
so often we we can think well the Holy
Spirit's scary what is going to want me
to do and I there is an element of that
but then we have to take that fear and
say you know what I'm not going to let
fear get in the way of moving God's
kingdom forward right so yeah that's
that's so true I really I was just
reading through quickly of what what
Peter had to say to the people gen when
he was explaining what was going on what
what you're seeing don't be afraid this
is God foretold that this was going to
happen yeah and he says in verse chapter
2 verse 32 this and he's talking about
Jesus and how it was foretold that he
would come this Jesus God has raised up
of which we are all witnesses so all the
people who were there with Jesus saw him
the headaches personally experienced it
and then they were going to share their
story therefore being exalted to the
right hand of God and having received
from the father the promise of the Holy
Spirit he poured out this would you now
see in here mm-hmm so he's saying this
is this is actually what's going on he
explained it so if there was any fear
it's like this is what yeah it's not
doing this it's god it's like no this is
happening because of Christ yes yeah
which is really important to remind
yourself that every day no Holy Spirit
you work through me you were I don't
want this to be the work of my hands
yeah I want it to be a view yeah and he
brings hope that he's able to accomplish
with God put forward ahead of you he
says he created good works ahead of you
that you should walk in them and then he
empowers you with the Holy Spirit to
actually do it yeah it wasn't the head
moreover the Holy Spirit is a deposit
guaranteeing our inheritance in Christ
read the book of Ephesians it's it's
full of it the whole first couple of
chapters talks about this that we have
the Holy Spirit and as we experience and
that's the they guarantee we see him
working in our lives and we could say
yes I have the assurance that I will
receive this inheritance I eternal life
as possible through jesus christ the
holy spirit is the gas in the car that
makes it
and so we're gonna I think pause right
there we're so glad that you tuned in
this week we encourage you this week to
open yourselves up to the things that
the Lord has in store for you and if
you've been holding back out of fear we
encourage you to surrender that to the
Lord trust that he will lead you he will
guide you through the power of the Holy
Spirit he has chosen you to do great
things I Lord bless you and encourage
you this week see here the seventies
