hi and welcome to another episode of new
every day on the road with carrie and
jen and on today's show we're doing part
two of prickly situations and what you
do when you find yourself between a rock
and hard place
welcome back we're back on the road we
are still in the Mojave Desert we are
headed to hike somewhere else and we
thought we'd just turned the camera on
and chat with you we've had a number of
interesting situations so far one of
them was when we were climbing and Jen
decided to go through well actually I
kind of peer pressured you to go Wow
okay here's the whole story yet at the
Red Rock Canyon we decided to go through
calico rocks and we came to this one
place we were kind of bull during and I
said to carry I will like just step on
me right to voice I had to get over
this big rock right and so then she got
up there like a boss which was gracious
did a great job but the problem was yeah
I couldn't boys Jenna so we had to find
another way for Jen to get through and
there was this tiny tiny pass through
this huge boulder that was stuck between
this crevice and then the wall so
literally between a rock and a hard
place oh my and so I really just
encourage 10 to get on through there
here comes shed nice you stay low it's
wider very skinny in there when you're
doing great I can't push myself I don't
know how to push myself that's the
problem he's no army crawl well there's
no room to army crawl right now my
shoulders at both sides whatever can i
believe you going back I don't know
so Jen eventually made it through yay
Jen and we're thinking about a Bible
story that correlated with that what
were your thoughts Jen well it really
made me think about when God called the
Israelites out of Egypt and led them
towards the Red Sea and so I'm just
going to read that passage and this is
an exodus 13 starting at verse 17 when
Pharaoh let the people go God to not
lead them on the road through the
Philistine country though that was
shorter for God said if they face or
they might change their minds return to
Egypt so God let the people around by
the desert road towards the Red Sea the
israelites went up out of Egypt armed
for battle Moses took the bones of
Joseph with Joseph him because Joseph
had made the sons of Israel swear an
oath he had said God will surely come to
your aid and then he must carry my bones
up with you from this place after
leaving sucketh they camped at a thief
am on the edge of the desert by day the
Lord went ahead of them in a pillar of
cloud to guide them on their way and by
night and a pillar of fire to guide them
at night give them light so that they
could travel by day or night
the pillar of cloud by day nor the
pillar of fire by night left its place
in front of the people and the Lord said
to Moses tell the Israelites to turn
back in the camp in your pod hey ho boy
hey hire off between McDowell and the
sea they took they are to encampment
bails upon Pharaoh will think the
Israelites are wandering around in the
lens in confusion hemmed in by the
desert and I will harden Pharaoh's heart
and he will pursue them but I will gain
glory for myself though Pharaoh and all
all of his army and the Egyptians will
know that I am the lord so the
Israelites did this when the king of
Israel Egypt had told was told that the
people had had fled Pharaoh and his
officers changed their minds about them
and said what happened son we have led
the Israelites go and we have lost their
services so he had his chariot made
ready and took his army with him and he
took 600 of the best chariots along with
the other chariots of Egypt and they
pursued
the Israelites and it goes on to say
that as Pharaoh approach this first ten
in at chapter 14 the Israelites looked
up and there were the Egyptians of
marching after them they were terrified
and they cried out to the Lord they said
to Moses was it because there were no
graves in Egypt that you brought us out
of the desert to die what have you done
to us by bringing us out of Egypt didn't
we say to you in that in Egypt leave us
alone let us serve the Egyptians it
would have been better for us to serve
the Egyptians and to die the desert
Moses answered the people do not be
afraid stand firm and you will see the
deliverance of the Lord the Lord will
bring you say injections you see today
you will never see it again the local
fight for you you need only to be still
then the Lord said to Moses why are you
crying out to me how the Israelites to
move on raise your staff and stretch out
your hand over the sea to buy the water
so that the Israelites can go through
the sea on the dry ground it goes on to
say that then the angel of the Lord who
had been traveling in front of the
Israelites
it's true and went behind them and the
pillar cloud also moved in front and
stood behind coming between the armies
of Egypt and Israel and it says then
Moses stretched the super 21 min then
Moses stretched out his hand over the
sea and all that night the Lord wrote
back the list with a strong east wind
the sea and turned it into dry land and
the israelites went through the sea on
dry ground and a wall of water on the
right and on their left I just there's
so much in that passage and that's when
we were wiggling through that spot in
red rock canyon that's exactly what made
me think I was between a rock and a hard
place because Carrie had already gone
option is up on the on the crest and I
was like oh how are we gonna get there
and I had a different perspective
because I could see that yeah you're
really going to make it you can fit yeah
and she was right there she was
encouraged me through and
but what made me think about this
passage and there's a couple things that
I think we should touch on the first be
want God called
God called out of Israel he had saw he
heard their cry in chapter 1 it says
that they were terribly impressed and so
God heard their cry and he sent them a
deliverer and so I love that aspect of
the story that got does hear our cry and
when the time is right he delivery
delivers no one I picked up as your list
as you were reading that with that
Joseph prophesied beforehand that one
they were going to be in trouble and
need God's deliverance and to that God
was actually going to deliver them and
pack they were to bring his bones I
would have eaten I think that's amazing
I knew ahead of time it's God hold up
right because and that probably goes
back to the previous promise that God
had given to Abraham who said you know
your descendants will go into slavery
for 400 years but I will break them out
so it was very interesting because God
had prophesied that or had given that
word to Abraham who must have passed
the must have passed on and there is
Joseph you know for generations later
passing it on and that if it passed on
for 400 years right and that's just like
isn't that cool broken telephone no
broken telephone like it's just the word
that God gave Abraham endured right
through like four five hundred years and
it came true isn't that interesting we
don't like to think that God would take
500 years to accomplish something but he
did which could be a little daunting
when you're you know you're praying for
something you want something to happen
and the thought of that we might not see
it in our lifetime is I cannot be quite
the skirt
what it's just one of those things we
have to trust that God's timing is
perfect on the New Testament I want to
say Hebrew Hebrews what they're talking
about the people of faith the Old
Testament they said they only saw the
promise from a distance yes Abraham saw
promise of God bringing them to the
promised land from a distance you didn't
actually get to experience and neither
did Moses know and that me Hebrews 11
where they go through all the stories of
the men and women of faith who saw the
new the promise but had an experience
so that was the first thing that that
came to our mind was the fact that God
heard their cry and he responded by
sending Moses as their deliverer but
secondly that God was faithful to his
promise and when he get told to Abraham
she's been passed on to Joseph and now
Joseph was saying you know this is going
to happen and it did and there was God
delivering his people the second thing
that comes to mind as I read that
passage was the fact that it says he did
not take them by the easy way
because then they would if they would
have encountered war yeah he would have
lost her isn't that interesting even
though they went up and ready for battle
they thought they were ready for battle
but they weren't know which is like
sometimes we can think that we're like
oh yeah I'm ready for this situation and
that's where pride sort of comes in like
oh yeah I can handle this like bring it
on I'm ready and God is saying no no
you're not ready yeah and we can be
wondering the same idea why is this
taking so long like I feel like God is
calling me to something and yet it's not
happening and it's like come on I'm
ready and the fact is you're not ready
and we have to trust in God's perfect
timing in that moment to believe that
God really does know what he's doing and
that he is going to look after things
yes I totally agree
I'm taking a detour
hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I love being
a bin yo pro member as a web broadcaster
I need an affordable video hosting
platform that's as flexible as me a pro
membership lets you upload up to 20
gigabytes of HD video each and every
week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category five dot TV network will
receive a whopping twenty-five percent
off the annual price all you have to do
is go through our link cat five dot TV /
vimeo and sign up today for your twenty
five percent discount to top it off you
get 30 days to try it risk-free if
you're not happy with vimeo pro you pay
nothing the deal is only for a very
limited time go to cat five dot TV /
vimeo
alright a bit of a detour but now we're
back an hour back we did some hiking on
some rocks and thought of luncheon
here we are back on the road and talking
about how the Lord had led to the trip
to Israel out of Egypt and had they had
went up ready for battle and got to know
no you're going to keep up if we take
you the easy way and he actually let
them to the Red Sea and they get there
and I hear the Egyptians coming and it's
like why have you led us this way like
they were so so very upset with God and
Moses and Moses that it's like we're not
enough grapes for their own graves in
Egypt for us and I'm here God is
delivering them and they're getting
upset with the way that God is choosing
to deliver them and he literally has led
them to a rock and a hard place where
to their mind the only way out was death
or like they go for it in the sea
they're going to die if they face the
Egyptians interesting they are ready to
prefer war against the other nations but
you know the thought of letting the
Egyptians just totally melt that they
were not ready to fight the Egyptians
and so here they are literally between a
rock and a hard place and I've thought
in my life sometimes you know those
prickly situations where I've thought I
was between a rock and a hard place and
I remember being at a youth event once
and I'm the leader of the main leader
I'm young I'm in my early 20s
and we're at hotel and I was with my
girls and security guard came and
knocked on the door and I said I don't
know the 13 guys have been throwing
stuff out the window and I'm like not my
girls like I know these girls they're
not throwing stuff out and he was quite
I'm site look earlier just like boy and
I remember going upstairs and inviting
my leaders who were all in their mid 40s
never walking into the room and i said i
need an adult and they looked at me and
they're like you are an adult and I said
no no no no I had a real adult that's
what you said yes someone is some real
life experience who knew how to handle
themselves probably someone absolutely
knows my adult male adult leaders were
like sticks for in their 40 and resins
maybe 61 had presidents and I'm like I
need you to take care of this and they
just simply look back at me and said Jen
like you're the leader you are don't you
I was just like are you serious I
would've thought I had nothing no
possible way could I do this I be able
to see that god it actually placed me in
a position of authority where I want to
give up quiet already give up
you know
the place that got it put me in and I
wanted to give it away so around someone
else who handle it rather than actually
turning to God see God Oh
kambili here and I need some help
everybody turn left hold on mark could
you please please help and I was very
interesting as I went and I took care of
the situation but it was just like in
that moment where I really felt I was
between a rock and a hard place and so I
was really interest is so three um in
that moment I'm like okay Lord I don't
know what to do and that's what we kind
of mean where you're between a rock and
a hard place is that you just simply
don't know what to do if you go one way
you're going to get slammed if you go
another way you're going to get slammed
and you're like oh I don't know what to
do yeah have you ever been in that in a
position like that may be at work with
some friends at school oh yes and
usually if you're working or it have
friends with a group of women it usually
has to do with like hurting feelings you
know if you say something if you speak
up one party is going to be upset but
the other party might be pleased with
you and then if you do the other thing
one party might be upset and the other
party's not going to be pleased with you
it's really hard to navigate those kind
of social waters sometimes
but I certainly have had things at work
where if we go one direction the person
might do really well if we go the other
direction they might be really well just
unsure i can't think of a specific
example right now but i know i've been
in those positions and ask God for
guidance what about what we should do
right and that's what I think is the key
point there is we don't we get into
these situations we're human and we work
with humans and we want to make the
right choice we want to make the best
choice want God's kingdom to come and
it's like I don't know what to do I feel
like I stock stock Leah utterly between
a rock and a hard place like the
Israelites felt with the Egyptians on
one side and the Red Sea on the other
side
and yet oh this s just stand still
oh yeah did say that standstill and God
will fight for you and in those moments
I don't feel like standing still i feel
like i should do something rather than
just being at peace yeah and letting god
dude is offending letting God to the
providing it's taken away and beat the
guy i wanna i want to conjure it up I
want to make it work for me like I want
to do it now so what do you think the
difference is when it says
in the bible and i want to say please be
a seat there's a season for everything
there's a time for war there's a time
for peace there's a time for selling at
a time for gathering there's a time for
action there's a time for you to sit and
wait
in that moment where they were between a
rock and a hard place the Lord gave the
word right oh yeah he's dead but I'll
fight for you I'll fight for you and I
love it because that's all I did they
stood there and the pillar of cloud and
Fire students around to the back of them
and protect them from the Egyptians and
then the Lord caused the wind to lose
the water and to make the path and so
the Lord protect them and then the Lord
provided a way out we out you know I
think I'm a friend of mine who she was
actually going through I want to say
ovarian cancer this was a number of
years ago and the first of the Lord gave
to her was an idea and it said in quiet
as in confidence is your strength and he
was telling her you know there's go for
this treatment this treatment this
treatment but just know that like being
quiet and content in my strength and I'm
gonna help you get
I agree and so on that a nope we're
going to cause hey we're back again we
have to take little detours to make sure
that we're on the right course that's
right ok so we're go ahead we're just
wrapping up right just
and so just like we talked about the
fact that God had led them out into a
rock between a rock and a hard place and
they were waiting to know what's doing
he defended them and he provided a way
and he said just be still
and so we don't know where you're at
today and maybe you feel like you're
you're in the midst of make a huge
decision and you feel like you're
between a rock and a hard place want to
encourage you just to seek the lord if
he tells you to be still then be still
and if he tells you nope go ahead move
ahead then they move ahead and trust
that he really will provide a way for
you that he will protect you and he will
you know part the waters as he did for
the Israelites so that they can they
could move forward so we encourage you
Justin trust the Lord it's at risk or
maybe I'll pray for us genin sure father
thank you that you always provide a way
you provided a way to get to you to be
restored in our relationship to you
through Jesus Christ I thank you for
that truth I thank you for the promise
that you're preparing a place for us to
heaven I thank you that you
can give us wisdom wisdom that's from
you and sometimes the wisdom of the
world is not the right
the right words to follow
but we wish them from you
will help us to find the right way and I
pray God that you would help us and our
viewers to read your word and to trust
that you're going to guide us according
to your word and for your glory we thank
you in Jesus
so want to say thank you for tuning in
today and if you have one check out our
sponsors page and there's a variety of
ways that you can support us as you go
about doing a little bit of shopping
check out page
stuck I think it's got or go to our
partners page add new everyday TV and
you'll find it there how you can support
us then there's other resources there as
well and we'll see you next week
you
