hello and welcome back to new every day
my name is Carrie my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
the adventure begins so stay tuned
alright welcome back and we hope you had
a very happy easter with your friends
and family and that you had a wonderful
time with your church family could you
have a good easter jen i'm laughing
because we're pre-recording i'm
anticipating a good easter so far I've
had one Easter dinner I'm having one on
Easter Sunday and one on Easter Monday
so yes I'm anticipating a great time of
food and fellowship and fellowship yes
we are excited about Easter Sunday and
yeah and so here we are talking about
Easter and coming and but what does it
all mean like so often people are asking
the question what does it mean and I had
one young girl come up to me and she's
in grade 7 and she's like pastor Chen
pastor Chen I was able to explain what
Good Friday and Easter meant and I was
like yeah because she doesn't come from
a home that they attend church a lot hey
and she's very new to coming to church
and she was just so excited that she was
able to explain the purpose of Eastern
Good Friday and why they're so important
and you could just tell she was so
excited to share and you know sometimes
when you've been in the church a long
time you can be like yeah Feaster yep
this is what's gonna happen this is I
know the story yeah I know the story
it's easy to become a little
disillusioned but the reality is that
people now don't actually know the story
yeah of Easter they don't know what good
friday means they don't know what the
resurrection means because it's
absolutely nowhere in the media right
well actually I did see something on the
news for good friday about processions
in Jerusalem but that's that's all that
it was on the news it wasn't like well
okay so there's a guy pretending to be
Jesus carrying this fake cross walking
down the road it's not like this is why
he came and personalizing the message
that he came for you because he loves
you so that's awesome that she had a
chance to share yeah so I you know and
that excitement
fills me up to be like okay right this
is why easter is so important because of
the excitement that she was sharing yeah
and so what's interesting though is that
the story doesn't end with Easter like
we celebrate Christmas because Jesus
came and we celebrate Easter well good
friday and easter because Jesus died and
rose again and those three events we
need like without Jesus coming without
him dying on the cross without him being
resurrection we actually can't be in
relationship with God right and so those
are very important events like they
needed to happen but so often we forget
what about monday like we often say it's
today's Friday but Sunday's coming and
were like yeah Sunday's coming in again
we never say you know today's sunday but
monday is coming and it's like no I
don't know how you feel about monday i
mean i don't work on monday to friday
job but for those who do monday is
always kind of like a downer day yes
back to work back to the normal routine
of things and so jen and i were talking
about well what next yes easter has
happened what now yeah and what were the
disciples feeling and what was the
message that Jesus left with them just
before he ascended into heaven because
it can it can so often feel that they
feel like well Easter happened Jesus was
resurrected in and how I don't know what
because I really thought you know this
was it yes right yeah and so really it's
like it's like the day new mom in
English terms you have the climax and
everything is really exciting in the day
new moms that little like hmm after the
climax oh yes and so I think that
they're kind of in that okay well what
do we do and so we're going to spend the
next few weeks talking about and the
adventure begins because this is really
the beginning of the adventure the the
death and resurrection of Christ is not
the end hmm it is simple it is the
beginning the beginning it's the
beginning to life with Christ for all
people yeah and church age the
establishment of the church yeah
much happened i was listening to this
really great discussion on desiring god
calm and it talks about how the
resurrection how easter the resurrection
changes everything mm-hmm everything
because once you've accepted Christ he
informs all of your way of thinking
because of the Holy Spirit which we're
going to we're going to read about so
we're gonna I'm going to read from the
new international version and this is
starting in Acts chapter 1 says in my
former book Theophilus I this is the
author Luke writing by the way I wrote
about all that Jesus began to do and to
teach until the day he was taken up to
heaven after given instructions through
the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had
chosen after suffering he showed himself
to these men and gave many convincing
proofs that he was alive interesting the
head to give approval was alive hmm I'm
laughing some thinking you see him
you're saying like you touch him he said
touch me it was eating with them and yet
gave many convincing proofs that he was
alive so I heard totally in keeping with
what you're talking about I heard this
very interesting story not a true story
but but points to an interesting fact so
there was this man and he was sitting
with his wife middle-aged guy and he
started to have these thoughts that I
i'm dead i'm actually i'm not alive and
started to voice these thoughts to his
wife and kids no I really I really think
I'm dead and his wife at first would be
like oh don't worry about it just okay
whatever just go home go work make some
money for your home but every night be
like no I really think that I'm dead and
so eventually his wife and kids were
like we need to get somehow like you're
just not getting it and they tried to
say you like see you're alive look I
touch you at you're alive but he just
wouldn't get it so they took him to a
psychiatrist they took him a bunch of
doctors and they tried to show him all
sorts of textbooks and reasons why he's
alive signs of
see you're breathing you have a heart
bead you can talk to me you have a
consciousness you're alive but still he
would you would say hmm I really think
that I'm dead so finally one physician
sat down with him and said and explained
blood and how living people bleed and
there's life in blood and if you if you
cut yourself then you believe you bleed
and then so finally the guy was like you
know why yeah I can see how if you're
alive you you would bleed and so at that
point the physician grabbed a pin and
poked his guys finger and started
bleeding and then he said huh I guess
dead people bleed too oh boy even with
all this evidence this guy could not
overcome that psychological barrier that
he thought he was dead and so you don't
give him that story some people would
have just so many things set in their
mind yeah against the truth right
because it says gave many convincing
proofs that he was alive so obviously
more than one it was necessary i guess
it's part of that aha moment sometimes
when you're on a trip or maybe you've
finally married the person of your
dreams or you've gotten this amazing job
and you're like I can't believe I'm here
am I is this real sadly is really
happening yeah and you're kind of like
pinch me like is this really happening
and Jesus was like this is really
happening hema hand see my side like and
he ate fish with them like so they could
see him eat yeah like I wonder whatever
what other proofs he had to do for them
I know I was like mmm let me get to
heaven uh he appeared to them over a
period of forty days and spoke about the
kingdom of God on one occasion while he
was eating with them he gave them this
command do not leave Jerusalem but wait
for the gift of my father but wait for
the gift my father promised which you
have heard me speak about for John
baptized with water but in a few days
you will be baptized with the Holy
Spirit so when they met together they
asked him Lord are you at this time
going to restore the kingdom of israel
he said to them it's not for you to know
this times or dates the father has set
by
his own authority but you will receive
power when the Holy Spirit comes on you
you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem in
Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the
earth after this after he said this he
was taken up before their very eyes and
the cloud hid them from their site they
they were looking intently up into the
sky as he was going when suddenly two
men dressed in white stood beside them
men of Galilee they said why do you
stand here looking into the sky this
same Jesus who has been taken from you
into heaven will come back in the
fairies in the same way you have seen
him go into heaven a couple of things I
don't I don't know what stands out to
you but the one of the things that
stands out to me after the fact that
Jesus actually had to prove that he was
there is verse 5 where it says for John
Spirit and then they met together asked
him Lord at you at this time going to
restore the king of Israel is like okay
we're going to get the Holy Spirit so
does that mean you're going to restore
the kingdom and so what did they mean
when they asked him those things what
were they hoping for in a restoration of
a kingdom well see they wanted the
Israelite Kingdom as in like King David
King Solomon right like they wanted the
earthly Kingdom restored like Jesus are
you now going to sit on a throne and
rule all Israel which is interesting
right because net like and that's what
this beginning part says you know after
giving instructions through the Holy
Spirit like he's teaching them right
he's he's reminding them he's teaching
them and when you read through the
Gospels never once does Jesus say I'm
about to make my kingdom here on earth
or I'm getting ready to build my kingdom
on earth or I'm amassing the funds to do
this or you know you're going to be my
general like he never once said general
good thing about yeah I'm going to build
the kingdom here on earth never never
never never and yet often he'll say you
know my wrote my kingdom is not of this
world and and he talks about the
spiritual Kingdom and yet here they are
and they're still not getting it like
it's like okay you're giving us the
spirit so you're going to set up your
kingdom here on earth and he's like no
cuz then he goes on to say what his
kingdom is and he says it is not for you
to know the times or dates the father
has set by his own authority but you
will receive power when the Holy Spirit
comes on you and he will be my witnesses
in Jerusalem and Judea Samaria and
beyond and it's like no my kingdom is
not and and if my kingdom is not of this
world and you are actually going to go
and tell people about the kingdom hmm
and I'm wondering if they're sitting
there going what this wasn't what we had
in mind well I wonder if then they
fought back to in the Gospels when Jesus
was talking about the kingdom of heaven
is like a mustard seed that's planted in
the ground it becomes a tree so big that
true pet birds can perch in its branches
or what other Kingdom parables worth
what other was what else was the kingdom
life what else was the kingdom like and
on that note we're going to take a
commercial break stay tuned there's been
an incredible con that's occurred in the
culture evolution and millions of years
is the greatest myth ever forced on the
minds of men Big Bang evolution millions
of years people just believe it blindly
how can you not believe that somebody
designed all of this we know he
because of commission
it's not just faith we have science it's
really on our side welcome back Jen and
I were just discussing the kingdom of
God and what the disciples were
expecting so right after so Jesus has
been resurrected and now what Jesus they
asked Jesus are you now going to
establish the kingdom of israel right
and so Carrie asked the question well
what you know what did Jesus say about
the kingdom or what does you know yeah
the bio and so we did some research to
answer that question so we found a
couple of things and we want you to be
thinking about to you know what was this
kingdom that he was coming to bring
because that's part of this new
adventure that they're on they're like
okay what are we actually buying into
and I think that was one of the first
things that Jesus had to do is saying
this is what the adventure is okay so
let's make sure we're all on the same
page let's regroup okay and okay you
think that I'm going to bring an earthly
Kingdom I think that's why he's probably
spent 40 days with maybe it's like okay
let's get rid of all though yeah you
know the wrong ideas and let's get down
to what I'm really calling you to what
the adventure is and so that the
adventure is the kingdom of God and and
sharing that news with everyone else
that they too can have a relationship
with Jesus Christ and be part of the
kingdom so what is the kingdom what is
this kingdom he wanted them to be a part
of bringing yeah and so we came up with
some few things and so what did you
discover about the kingdom well firstly
you mentioned diverse jen is first
corinthians 4 verse 20 that the kingdom
of god is not a matter of talk but of
power so jesus was was offering them new
power through the holy spirit to
actually share this good news with other
people and that God was going to bring
about the transformation in their life
but he alluded to what the kingdom is
like when he was speaking with them in
his his ministry years so Matthew
chapter 20 verse 12 16 talks about Jesus
says the kingdom of heaven is like a
landowner who went out early in the
morning to hire lay
purrs for his vineyard now when he had
agreed with the labors for a Denarius a
day he sent them into his vineyard and
he went out about the third hour and saw
others standing in the marketplace and
said to them you also go into the
vineyard and whatever is right i will
give you so they went again he went out
about the sixth hour and the ninth hour
and did likewise at about the eleventh
hour he went out and found others
standing idle and said to them why have
you been standing here idle all day they
said to him because no one hired us he
vineyard and whatever is right you will
receive so when the evening had come the
owner of the vineyard said to his
steward call the labourers and given
their wages beginning with the last to
the first and when those came who were
hired about the eleventh hour they each
received a Denarius but when the first
came they suppose that they would
receive more and they likewise received
eejit Denarius and when they had
received it they complained against the
landowner saying these last men have
worked only one hour and you made them
equal to us who have borne the burden of
the heat of the day but he answered one
of them and said friend I am doing you
no wrong did you not agree with me for a
Denarius take what is yours and go your
way I wish to give this last man the
same as to you it is not is it not
lawful for me to do what I wish with my
own things or is your eye evil because I
am good so the last will be first and
the first will be last for many are
called but few are chosen right the last
will be first in the few and the first
will be last it's just it's
counterintuitive yeah it's a kingdom
principle and another thing that's
another Kingdom principle is that you
have to become like children okay like
whereas for the disciples like what like
children are weak there they aren't seen
as important in our community they
aren't given any worth they aren't
listen to they weren't even considered
part of the family when they were like
in their teen years near the end of
their teen years they had kind of like a
bar-mitzvah kind of thing where it was
like an adoption ceremony it's like okay
now you are yeah part of this
we now you are an error yeah and I think
that happened around the age of 12
because that's where Jesus goes to the
temple and he's like what I've not have
been a part of my like been at my
father's house like so yeah you're
totally right like there's this idea of
okay now you're part of our family and
so Jesus is saying no that's not Kingdom
thinking like you have to become like a
child you have to believe me you have to
submit you have to be humble you have to
ask questions you have to believe and
the disciples like with the passage that
you read I'm wondering if they were
thinking there's some sort of
entitlement we have been with you since
the beginning yeah how come and like
what do you mean that you're not coming
to an established in earthly Kingdom
what do you mean that where are the ones
that go out and what is it that you want
us to tell people like okay you have a
relationship with God and but what about
the right now yeah and I think that's
what I think at the end of the passage
it says in Jesus was taken up into
heaven and the two angels come and stand
among them just like as if they sat down
on the chair beside us and said so what
are you doing like because they were
still staring up Jesus had a second I
were still staring they said what are
you doing still staring up into heavens
go now and you your Jesus is going to
come back the same way yeah that's
definitely the meantime get going you
baking them a mission go go and do it
and so here's what the kingdom is here's
what the kingdom isn't but I'm going to
give you the Holy Spirit to go and you
know fulfill what I've asked you to do
so you don't even have to do it on your
own I think so often we think we have to
do what Jesus asks us to do on her own
and it's like no no no no he's sending
the Holy Spirit to equip us and that's
when he was saying he's like wait I will
send you the Holy Spirit I'm not giving
you something you can't do yeah just
wait and that's why the passage ends the
way it does because Jesus is like I
can't linger any longer I told you
everything that you needed to know so go
do it I think sometimes we can get
caught up with the what could you just
tell me one more time or what did you
mean by this Lord and it's like no no no
you have what you need just go and live
just go and live yeah so maybe we'll
just take some time
pray for that kingdom mindset Jen I'll
just pray for us father thank you for
this time thank you Jesus that you have
come you died you rose again mm-hmm you
provided many convincing proofs that you
are indeed alive and I thank you for
that and we see evidence of you in our
own lives and in the lives of those in
our church families all over the world
that you're moving and you're you're
active through Holy Spirit thank you so
much I pray God that you would help us
and our viewers to have a better
understanding of what that means would
you give us that Kingdom minds that
those glasses to look through to see
things as you want us to see them that
you don't operate the same way that the
people of this world do whether that
becomes 222 money or or just perspective
God but would you give us those new eyes
to see and we pray these things in the
name of Jesus amen amen well thank you
so much it's always a pleasure to chat
and to learn together and we're looking
forward to continuing continuing on in
the book of Acts so in the meantime if
you want to start reading the book of
Acts until our next show and we're going
to regroup here and talk about what
happened next in the great adventure in
the great adventure so stay tuned if you
would like to support us please check
out our website go to our partners page
and have a look see how you can sponsor
us or how you can support us so until
then have a great week cheers cheers my
friend Happy Easter
Happy Easter
you
