[Music]
we've looked at chubbies products in the
past we've looked at their ear buds we
had a set on a couple sets on a couple
weeks ago and you saw those on our show
and hopefully years ago we had the
amplifiers yeah
amp sound and with those one of the
things that we've mentioned on the show
is how I love how japaese makes cases
that automatically charge yes their ear
buds when you put them in yes so Jimmy's
heard us talking about that how much we
love these cases and and the fact that
they can be charged your stuff can be
charged as you're storing it in this
safety pouch and so they said well let's
do something a little different for
those of you like Robbie who perhaps are
not not necessarily in the market to buy
new ear buds because maybe you've
already got some right okay and let's
introduce our case to those folks so
along comes JB's for charge this is
fantastic folks the simplest little
thing but everything that we love about
Jimmy's charging solutions classic
Jimmy's case love this case rock-solid
there you go it's got a USB input on the
case now keep in mind that that means
that you can charge the case all right
so now you're gonna be carrying this in
your pocket or wherever in your in your
bag yeah in your purse what a great idea
that is and then you can actually charge
any USB micro device that's awesome or
it features a USB port for other devices
if maybe it's not USB micro no way
charge it as well it's a thousand
milliamp hours and I can just take my my
earbuds that I already own so these are
not cheap easy ur butts and plug those
in okay just as you would with any
charger cable and then just tuck them
into the case okay
now I notice that you also have your
sjcam so it is charging okay so you're
charging your headphones yeah can you
plug another cable in at the same time
for your ass like yes question dual
charging yes it does have dual charging
so here's my sjk
SJ 5,000 X this is my action cam with 4k
so now I can take this and now it's it
even included an extra USB micro cable
okay and can plug that into my sjcam
plug that into the extra charging port
and now I've got this portable battery
pack that not only keeps my stuff safe
there the sjcam just fired up Oh
charging mode so it keeps my stuff safe
like my earbuds or other small device I
was thinking Jeff about your your
SmartWatch yes for example yeah it
wouldn't be able to fit perfectly so I
could actually just put it in there and
and keep it charged now the one caveat
or the one disappointment if you will if
I had one is that had Jabez made this
case just a little bit bigger I could
have tried I could have charged my sjcam
and kept it closed they're not charging
you're right no absolutely Sasha so I
could in fact put my sjakie and once
it's charged I could use it as a case
for that and close it up that's fine but
there's just it's just shy of enough
room to charge my sjcam while it's in
the case so if they had a cable that
maybe was had a flat end yacht rental
know.com perfect yeah or if it was just
a little bit bigger that's how it looks
with an STI cam and it would be the same
with a GoPro or something like that so
for those of you who are thinking hey
that would be great for a GoPro you're
right
absolutely this case the jeebies for
charge is perfect for that however
you're not going to be able to charge it
and close it at the same time you're
gonna have to pop that up plug it in and
just kind of leave it sitting like that
to charge where o seen it from from that
side that I was gonna say if the zipper
went here at the very least it's not
gonna happen
no I tried I tried but I loved it I
loved it for my earbuds and I do love
that it will charge other devices even
if they're a little bit too big to fit
in there or even your phone or some
that it's great you can pick one of
these up at cat5 dot TV slash for charge
and that's the number four
you
