[Music]
now we all have devices that use
double-a and triple-a batteries I've got
some double a's here but those aren't
regular ee oh there is something really
unique about these ones Jeff
they have monster eyelashes they do
adorable they're well they're fun for
the kids right right you've got to be
fun for the kids
we like nickel metal hydride batteries
because one they carry a good solid
amount of juice but two they are able to
be recharged over and over and over
again and you know with the caveat that
we do want you to when it comes time to
get rid of them don't throw them in the
trash because that would be bad for the
environment how these can be good for
the environment is you use them charge
them use them over and over again and
then you waste them and recycle them
your city may have like an e-waste
program that will help with that because
nickel metal hydrides can be bad for the
environment if they end up in the
landfill they don't have some chemicals
in them that are not good for for the
earth so that said these particular
batteries can be charged up to 500 times
so you consider you know for about maybe
a dollar more than what you're paying
for your standard AAA batteries you know
it's really not a lot of money to spend
you're getting rechargeable batteries so
hey that's cool we've all got
rechargeable batteries we've all got our
nickel metal hydride charger so what
makes these ones special Jeff
well I'm noticing on the package that it
shows a microUSB it does have a micro
USB picture on the package you so right
oh and I'm just noticing that the
package is green so it's translucent on
our chroma key set USB charged
charging batteries you're right let's
get a look okay folks see if I can get
in there oh they always do this to me
what do we see USB cable so with these
ones what's neat now these are standard
nickel metal hydride double-a batteries
these ones are 1000 milliamp hours
the triple A's are 450 milliamp hours
these batteries as you can see there
there is in fact a USB micro port now
they can be charged in a standard
charger so if you have a nickel metal
hydride charger already great you can
plug these into that and it will charge
them just as a normal rechargeable
battery but sometimes you know if you're
traveling or whatever
you probably don't always think to bring
your charger it might be a little bit
clunky or maybe it's just not convenient
or it just makes sense to have something
a little more convenient so these
batteries once they're used up and they
come fully charged they come with a USB
micro char cable and this cable as you
can see has two micro ends on it and you
can in fact if you'd like you can buy a
separate cable from the same company and
this one has four on it which is kind of
cool too because like I can use this for
my phone as well it's not it's USB micro
it's universal right so all I have to do
to charge these with no battery charger
handy is I actually can just plug the
batteries directly into the cable and
then plug this into any USB device like
a computer or a wall wart my phone
charger whatever it is and then that
will charge the batteries for me see
that is amazing now I mean these are
doublings
yeah but you can also get in triple A's
that's right what about C's and DS C's
put this particular brand model are only
available in a and economy double-a and
triple-a okay I haven't yet seen the
technology in the larger batteries I
would guess Jeff that that's because as
soon as you get into D you're looking at
like how many milliamp hours would you
have to have I have no clue a lot right
you consider that a double-a has about
twice as many milliamps as a triple-a
all I know is not twice as big all I
know is that my kids Christmas set yeah
train that goes around the tree Oh
requires eight DS well they're advanced
of to buy new ones because that sucker
runs out of juice after about eight
hours so they know really ass whoa yeah
so you can get standard D
nickel metal hydride batteries sure yeah
but these are different because they
have the charging mechanism built into
them Jeff right you have to imagine Adi
I'm not even sure if it's if the if it
would be possible okay
sure because you lose you know there's
the charging mechanism taking up about
you know a couple centimeters or half an
inch and then this is the actual battery
cell itself right from here to here so
with a d-cell you're looking at a lot
more milliamp hours I think you you know
as a manufacturer I'm just guessing
right I'm not a battery manufacturer so
I might have missed it but roughly how
many times can you charge these 500 500
500 per battery yeah that's so at the
500 mark is there any indicator that's
just not well with any rechargeable
battery nickel metal hydrides are in a
you know perfect example but nickel
metal hydrides are basically when I say
that they're better rechargeable
batteries so we used to use nickel
cadmium yeah which would not hold a very
good charge they didn't have a lot of
milliamp hours and when they depleted
they would just die nickel metal hydride
operate more like an alkaline battery in
that when they deplete so when they
start to run out of juice they they have
a little bit of a like a curve to their
depletion so they start to lose power so
in a flashlight as a perfect example
your flashlight would go dimmer and
dimmer so you start to see oh my
flashlight is running low I need to plug
those in right whereas with a nickel
cadmium your light just will stop
turning on see what I love about these
is because they are just like your
double-a you can use them in anything I
mean oh yeah we've got our Wii remotes
wiimotes are a perfect example my yeah
oh it's crazy they're always asking me
for more now I can just say you know
plug in your batteries and the other
thing I found with we also have the the
balance board for the week but we don't
use it all the time
oh yeah what I hate is when the
batteries explode they explode happens
all the time where they get that acid
leak right because you know you might go
a couple months where you're not using
it and sometimes the kids don't think to
pull the batteries so right are these
going to have the acid leak any battery
if left in a device that is these could
still have any battery cable Jeff yeah
all right
any time you're going to store something
you're gonna see
in the manual of any electronic device
anytime you're gonna store something and
not use it for an extended amount of
time like a month or more you need to
get those batteries out there if you're
if you don't want to take them out and
and store them separately you can just
slip a piece of cardboard in between the
contacts just to stop just to stop them
from being able because otherwise you've
got a constant flow of electricity
electricity is always moving so as as
soon as you've got a circuit which is in
the the we pedestal thing it's going to
start it's gonna continually draw a
little bit of juice but not enough to
power the thing so then it's they're
gonna explode eventually so that would
be the case with any battery so my
daughter we've learned a lot here
tonight no but just because they're like
they've got the monstermouth yeah I
thought they were eyelashes but no it's
a monster mouth it's a monster now Wow
my daughter would love these shoes I
might just have to buy some you know
throw them in their stocking and by the
way if you want them cat5 dot TV slash
smart tools and i'm gonna tell ya tell
you it's a little bit of a weird way
that they spell their company name smart
300 or so think smart and then three o's
LS their hit go go to cat 5 DB / smart
[Applause]
