hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari my name is Jen and on
today's show we're talking about a new
home so stay tuned thank you
[Music]
turn
and into
hi everyone and welcome back to new
every day so glad that you tuned in
thank you to all of our Facebook viewers
if you want to check out our website go
to new every day TV you can wander over
to our partners page and look at all the
amazing businesses and people who helped
to support this show and make it
possible so thank you so much so this
show is called a new hope yes
oh you know we gotta talk about hope
again and I just automatically think of
Star Wars a new hope and I thought oh my
goodness is this is this episode four
but it's not so three in season three
we're talking about a new hope and Jen
can you just kind of recap where where
we've gone so far over the last couple
of episodes well in the very first one
we went right back to the very beginning
of how our whole show started in
lamentations with that the passage that
states because of the Lord's great love
we are not consumed as Compassion's
never fail they are new every morning
great is your faithfulness and so we
take our hope in him with then we talked
about a woman who had been given new
life and that she had put her hope in
the Lord which is what we talked about
last week the fact that she this is in
mark chapter 5 the woman was the issue
of bleeding she's been bleeding for 12
years in the 12 was a symbol of God's
power and completeness and his authority
and so because she heard of Jesus she
was able basically to put a nyla I
jokingly said two and two and two and
two together get seven or 12 because she
figured it out that's Jesus that is my
Messiah that's the one God has you know
called and he's going to redeem us and
so if I touched the hem of His garment I
am going to be healed like so she
reaches oh so she reaches out is it
healed by now BAM done and so because
last week we talked a little bit like
because it's very easy to say read it
heal done and we've read it in less than
30
seconds but the 12 years leading up in
the whining for this miracle and just
how do you totally get a grasp of that
in the 30 seconds that it took to read
it exactly and then the new hope that
comes from yeah yeah and what joy would
have come to her after 12 years like
literally 12 years life being on pause
not being able to have relationship with
anyone and now she's fully healed fully
restored in fact jesus said to her in
verse 34 he said to her daughter your
faith has healed you go in peace and be
freely freed from your suffering like he
toy and restored her as a daughter of
Abraham like full restoration so she
really like when we talk about that
verse in Proverbs it says a Hope
deferred makes the heart sick and then
it goes but a longing fulfilled is a
tree of life right like ivory keeps on
giving it gives yes and just you know I
want to say the sap from the roots is
now whoop and out come these leaves and
she's just growing and loving life and
producing fruit like she is it is a it
is like a tree of life like she is alive
but the flipside is the rest of this
passage because it goes on to say while
Jesus was still speaking so this is
verse 35 some men from the house of
Jairus the synagogue ruler came and said
your daughter is dead why bother the
teacher anymore
and so for them they saw death as school
and because they didn't know who she's
very good reason yes he didn't know
right and even the woman like her
miracle takes place before he brings
someone back to life right right so they
have no idea yet what Jesus is I want to
say capable and so that's why I love it
when he said it says ignoring what they
said okay Jesus said told the synagogue
ruler don't be afraid just believe
and how many times you know do we say to
Jesus you can't do this or this is
impossible
and does he look at us and say and just
knows our words but I see only some
people who have had this hope or this
dream there have been other people in
their lives who have squashed that and
it's like when Jesus shows up at the
house there's a big crowd there and when
they came to the home of the synagogue
leader Jesus saw much commotion and
weeping and wheeling men inside and
asked why all this commotion and weeping
the child is in bed she's only asleep
the crowd laughed at him laugh at God
who made them and was about to bring her
back from the dead
yes but oh he made them all leave and he
took the girl's father and mother and
his three disciples into the room where
the girl was lying holding her hand he
said to her - Lissa Combe which means
little girl just get up yes get on up
and the girl was 12 years old
immediately stood up and walked around
and I was saying to Jen just before we
started recording like the absolute
miracle
that would have to occur to make a
corpse come back to life is insane like
every cell would have had to be like
regenerated and why is that well like
when you stop having blood flow to the
cells there's like a buildup of lactic
acid and it produces death in the cells
the brain cells start to die and you
don't get those back after only four
minutes of no oxygen so for every one
minute that you're damned that you're
the person is dead the heart's not in
charge not beating the chances of
survival decreased by 10% so once you're
down 10 minutes right that you basically
have look like 100% sure that you're not
going to come back there have been
exceptional cases right that being said
the brain function is not going to be
the same they're not going to be able to
get up and walk around and try to eat
something that Jesus made her eat after
right so the absolute
miracles just yes it's a miracle it's
insane
empty and this is where once again we
read the passage in less than 30 seconds
and we're just like yeah he alder okay
done but when you think about the
physiological processes behind what it
means to be healed
it's the word that comes mine is
astronomical like what Jesus's words did
because he didn't I it says he took the
child and he took her by the hand and
said to her so it's not as if he applied
pointment he simply touched her and
spoke which is interesting because he is
also known as the word and we talked
before about how words have life and
this this is he spoke creation into
being and there's this passage in Isaiah
42 verse 5 it says this is what God the
Lord says he who created heavens and
stretched them out who spread out the
earth and all that comes out of it
who gives breath to its people and life
to those who walk in it I the LORD have
called you into righteousness I will
take hold of your hand I will keep you
and will make you to be a covenant for
the people and a light for the Gentiles
to open eyes that are blind to free
captives from prison to release from the
dungeon those who sit in darkness I am
the Lord this is my name and I will not
give my glory to another or my praise to
idols see the former things have taken
place and new things I declare before
they sprang into being I announce them
to you like we read that passage and
it's like whoops perilous gifts I didn't
hear that the first time we read it that
I will take you by the hand and bring
you out of darkness like deficit sadness
like dungeon like that's yes
and there she is like doing exactly what
his word said I will take you by the
hand and I will call you out of darkness
there's this idea of the power of words
and the touch and when he keep called
this little girl because he says to
leave that
come little girl I said you get up and
there's just like this had never
happened before like this is the first
time Jesus calls someone back to life
and it's just like wow God Wow we're
going to take a break we're going to be
right back thank you Jeff Weston Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
what are you alright
you're terrible actor what this we're
acting comes into play oh I don't know
we're Arctic you're supposed to act okay
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own calm
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat five dot TV slash dream
house still put a toilet paper something
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV slash DreamHost hi
everyone and welcome back to new every
day and we are in mark chapter five yes
we are where you have it well we ended
off with Wow
and because well cannot explain you know
fact that the girl was raised from the
dead
well it's doesn't the fact that they
were overwhelmed and amazed yeah I don't
think there are words to describe
someone's coming back from it dad
completely completely astonished like
this this was new territory yeah wait
imagine waking up okay so that that'll
happen crazy commotion so excited and
then you're like tucking her in for bed
and then waking up the next day like I
wonder if there was this like thing with
time uh she's a really high it like
don't let her go to sleep but then you
wake up the next day and she's still new
and still alive and I also like to think
about Bible stories like what happened
next
yeah it happened before yeah it helps me
to like view these characters that's not
the right term these people as real
people yeah like what was their life
actually like yeah the only interaction
I see here well and there's something
about food that makes it legit now why
is he's like because when to eat but
where else does that happen when Jesus
was resurrected
yeah disciples didn't believe it was him
and he was like give me some food and
they even a piece of fish and he was
like yeah real there's something about
that taking of food and ingesting it so
that says the body's working yes not I'm
not a ghost
yeah person yes could go still need food
right and if you're fully restored your
body's going to totally work and be able
to process that yes so cool
it's it's so you know very rarely do you
sit and pour over a passage of Scripture
and look for the connections but and
that's where I love about the Word of
God it is complete beginning to end
right because here we are reading in
mark we flip back to Isaiah and then you
know you read it and it says I have
called you I will take hold of your hand
I will keep you and make you a covenant
and it goes on say to free captions from
captives from prison to release from
dungeons those who sit in darkness I am
the lord that is my name and so then you
know here we are reading through mark
five we ask you know what to steal about
giving them something to eat Jesus
overcame
and how you know I am the Lord and I
just love the way the Word of God knits
together and that's why we stand on this
believing that Jesus really can make all
things new Kerry and I have both
experienced this truth in our life not
necessarily being raised from the dead
but this idea of being restored and made
new in our heart and our spirit and a
few years ago Stephen Chris Chapman put
out a CD called all things new and I've
listened to that first song so many
times because I was a really great piano
on the beginning I love the piano but he
just starts singing saying you spoke and
made the Sun rise to light up the very
first day you breathed across the water
and started the very first wave it was
you you introduced your glory to every
living creature on earth and they
started singing the first song ever to
be heard they sang for you you make all
things new then the world was broken
battered fallen and scarred and you took
the hopeless the life wasted ruined and
marred and made it new you make all
things new you make all things new you
redeem and you transform you renew and
you restore you make all things new and
you make all things new and forever we
will watch and worship you you turn
winter into spring you take every living
thing and you breathe the breath of life
into it over and over again
you made the sunrise day after day after
day but there's a morning coming when
all when old things will all pass away
and everyone will see now and forever
you are making all things new as that
morning is that morning coming yes
I think it speaks to Revelation 21 that
often you'll hear at funerals when it
seems like this is the end
yeah and it's revelation 21 verse 5 and
this is the vision that the disciple
John had after Jesus had died and rose
again the vision of what was to come she
is on the throne and it says and the one
sitting on the throne said look I am
making everything new and then he said
to me write this down for what I tell
you is trustworthy and true and he also
said it is spinning I am the Alpha and
the Omega at the beginning and the end
to all who are thirsty I will give
freely from the springs of the water of
life yes all who are victorious will
inherit all these blessings and I will
be their God and they will be my
children we just hold on to those we
just hold on to those word yes and even
when things seem hopeless and that
winter is never going to end I just I
just have to believe it and so often
will be talking I also say I just have
to believe it yes and a lot of times
when I look around and I see this bear
and I see people who are just never
changing and they're stuck in this fraud
and whatever I just believe it I don't
even see the word to be true in their
life yeah even if they suffer their
whole life and then and then and then
past they've known Christ this is the
hope that that does not do yes and so
don't be afraid just believe believe in
what lamentations says I'm going to read
it one more time before we sign off it
says I remember my affliction and my
wandering the bitterness and the gall
got through the woman was at right
that's what the parents were
experiencing in that moment when their
child what they were told their child
was dead I'll remember them and my soul
is downcast within me yet yet this I
called to mind and therefore I have hope
because the Lord's great love we are not
consumed for his Compassion's never fail
they are new every morning great is your
faithfulness I say to myself the Lord is
my portion therefore I will wait for him
the Lord is good to those who hope whose
hope is in
yes how does the hope and believing
night that God doesn't withhold anything
good yeah from his children even if we
can't see it so we once regarded Christ
from a worldly point of view we do so no
longer because it's given we've been
given new life and that new life can
give us the ability to love until we're
spent amen
yeah why don't we just why don't we pray
Janice as we wrap up yes Father
thank you for your great love for us
that we just believe we believe in the
power that is in Jesus Christ to make
things new and that you can make us new
here and now to live a life for you
that's not about us it doesn't look at
the world we the world from our own
perspective but God you can give us new
life and about you and living for you
and that we have hope of heaven and is
being fully restored and I just pray God
for people who are feeling hopeless that
even now as they're listening you would
fill them with hope in believing that
you can bring newness of life and just
thank you in Jesus name
and then thank you so much for tuning in
and and we are going to be back here
next week to speak with you so thanks so
much for your faithful viewer and
saluting catch you later
do
you
I'm done
