welcome to category five technology TV
now this is episode number five fifty
tonight we've got a jam-packed show for
you first of all you'll notice that I've
got three raspberry pies in front of me
one of them is a raspberry pie - a
raspberry pie three and a raspberry pie
3b plus we're gonna be connecting them
all you're gonna see them on the screen
we're gonna put them head-to-head in a
deathmatch
which one's better which one's gonna do
things faster and we're gonna answer the
age-old question from about two weeks
ago
is it really worth upgrading to a
Raspberry Pi 3 b-plus beyond that we're
gonna take a look at a really cool 4.3
inch screen that is a 600 times
magnification microscope that records 2
SD cards in 1080p so cool we're gonna
show you that and tell you how much it
is you're gonna be blown away in just a
few minutes time don't go anywhere
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the International
Association of internet fraud casters
cat 5 TV slash ia IB Jeff hey we missed
you last week I'm sorry we're kept me
away work kept him away where are your
priorities sir hey check and paying the
bills there you have it how are you
I am super fantastic I feel sasha
Rickman by the way feel free
you still have your tan I'm jealous I
know I mean I don't know the really
tough when you got a bald nerd over here
yeah and a redhead over here and we'll
miss I was like super tan yeah I have
faded just try to get the levels right
on the camera right saying that people
just make some mad they're like you said
Ted I'm like I'm
oh it's just me it's it's just me it's
just I was born this way February should
be like I think I still have some of my
summer tan I'm like Shh Yeah right
like I go for we just kind of burn -
white - red - white I'm like the worst
feeling like - peeling yes this is like
my only superpower is being able to hold
a tan I'm sure you have other
third-degree sunburns it's happened
you're like the your you are Burning Man
I am baby we've got cat five shirts
still available for you folks we're just
gonna keep this thing going as long as
people are still buying them it's a
great opportunity for you to be able to
pick up a limited edition t-shirt or
sweat and they look great
you can head on over to cat 5 dot TV
slash shirts remember
we don't have anything to do with the
printing of that and I love that
honestly it's it's all done it's it's
all done through teespring I'm not doing
any ironing you've seen my curtains my
crowd knows that would not go very well
yeah so head on over to cap five dot TV
slash shirts to get a professionally
silk screened shirt with the category 5
TV logo or some of our other shows are
on there as well do it it's it's awesome
so you can still win copies of that
effect to VR by submitting to us at
contest at category 5 TV let us know who
you are how you're watching where you're
from ok if only if only I had a VR rig
so here's the thing what's the thing I
have that effect to VR now you're just
showing off and I played it so all these
weeks I've been like you can win I got
my vibe no I knew in the car I remember
last week I said on the air I was like
it's it it's a necessity well then that
rang true to me it is indeed a necessity
it's a necessity so you went home that
night you said to your husband Dave Dave
do you think that a virtual reality
headset is a necessity yes and how did
he respond well he didn't know guys he
did not know at first how amazing it was
so ok first virtual boy yeah at first he
well I think what he was picturing what
he was indeed picturing was like the
ones where you put your cell phone in
like right and I'm not saying that it's
bad it's just not the best it's not the
most super awesome thing you've ever
experienced in your entire life and I'm
good at killing zombies who knew
we said I'll pay you anything she would
be really good at killing zombies Dave
Dave always plays these like
first-person shooter games like doom and
stuff and I'm like man stuff yeah so
that's real gamer so so I never played
them because I'm like I'm not a big
shooter girl and then I am it turns out
that it's virtual reality is better than
real it's so real reality shoot people
no let me just bring it back for a quick
second to when you first put the headset
on and everything else is completely
blacked out and you're in like just the
biggest cleanest living room and you can
in VR ya know and you can walk out onto
this like a beautiful patio like your
home screen is an interactive home
screen so you've got things on the
shelves oh you can walk out onto this
patio and there's birds overhead and
butterflies and you can hear the music
and you can pick the fountain this is
just the home screen Wow like I spent an
hour this morning cuz I knew I was gonna
have to talk about this we only got it
last night right okay so Dave set it up
I was going to set up right away
he got it set up he spent some time on
it and fell in love with it and then
this morning he went to work I went to
work late and I spent like who hangs out
in the home screen oh my and then I
downloaded table tennis yeah which I'm
bad so how is the immersive experience
is it is it really good like we did a
feature Henry Bailey Brown went to the
VRT oh yeah several months back and we
we've got some features up on our
website search for virtual reality on
our website remember how excited he was
when he came back yeah I get it now okay
yeah well I think we did Google Earth
Google Earth Street View you can do with
your headset on yeah really yeah it'll
bring you to tears with its beauty it's
incredible Wow I can't bless you this
yeah so that affects to VR back to the
car
test you can win it and I'll tell you
it's amazing I did you sleep oh you did
it today I did you haven't seen whether
or not it gives me my dreams are gonna
be nasty there are gonna be bonkers
oh boy so good I'm so happy that I
waited to tell you awesome okay I can't
just say you're going this actually I
just have a regular monitor orcs on my
phone so it's not a small purchase so on
the way over I told Jeff how much it
costs okay
you can buy your computer with that I'm
like so Sasha built a gaming rig a
computer here on the show check out cat
5 TV slash CPU two zero one seven it was
like the end at the tail end of 2017
that we built this thing and we
pre-planned so you community you
remember we had to decide what video
card are we gonna do what what kind of
you know what should we get in order to
build this thing and it was a very
interactive feature with the community
we picked good because the the 1080 GTX
card with eight gigs of on-board ram and
overclocked and all the hookups for the
VR headset everything it's got hdmi
displayport super thank you category 5
TV is now on google play music so if
well if you google play music has their
podcast stuff well I'm telling you right
now it's happening right now my goodness
all the surprise I just thought I would
tell you now well thank you this is real
life if you use google play music head
on over to podcasts and you can do a
quick search for category 5 technology
TV or just category 5 and you'll find us
there and incidentally there is a link
directly to our show if you go to
category 5 TV slash
subscribe you'll see all the different
ways that you can subscribe and of
course Google Play Music is now there
exciting now last week on the show here
on category five technology TV we talked
about a lot I mean we're talking about
delete Facebook which we're gonna circle
back to in just a couple moments time
but we're also talking about Saturday's
world back up day so I have to ask you
as a follow-up question what did you do
differently this week with regards to
your backup I put all my pictures on
Google Drive Google Drive is a Google
Drive yeah okay that's the cloud right
yeah yeah so now do you have a copy of
them on your phone and on Google Drive
yes two places at once
yes redundancy yes nice so now if your
phone gets dropped into a puddle of
water I'm good you can log into Drive
from your computer from a new phone or
whatever and copy those files back
you've got that redundancy but don't
forget if you do drop your phone into a
pool of water make sure you get a copy
of those files onto your computer
because once you've lost that phone you
now are back to singing just one single
point of failure right yeah if you drop
your phone in the water you can also put
it in a bag of rice you know what you
could try that I'm gonna stick with
backups I'm gonna stick with backups so
I one up Sasha oh yes I had I had the
Google what did you do differently
I added Amazon Drive Amazon Drive so
I've got the Gulick s3 and the Amazon
Drive and I have an agreement nice so I
have three different backups very good I
have an unsurmountable is that the right
word I don't answer animal
insurmountable number of backups
you're like the redundant backup King
though I run a TV show I know it is
terabytes
I've got to make sure there's redundancy
because you know what when blip TV shut
down could you imagine if we just lost
everything yeah that was hole boy
I was working hand in hand with Vimeo at
that point uploading our backups moving
things off of Amazon s3 local backups up
to Vimeo because I love redundancy as
far as my files go that's really really
important okay I mentioned about delete
Facebook we started talking about it
last week right we show
how to do it and a lot of viewer
feedback has come in so before we take a
commercial break let's jump into some of
those comments that have come in bill
Marshall says I jumped on the delete
Facebook bandwagon because I no longer
have a real need for Facebook what about
following category 5 TV that's true
that's real yeah that's for real my
brother it is mostly a time waster there
you go
it's true at this point since most all I
see is in an ADIZ or ultra negativity
against what's going on in the world
today anti social media I don't need a
couple that with the fact that they
cannot be trusted at all and I'm sold
giving away my info making setting
changes within their updates and tapping
into all of my apps yeah
no thank you by the way I have also cut
who I follow on Twitter by half and I'm
probably not done there either
maybe I am antisocial or ultra social
and want to live in the real world
instead of Fayed maybe yeah
you mentioned the Facebook is an
addiction and you yeah I'm constantly
looking at your phone and we can turn
off the notifications if it's the
notifications that are driving us nuts
because what I hate is that it's
constantly circle circle people are
talking and talking and it's always
popping up so I just turn off
notifications and then the the need to
constantly pick up my phone when it
buzzes in my pocket is gone right so
then when I am sitting down on Facebook
that is when I respond that so you know
you know sometimes I don't respond right
away that's true mm-hmm because that's
how I roll that's good that right the
addiction and of things you want take
Liam Meyers yes Lee Myers I am staying
just because I own staying on Facebook
staying on Facebook just because I only
use my account when I teach people to
explain to them what it is that is the
only reason why I have the accounts I
might check it once a month if that okay
so the addiction thing it's not a
problem there yeah we're using it to
teach other people how to use Facebook
which is great which is fine if you know
your limits and you play within them do
it that's right Jeff green are
sent us a big long comment yeah you
tackle this one yeah says speaking of
Facebook I have a few alternate Facebook
accounts for gaming and groups hobbies
etc I do the same break in the terms of
use one of my Facebook accounts I've had
for many years and have never had a
problem I never had a real photo on it
and it was never attempted to block me
or ask for credentials or authorization
and so on this is a second alternate
Facebook account that I've had nearly
the same amount of time and last year it
locked me out of my account asking if I
was a real person and demanding I send a
copy of photo ID for proof I never did
that and the account is still blocked
with a ton of precious information and
data on it that I hope to somehow
someday get without using photo ID it's
not that I really care about my ID info
being out there just it seemed very
fishy to me
now I have a third alternate Facebook
account I made just after the last one
was locked out it just asked me about
two or so months ago for a photo
recognition to show them I'm a real
human as I don't have any of my real
photos of me or anything like that
related or uploaded to this Facebook
account okay so with it asking me for a
photo of my face and only my face to not
be locked out I agreed and took it and
everything has been fine since for that
third account then within this last
month hearing all this news about
Facebook makes me wonder were they
trying to gather as much as they can
before they before their gig is up
I had to share that so far I'm enjoying
y'all's little podcast ish local-access
type of information down-to-earth kind
of show isn't that funny that's exactly
what that's our tagline that's it thank
you for watching category-five
technology TV a little podcast is local
access type of information but
down-to-earth show it's true thank you
for watching and thank you for
commenting as well definitely you know
that's good to know that Facebook is
kind of making sure that people are
legit right you know I'm not creating
BOTS accounts yeah but let's be clear
how many times have you had a fake
account that's been a bot let's try to
add you as a friend well I could do is
upload Shortell
okay so I just joined steam yeah right
and on steam I couldn't add friends
until I had spent some money right so
Facebook doesn't have I think you've
been scammed I have steam and I've never
had to spend a penny I had to spend five
American dollars
Wow and then I could add friends it was
that because they needed to I think to
make sure I was not a bot so yeah you're
saying is that you have just monetized
friendship that's the value that she put
on my friendship folks I BOTS myself
Table Tennis nice anyway so that I mean
that's something Facebook can't do cuz
there's not really money that you give
right so they can't really tell whether
okay missus allopath send us messages
says wow they make this so hard but
here's the link that you need WWF
facebook.com slash help / delete
underscore account you need that if your
GZ Thomas too intrusive got rid of it
finally poof - too intrusive that that
takes me back to the phone popping up
all the time not bugging me while I'm
trying to work
Jeff circuit man says yes so circuit man
says you could ditch messenger and use
signal it's ok well for Android and I
owe and the desktop but now do we have
to get our friends to also switch to
signal that's if that's the case should
we just get them on discord or pop them
onto IRC or XMPP would be great I loved
that Facebook used to have that circuit
man continues and says it's also on
Linux that's old I'm a firm believer in
deleting Facebook Twitter etc companies
need to stop collecting data on us I'm
on YouTube and LinkedIn that's it and
I'm reviewing whether or not I need
those I'm not leaving Facebook because I
have never had an account just like
Twitter reddit etc ok so why does
Facebook matter to us and Twitter matter
to us because it helps us to be able to
engage our audience right right so from
my perspective I'm looking at it from
the perspective of a broadcaster and
this is one way that we communicate and
connect with
audience this is like our Facebook page
we're broadcasting live right now as I
speak on our Facebook page
well Twitter doesn't have that right so
Facebook does and those of you who are
watching on Facebook right now live hey
thanks for joining us you imagine if we
had to do the show 144 characters
[Laughter]
Detroit retro gamer drug 33 1 3 says
enjoyed your dynamics and the discussion
piece y'all that was to you and I thank
you very much
always nice to just get a simple little
word of praise like that because you
know it helps us to know
hey people like this I like the vibe I
like the vibe of these comments cuz
people are throwing in y'all's and stuff
and they're really like down-to-earth
are using our our catchphrase Jeff
David Gregory Kerr time to delete your
Facebook account be done with it just
like that mic drop
hi I'm should have left that one to last
but there is one more Sasha from zan man
26 about a few years ago I started using
the Facebook account boo believe it was
for job searching okay then went about
not using it and just having the account
then a prominent Linux youtuber did a
video about actually deleting his
Facebook account at the end of last year
and about a month after that I deleted
my account as well however if someone
feels they have an addiction to Facebook
I would strongly suggest deleting the
account if you have persons that you
only contact contact through this
platform I would make sure that I have
their mobile phone number and email
address before going through with the
deletion of the accounts that's it and I
did that okay right see I that affects
me because like I don't I don't know
your phone number I don't know your
phone number you've never asked I've
never asked but you and I communicate
via email yeah we can do that sure but
there are a lot of folks that I
communicate with new every day the team
from new every day we're working
together every single week to bring your
show every Friday morning and we never
communicate by phone or
or anything right it's just easy to open
up Facebook Messenger and that's how we
do it but if you had decided that you
didn't want to then I suppose I would go
for an alternative exactly I would
probably lean toward discord yes I love
discord mmm absolutely I mean it would
be my go-to if you were looking for just
chat yes platform if if I myself had
like good boundaries about Facebook if I
didn't if I didn't choose my phone
versus you know a good conversation
sometimes like eyes on right into it
sure then maybe I would keep my Facebook
that's wise of you yeah absolutely and
if that's you then you know make that
decision and just say you know what what
is most important the thing that drives
me nuts and really troubles my my spirit
is when I see parents that do not watch
their kids on the park but don't you
know then the kids are like dad watch me
dad watch me and they're doing some
trick on the monkey bars and the dad is
like this is like that is heartbreaking
there are droves of cellphone zombies
out there droves of them people don't
look up anymore they're just all here in
in this spot look up folks
yeah your kids are more importantly make
Wally never seen it you haven't seen it
Adventures yeah I'm not gonna get into
effectively this it's like it's that's
Wally I've got a Raspberry Pi - a
Raspberry Pi 3 and a Raspberry Pi 3
b-plus we're gonna be comparing them
right after this
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV episode 550 hope you have
a great week I know we are oh this is
the highlight I know this is it folks
last week we unboxed a Raspberry Pi 3
model b+ so cool they took the Raspberry
Pi 3 jammed a little bit of stuff in
there and made it better and gooder yes
that's exactly tag line it's good or
tonight we're gonna see how much cooter
it is than the Raspberry Pi 3 and also
I've got a Raspberry Pi 2 here which
some would say wow that's not fair I
mean this is a little 900 megahertz
little you know early model from 2015
but we really wanted to see the stark
contrast right and see in three years
how far has Raspberry Pi actually come
right that's what we want to see so I
have a Raspberry Pi 2 a Raspberry Pi 3
which I have in the Aled we know case
those of you who are interested in it
this is what we put our nem servers in
if you go to names Linux comm that's
what it looks like and then I've got a
Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ which I don't
think will stand up there it is there it
is so what I'm gonna do with these three
is we're gonna bring them up on the
screen and we're gonna do four different
tests first of all we're gonna start
with the boot process how fast does it
boot up then we're gonna look at
transferring a 1 gigabyte file you're
gonna see which is faster I've got a USB
flash drive USB external hard drive I'm
gonna transfer the files to we're gonna
load up an image in the GIMP and see
which one is gonna be faster and we're
gonna use iperf to check how fast the
networking is mm-hmm ok so we're gonna
jump right into it first of all let's
boot it up here is the Raspberry Pi 2 3
and 3 B+ and this is the boot process
folks so what we have here is the exact
same image the exact same card
everything is the same and I
pre-recorded it so that there are no
variables so they all seem about on par
here Oh
B+ came up first Oh
what the three beateth the Raspberry Pi
2 and Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ actually
came up about the same time and the
three model B so this is the earlier
edition of the the Raspberry Pi 3 beat
them all Wow so that's surprising great
what we're doing here folks is answering
the question because so many people are
saying you know should I I've got a
Raspberry Pi 3 who should I go out and
buy a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ is it really
gonna be noticeable right and we have to
ask ourselves well what are we using it
for that's what it boils down to so
tonight we're just looking at some basic
stuff that everyone does everybody boots
the thing up and for some reason that's
a benchmark of speed and see for me I
wouldn't care either way it was running
all the time blows yeah and they're
running up it's connected to my TV it's
running 24/7 I don't care about the boot
time but I do care if I am going to copy
files from my Raspberry Pi to an
external hard drive because it saves me
having to pull the SD card and try to
figure out how to mount things and move
things around so I'm going to use an
external hard drive so again in order to
keep this exactly one to one to one
and everything is fair and everything is
identical tonight what I've done is I've
pre-recorded the exact same process on
all three devices that gives us a very
exact one-to-one comparison and in fact
I've pulled the SD card and booted up
each one from the same SD card so even
the card even the distro is exactly the
same nothing has changed just the SPC
has changed very cool
so I've plugged in an external USB 3.0
Drive and it's a 2 terabyte drive it is
a formatted NTFS and I've installed NTFS
3G and I've set it so that I have right
access by CH modding the folder as 777
and I've set the ownership of the folder
the mount point to PI so I've got the
ability to write to that so let's see
what it takes to copy a 1 gigabyte file
so I have a file that I've created using
dev
zero which is just a random file
generator using DB and I've created a
one gig file so let's check out with
this file on my desktop which one is
going to be faster drag-and-drop let it
go
surprisingly they all started at the
same time I kind of expect I expect the
the latency to be a little higher with
the PI - I'm starting to get the sense
that the three B+ is moving along quite
a bit faster it still seems fairly close
to the B it really does but they're
definitely motoring ahead of the model -
definitely the the PI - is it's the
turtle okay so this is 1 gigabyte that
we're transferring now keep in mind and
I mentioned that this is a USB 3.0 you
external hard drive it's a spinning hard
drive the Raspberry Pi 3 3 + + PI 2 only
have USB 2.0 so it's not going to give
us the full speed oh it looks like the
the 3 B the B beat it just by a fraction
Hey yeah it was about second second and
a half Oh what Wow and and the 2 is oh
boy well this is a clear this is clear
that the PI 3 model b + b + r the clear
winner here absolutely copy operation
i'm gonna let this finish for you so
that you can see in real time how much
longer it is taking on the raspberry pi
2 again nothing else has changed the
file is exactly the same that drives are
exactly the same and we're copying this
to a locally connected USB drive
connected directly to the PI - it's like
so if you imagine if you work with files
or your moving files to a Plex PI or
something like that
yeah the the the PI 3 either either
option is going to be significantly
faster for your data copy from USB stick
around we're gonna okay so it's done it
took that long
but it's done it's done but keep in mind
we're gonna be looking at the networking
as well
but before we get into that let's open
the same image okay on each of these
devices using the GIMP
so I've downloaded this from pixels and
I'm just gonna right click and click GNU
image manipulation program and here we
came up a little faster on the B+ yeah
the pi - we would expect to be in last
place it's from 2015
okay the B+ is done yeah it came up
behind it so this is something that
takes a little more oomph little more
processor power to get that image up and
then a high two is finally up so
definitely the B+ is a clear winner
there yes and this gives us a little bit
of a look into you know I'm gonna be
using it to edit photos and if it is
gonna open the GIMP that much quicker it
may be that it's going to operate faster
for us as well keep in mind that the PI
to the PI 3 and the 3 B+ all have just
one gigabyte of memory which is crazy
yeah I would have loved to see the PI
model b+ that a little high 3 B plus 1/2
more but of course we're limited by the
CPU this is you cannot allow any higher
RAM and that's where I'm thinking maybe
the PI 4 is gonna have two gigs or maybe
four now if you're lucky
alright our final test here is to see
the actual speed of the network
interfaces and we're gonna do this using
iperf which is a linux tool that allows
us to check the speed of data
transmission and reception so I've set
up a gigabit server and with iperf
server and we're gonna run that on each
of these three devices so let's see here
we go
it's not gonna take long folks but it's
gonna tell us accurately how fast each
one is so the PI 2 up at the top left
let's see what it tells us
okay they're all done at the same time
so took about the same time so the PI 2
is ninety four point two megabits per
second for
10 over 100 that is fantastic you're
looking 94% of the promised speed ok the
pi3 model B so this is the earlier
edition of the pi3 is exactly the same
lower left there ninety four point two
megabits per second where things get
really exciting is if you look at the
pi/3 B plus you're your bandwidth speed
is 321 megabits per second so this is
where we look at that and we say wow
it's significantly better than anything
else as far as the raspberry PI's go
right but it's still disappointing in
that it's Gigabit Ethernet they promote
it as hey the Raspberry Pi 3 model B
plus has Gigabit Ethernet no it doesn't
come on well why is that it's because
the Raspberry Pi 3 model B plus the
network interface controller runs off of
the USB 2 chipset and that means that
it's limited to 322 megabits a second
I'm getting 321 nowhere near so we're
looking at a difference of 94 percent of
the promised speed versus only 32
percent of the promised speed on the B+
right but still significantly faster
mm-hmm so it's gonna make a difference
on our Plex PI server absolutely because
we're streaming media video to our
devices through the network it's gonna
make a huge difference for you if that's
what you want to do but if you're
connecting and you're using it as a
computer then the network speed is
probably not going to make much of a
difference to you unless you're using a
local Nass or something to store your
files then it will make a difference but
generally speaking I'm not seeing a huge
amount of difference in speed between
the model B and the model B plus of the
PI 3 right that said keep in mind as
they operate as you're doing more with
them they're going to throttle and the
raspberry pi 3 is 1.2 gigahertz at its
high end and it can throttle down to 900
megahertz
well the Raspberry Pi 3 model B plus
starts off at 1 point 4 gigahertz and it
will throttle down to 1.2 okay so you're
going to always have if you get into
that like you're using it and
building up some heat the 3d plus is
going to be significantly faster right
so just a quick comparison for you and
when we come back we're gonna be looking
at a really cool little piece of kit
that you can add to your soldering kit
and we've got a great bunch of stuff so
much stuff on our list of things whether
you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo
Video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching welcome back this
is category 5 technology TV we're having
a lot of fun tonight talking about VR
during the break there everything that
we've got going on now we've looked at
the Raspberry Pi 3 and part of why I
love the Raspberry Pi computers the
microcomputers is because I love making
I love tinkering I love messing around
and creating little circuits and doing
things I've been working on this circuit
where I've been doing micro circuitry
for the first time ever and it's ok can
you see that yes can you see that can
you see that oh yeah yeah really really
are you working on so I'm building an
LED strip that's going to dance to music
oh okay it's a fun little project but
they are one millimeter resistors right
the resistors are super super tiny and
I'm soldering these with my helping hand
so I've got my helping hands it's got a
nice little light on it and it's got
some magnification but not a huge amount
so I'm actually soldering underneath of
this working like this I've got it in
the helping hands and I'm using a tip of
my soldering iron it's really tough it's
really tough but then along comes this
little guy over here which is a sub $100
magnifying screen basically okay but
this has from one to six hundred times
optical zoom six hundred times okay so
it comes with this base I'll show you
this right over here you can see the
base and I can move this up and down to
get different focus and then I've got a
focus knob on the front here so a couple
of things that I love about this first
of all obviously this is I think going
to make things a lot easier for me I'm
gonna bring it up on the screen for you
in just a moment so that you can see
whether you agree but it also records
and that's how I'm going to be able to
do that it takes hor it takes a micro SD
card and you can record at 1080p so if
you want to do a demonstration or if you
want to do a vlog of your soldering or I
using it for soldering you can use this
to look at little critters with the kids
whatever you can do with a microscope
right but this is a video microscope if
you will so it's available for under
$100 a cat5 dot TV slash microscope and
let's let's actually fire it up so that
you can see what it looks like so I just
I'm gonna turn it on and it does get
about six hours of battery life on a
single charge it comes with a lithium
battery that comes with the charger and
you can just plug it in charge it and
it'll run for six hours apparently okay
on a single charge so I'm gonna fire it
up I'm gonna hit record here alright and
I'm recording just like that so now look
at this guy's okay now I'm completely
out of focus yes you are I can move up
look at the hairs all not finger okay
I'm gonna adjust the focus there Wow
isn't that nuts and I'm recording this
this is I tend your hairs I can't grow
hair look at that okay so now I can get
my little soldering gig in here that
I've been working on and I'm gonna be
able to see and why am i showing you
this
how bad my soldering job has been with
the helping hands let's get it in there
oh my goodness alright so now it starts
to come clear so you can see how
difficult this would have been for me
without this kind of magnification so
now oh and I've got some flux there I
got to get this all cleaned up now that
I can look at those so that's what I did
so now I can put that in just like that
and then I've got my soldering tools and
I can get in there and fix it up or do
what I need to do to do some really
microscopic soldering that's what I
wanted this for but for under a hundred
bucks you could find things like sure I
want to get slides I want to get the
kids in yeah I want to show them what
your blood looks like don't worry it's
only gonna hurt for a minute kids know
what magnification do you have on right
now well it's it's impossible for me to
know the exact magnification Jeff
because it's based on height okay no
okay so that's less magnification up
there so if I focus in right okay
so now if I if I move down roll down I
can get right in there
and then focus it see if I can focus
that close not quite so let's bring it
up just a bit lock it still a little too
far down okay here we go so that would
be like the high end well okay so looks
like I can get in a little closer yep
there you go there we go that is unreal
that's a terrible soldering joint right
there so there's the resistor that I've
been soldering on and you look at that
blob of solder and think okay well that
is
that's microscopic by the human eye
right those are only one millimeter
that's and that is a terrible soldering
job probably I'm so embarrassed but
there you have it folks that's that is
available at cap five dot TV slash
microscope it's gonna take you to our
shop and then you can choose where you
want to buy it from we carry it on
Amazon and everywhere else
it works fantastically well I'm
impressed it's going to make my solder
all the better and I'm looking forward
to you know getting some critters and
getting the kids to see hey what does
the fly look like let's get it let's get
in there put it in a little Tupperware
container and get a look from above yeah
and see what things look like your
soldering can't get worse like zero can
see Thank You us for that at this moment
in time but I'm thinkin I will find
things for that oh yes like look at my
finger hairs all right so Sasha we have
to jump over to the newsroom all right
and tonight things are a little
different because we don't have the
capability to move the camera around and
that's because of various technical
blips before the show but hey you can we
still have a show it just I'm sharing
now so I'm thinking about how cool this
is and all the things that I've even the
stuff I didn't mention like the ability
to dim and turn up the light and
everything else oh it comes with the
stand yes yes it does it's super cool
for the record I'm not gonna be paying
attention to news I'm gonna be thinking
about that thing yeah that and VR yes
Josh take her away
oh you're waiting for me I am waiting I
understand you're ready I'm totally
ready here are the stories were covering
this week of a category-5 TV newsroom
yes
she has a proof SpaceX's plan to launch
nearly 4,500 broadband satellites sign
up with faced Facebook data slurping
Firefox has a cunning plan the patches
Microsoft released inform elk down in
Windows 7 actually made the operating
system less secure and last year's
Pokemon go fest attendees got their
tickets refunded but that was not enough
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Jeff Weston Java you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play I don't
know I think you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash DreamHost
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias here are the top
stories we're following this week the
FCC has approved SpaceX's plan to launch
nearly 4,500 broadband satellites
SpaceX has received us approval to
launch 4425 low-earth orbit satellites a
key milestone in its plan to offer
broadband with high speeds and low
latency around the world the Federal
Communications Commission issued an
order approving SpaceX's application
with some conditions
SpaceX intends to start launching
operational satellites as early as 2019
with the goal of reaching the full
capacity of 4425 satellites in 2024 the
FCC approval requires SpaceX to launch
50% of the satellites by March 2024 and
all of them by March 2027 SpaceX's
network known as star link will need
separate approval from the International
Telecommunication unit Union the FCC
approval is contingent upon SpaceX
receiving this like other operators
SpaceX will have to comply with FCC
spectrum sharing requirements outside
the u.s. coexistence between SpaceX
operations and other company systems are
governed only by the ITU radio
regulations as well as the regulations
of the country where the earth station
is located according to the FCC SpaceX
and several other companies are planning
satellite broadband networks with much
higher speeds and much lower latencies
than existing satellite internet
services SpaceX has said that it will
offer speeds of up to a gigabit per
second with latencies between 25
milliseconds and 35 milliseconds oh yeah
those latencies would make SpaceX is
service comparable to cable and fiber
while existing satellite broadband
services have Layton sees of 600
milliseconds or more SpaceX states that
once fully deployed the SpaceX system
will provide full time coverage to
virtually the entire planet SpaceX is
applique
Chandru opposition from other satellite
operators who raised concerns about
interference with other systems and
debris as well the FCC dismissed some of
the complaints for example one Webb
wanted unreasonably large buffer zones
between its own satellites and SpaceX's
the FCC says that if operators fail to
agree on a coordination and a
coordination plan in the future the
Commission may intervene as appropriate
okay so that's nuts I don't even know
how this is possible how can they get 25
millisecond latency with satellites
because the speed of light to a
satellite and back to earth would not
even wouldn't it be longer than it I
guess maybe it's optical maybe it's
lasers well think but I mean we're
talking about having all the satellites
up there by 2024 at the very latest 2027
how much has technology advanced in the
last six years well that's how it goes
my friend and how much do you think it's
gonna advance even that much further in
six to nine years I mean it's very
possible you're gonna see technologies
on those satellites that we don't
currently have right now maybe that's
what it is they know something we don't
know it's possible what I think is cool
about this is the potential for internet
around the world sure yeah the entirety
of the planet like that's mind-boggling
forget about third world nations think
about our studio that's exactly what
actually thinking about the studio I
mean yeah there's the obvious like third
world nations and disaster zones and
things but there are still places in
Canada that don't have internet what I
saw but here's the interesting thing to
think about because this is satellite
and I used to install satellite internet
okay you have to have your dish sure so
you're gonna have to have SpaceX trained
dish technicians around the globe talk
about international job security
like you get in as a dish tech at SpaceX
you're good for life you can go anywhere
in the world and with the advancements
we have I mean you've got those ear buds
for other languages you could literally
install around the world maybe they
could make those satellite dishes solar
panels and it could power itself and
they could create base stations that get
the connection and then distribute it
over or like network cable it's totally
a glowing story sure lots of it
satellite is weather impacts it that's
as soon as you get some bad weather it
interferes with the signal you're done
so it'll be very interesting to see if
they found some way to cut through
weather this is it though that I'm
thinking 25 millisecond latency Jeff
that's impossible with radio satellite
they must be using optical technology I
don't know where exaggeration right like
regulatory approval wall of a tech but
would would something else be able to
get through or some frequency be able to
get through at a faster bit rate and
lower latency yeah
also known as drones that's the other
thing is that there are companies that
are working on like drone based
operations and maybe they'll work as
intermediaries between the satellite
network and and drones in the sky that
would cut down the time that it's right
or if they put a start putting proxies
in space mm-hmm sounds like a movie
properties in space from a security
standpoint though all it takes is one
breach of their security system if you
have internet around the globe that
everybody's on the same system you
breach that once and you have access to
everybody's information like they're
gonna have to have something wild secure
sure yeah the internet as a whole though
just the very nature of it is that it is
a distributed network yes so it depends
on so many hops and so many
interconnections
but you're right as soon as it's all
coming from one central service and one
central service provider so many cool
things I can't wait to watch this
develop over the years
absolutely yeah well speaking of
security fed up with Facebook data
slurping Firefox has a cunning plan
sensing an opportunity and Facebook
squandering of public trust through its
previously unrestrained giveaway of
users data mozilla on tuesday unveiled a
defense against the social ad biz and
what was that defense an add-on for
firefox called facebook container the
facebook add-on as its name suggests
works to contain facebook's tracking
attempts in an effort to provide a
refuge from the internet advertising
panic on among similar lines mozilla
last stuff I even googled how to say
that earlier okay along similar lines
Mozilla last week said that it would
stop advertising on Facebook in an
effort to encourage CEO Mark Zuckerberg
to improve Facebook privacy settings it
also said it plans to implement a basic
ad filter in Firefox later this year
Mozilla began developing containers for
Firefox in 2016 and started deploying
them last year the technology provides a
way to create contexts tabs in which
browser based data can be sandboxed
Facebook container implements a
container specifically for Facebook to
restrain its informational reach
Facebook tries to track interactions on
third-party websites that have
implemented Facebook technology such as
the like button or the Facebook login
the add-on keeps Facebook in a separate
container to prevent it from following
your activity on other web sites while
Facebook container may help a little it
does have its limitations for example
Facebook Ads employ links that pass
tracking IDs outside of the Facebook
container making it possible for
third-party ad firms to associate
Facebook authenticated profiles with an
external profile
we've had this discussion where you know
they say that they're collecting data
anonymously but they're doing so in such
a way that they could make those
connections exactly
connect the dots and say oh that's
actually Jeff Weston but they're
collecting it anonymously oh yeah the
data it's it's Drake it can be trace
what is sandboxing data mean well kind
of like what it sounds like when you
when you sandbox something you're
creating of you're putting it in a box
and it's it's the the word sandboxing is
traditionally used by developers we
sandbox applications so that as we're
building them as we're modifying them
we're not affecting those who are
publicly using it so if I wanted to
sandbox my application I've created a
copy of it that I'm working on in the
backend and it's the same application
but then I can go live or just scrub the
sand like feng shui or whatever and and
just get rid of the changes so in this
case the sandbox is taking Facebook
putting it in its own container as the
word is putting it in a sandbox so that
it is completely separate from
everything else so that it can't
communicate outside of its own sandbox
right and then if you want that
information if you transfer back
traditionally a sandbox can be
transferred back in this case you would
just close it and it's gone kind of like
I guess what you would expect from
private browsing for example where
you're in a sandbox browser for example
so as soon as you close it everything's
gone right good job I can't help but
think you know great effort but is it
really gonna make a difference I mean
Facebook is such a large conglomerate
for collecting this data
sure I'm sure that somebody somewhere is
gonna go
here's a quick workaround and then it's
useless I don't know I the thing is is
that I I think and I hope that this
stuff happening is going to make
Zuckerberg and Facebook say maybe we
need to take a different approach maybe
we need to do something a little
different dial it back a little people
have been trying this since the
inception of Facebook I mean when
Facebook first came out I remember
people are saying well hold on what do
you mean I I don't have to give you
permission to access everything that's
the way it was
hey you're using it for free my friend
right but I mean up until the point of
Facebook everything was your dad is
private we won't share anything unless
you give us explicit permission and
Facebook goes let's turn that around
we're gonna share everything unless you
tell us not to okay right and so
Facebook has changed the way that
everything is worked and that's what
they've always done is broke the mold
and said we're gonna do it our way so it
has I don't see this is gonna make a
difference has the world changed and to
the point where now we are so
technologically connected that the world
has changed
we you we can we can blame Facebook and
we can say it's a facebook problem but
how many people are running Windows 10
right but that's but I mean just the
mindset in society has accepted this
kind of information like in how many
people installed Windows 10 it's free
right no it's not no but I mean if you
even if you look at Facebook trends
right now the biggest growing trend is
50 plus for Facebook users demographic
lines demographics it's it's the older
generation that are going they don't
they haven't figured out how to delete
their account yet that's right that's
right
Facebook has it's just like you look at
say coca-cola that owns so many food
companies yeah
Facebook has got their fingers and
tackles and there's so many other things
like you're not gonna be able to get
away from it and I realize this sounds
almost defeatist in a mentality but
there's so many other ways that they're
gonna collect this information one
add-on for a browser is it really gonna
make that difference I hope it does
mm-hmm but I have to go yeah we'll see I
can't see the soccer birds awake at
night going oh my goodness Mozilla like
you've just ruined my business plans not
happening yeah I don't see it yeah I
hear so good effort though good effort
on you there your deleted your Facebook
account that's a good job effort
I've done nothing you have achieved
nothing Wow oh no I'm so happy you're
here rush hopes and dreams I know all
the patches Microsoft released for
meltdown in Windows 7 actually made the
operating system less secure you'll want
to install the March update right away
if you can avoid broken networking
Microsoft's January and February
security fixes for Intel's meltdown
processor vulnerability opened up an
even worse security hole on Windows 7
pcs and Server 2008 r2 boxes Microsoft's
early meltdown fixes for 64-bit Windows
7 and Server 2008 r2 left a crucial
kernel memory table readable and
writeable for normal user processes this
in turn means that any malware on those
vulnerable machines or any logged in
user can manipulate the operating
systems memory map gain administrator
level privileges and extract and modify
any information in RAM the problem boils
down to a single bit accidentally set by
the kernel in a CPU page table entry
this bit enabled readwrite user mode
access to the top level page table
itself on Windows 7 and Server 2008 that
PML 4 table is at a fixed address so it
can always be found and modified by
exploit code with that key permission
bit flipped from supervisor only to any
user the table allowed all processes to
modify the table and thus pull up and
write to memory addresses that they are
not supposed to reach Windows 8 and 10
are not affected the March 13 Patch
Tuesday updates contain a fix that
addresses this permission issue and a
subsequent emergency patch from
Microsoft should close up the issue in
short patch your Windows 7 and Server
2008 r2 machines with the latest
security updates to protect against this
OS flaw either way
otherwise any processes or users can
tamper with and steal data from physical
RAM and give themselves admin level
control fingers crossed your system
isn't among those that will suffer
working was caused by the March security
patches Microsoft security updates this
morning this month broke static IP
addresses and v-neck settings on select
installations knockin unlucky virtual
machine servers and clients offline
whoops yeah so we've got a patch that
has made things worse which we attached
and then that patch didn't fix the the
patch and then so we've released another
patch and you need to patch this patch
with that patch that's Microsoft Update
for you they do it on purpose do they
test you test these how do you not know
that's a great question cuz I feel like
when you're a company like Microsoft
that has been doing this for so long
your ability to test should come first
before you release something that's
broken all right I think to be fair it
would be incredibly difficult for any
company of any size to test on every
scenario just to be fair testing would
be very very difficult but it's an
unfortunate case of we updated we
patched we patched we patch the patch we
patched the patch of the patch and it's
a mess so if you never update you're
fine no yeah that's it's scary that you
really when you hit you know I don't
even know if you choose to update on
Microsoft let's just say you got an
update and when you think you're done
you're not done you're not done no and
then you think you're done and you're
not done you think you're done and
you're not done and that's when you go
to Linux exactly all right last year's
Pokemon go Fest was a disaster for the
games developers Niantic the company has
now settled a class-action suit that was
filed as a result for more than 1.6
million dollars the event was plagued
with problems from the outset with the
game crashing frequently and leaving
most players unable to use the app in
the wake of the underwhelming
festivities Niantic issued full refunds
to the fests attendees $100 worth of
in-game pokey coins and
issued an apology with a spokesperson
saying the staff were horrified by the
situation their efforts to smooth things
over proved to be insufficient with the
affected parties demanding that their
travel costs be reimbursed to a lawsuit
seeking expenses was put together in
July last year now Niantic is settling
the lawsuit with a 1 million seven
hundred five hundred and seventy five
thousand dollar payout to cover the cost
of travel accommodation car rental and
other expenses incurred by a large chunk
of the twenty thousand attendees
according to documents from a Chicago
Court pertaining to suit there are a few
caveats claimants will have to have
checked in through the into the event
through the app and will need receipts
for expenses amounting to more than 107
dollars any money left over after the
settlement will be donated to charity
speaking of companies that should really
better test their software people
playing Pokemon go and going to a pokey
thing would also have car expenses
people we're hooked on this thing when
it first came out people died when it
came out oh oh just not worth it folks
no Zowie obviously you're gonna travel
for these kind of events but with I mean
the story is about how the app was
crashing and people couldn't use it sure
but then you had to have logged in in
order to get access to the money oh
that's smart that's a smart little like
no there sounds like we'll give you the
cash but we know you couldn't get in and
you need to get in to get the cash so
sorry I don't know because I'm sure that
they would have been able to check in at
some point even though the apps are
crashing and crashing and crashing you
must have been able to get maybe I hope
like why do you think about you know oh
well let's have a party for this new
software we're not expecting that that
happens to Toronto mac and cheese
festival people just show up in droves
and run out of mac and cheese we did it
was a travesty but here's the thing
guaranteed you've got more than 20,000
people playing globally right but
they're not centralized
on one node in one location all in one
place
connecting to the same tower but okay
but that's not a that's not a Niantic
issue if that self is if you promise
that this is gonna be a wicked party for
twenty thousand people and it wasn't
like maybe I'm just having a hard time
wrapping my head around it but I mean if
they said hey we're gonna do an online
pokey gathering wherever you are we're
gonna deposit you know coins in your
area that would have been better to have
more than twenty thousand people playing
but it would be distributed over a
larger checking into the server so why
is it that because they were physically
close that it caused it to crash
geolocation Oh geo coordinated server
allocation of CDN assets that's just a
guess so you take that even make sense
absolutely add in okay content
distribution networks CBN content
distribution networks oh when you go to
our website category five TV it finds a
server that's near you and gives you a
copy of the website from that server so
that it's nice and quick for you right
now when we do a broadcast every
Wednesday live we're sending this out to
a central server and then that server
sends it out to our other servers and
then it goes out to the viewers so when
we get hit with thousands of views
simultaneously they're not all coming to
us they're coming to our and endpoints
right okay so now flip that and say hey
everybody let's all get together in
Barrie Ontario during a live broadcast
here's our Wi-Fi access connect in and
let's watch the show and now all those
thousands of people that normally are
distributed over all these different
nodes on one spot are in one spot
connecting to one central server and
that can't handle it so the
infrastructure wise it needs to be
distributed
if you centralize that many people
without being ready for it right you're
in big trouble
you should have checked out the mac and
cheese festival in Toronto and they
would have known
now how many lawyers do you think went
through school saying you know I really
want to be part of a lawsuit where
people couldn't catch a Pokemon from one
point six one
a million dollars I bet you're probably
getting it kind of like 30% it's a drop
in the bucket though oh c'mon go in its
first three months of being a thing made
over six hundred million dollars yeah so
you think about that now they pay 19
percent of that to royalties to Nintendo
right and they are still filthy stinkin
rich and taking 1.6 1.7 million dollars
of that is like yeah right but at least
it's appeasing the masses
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-5 TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha and I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston it has been
a blast having you here with us again
this week I hope that you'll join us at
the same time at the same place again
next week looking forward to seeing you
then
take care safe we can use that
[Applause]
