welcome to category five technology TV
so nice to have you here it's episode
number four no not for 518 518 weeks of
category 5e coming up on our 10th
anniversary we're gonna tell you about
that
today is August 23rd 2017 and coming up
in the hour we're gonna be finalizing
your computer bills shopping list do you
think we can stick to the budget
I don't ever stick to a budget when it
comes to building oh my goodness we're
gonna get right into it in in about 15
minutes time it's gonna be awesome so
stick around and we've got a great show
planned for you
Sasha's got the news all right TV
newsroom the UN is about to get serious
about killer robots do you have your own
website Google is start going to start
warning users that your site is not
secure if you have forms on a site that
does not use a secure connection Marcus
Hutchins has pleaded not guilty and the
world's largest data center is being
planned for the Arctic Circle stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category five technology TV I
feel like I'm running we're sitting on
course tools tonight folks
check them out cat 5 TV slash stool st
ool before the show
Jeff was over there and we had some
music playing and he was just kind of
rocking with it rock music I guess the
the advantage to these is like it works
your core yeah and it keeps you like by
doing something Fitness e well see more
about this kind of stuff
ice it way too much I was speaking with
a fitness instructor just the other day
yeah Robbie was speaking with a fitness
instructor
it's first time for everything and she
mentioned that that sitting is akin to
smoking yes sitting is the new smoking
yeah
so I smoked about 40 packs a day
in said how is that a new smoking I
think it just is like it's bad for you
it's bad for your for your light body
your health your back and so as a
programmer you know I work in an office
all the time so using yeah give a sit
stand desk I do not very much
sit desk give a course tool I have
course tool here and I love it so I'm
thinking I'm gonna buy one for the
office yeah and the people that sit
behind me will just have to bear with me
because I'm sitting there going like
this it's more like yes okay the stools
are that you guys can touch the floor
but I want the same height as everybody
else
so I'm actually like four feet off the
floor it's amazing this is a true story
yeah it is true like their difference
between like the tops of our heads and
the like our feet we should do a floor
shot and see just where my my legs are
day we're gonna do that my course going
to be incredible or my balancers yeah
how do you stay balanced cuz I can't the
first the first week we had these Nazi I
gripped her feet off the floor so look
at Sasha's feet they're up in the air so
if you take your feet and know your your
feet are at the center of balance he's
got his feet right in the middle up
against the pole well yeah I had the
same thing she'd be fine but she's yeah
I know but she's not doing that she's
got her feet in front of her and she's
still totally valid if she doesn't know
how to balance it's not my fault and and
so the viewers at home are wondering
what are they on about so it looks like
this there's the bottom so it's it is
like curved but it's designed in such a
way you can't fall off it you can't test
true I tried to I tried to fall
backwards the other day just to see if I
could pretty cool I want to catch if
you're ridiculous but in general like
I'm leaning all the way back right now
and Lord willing I'm not gonna smash my
head off the back wall but it does feel
stable so just recently I found out that
like we have like local viewers like
local viewers that I know you're in
so now I'm now I'm gonna go to work hi
doc hi Jackie
hi Bill and Jackie it turns out there's
a lot of Jackie's who watch keyword main
keyword on our site so when they Google
themselves we just come up ya know I
feel like I'm gonna be made fun of
forever for rocking on this tool no I'll
be like where can I get mine cap 5 dot
TV slash stool we gave away nearly 300
copies of my wife's newest novels noise
just over the weekend thank you to
everybody who downloaded it and if you
are a patron we still have an
opportunity for you to get her latest
book it's it's a novel it's called when
the fog cleared and again if your patron
you can check out the post on our
patreon page and you'll be able to still
get that download as well our 10th
anniversary show with Carrie West that's
coming easy yeah
September 27th what episode was your
first I believe it was episode 9 yeah
there was the shara thon shara thon
Express yeah so Jeff has been hasn't
been a part of the show in in some way
because he was here on episode number 9
and then started as a stylist that
didn't go very well remember I don't
remember my first episode I have false
memory of my own and I just got a
notification today your anniversary five
years friends on Facebook that must give
us some I don't know if we became
friends on Facebook before you started
on the show this is my five year
anniversary with Dave okay right and I
was on the show was one of good things
one of my winning qualities I was I can
also I'm on a show
okay you want to go out oh you used that
card did you of course I did oh I'm you
made a tech yeah talk so huh looks
familiar
oh well you might have seen me on the
Internet oh boy so back to our Hannover
serie 10th anniversary of the show of
the network yep and it's on September
27th we would love to have you come and
join us here in studio for the live
broadcast Carrie web is going to be here
she was my first co-host and now she is
one of the hosts of our program called
new every day on the category-five TV
network and you can join us here so just
go to our website category five dot TV
and request your free tickets space is
limited of course here at studio D and
so it's first-come first-served for the
tickets and without a ticket you can't
get in so keep that in mind do I need a
ticket you I believe are already on the
list sir sorry sir you can't
why is Robbie the only one on the air oh
you guys forgot to request your tickets
that's right sorry I'm looking at
entertainment this week I discovered
Marvel's new show the defenders flicks
what we watched we just discovered it
last night because Netflix gives us the
recommendations of hey you might enjoy
and here you go and saw the trailer and
thought hey this actually looks like
it's got some backstory to it so now it
was good we just watched the pilot we're
not binge Watchers or anything like that
but we'll definitely watch the next one
I'll see that's good first impressions
good
we really liked Legion because having
we're never we've never been big on
superhero shows okay because usually
it's there's no backstory there's no
substance to it and with Legion was the
first one we saw that really worked on
character development and the the arc of
the character and their lives and things
like that so now to see another show
that they're kind of taking that same
approach from the pilot anyways that's
the impression I got a lot of character
development a lot of better dialogue
like what was the one to flash dialogue
was terrible yeah it was like it was
like teenager
they've never produced a good flash show
even the one in the 80s yeah
maybe maybe I wanted so bad to make it
oh no it's just poor writing yeah and so
to see another Marvel show coming out
that looks like it's it's well done
that's that's good
I've been watching Penn &amp; Teller fool us
nice and watching it in fact because I
[Music]
so Dave and I got into that and the one
thing I would say that I would recommend
everybody watch it for is the fact that
as a reality TV show yeah Penn &amp; Teller
are so respectful and uplifting and
really they complement the people on the
show their efforts as opposed to some of
the other shows that can do a little bit
of tearing down fool us was the one
where aspiring magicians got up on the
stage to perform in front of Penn &amp;
Teller who are wildly respected Oh
magicians from Vegas and and I guess do
their tricks for them yeah about that
show I did not have a clue that I liked
magic as much as I found out I do yeah
have you seen brain games
I saw the one where you like stare at
the TV for a second then all yeah that
was it's on our list on Netflix
we've only watched the pilot it was fun
but because usually we sit down for a
show after hours get the kids to bed
after dinner and everything else it's
not really the kind of thing that you
want to sit down and watch after a day's
of work get something for a Saturday
morning or say sit down the kids would
actually enjoy that the kids would
really enjoy it I think yeah it's cool
we the first episode is the one where
they talk about colors and colorblind
yeah Luke is colorblind and so so what
was the effect for him he did not like
the show really yep because there was
some things that they showed with like
if you're colorblind you won't see this
and he he hates to fail yeah so he's
looking for screen going I'm not seeing
it really that's cuz you're colorblind
dude you can't see green yeah he's like
I don't like this isn't that interesting
so so does green your shop is great to
him like the green screen what color
would that be
Luke I guess you could you're not in
Luke's brain so yeah generally I'm not
in a hurry although I do see into into
the way he thinks sometimes but no he
just he he his Green is severely muted I
don't know if that's not like yeah I
still see shades of green let me tell
it's green yes because he's learned yes
that it's green oh so that makes me
wonder what are colors like is my red
the same as you were red
well I found this out I am slightly
colorblind okay if and particularly if
it's a bright sunny day if I'm driving
and I close my right eye yeah the world
has like a red tone to it really like
the earth tones really shine if I close
so I close my right eye I get the red if
I close my left eye
everything has a blue tone to it it's
very so yeah clearly it's something
that's in the family but yeah so he was
not a fan of that first episode so this
is a show you you've seen memes and
things like that on Facebook and things
fly by where you know if you stare at
the picture long enough and then look
away it turns into a face or something
like that
yeah those are they're really really
cool optical illusions and things like
that so a whole show that surrounds that
that premise yes and really quite well
done so yeah we're big on documentaries
and things like that and we're getting
into there's a there's a new UK
documentary that we just got into and we
like what's the name of it the boss
Undercover Boss I loved Secret
Millionaire this is seeing the rich
folks who go and pretend that they're
not rich they go in to try that yeah
they go into the world and it no but
they go yeah they go in and they get to
know people on the street or in you know
areas where there aren't very many rich
folk right and they get to know them
they get to learn what they could do to
help the community and things like that
and then they show up and they start
writing checks for $10,000 to people and
reveal their true eye
and say I'm actually a millionaire and
you know I'd like to donate twenty five
thousand dollars to your youth hostel
you know those kinds of things so that's
Secret Millionaire but now we're into
what's what did I say it was the
undercover law yes so similar kind of
premise where the very high CEO or CEO
of the company steps down into a role
where he's doing the grunt work right
getting to know the people that actually
work under him and how they can improve
their company and do things to help the
people that work for them so it always
ends well for the people that are
working amongst the CEO yes for those
folks yeah it's like what about the
people who didn't get to work with him
well that's the thing like not everyone
can be included but still great premise
great but that shows been on for a
couple of years because I know I
remember seeing a couple of years ago
but I've noticed they never stick them
with a horrible employee I would love to
see an episode I have seen one where yes
they did
oh really what happened to the person
get fired yes really not on the show
after the show they do the wrap-up like
what happened to the you know so
so-and-so got you know this and so and
so you know the this one that we just
watched the the youth basketball team
got a van that could to hold twelve
people or so yeah and so it tells you
the things that that happened after the
broadcast kind of thing after the the
thing happened and in this particular
one yeah so-and-so got fired is no
longer with the company oh that's good I
like that password box has announced the
final end date for being able to use
password box so being able to login
right now you can still log in it's
August in 2017 and they announced it a
while ago that they were yeah yeah
so it's September 27th is the date that
they are no longer going to be
operational they're shutting down the
servers so if you haven't already and
you where a user or are a user of
password box that's the password
management plug-in make sure you export
your your passwords to a CSV file
so you can import them into LastPass or
keep a sax or whatever you want to do
and if you're not sure how to do that
you can actually go to our website
category five dot TV click on the search
icon up at the top right and just simply
do a search for password box as Jeff
mentioned we covered it we actually show
you step-by-step how to export your
passwords when I did that I imported
them into LastPass and that's what I've
been using ever since so it's a very
straightforward process I've been using
true key so you upgraded you took the
upgrade but that's a commercial upgrade
so you've got to pay for that no I took
the free one how does that work I don't
only say any pass only so many passwords
but I don't need very many but I may
have billions I I create a new password
for every single service that I go to
right and that's the way I do it right
mm-hmm I'm on a lot of services I have
like ten I'm trapped
oh that's cool so if it works for you
then great but if you're someone like me
that has something like 250 passwords
then yeah yeah I use something else
password keeper I think it's called okay
it's a premium service I paid the
subscription but it syncs between my
phone all of our computers so whether my
wife's logging in on her oh good Mac or
yeah you know whether it's my computer
so it's nice on that front because all
the passwords are accessible right and
one of the features about it that I like
is if because I'm the account holder if
I die there is a legacy year yeah
there's a future Westford box had like a
Simo legacy yeah where she can say I'm
going to access and they'll you know
after a 48 hour period of my day you
know she can get access to every yeah
cool I'm like that's kind of neat yeah
because a lot like I do a lot of the
backend stuff sure you know with our
network and all that she has no clue of
those paths oh yeah wouldn't he
so yeah I always thought it wouldn't it
be cool to create like a keep a sex
raspberry pi server that we could put on
a static IP and and host your own you
could do that you could run your own
that would be password box equivalent
and we want to eventually do that
that would be a lot of fun Excel work
yeah we mentioned at the top of the show
tonight we are getting into the final
phase of Sasha's dream computer build so
we're gonna be finalizing our shopping
list it's so excited I don't even get to
use it you get time you get to smell it
I do we're gonna simply finish up that
list figure out what the final steps
what the final product is going to be
right after this quick break
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category 5 dot TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cap 5 dot TV
slash gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cap 5 TV slash gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you can ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices
did they have cellphones you bet you cap
5 TV slash gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets
what about computer consumer electronics
those make a great gift absolutely from
hi-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 dot TV slash gearbest has you
covered they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a super store
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
I there's no way they have it all true
that's just a bunch of random electronic
Sesame what about clothes yep both men
and women fashionable apparel at
rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket it's
available for less than $30 plus free
shipping at camp five dot TV slash gear
best yeah all right you kind of got me
there Wow any other questions for me
gentlemen now that the winter is past
flying season do they have any good
deals on sale copters oh my goodness
well check this out dude they have
everything check out over 500 various
runs and not only that they're available
marked down by about 32 up to 63 percent
off the regular price love it
what's the website again well you're
gonna find gearbest on our partners
pages for any of your favorite category
5 TV shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest
see that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash
gearbest
that's right happy shopping our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drive by Kingston Technology
revive your computer with improved
performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in live every week on roku cody and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit our web site category 5 dot
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcast
cat5 TV / iai be welcome to part 3 of
help sasha build the dream gaming
computer hmm
thank you on part 1 we kind of learned
where you want to go with it what your
budget was what your dream is of this
beautiful computer for your soon-to-be
husband eh that's right mm-hmm great
computer in the living room to showcase
to all your friends very cool so that's
what we did on part one - we we got
started by selecting a processor we
decided you know what let's take some
advice from the chat room and select our
processor first and then build out from
that so this week we've spent some time
back and forth in the forum in the chat
room and and really got a lot of help
from viewers to figure out ok what
motherboard are we gonna go with what
chassis are we gonna go with what power
supply all these kind of components and
even little things like Garbi mentioning
don't forget to get some thermal paste
well it's such a simple thing and you
know well yeah we're gonna stick a
heatsink on top of that CPU we need
something called thermal paste to make
sure that we get a good seal oh that's
gonna make sure that it runs as cool as
possible right I found you know what I
found out what did you thought I was in
the studio was it last week and the
battery from my bike burned out but can
I just use one of those 2032 yeah she's
got she's on her bike and she's like I
my lights aren't working I said well
what are they were chargeable no they're
not rechargeable I gotta replace them
they're like watch batteries or
something I said well what are they and
so she showed me and they said cr2032
mm-hmm so I pulled the cr2032 out of 2
computers that we got just sitting here
and got your home now I got to reset my
raid controllers fantastic that's the
battery that and your new computer's
gonna have that battery that cr2032
maintains power to the circuits even
when the power is unplugged or turned
off so that all of the configuration
settings are remembered so does it come
already or am i ordering it separate it
comes with the battery it's so good yeah
comes on the motherboard okay so first
of all before we get into a big thanks
to all of our viewers who have helped us
with the product selection we had Garvey
was instrumental in in this loved friend
NiCad c128 d the fou Albuquerque turkey
Trevor Hanwell sparkly balls text uh
dear big kitty and so many more I know
that a lot of you helped out in the chat
room can I just say like I've been
reading in late I've been reading
everything I can and I've been not
really understanding at all and I will
tell you each individually how
incredibly smart you are I am just like
amongst two geniuses because I have no
clue what you're talking about but I'm
pretty good I'll throw 2,100 bucks at
that get her a toaster with lights and
that was my suggestion I really honestly
am blown away by well I what I don't
know and also how amazingly
knowledgeable you are thank you and
thank you and it's been a process we've
been back and forth we we were very very
close to switching to a Rison processor
last like Thursday because it was
suggested and we started doing some
research but the foo reminded me that
Rison has some issues in Linux and a lot
of folks are experiencing this where the
Rison processor will seg fault and that
means basically your computer crashes
and Sasha you're going with Linux we
want stability we want rock solid
stability proven tried and true Intel is
that Intel you know no matter what you
think of the company they make good
processors and they are very good for
Linux so so we started looking at okay
so yeah I was very tempted by rise and
I'll tell you why best bang for the buck
mm-hmm more power for the same price
more cores like things like that real
sweet selling points like Wow twice as
many cores higher base frequencies
that's awesome for the same price what
but then we started looking at stability
and I started reading you know the
benchmarks look fantastic but then you
start reading about how certain types of
RAM
will cause the Rison to underperform and
there's all these kinds of issues that
hopefully AMD will release a firmware
patch for and nobody really knows when
and so it's just so wishy-washy and not
quite there yet so so then we started
looking at the 77 40 X and the thinking
there is we were looking at the 70 700 K
okay so this is the processor this is
the brains okay we're looking at that
last week and that's what we ultimately
decided on at the end of last week's
episode part to the 7700 K is basically
the end of the line for the I think it's
the 1151 socket the the socket that it
goes in so you think about you know when
you plug in the chip it has to fit into
the socket well this is kind of the last
one so there's no there's no upgrade
path of the processor from this point so
if you ever wanted to upgrade the
processor it you're gonna be replacing
the motherboard as well which means more
RAM and everything else so AG RB and I
started talking about a chatroom started
talking about it we started talking
about it in the forum let's look at the
77 40 X which is the next line which is
going to take us into a new socket and
that socket is future-ready because it
is basically the new socket so and now
we're looking at the 77 40 which is a
little bit higher base frequency a
little tiny itty-bitty bit faster in
theory than the 7700 K but it's the base
of like it's the entry level for this
new socket so you can always upgrade the
processor from there but then we got a
looking at the prices and things like
that and yeah it's almost on par but
there aren't peripherals available for
that socket so here in Canada you know
one of the one of the things we have to
look at is we need to cool this thing
well here in Canada there are actually
no CPU coolers yet available for the 77
40 X and it's not it doesn't come with
one so we can't even get away with using
a stock fan cooler so I looked at Canada
computers none I looked on Amazon none I
looked
amazon.com Garbi did as well we found
one CPU cooler
it doesn't ship to Canada so then we
start looking ok maybe this is too new
and then I start thinking well what if
the 7740 you know because it is it like
it's newer and what if there are
problems what if there are things we
don't know about and then I start
reading about comparisons and people
still can saying you know go with the
7700 K for now because it's
tried-and-true it's rock-solid it's
proven to be an amazing gaming processor
can do 4k video can do all that stuff
mm-hmm so it's it's known to be good and
so why not go that route so then I said
well but you can't upgrade the CPU
there's no forward path for the CPU
Garbi made Garbi hit on it he got he
made the point when is Sascha gonna
upgrade her CPU really when is it gonna
happen and I realized that you're not no
no no I know you're not like if you want
a faster car you're not gonna replace
the engine you're gonna just sell your
car and buy a new car right if you want
a faster computer or a different
computer five years from now you're not
gonna go through the upgrade process
you're gonna get what's current at that
time so that's you know simply put it
really starts to be clear that the 7700
K is a good choice for this yeah and
good bang for the buck proven tried and
true let's get into it
join me at the forum cat5 dot TV slash
cpu 2017 just like it sounds so cat5 dot
TV slash cpu 2:01
did I say 2014 2017 okay zero one seven
that's right okay so you'll see that we
have now Sasha essentially finalized our
shopping list but I have a couple of
questions for you just before we really
get into it now
first of all we know the processor
that's all we know
all right good starts as far as we got
but hey mmm what do we need next we need
a computer chassis we need to put that
processor on a motherboard we need RAM
for that mother a motherboard all this
kind of stuff so first thing we need to
look at is the motherboard right now I
had started pricing them out Sasha and
they were like four hundred four hundred
fifty dollars just for the motherboard
and Garbi said why are you doing that
and then he sends me a link to one this
180 some odd dollars
it's a beautiful board it's again tried
and true the reviews are fantastic no
I'm wrong it's not a messiah we were
looking at him at MSI this is actually a
republic of gamer fantastic Oh better so
this is an ro G from assist awesome it
really is I don't know why I still had
MSI in my head let's take a look so this
is oh and this is this is showing as
more than I had just said maybe we had
switched it Sasha we have been over so
many different boards and things what do
I have the price ok pardon me it's 260
299 is what I had priced at at so that
was my mistake when I said 180 I think
that was a different board that we could
have best price maybe maybe yeah yes
that's quite possible I'll bet you it is
so Sasha here's the motherboard so this
is the internal system board for your
computer first thing that's the socket
okay so that's where the CPU goes in
those slots at the right hand side look
for them that you see those are those
are for your RAM we've got solid state
capacitors nice good solid motherboard
we've got the co pro heatsink actually
lights up apparently there's your cr2032
that the battery there we've got a
couple of PCIe slots so we've got a x16
why is your Start button on the bottom
of it well you can actually it well
let's see you've you've probably got
yeah you see the LED at the top right
there that says 88 yeah so that is
basically for Diagnostics during the
build if you ever have any problems
it'll show you a code in numbers and you
can power it off powered on
things like that's what the case buttons
aren't working it's really for
Diagnostics and it's a power board like
it's pretty sweet for the dollars so
that's cool very cool no it does not
come with any onboard video cards it
looks like so good we're gonna have to
make sure that we take care of something
had this discussion Jeff because she's
got a 4k 60-inch TV yeah you don't want
to go with them we're not going with
onboard video new now but that said we
are going with onboard audio because
this one has a nice built-in sound card
and it's 7.10
it has yeah it has optical output it's
got 7.1 analog outputs you can see them
there I'm not sure if we have a close-up
of the back here but you can see there
the the s/pdif out and the 7.1 outputs
as well so USB 3 yeah got us yeah and
onboard as well so you see the headers
there so we're gonna be able to use a
case that has top USB ports like you
want it yeah ok so now we've got an ATX
full sized motherboard well let's get a
look at the case so the one I was really
intrigued with I'm just gonna do a quick
search for thermaltake I use all
Thermaltake chassés here I love them
they make some really good stuff and the
first
c22 I think it is yes I love this one oh
it's gorgeous but you see what I like
about it sash
it's got built-in LEDs ok it's already
there you don't have to buy LED upgrade
kits and things like that ok price is
insanely cheap heck seriously so yeah so
then I'm looking at you know so one of
the things that are is a concern for me
I have to think of everything for you
thank you she wants to go with Linux
so you when we buy a case that has
built-in LEDs what's the one thing we
can run into a problem with just any
guesses no windows driver software so if
if the case uses an LED controller that
requires software to do it to control it
to change it Sasha said I don't want
rainbow well I say oh you can set it to
just red
what if the software was a Windows only
piece of software so turns out this
particular case has a controller built
in that is button presses on the top so
over here there are buttons that you can
actually press it's a hardware
controller you don't need any software
to change the LEDs so looking at that
sash let's get down here in the images
there are some pictures that I like I
like a lot there we go so look at all
the different color schemes that you can
use with the LEDs yeah well there's a
black one okay Oh show me black and red
show me black and red over black and
Owen red that is nice so are we thinking
of that is a Cylon right there
okay so do we want to take a look at the
black one I think so all right so let's
go back here yeah I mean if well what
what's this what would dave do w w DD I
believe Dave would pick the black one
okay white one so let's pick the black
one okay so scroll up here and Amazon
has got them all couple together now the
price has gone up 20 bucks to go black
well look at that so it's got a glass
side so they're gonna see the inside we
wanted something you're gonna see the
internal components yeah you need to
blow everybody away
no last side does not have any screw
holes for an additional fan for the
chassis so a fan on the exterior yes of
the case there's one at the back but
there's no outside is that gonna be an
issue for the processor like I know you
can get some case this is a full-size
case okay so start a mid tower so maybe
we should look at a fan that is going to
be cross draft not blowing out right or
blowing and pulling in right so
something that's blowing the the air
across so from the front to the back yes
and then we're gonna blow it out the
back with the
a 120mm fan that comes with it there is
a place in the front bezel as well as in
the top for another 120mm fan okay which
you can buy separately right but so
we're gonna look at it we're gonna look
at a CPU cooler that is going to be side
mount I'm gonna show you what that's
gonna look like all right - cool okay
all right so if there will take a game
they make good CPU coolers let's get a
look at that so here's one ever had a
bad one from Thermaltake no I agree and
I mean it's 120mm fan you can replace it
if you want but this is a 120 mil
thermal take silent fan they are so
quiet so beautiful so that is mmm
side blow we're gonna call it it's not
pulling the air down it's pulling it
across the fins okay so that's what's
gonna write on a motherboard so that
should work quite well on that yes very
good okay what else do we need yes oh
boy which is random access memory yes
nicely five years on the show Garvey
said you know and I totally agree with
this you got a look at the Kingston fury
Ram this is the highest fury it is built
for gaming okay beautiful stuff it has
built-in cooling so it has its own
built-in heat sink because it's gonna
get warm because we're probably gonna
overclock this bad boy you know so you
want something that has built in heat
sinks so here you go now I know that
this is not what Garbi had in mind yeah
but I want you to have kind of out the
gate something pretty smashing sweet so
this is the Kingston HyperX fury black
32 gig set it's 2-2 Sims now your
motherboard can handle up to 64 gigs so
you could buy two of these sets for four
modules and you could have 64 gigs of
RAM these ones run at 2600 66 megahertz
superfast okay so these are good
probably best yes when I was buying my
computer last year I was looking at this
Ram and I just I couldn't
I could get the price four hundred and
seven dollars and 26 cents Asha right so
we're talking that the RAM itself is
valued about the same as our processor
which is you know the CPU itself is four
hundred and twenty nine ninety but the
RAM is like your processor the brains of
the computer the RAM is what makes it
perform okay because if you've got bad
Ram you're gonna have it crashing out
you're gonna have problems or maybe just
not getting the speed that your computer
is capable of so having great ram from
kingston it's gonna make sure that it's
perfectly capable it's gonna be amazing
right so all right next up we talked
about this storage what we need as far
as two things first of all operating
system mm-hmm so that's gonna be Linux
and then your your data drive that's for
storage that's for your videos for the
game data and things like that okay so
we want basically two storage mediums I
like to do it that way because then we
can use Cheaper by the gigabyte storage
for data and more expensive but super
scream and fast for the operating system
and which is important software yeah so
then we get the best speed for the
dollar right rather than in part me and
I excuse excuse the frog in my throat
but then we're getting the best bang for
the buck with the most amount of storage
space and the most amount of capacity
right that we can get for the dollar so
Linden no pardon me it wasn't Linden it
was let's see I've got notes here loved
friend loved friend mentioned and really
put me on to ok the motherboard supports
M 2 m dot 2 m dot 2 as we mentioned last
week is super super fast one gajillion
terabytes per second super fast no SATA
SATA hard drives SSD are limited to the
bus that they're on SATA so you're going
to get you know my my drives are about
500
50 megabytes a second which is fantastic
m2 you can get like almost 2,000
megabytes a second for a while yeah it's
like four times the speed so they're
very very fast but they're they're more
money for the per gigabyte so we're
gonna stick a small one in there for you
Sasha so we're gonna go with a 240 gig
Kingston KC 1000 I believe is probably
the one that we're gonna opt toward and
it is it's an m2 card and it's going to
give you that storage but it's only 240
gigs so it's strictly for the operating
system okay yeah that's five for an OS
yeah I think so so there you go
210 bucks and 59 cents for 240 gigs
super super fast I wonder if it's got
specs here as far as speed goes
megabytes amazon.ca is a little limited
compared to calm yeah calm but so it's
an M - it's like a chip instead of a
hard drive right and it's super super
fast okay so that's gonna run all your
programs your games and steam everything
else okay then we need storage so we're
gonna look at an SSD Garbi again pointed
out that we probably don't need to go
with a raid as long as we go with a good
quality SSD because SSDs these days have
gotten so reliable now raid is nice
because you've got redundancy if a drive
ever fails you can pull it out and put
in another one you don't lose any data
so of course cost is a is kind of a
factor here so we need to we're getting
to our budget now at this point so we're
gonna go with onedrive and I'm gonna
just tell you you need to keep a backup
of things that are important to you
that's that's a given yep and that's
just the way it is so I've been bit mmm
my wife didn't backup her Mac when we
lost all of our photos that happened to
me - yep yeah so do keep a backup okay
so I know that's not part of this budget
but get a backup Drive get something
that you can copy things on to so that
there's a redundancy can I wait till our
anniversary yes
computer part per year take you a while
it's gonna take you a while to fill it
up we're gonna go now our the m2 is is
from Kingston's
you know it's the business grade super
sleek super fast super reliable module
as far as storage goes now we're going
to take a different approach for the
data drive because now if we can get
into SSDs that are built for gaming so
we're gonna of course we're gonna look
at the HyperX savage there's a 960 gig
drive that's available for just under
five hundred bucks okay so that is
that's a terabyte Kingston HyperX savage
drive for five hundred bucks
so the speed of these four SSDs are
savage well we did that one episode
where we're clocking them were we using
a sandwich drive for the less yes we
were it was like unbelievably fast this
performance gain and like if you if
you're running a spinning drive to throw
one of these in your computer and you
will be blown away it was unreal I was
last season I think it's possible do a
search on our website Kingston
yeah category five dot TV so good so
this drive is screaming fast it's got a
lot of storage for you Sascha and bang
for the buck it's gonna have a like a
terabyte of storage space for you but
it's an SSD so you get speed of an SSD
and a good one and you get the
reliability of an SSD and you've got
enough space to store your stuff okay
moving along we're almost there excited
yes are you getting scared of the price
yes I know but I mean truth be told I
sold my cars we all know right oh good
she sold her car for this folks no
pressure so from the sale of my car I
paid off an outstanding line of credit
right and but then I also had a little
chunk of savings that I knew like I was
going to use in a positive manner I just
wasn't sure exactly what I was gonna do
with it so I have it I have the savings
for something like this and who better
to give it to than Dave on what better
use than building him
shooter perfect I think you're gonna get
a lot out of this as well I'm totally
this is a fruit for me for the winter so
as you continue on through our list now
our price is getting a little high here
because it is a really sweet gaming
system just remind you that sashes
budget is $2,100 so what we want to do
is you know go to our forum cap 5 TV
slash CPU to 0 1 7 you'll see a link
there you can go to donate category 5 TV
there's actually a drop-down where you
can increase Sasha's budget by
contributing to her wedding as well so
yeah so we're gonna do this so don't get
scared Sasha when you see the price it's
gonna happen ok so I know your budget
we're not going to go over your budget
but we are gonna okay so looking at the
graphics processor speaking of going
overboard it's one of those tough things
where you know you can spend this and
it's high to get because you need VR you
need you need 4k is the big thing right
now but might as well be ready for VR as
well so realistically you know starting
price is pretty high as it is so then do
you go with just the base like 10 60 or
do you up it to a 10 7 T and better
cooling and better card pay more but
it's you know where do you where so it's
finding that happy medium so that's why
we are gonna go with the GTX 1078
gigabyte with the dual fan and it's Anna
Seuss card as well but this one is a
smash in our budget Sasha the price
point that's 49 out of 5 stars it's the
GTX 1074 masseuse and it's got the dual
cooling system it's a beautiful card
it's ready for VR it's ready for
anything that you can throw at it
based on today's stuff Sasha and this
one is the base clock is 1797 megahertz
as opposed to you know stepping down one
card which is still 579 bucks is only
1506 megahertz so you're gonna get a lot
more speed performance out of this one
so there
so that's the video card so what do we
need to look at here what what have I
observed with this card of course is the
the interfaces so you need HDMI output
for your TV and there's two of them oh
nice perfect okay
so having two means it's VR ready you
can have a VR headset and you can have
your TV hooked up at the same time very
cool wait so if that happened this is
might be just a dumb question I don't
know dumb questions okay so if you can
have the VR headset on yes we're not
buying a VR head that's part of the
build but no future ready be ready for
it
so if dave is playing like virtual
reality reality game TV like I would be
able to see what he sees on TV okay I
just want to make sure I can watch him
play it's also got DisplayPort it's also
got DVI I'm sorry you're set yeah or
just can you know let's I should just
get a second hit set that works too
there you go
that sounds good we can hang it together
an alternate alternate reality power
supply now I like thermaltake power
supplies I use the tough powers and you
know good good quality Thermaltake PS
use C 128 D is like no don't go with
thermaltake powered by hands
they suck that's what he was telling me
no they died the problem is there is
this thing that happens in computing
where brands try to get all of the
markets saturated so they bring out the
consumer line which are basically
garbage they bring out the the
higher-end business line and the gaming
line and those are the good ones
yep but the consumer stuff and I mean
when I say consumer I don't mean all
consumer things are garbage I mean I
mean companies will bring out a two
hundred dollar laptop and a seven
hundred dollar laptop and a sixteen
hundred dollar laptop well guess which
one is the best and guess why Apple is
perceived as being better quality it's
because they don't do the consumer-grade
stuff so it's not that PC versus Mac
dollar-for-dollar is any different it's
that PC tends to have a lot of junk
lower end stuff yeah so thermaltake is
no exception
you know Acer does it HP does it they've
got all these different lines and
Thermaltake has the entry-level cheap
stuff and they've got the really good
stuff but
said I do want a good power supply for
this system it's got to be reliable and
what says reliability other than a
10-year warranty
what says good quality other than 80
plus gold certification and so that is
why I'm actually leaning toward a
Corsair PSU so that's what I've got
Corsair czar MX series that got the our
MX 850 axis an 850 watt power supply
fully modular everything that I
mentioned there ten year warranty tells
me that they believe in it it's only a
hundred seventy four bucks and forty
four cents so when I say only it's
actually cheaper than what I would call
maybe an equivalent Thermaltake I have
that power supply this is what we want
it is a great house it never failed you
Jeff dude has it ever let you down you
have it it is a great power supply and
with a 10 year warranty I mean that just
tells me that they believe in the
product oh yeah some people say I don't
care about warranty I don't need
warranty
that's probably me but when I see a
one-year warranty I think they probably
are gonna fail after you right when I
see a 10 year warranty I think I'm gonna
be replacing my computer before this
thing is dead yes mm-hmm
guaranteed ok so after the power supply
you know we're getting into the real
nitty gritty here we've chosen her case
I guess the only thing left Sasha yes
mmm keyboard and mouse I can get one for
40 bucks it looks like this whoo all
right so we wanted something Wireless so
that no see I'm super happy I picked
black well I went I changed it to black
I had a white one selected and then I
got the black version instead nice and I
even chose red keys for you they have it
in all different colors but I chose red
I thought Dave might like that Dave will
like that does the keyboard light up the
keyboard does not light up as far as I
know okay how it is Wireless with a $40
price tag and being Wireless and all
that stuff and also the motherboard
comes with a mousepad incidentally
really so you've got all the stuff Oh
for a killer gaming system don't forget
you're gonna need to add some batteries
for the keyboard and mouse so keep that
okay just grab some you know eco
alkaline zs-- from
hardware wherever you can find them them
then your you're good to go good to go
look good
no Bluetooth wireless or no this would
be a USB receiver so 2.4 gigahertz but
right it has its own receiver so all in
all now we've got a $6 thing of Arctic
thermal compound price before tax in
Canadian dollars ready drumroll two
thousand seven hundred and two dollars
and seventeen cents tax pre-tax okay but
that our budget is pre-tax our budget is
pre-tax okay whoo yeah tax here 13
percent and talking about going up to 14
no thank you
okay so 2702 we need to knock $600 off
of that just to to meet Sasha's budget
so let's see what we can do for head on
over to donate category five dot TV and
you'll be able to pitch in that way I'm
gonna do the same and we're gonna see
next week what we were able to
accomplish here so thank you right are
you happy with that I am so happy super
sweet yes sasha is going to build this
thing
with her own two hands I'm just gonna
stand there like a boss just being like
what are you doing hey that didn't go
there you nervous
use the thermal paste it and you don't
touch it what do you do with your
computers I never eat well toothpaste I
guess I don't eat okay not thermal paste
you're gonna learn how all this is done
Seth but you basically squirt it right
in the center of the processor just as a
little pea-sized blob yeah and then when
you put the fan down on top of that the
heat sink it will squish it and disperse
it beauty yeah very excited about this
super scared
dave is so excited he doesn't even know
how excited he is yeah
all he knows is that the next time he's
allowed on the show it will be shows for
him oh yes
that's gonna be fun that's gonna be fun
so this is a wedding gift for Sasha's
husband-to-be and and also incidentally
his birthday and a way that we can give
back to Sasha as well for all of her
contributions here being part of the
show so all right that's that that's how
we do so I have a question yes if we end
up you know if through the kindness of
you know the viewers we end up going
over the price point we can like step it
up even more well this is this is the
dream machine okay we've got the the
great video card we've got the great RAM
and 32 gigs of it not 16 right so if we
don't mean it then we may have to cut
down to something a little reser but if
I over maybe have money left over at
that point well would be fair i I would
just donate it to the show oh well then
go ahead yeah no I think okay we'll see
how you do we'll discuss it with you
once we far exceed the $10,000 goal all
right well that's that's all the time
for that but are you ready to hit the
news room I know that this is like this
is ended up being a like a late news
broadcast but if we can head over there
you can tell us what's up let's do it
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
UN is about to get serious about killer
robots do you have your own website
Google is going to start warning users
that your site is not secure if you have
forms on a site that doesn't use a
secure connection Marcus Hutchins has
pleaded not guilty and the world's
largest data center is being planned for
the Arctic Circle these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you your terrible actor what
the swear acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website that's true how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it well we've got an amazing
deal for you for a very limited time
cat5 dot TV slash dream host for just
five dollars and a bit of change per
month you are gonna get unlimited web
site hosting unlimited email accounts on
that hosting service you are also going
to receive a free domain name your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
just don't put that on the paper sorry
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dream host I'm Sandra
Madison here at the top stories for the
week of August 23rd 2017 according to
Elon Musk
Mostafa simon of google's deepmind and
114 other leading figures in robotics
and AI who have signed an open letter
urging the united nations must act to
ban the use of autonomous weapons now
the letter outlines in clear detail just
how quickly the use of autonomous
weapons could get out of hand or into
the wrong hands
these can be weapons of terror weapons
that despots and terrorists use against
innocent people and weapons and weapons
have to behave in undesirable ways we do
not have long to act once this Pandora's
box is opened it will be hard to close
robotics and AI communities as well as
human rights groups have long argued
that autonomous weaponry has the
potential to inflict extreme crimes
against humanity in conflict zones
after commending the UN for establishing
a group of governmental experts to
review the issue the letter implores the
group to find a way to prevent an arms
race to those acquire to an arms race to
acquire these types of weapons the UN
group was scheduled to begin their work
on Monday as well but has but has been
rescheduled for November subsequently
the letter urges the group to double
their efforts once they finally meet in
the coming months
Mary Wareham the lead coordinator of the
campaign to stop killer robots said
earlier this year killer robots would
remove the human from the kill decision
that crosses the fundamental moral and
ethical lines we don't believe should
ever be crossed okay do you have a
website hosted without an ssl
certificate you need to move all your
forms to a secure connection right away
starting in October with Chrome version
62 all sites will show a not secure
warning when users enter text in a forum
in a forum on an HTTP page and for all
HTTP pages in incognito mode the new
warning is part of a long-term plan by
Google to mark all pages served over
HTTP as not secure to prevent the not
secure notification from appearing when
Chrome users visit your site only
collect user input data on pages served
using HTTPS Marcus Hutchins the British
security researcher instrumental in
neutralizing the wanna cry ransomware
worm that was that shut down computers
worldwide in May appeared in federal
court Monday and pleaded not guilty to
unrelated criminal charges that he
created and distributed malware that
steals banking credentials Hutchins who
is free on $30,000 bond was arrested
August 3rd in Las Vegas following the
black hat and DEF CON security
conferences IBM security researchers
have reported that the malware was being
advertised in Russian underground forums
with a price of seven thousand dollars
it was billed as a method
criminals to extract passwords and other
financial credentials transmitted in
major browsers the ads also claimed
Kronos could evade antivirus detection
and protection from browser security
sandboxes Hutchins who works for crypto
slogic
of Los Angeles is going to live in Los
Angeles while awaiting an undetermined
trial date he will be tracked by a GPS
monitoring device he has been ordered
not to touch the wanna cry sinkhole
presumably because if it's shut off it
could possibly make the ransomware start
spreading again plans to build the
world's largest data center are being
made public the facility is set to be
created in the norwegian town of
balligan which is located inside the
Arctic Circle the firm behind the
project colos said the chilled air and
abundant hydropower available locally
would keep help keep its energy costs
down the area however suffers the
country's highest rate of sick leave
from work which may be related to its
past as a mining community the u.s.
norwegian company says that it has
already raised several million dollars
for the project from norwegian private
investors however it is still working
with the US investment bank to secure
the remaining necessary funds it is
basing its record-setting claims on the
amount of power it intends to draw on to
run its computer servers roughly the
same amount of power as Amazon 1000
megawatts but in this case it will be
housed at one single location as opposed
to Amazon whose data is dispersed over
several physical locations in comparison
facebook status Center in the area draws
just 120 megawatts big thanks this week
- Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
i'm sasha dorita's thanks Sasha this is
category 5 technology TV and our website
is category 5 dot TV wanna just quickly
before we wrap up the show too
I just thank all of you who have been
contributing to support category 5 the
TV network here
category 5 technology TV our patrons you
really keep us strong and if you would
like to contribute now something weird
has happened because patreon has set a
new minimum now we used to say we used
to say you know contribute a quarter per
episode and I was cool with that patreon
has changed the rules and the minimum
contribution is one dollar per episode
now ok and that is them that's not
something that I changed so you can cap
it off if you want to just give a dollar
a month or something like that you can
just say you want to only give one
dollar and just do it once per month and
that will do it now we broadcast four to
five weeks out of every month depending
on how many Wednesday's there are so the
most you would pay is four to five times
whatever you contribute so for those who
are supporting us on patreon now we've
got some great rewards for you as you
know because you've been watching some
of the the private patreon patron only
posts we've got some really exciting
stuff and some changes coming so this is
the time to get over there through our
website category 5 TV and show your
support of the show and it's gonna be
really really cool moving forward thank
you all right all the time we have that
how do we talk about your computer build
for an entire hour actually yeah that
was like full-blown geekery right there
I'm like super excited to see this thing
okay no Jeff yes in order to keep this a
secret from Dave I can't have these
parts shipped to my house so having them
shipped to your house okay yes
you can't super fall in love with my
computer don't tell Jen I will fall in
love with the boxes as they get
delivered to my door don't tell your
wife because I want to know the look on
her face when she sees all of these get
a spending spree on Amazon am i opening
the boxes you're doing the unboxing just
you could recording there see I was
gonna say just have them sent as a gift
that way I can
see it as gift when it shows up that way
I know okay this all this is a Santa box
but if I'm actually opening these up you
have to don't bring them in here you
have to bring my I cannot promise
anything
Wow okay so once all the parts have
arrived sash is gonna be building it so
make sure you you join us for that as
well now next week we've got a special
guest I'm going to be joining us and and
then you are away for two weeks for your
wedding and then you're back and that's
probably when we'll get to the actual
event and expect everything should be
here within the next couple of days let
alone right so maybe next week we can
start looking at stuff thanks again
everyone for your input I appreciate it
very very much and help make my job a
lot easier when I came to putting this
all together so it's really big thanks
for me because without you I really
could not do this I just realized no
monitor it's you're hooking this up to a
TV correct yes that's okay this is no
need for a monitor sorry 60 inch monitor
six huge 4k come on now libreoffice
writer' 60-inch go bigger category five
like I am life-sized my head is actually
larger on your TV than it isn't really
so funny when I play retro pie like I'm
so game playing rebels oh that's great
I'm excited me too alright we'll see you
next week I hope you're excited I'll see
you next Wednesday yes good night but
good night
