hello and welcome to new every day my
name is Carrie and my name is jen and on
today show we're talking about tell lie
and you're gonna cry and then die r 3 r
3 so stay
[Music]
welcome back to new every day we are
jumping into part 3 of Acts chapter 5
looking at the story of Ananias and
Sapphira and how they lie to the Holy
Spirit and what the consequences were
love that how it affected how lying
affects relationships how line puffs up
we live in motives of the heart yes that
make us lie and and now we're going to
talk about something a little bit
different 10 so we're going to read this
week from the New Living Translation and
I actually encourage people to read from
different translations because sometimes
you can read from one translation for so
long that you're just like yeah you know
what the next words are so you haven't
even thought about ya what the words
mean so we've read from the NIV we read
from the New King James so today we're
going to read from the New Living so
starting to reading first one but there
was a certain man named Ananias who with
his wife sapphira sold some sold some
property he brought part of the money to
the Apostles claiming it was the full
amount with his wife's consent he kept
the rest then Peter said Ananias why
have you let Satan fill your heart you
lied to the Holy Spirit and you kept
some of the money for yourself the
property was yours to sell or not sell
as you wished and after selling it the
money was also yours to give away how
could you do a thing like this you
weren't lying to us but to God as soon
as Ananias heard these words he felled
the floor and died everyone who heard
about it was terrified then some young
men got up wrapped him in the sheet and
took him out and buried him about three
hours later his wife came in not knowing
what had happened Peter asked her was
this the price you and your husband
received for your land yes she replied
that was the price and Peter said how
could the two of you even think of
conspiring to test the Spirit of the
Lord like this the young man who buried
your husband are just aside the door and
they will carry you out to instantly she
fell to the floor and died when the
young men came in and saw that she was
dead they carried her out and buried her
beside her husband great fear gripped
the entire church and every
one else who heard what it and and yeah
verse 11 great fear gripped the entire
church and everyone else who heard what
had happened hmm so we ended up last
week talking about how people can and
will find out that you've lied and not
necessarily because you've told them but
because the Holy Spirit has has told
them now we're not really sure how Peter
found out and I realize this because the
passage doesn't say what happened like
maybe there was a mole hmm it better be
careful who's watching or maybe the Holy
Spirit told him right um so whether it
was someone who came to the moon said
well actually they sought the property
for this much just or it really was the
Holy Spirit who spoke to Peter but he
knew that what they had given was not
the full price which is like it's a
little scary when you think that like
have you ever been called out on a lie
like it's like well wasn't it Jesus who
said that at the end of days the things
that you've wasted it whispered in your
bedroom will be pulled up real clean
from the rooftops like nothing will be
nothing hidden it'll all be laid bare
before the one who made us and we're
called in to account to be held
accountable for every idle word spoken
and it's so easy for me to say right now
but I know that there that I have spoken
up idle words or you know words I
haven't truly meant yeah and it's that
those hidden things because they
probably thought nobody will ever find
out nobody why would any we're not going
to tell anyone but isn't that such an
incredible deception from the enemy no
one will ever know just have that second
glance just do this you're not going to
hurt anybody else yeah you know it was
kind of highlighted to me and I was
working with someone who
actually we were talking about how looks
like suicide doesn't affect one person
and it affects everybody like you think
the one act that it's only going to
affect you once though it's right ripple
effect right right and how you might
remember my dad saying Carrie you never
sinned in a vacuum as soon as you sin is
going to affect other people and the
ripple effect is large right like even a
small thing like a small I can really
hurt others yeah and you know when I go
back to the story about Saul in the Old
Testament yeah and where they were
commanded he was commanded to kill
everything and he's like Samuel the
Prophet comes up and says weren't you
commanded to kill everything and Saul's
like I did so this is um 15 this is
First Samuel 15 the word of the Lord
came to Samuel so I'm starting to read
verse verse 10 I am grieved that I have
made Saul because he has turned away
from me and has not carried out my
instructions samuel was troubled and he
cried out to the Lord all night on like
because he realized thats all sin his
his not being willing to follow what the
Lord given was like you said he didn't
send in a vac vacuum it was going to
affect so many people there would be a
consequence for it and he cried out to
the Lord all night like I'm sure he was
interceding for Saul to say oh lord
please like don't let i want to say the
repercussions of a sin be so great early
in the morning samuel got up and went to
meet saw but he was told Saul has gone
to Carmel where he set up a monument in
his own honor and has turned and gone
down to Gilgal when Samuel reached him
Saul said the Lord bless you I have
carried out the Lord's instructions but
Samuel said what that is this bleeding
of sheep in my ears what is this lowing
of cattle that I here Samuel answered
the soldiers brought them from the
Amalekites and spared the best of the
sheep and cattle to sacrifice
Oh God but we totally destroyed the rest
stop he said we kept it back we didn't
know babe we kept it back for the Lord
yes but that's not what he asks that's
not what he asked and that isn't that
what Ananias and Sapphira did like they
didn't even have to give anything and
that they said well if we give it to the
Lord will look really when we look at ya
and it's just like saying that's very
interesting Samuel said stop let me tell
you what the Lord said to me last night
tell me Saul replied Samuel said
although you were one small in your own
eyes did you not become the head of all
the tribes of Israel the Lord anointed
you king over Israel and he sent you on
a mission saying go and completely
destroy the wicked people the Amalekites
make warn them until you have wiped them
out why did you not obey the Lord why
did you pounce on the plunder and do
evil in the eyes Oh Lord but I did obey
the Lord Saul said I went on the mission
at that the Lord assigned me I
completely destroy the Amalekites and
brought back a gag their king the
soldiers took the sea he's now
blame-shifting which often happens in
lies when you're trying to cover up
right that's so true don't you blame
shift and it's like okay i'ma go ah well
I thought I thought if I told the truth
that I get in trouble you know what
often comes to my mind I've had to pray
like I'm praying that God would help me
catch the lie in my mind or in my heart
because it was out of the overflow of
the heart that the mouth speaks right
and stop these thoughts on my mind but
anyways like if I'm late for something
then and I'm on the road I'll be like
well I'll just you know the traffic is
kind of bad so I'll say you know the
traffic was just saying crazy because
it's so easy to do that because then I
don't look so bad it's if not my fault
it was an external source causing the
problem yes yes where and you know when
you when you talk with people and they
never seem to do anything wrong it's
always somebody else's fault and you're
like really wow you must be perfect
because you do
you never do anything wrong everybody
everything else everybody else does
wrong and you're like something isn't
measuring up here and no I gotta be
careful i do that myself like it's so
easy to say oh well carry me to sleep
and it's like well i had a part to play
on that but it's so much easier to be
like that's usually the case it's using
their playing shift right rather than
just saying I was late I'm sorry period
but we want to we want it goes back to
last week we want the acceptance and I
don't want people to be mad and I want
to keep the peace and I don't want I
don't want you know bad things to happen
yeah they want to just be okay right
yeah I had an interesting conversation
with a friend this week actually Jen
wasn't Jen but about being honest about
how we feel and what's going on in life
and I said to her well it's just so much
easier to be around people where
everything's all good all the time hmm
right like if you're not honest about
how you feel about something you're not
really telling the truth and she was
like no we're your real friends want to
hear about the real situations yeah that
are going on and it's okay to be honest
and not always put on a front that you
got it going on yeah and I was just as
the sign I was at a board meeting this
past week and my chairman of the board
said you know how are you doing and I
looked at him and I'm like okay do I
tell the truth like do I say like
everything's fine or do I say well
actually I feel really like not in a
great place and I chose to that moment
just to be honest and to say because
it's I want to have it all together I
want people to think that jen has it all
together that I can balance 17 things at
once and not drop anything or anything
get cracked and nothing get overlooked
in and it was just really cool because
in that moment of just being really
honest and saying I was struggling my
board stopped the meeting and came in
for
for me yeah yeah and I was like and then
in that moment it's like but I don't
want I don't want to be decided on your
partner yeah it's like your pasture I
don't wanna be the center of attention
so like okay I'm trying to receive your
free I'm trying to receive prayer trying
to receive the prayer and I'm not no way
back after this commercial though so
stay tuned Jeff Weston Gemma you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know where I think
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't fulfill the papers are just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dreamhost okay welcome
back after that short break we're
jumping right back in gen to Acts
chapter five something right back into
Acts chapter 5 and the fact that we
talked about two people Peter and Samuel
where God spoke to both of even though
it doesn't say God spoke cinema Peter
knew so whether somebody told Peter or
God told Peter Peter knew that they
hadn't told the truth and he's like why
did you do that and you know
Samuel confronted Saul and saying God
wants you to obey and so but so
basically like forgot that it was God
who had raised him up into that position
and it's like Ananias and Sapphira for
sapphira forgot how they got there they
forgot about the grace of God and they
tried to promote themselves it's like
they forgot who God wise and who Jesus
was even though they would have probably
have heard about the whole story and so
I sit here I'm like okay so what is our
response in this and you know the Lord
just is saying like I'm willing to
forgive if people would realize um that
you know their sins will find them out
like because the thing is when we aren't
honest oh you live in fear wondering if
somebody's gonna tell on you yeah like
are they gonna is so and so I need get
this more well no I guess you could get
at work so I'm like as teenagers if you
go to a party it's like okay there are
17 people at that party aren't any of
them gonna tell my mom and you know or
at work you know when you clock in and
you call your friend and say hey I'm
going to be 10 minutes late can you
clock me in when you get there sort of
to cover up the missed time but you've
just asked your friend now to
participate so now you better hope that
that friend is honest and then what
happens you know if it's on video camera
and they see them clocking you and your
friend in like are they gonna like stick
up for you are they gonna like totally
turn you in can I share story about that
sure so my brother and I both worked at
a grocery store when we were like 15 and
16 my brother's older than me so we
lived around the corner and we would run
to work like we could be late right so
you had to go put your coat upstairs and
clock in down by the office and we made
it I was like okay Garth you go put your
coat on it alcohol
then no problem so I found both of our
punch card I didn't think anything of it
I go to punch mine and then punch my
brothers and my boss is standing right
behind me he's like what do you think
you're doing ok but I I was defensive
like of course your knees upstairs like
I'm just totally I was just kind of
punches in then he doesn't have to come
down he can just go right back to where
you like he he works in the back anyway
so he doesn't have to come out here you
see I'm saving time saving him I'm
saving you time and money because he's
getting right to work I didn't say all
that but my mind is like that but I
tried to justify myself before him and
he's like you can't do that I was like
okay oh he got found out I got found out
but it was a small thing right but it
wasn't the right thing yeah but he was a
good boss and he didn't treat me any
differently he let me still keep coming
you let me still keep trying right yeah
I put the car down and my brother came
and clocked in late and it was ok yeah
but I got found out he got found out it
was good because ultimately it taught me
something right yeah and got just like
carries boss God is a good good father
yeah and when he finds us out when we
get convicted of arson knowing that our
sin has been found out I love it says
though your sins be as scarlet we will
they will become as white as snow
because of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ
on the cross and you know I read that
and it says even though your sins are
staining you you can be as white as snow
there's just something that is so
powerful about the fact that we can be
washed clean that every single sin that
we've ever committed like in that tally
book has been like oh
washed clean like there's no record of
it it's he chooses not to hold it
against us because it has been washed
clean there is nothing to be held
against us and that's the cool thing
about what Christ did for us on the
cross he it's it's a big church word
that says justification the
justification of the cross of Jesus
sacrifice is just as if I had never
sinned so when we choose to follow
Christ choose to believe that that's why
he came was to show us the way to heaven
and we follow him recognizing that he is
the only way our sins are forgiven and
we can be washed as white as snow and
God comes and it says behold I stand at
the door knock those who open the door
to me this is revelation 320 I will come
in and eat with him and heat with me
there's this idea that when we opened
the door to God he will come in and have
relationship with us and that's open to
every single person so we don't know
where you're at but we encourage you if
you have not made that choice to follow
God today to open the door to say God I
realize my sins are crimson red they
stain me I want to be wiped clean I
don't want to carry the penalty of sin
because it weighs me down would you
forgive me he will he will because it's
a good good father it is sent his son
for you specifically so that you could
have a relationship with him so we're
going to pray and if you want to join us
in this prayers just a prayer of
surrender and confession and we enjoy it
and invite you to do that right where
you're sitting right now and and then we
encourage you then to go tell a friend
of what you just prayed because it can
be easy to message us but no go tell a
friend and say would you help me learn
more about Jesus alright so let's pray
dear Lord Jesus
I thank you that that you came to die on
the cross for our sins so that we could
be made right with God I know that I am
a sinner I know that my sins stain me
crimson red but by the power of your
sacrifice in your blood that flowed down
it washes me whiter than snow and I
don't really know what that means
because those are a lot of church words
but I know that you're going to take my
sins away and I know that you are going
to come and have relationship with me I
don't know a lot about this if I know
that you are real I know that you are
real would you help me follow you I pray
this in the name of Jesus amen
thanks so much him thank you for tuning
in and I just kept thinking of the old
him that jesus paid it all all to him I
owe sin had left a crimson stain he
washed it was so we encourage you to
think about that this week and we look
forward to seeing you back here next
week for a new every day have an awesome
you
