here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
consumer DNA testing company has given
the FBI access to its 2 million profiles
Microsoft plans to expand Xbox Live to
other platforms including Nintendo's
switch and mobile Google's new Chrome
extension automatically checks that your
passwords are still secure and here's
another story about Google but this
one's for mobile their new Android apps
could help the hearing impaired these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
dot TV newsroom covering the week's top
tech stories we put the slight linux
bias Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Sasha Rickman and here at
top stories were following this week a
the FBI access to its two million
profiles a large consumer DNA test
database Family Tree DNA has quietly
started allowing the FBI to upload
genetic profiles created from crime
scenes and corpses the FBI was able to
compare forensic samples with the DNA of
any of about two million customers of
the service normally used by
genealogists to locate and contact
relatives a spokesperson for the company
said law enforcement agencies have so
far uploaded 22 samples ten were from
the FBI at least one case has already
been solved between Family Tree DNA and
another database being accessed by
police jed match it means that your
average criminal on the loose probably
has at least a second cousin whose DNA
can be located the FBI created a special
genealogy team to turn those leads into
arrests specialized law enforcement
databases containing DNA profiles of
known felons could soon be irrelevant
natalier am an assistant law professor
at the university of baltimore says we
are nearing a de facto national DNA
database some users are already
expressing anger over family trees
sharing of their DNA data but Family
Tree DNA founder Bennett Greenspan said
in a statement that police only have
access to the same type of information
users already share
such as names initials emails and photos
interesting you had thought about at one
point a couple years back I remember you
mentioning this on the air right you had
thought about doing the DNA test and I
did not you did not I did not do it it
was we're gonna buy it online exactly
and it was like a hundred dollars like a
hundred dollars yeah imagine like how
much is the DNA test really really it's
probably pennies no no no thousands you
think so I think so oh I got my dog once
DNA tested too
yeah yeah just to see your ancestor ox
interesting I know but my my thought is
that if I were to buy a DNA test for a
hundred dollars say right like you got
you can't be angry if they're using this
data to be able to track down criminals
just don't be a criminal don't be a
criminal right okay so the point is that
it's really good that they're catching
criminals sure but it's kind of bad that
they're just getting right up all in
your personal DNA situation being that
it's not just you now it's you and
everybody you're related to so right so
okay if they find your cousin right
you're the criminal they did this they
they found the Golden State killer like
this notorious serial killer that was on
a barrage of killings in California I
think in the 70s I could be wrong they
won't just arrested him he's next on DNA
data based on DNA because one of his
relatives I wonder if this is the one
arrests that they have at least done one
of his relatives had submitted their DNA
to a DNA testing and so they knew that
of the suspect pool because that person
was related to somebody in the suspect
pool that was the guy and they arrested
him okay so it's like I like it but at
the same time now I probably won't go
get my DNA tested not because I'm a
criminal or I don't assume that I'm
related to your relatives but I just
don't I
okay so I know they're all amazing
so say I don't know that I have let's
say I have a half-sister just flown
about out there okay right and she meets
an untimely demise let's say now they've
tested her DNA and my DNA and now not
only are they telling me that I have a
relative but they've passed away and
part of a crime scene or something right
like like it just seems a little bit too
I may be a big brother II I don't know
it seems weird I think this is a whole
if Jeff was here right now it would be
getting irate right now I just I feel
like this is this is interesting
technology I love it and remember the
FBI is not taking confidential data from
the service the FBI is submitting DNA
samples right and then they're matching
it up and saying this is matched to okay
just like if you were to upload and this
is the whole purpose of getting your DNA
test done is so that you could upload it
and realize oh I have a half-sister I
didn't know about right right so they're
uploading the data and finding oh this
is related to this person and this
person is in the suspect pool of this
particular crime right right so they're
not collecting data they're making
connections based on the DNA profile
that they have rights
so is it they still kind of want to do
it to be honest I still kind of want to
do it I'm just going to do the DNA test
yeah I'm just scared I feel like I have
more relatives out there that I don't
know about and I want it I don't want to
find the but at the same time I don't
want like what if one of my relatives
this is a criminal why oh boy this is
good you want to know if your
half-sister that you don't know right a
criminal and has apparently been
involved in some kind of crime yeah you
need to know about this Sasha I don't
know if I do I think that our chat room
is right on the money like we are in
this weird time where we're so afraid of
our identity theft issues and like if
you had so much as my name and my social
insurance number now all of a sudden
you're getting credit cards in my name
and racking up bills in my name and and
things like that so now you've got my
DNA profile and what else can you like
Robbie clones who knows I it's
interesting and I'm really happy that it
that crimes will be sold by this yeah
that makes me happy it makes Sasha happy
then it's got to be good right probably
okay
other platforms including Nintendo
switch and mobile Wow
the company says bringing the network to
more consoles will enable game
developers to connect players between
iOS Android and switch in addition to
Xbox and any game in the Microsoft Store
on Windows PCs Microsoft says that the
release of their cross-platform Xbox
development kit will take Xbox Xbox Live
to over 2 million devices
taking Xbox Live to other consoles seems
like the next natural step after the
cross-platform play that exists within
certain games such as fortnight or
minecraft
Sony has been less cooperative when it
comes to cross-platform play and
allowing other services on its
PlayStation Network and it appears this
Xbox Live expansion will not apply to
ps4 as yet however Sony did enable
fortnight cross play as a beta last year
so perhaps further integration of the
major gaming platforms will become a
possibility down the line well no more
following the Game Developers Conference
which takes place from March 18th to
22nd
your your more into games than hi
probably right I would expect okay so I
have a sweat yes and I have a ps4 okay
and I have Dark Souls for both and do
they talk no see right because ps4 what
the heck come on like maybe they're onto
something you could Microsoft be onto
something that maybe things should just
write together I am a horrible at Dark
Souls Dave is the master of it I can't
get past the first boss and I have it on
switch because I find that which is
easier to play and he plays that on
PlayStation could you imagine if they
could talk and he could just you could
be and he could help me kill like the
asylum demon I can pass the internet
okay so the World Wide Web
imagine if you could only access the
this part of the web from Microsoft
Windows and this part of the web from
Mac and this part of the web from Linux
and so on and so forth right right like
just realize that we're in this time
when everything needs to work with all
of the information and platforms that
are available and maybe fortnight has
that where you know you can access it
from anywhere minecraft has that and I
can be on my PC and playing against
someone who's on a switch
yeah that's the way it should be that's
the way it should be I really like this
news it feels ya commonsensical like the
next step of course they would have this
PlayStation Sony come on get on board do
it are you a gamer like what's your
opinion on that I I think it's silly
that this is not the norm like that it's
news that Xbox Live is going to be
available on other platforms but it is
that's great I mean for Xbox Live
players to be able to access their PC
games and play them on switch and
communicate between them right like you
have a group of people that you're
playing games with and you have a group
of friends in real life that also play
games but unless your friends are on the
same systems then you can't play with
them right it's not that's
Fair and fun I think the kids have kind
of encountered this with our love from
mind test so mind test being kind of
like very very similar actually to
Minecraft but it's free open-source and
we've got servers that we can access and
play on but their friends who play
Minecraft on Android tablets say it find
it quite onerous to be able to connect
to mine test because there isn't a
really good apk for Android so you've
got to have a PC or you've got to have a
laptop in order to play kind of thing so
then they're in that same scenario where
they can't play with their friends so we
need to have minecraft because it's the
universal compatible with everything
right times are changing though if they
are changing it's true Google's new
Chrome extension automatically checks
that your passwords are still secure a
new Chrome extension from Google called
password check up will automatically
check whether your passwords have been
exposed in a data breach data breach
once installed the extension checks any
login details you use google says most
us sites are supported against a
database of around 4 billion usernames
and passwords and warns if it finds a
match password breaches are an
unfortunately common occurrence but so
long as you're using a unique password
for each website it's fairly it's normal
fairly simile fairly simple to deal with
just change the login credentials used
with the breached website and move on
unfortunately when massive breaches like
the collection 1 compromised so many
different passwords can be with so many
different passwords it can be impossible
to know which one of yours are still
safe that's where Google's new extension
comes in since password check up relies
on sending your confidential information
to Google the company is keen to
emphasize that this is encrypted and
that it has no way of seeing your data
passwords in the database are stored in
a hashed and encrypted form and any
warning that's generated about your
details are entirely local to your
machine Google isn't the only company to
for such a service one passwords robust
password manager includes Watchtower
integration to your to compare your
passwords against have I been owns
database of breached credentials
Google's extension is free and you can
use Chrome's built-in password generator
to generate a new password if you find
one of yours has been compromised
that is cool so this whole time I'm
reading this I'm thinking to myself
I have a really bad habit of trying to
come up with a secure password and then
forgetting that password and then being
like locked out or you know I'm gonna
click forget my pass orders and a
password manager I I have just the most
basic password manager thing and I only
have ten password is it called Excel no
no it's on a shared note this is got
written down actually online banking
password one two three on the monitor so
what happened what happens is and it's
not intentional because I try and save
really important passwords and really
strong ones uniquely but when I get into
a panic like with discord one time I got
into a panic couldn't remember my
password and then I was like well I'll
just put it back to the one that's tried
and true and I know well that just means
that I have quite a few things with the
same tried and true and I know password
oh yeah which is I know that that's
wrong at the very least just go get
yourself a LastPass account
LastPass calm you can use it on your
Chromebook you can use it on Windows you
use it on Linux it's just a chrome
plug-in right I tried to do that on your
Chromebook your chromium browser I will
memorize your passwords and save them in
the in the cloud and a secure I know I
know that to be true and I tried
LastPass and I have to get back to it
but I got to the master password for
LastPass I it in wrong no I think okay
so with something like LastPass yeah you
only have to remember one password right
so you make it a super strong super
ingenious password that nobody would
ever be able to crack but you're able to
remember and that is the only password
that you ever have to remember but
you're in this thing where you're
putting the same password into all
different services so if one of those
services gets compromised all of them
are right right so with LastPass you
remember the one password if LastPass
ever got compromised do you just change
your master password in you're back in
business
but Malawi to go to every service when
you're creating your password
generate a new password and it can be
like 32 characters of absolute gibberish
yeah you don't ever have to know it
because it's stored in the last pass
vault and so then and I'm using LastPass
as the example because it works very
very well another 7th a free version
that's available for you little work on
your browser but then you can have
secure passwords and they're different
for every single service so if you find
out from Google's new plugin or from
have I been owned that your password for
say a particular service say your
Twitter password has been compromised
well then you go onto Twitter and you
change the password and it doesn't
affect any other service right and
you're good I need to have a password
changing day you do it sounds like you
need to get yourself an account with a
with a reputable password manager
LastPass is one of those and probably
the easiest to set up we can look at key
pass X we can look at doing our own but
LastPass is online it's available for
you and install it on your browser
easy-peasy set up a free account and
start going through changing all your
passwords and just make a really strong
master password you know I definitely do
need to do that do it
ok I'm check-in on this next week and
see if she's got it done it's gonna do
it this week you are gonna do it this
week otherwise we are all hacking your
account you don't know my password
exactly Google's new Android apps could
help your hearing
that's right Google has announced that
it's bringing Android users to new apps
sound amplifier and live transcribe
which are designs to make life a little
easier for those of you with hearing
loss live transcribe takes live speech
and turns it into captions using your
phone's built-in microphone and
according to Google it comes in over 70
different languages and dialects you can
also use it for two-way conversations if
you don't if you can't or don't want to
speak using a type back keyboard within
the app although live transcribe is
being rolled out worldwide is a limited
beta via the Play Store right now Google
says you'll soon be able to enable it in
accessibility
things then start live transcribed from
the accessibility button on the
navigation bar the second app sound
amplifier isn't just designed for people
with hearing loss as Google explained in
its announcement blog post everyone can
use a little audio boost from time to
time especially in situations where
there's a lot of background noise like a
loud cafe or an airport lounge you will
need to plug in wire headphones into
your smartphone to use the app which
works by digitally increasing the volume
of the quiet sounds while not over
boosting loud sounds you can also
customize this sound by changing the
sound enhancement settings and applying
noise reduction to minimize distracting
background noise with simple sliders and
toggles both apps will come
pre-installed on the pixel 3 and could
potentially make a real difference to
people with hearing loss by making it
easier to communicate with people around
them I love it yes we talked about how
AI in the mobile so in my phone is going
to allow me to do things like this yes
brilliant I love it
so not only is it an accessibility
feature but also a safety feature so if
I can use dictation to be able to send
text messages or emails well now it's
done away with the the issue of people
texting while driving ah because I can
exactly JIT amelie and and accurately
dictate to my phone and and you know as
things get smarter and better to be able
to control it by verbal command right
and you know what even if from a health
standpoint you see people on their
phones like this right and that is so
incredibly than that yeah so if you're
gonna weigh exactly if you can just come
out with things like this that really
just help you to have your body upright
and your eyes alert you are going to
save your spine and probably your life
when you're crossing the street
she works at a chiropractic clinic so
she knows what she's talking about
I love that
now the technology in our pocket so we
know that it's getting more and more
intelligent it's getting faster and it's
getting better and like I say the AI
technology is making its way into phones
and the SOC s that are built into the
phones so now we're seeing things like
that we're gonna next we're gonna start
seeing even better translation services
so we've got the hearing impairment
thing covered so now we're able to hear
better now we're able to speak in other
languages with other people from around
the world in real-time incredible like
have you seen tidying up with Marie
Kondo yes so you see how her translator
she is amazing she sits off to the side
and she's like she's so like just meek
and mild in the background and just so
humble in her presentation she's and as
Marie Kondo is is speaking in her native
tongue she's translating in real-time
like and people are carrying
conversations in languages that they
don't speak yeah and its natural its
intuitive absolutely to watch it is even
natural and it's like this is amazing I
saw Marie Kondo interviewed on on
Colbert show mm-hmm and same thing
it's like translators there and they're
talking and they're carrying on and it
was goofy but it was amazing right from
the perspective of wow that's actually
coming to our phones as well like that
entire process of being able to carry a
conversation in another language right
is unbelievable but this is just looking
at the accessibility aspect if you're
hearing impaired if you have trouble
with distinguishing voices in a busy
environment well this is something that
could really really help yeah absolutely
I like that the focus is on this because
there are people that yeah I mean you
you might not be even diagnosed as
hearing impaired but you do have trouble
in situations like that mm-hmm
I know sometimes I do so when sometimes
I just want to put on a pair of
headphones and just pretend that I can
only I gotta hear what
trying so hard to hear you
let's jump right into our cryptocurrency
report for this week coin gecko says as
of 1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
February 6th 2019 that Bitcoin is down a
little bit lost about fifty nine dollars
and 85 cents u.s. down a 3402 49
litecoin is the only riser this week as
far as the coins that were monitoring it
rose just 97 cents u.s. so hey that's
the one to invest in folks not now
totally I would never say that if is
that a 104 or 57 a little bit of a loss
so we're kind of seeing that things are
still fluctuating and they're meant to
write but it's not like a massive rise
and a massive drop it's just like things
are just kind of ticking ticking along
right now in cryptocurrency Manero as
well I mean it was 4346 last week it's
40 to 70 this week in u.s. dollars terms
so it lost 76 cents it's just kind of
everything's hovering along like this
right
the little guys stellite is down at 1.7
ten thousandth of a cent turtle coin is
at 1.0 to ten thousandth of a cent per
turtle coin and remember you know as I
share these numbers the cryptocurrency
market is always volatile it never
closes and it could be going like this
right now
it could later go like this and it could
then go like this as we've seen over the
past year we don't know and it's just
fun to monitor and watch and learn from
the trends could be really good if you
could see into the future with those
wouldn't that be good wouldn't it as I
said I mean hey folks
litecoin is up ninety seven cents right
have you invested $1 less yesterday
you'd have almost two today that's right
thanks for watching not really oh you
know you would have had to invest 32 to
32 yeah Davis better at knowing these
these invest $100 and you'll have that
it I'm gonna be up like $3 it's not a
lot it's not a lot sorry I interrupt
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson hey
thank you so much for being here with us
again this week looking forward to
having you back with us again next week
same place same time we'll see you then
take care everybody
[Music]
[Applause]
you
