I was just gonna talk about how I'm
excited about this next product that
we're showing too because it's almost
Christmas because Dave now isn't like
banned from watching this I will tell
you I want this so listen up this is
this is actually really cool
now you remember Joe bees do bees make
fantastic products they make the the
bluetooth headphones that actually work
as hearing aids as well right so you
know they make some really innovative
stuff but what they've done here is an
affordable desk lamp and I know we're
thinking Oh desk lamp right and I
understand that but this one is really
really cool I want to tell you a couple
of key points about the jeebies
lifestyle lamp first of all I mentioned
just before the break that this might be
good in kind of like a home studio
environment if you're right shooting
some pictures or some video this would
be good you want to know why why I do
want to know why when we're working in a
studio we've got these great big soft
boxes all around us mm-hmm they are key
to our production because they are
daylight balanced they have a special
kind of light bulb that is like the Sun
okay super super super bright but it's
the frequency the color that they
generate so it gives them much better
cleaner picture right now this light has
multiple different frequencies that you
can tune into so by simply pushing a
button and I'm not sure how well you're
going to see the change on your screen
but I can actually select between twenty
eight hundred thirty four hundred forty
five hundred and even 5600 Kelvin you
can change the color frequency so that
makes a multi-purpose if you're reading
at night you want something really low
frequency so that it's kind of like an
orange e hue right like a warmer light
very warm and then during the day or
when you if you want to use it as
something like a broadcast lamp which i
think is a really great idea especially
considering the form factor you can set
it to like 5600 Kelvin which is daylight
beautiful light you can also adjust the
brightness so I can actually turn it up
and again I don't know how well this
translates on a camera but it does make
a difference to us I also like here at
the studio I can set a timer of 1 hour 2
hours and it'll automatically shut off
so if you want to turn it on and then
have it turn off for you automatically
right it's just a single touch and these
are all touch sensitive buttons not even
buttons you just touch them like you
know those touch lamps yeah it's just
like that
very neat now what does this have to do
with tech Robby okay great I'll give it
that you can change the frequencies of
light without having to change the
lightbulbs usually you have to do that
to get different frequencies right what
makes it so cool from a tech perspective
any idea well I feel like I have an idea
I've ever heard of Qi yes I have
so sash has got a particular little
phone here that that she brought in and
sat down next to this lamp and suddenly
it started charging the phone because it
has Qi compatible charging there it goes
it's charging it's at 81% and your
screen has just come alive so let's get
a look at actually in the box and I know
that there are some instructions here
that tell us a little bit more about it
so nice you know nice design right folds
down and is you know I don't even need
to really get into the box because of
the fact that I've got one already set
up here but we can articulate it we can
do all kinds of things it does not
swivel left and right but it goes up and
down and can be kind of tilted in such a
way that you can get it out of your eyes
or tilt it up and kind of illuminate the
room a little bit so but the Qi
technology is really from a technology
standpoint this is something that we
want to start seeing in our devices so
as far as that goes what it means is if
you've got a phone that has Qi
compatibility if you've got a SmartWatch
if you've got any device that has the Qi
logo on it it will charge it by just
simply putting it on top of this lamp
which is perfect so we're talking
Samsung galaxys s6 s6 edge s7 s7 edge
Nexus 7's Nexus 4 is five sixes nokia
lumia x' Motorola Droid Maxx
m√≠nimo 360 smartwatches the list goes on
HTC has it LG has it and so much more it
says oh I just saw g3 it's not
compatible with my g3 oh wow grade 2
something newer I hear what you're
saying to be use however things like the
iPhone 6 even down to the floor you can
buy special cases that have Qi okay
automatically charged as well same thing
with the pen pen tax and BlackBerry's
the of Zhi 30 or something like that so
this will charge your phone just by
simply setting it down no cables but oh
my lg g3 doesn't have support for it so
what do I do it also has a USB port in
order to plug in my phone for standard
charging well that's not so bad
pretty brilliant so all in this nice
little form factor you can get it at cat
5 dot TV slash lamp slash lamp ya can
get it for Sasha for Christmas Hayes is
coming in it you know we it's November
1st it's like the day after Halloween
while we're shooting this right and here
we are already talking about Christmas
gifts wow it's almost time gotta be
considered I love lamp
[Music]
[Applause]
