welcome to episode number 310 of
category five technology TV it's Tuesday
the 27th of August 2013 nice to see ya
hey folks well I've got some great
things on the newsroom right such as a
Raspberry Pi powered teddy bear set a
freefall record for teddy bears
everywhere Wow
Amazon experienced more downtime on the
weekend and this time it affected
several high-profile clients including
Netflix and Instagram oh I know bad news
a web designer is receiving tweets like
it's 1867 hmm I'm not sure how to take
that one windows 8 benchmarks are banned
from HW BOTS benchmark records due to a
time issue with Windows 8 oh dear stick
around Kuusisto
or they're sorry not these shows these
stories are coming up later in the show
it's only one show Hey tonight exciting
stuff the age-old question is going to
be answered how does Robbie get those
ring looking things on his desktop we're
gonna be looking at getting desktop
widgets on your Linux computer so don't
go anywhere we're gonna learn all about
it tonight as well we've got your
questions join us in the chatroom
category-five on freenode we'll be right
back after this this is category five
technology TV
at eco alkaline z' we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkaline
zuv the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium Eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkaline
difference eco alkaline scum this is
category 5 technology TV so good to have
you here hey don't forget we've got a
mobile website go there m dot dot v dot
TV if you've got your mobile phone your
smartphone your ipod whatever you have
your tablet
well gadgets any of those cool gadgets
all you gotta do is scan that code go to
Emma camp five dot TV and you'll have
access to some really cool features
they're just designed specifically for
you that sounds very cool and category
five TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if his tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters excellent hey welcome to
our newly registered viewers I know on
our website
well orange man is now a member of the
community so up you just be sending us
oranges yeah unless that's like a band
thing like it's like the blue man what
if he just likes and dances makes rhythm
rhythmic sounds PVC piping some
videotapes we'd like to see it orange
man your whole group yeah welcome to
Moloch mullet milk
Crypt us both correct us by sending us
an email explaining the spelling or the
pronunciation and we'll have to figure
that one out big news for how field this
week has just surpassed 250 weeks of
being a registered viewer here at
category 5 TV so we present him with the
bronze crown award on our website
category 5 dot TV nice to have him
joining us for so long now how field
reminds us that he actually has been
watching get this since episode 2 oh say
you messed up said one missed episode 1
we'll see that's what I had to put out
episode 1 folks and then the fame that
came from it was just crazy so by
episode 2 we had 6 viewers and how field
was that one new viewer apparently well
it's it's we were thinking you know how
did you find this show yeah cuz it was
episode 2 right like it's not like we
had this huge promotional budget and we
were pushing it out over networks and
they had television commercials leading
up to the event well nothing like that
good news travels fast I guess so yeah
so greets to how field thanks for
joining us for so long also active
viewers on the show we've got quite a
few actually who have been watching for
250 weeks or more good guy 98 Dave 26
slipped night star Raj shot of course
sounds familiar a Jameson has been
watching for more than 250 weeks
Lone Star and our longest active viewer
our longest standing active viewer is
actually G dog who joins us in the chat
room tonight
g-dog 1985 underscore nice to have you
joining us has been registered on the
website for the longest time everybody
which is yeah kind of a neat thing you
find it more about you know all the
people that are registered on our site
by going to category 5 TV and you go
into members and registered viewers and
it
you've got enough fewer points your name
is actually gonna show up on that list
as well so get yourself registered right
away if you've been coming in HoN and
watching the show and thinking oh I'll
just do it later that's what happened to
how field he's been watching since
episode two and he didn't register until
a year later Oh a whole year a whole
year later right like November 11th 12
2008 we started the show September of
2007 so dillydallyin yeah it helps too
because who knows 250 weeks from now we
could be saying greeting your greetings
to you from our spaceship so
congratulations are in order
jot in the chatroom says congratulations
on the marriage and stop yeah so let's
see the bling look at this oh it's
blaring in the cameras beautiful day
you're what happened with your
videographer I just random question
videographer didn't show up oh well you
always have to have a few wedding blips
in our case it was like wedding
avalanches but one of the big ones was
the videographer finally got a hold of
me like the day before the wedding and
said I don't have a ride to bury sorry
no I was like oh well that's good cuz
our weddings in berry so yeah so so
naturally I get a hold of this guy I was
like who is the geekiest guy I know and
I said I am NOT driving to mainland
China to pick this guy up yeah sorry I
said no no that's okay I said can can we
just can we borrow your camcorder right
and this guy it did more than that well
the fact is this is your wedding right
you've got you've got to think about
sound in particular video you can put a
hand camera in front of somebody and
just say you know please record and go
and and then you get it home and you
realize they can't hear anything
so music Pro and berry music Pro very
calm they actually pulled through for us
I give them a call that day and said
look krysta from the show they know the
show over there
is getting married tomorrow and has no
videographer we need to mic this thing
so we actually got a shotgun microphone
and I ran a cable like all the way to
the back and push record on a little
portable recorder there and everything
was just flawless so we had a microphone
way up at the front right in front of
you guys with the with the squirrel tail
windscreen because it was an outdoor
wedding and so we had to have a
windscreen and all that running back to
the sound all in the size of something
that fits in your pocket and then just
the camera on the stand so everything
worked out quite well so when when I was
done recording the wedding got back and
the first thing that I did just so you
know is that what do you think I did
very soon feeling made through the
entire video I did that Facebook yeah
you remember that no oh yeah that one oh
yeah and I was actually just making up
that legit actually had actually
happened you forgot already
I didn't really expected her to guess
here the chat room probably knows I
plugged the SD card into the computer I
copied the files over to the server
I added your folder which I created on
the server to our nightly backup and I
backed it up off-site so your is backed
up immediately right because we've been
through this where you know people who
you know do favors for friends and put
their camera at the wedding and film it
and then accidentally delete it or you
know hard drive crashes or something
like that so that is ruled out so so
that made me think what are you doing
for your backups now that you're married
and honestly the first thing I thought
about once I got back to work cuz I've
been like boycotting work for like a
week and it was too good idea anyways
was I honestly should start backing up
my files better which right now I have a
dinosaur of an external hard drive they
will actually chew through your hard
drive
I think yeah dinosaurs are notorious for
that good good
but basically I've got nothing that's
all I have and then I have CDs that I'm
about to buy I I really need some some
awesome externals I want two of them so
I have one at home when elsewhere and I
have a plug yeah I'm kind of glad I
asked because the you know because my
thinking was okay I've got your videos
now I got to get them to you but if I
give them to you right and then I delete
them from my system what's gonna happen
to your wedding video because I don't
want to hear from you in five years and
say yeah I put it on my laptop and all
these years has just been sitting on my
laptop hard drive and I dropped it in a
pool totally and it's something yeah
people at home that are listening and
not watching just actually they didn't
realize that that was me talking the
impression was incredible Wow
good at what I do folks okay so you need
to well what are you moving forward yeah
okay well let's let's pull up you know
there's there's so many different places
that we could go online we have a store
here in town called Canada computers are
just pretty handy because they kind of
have everything and their prices are not
unreasonable usually you you can compare
to what is out there but you can get on
to their website and just kind of do it
you know go through hard drives or
whatever it I extend hard drive Oh
they've got lots and because I'm sure
your budget is through the roof I'm
gonna actually sort highest to lowest so
they do have a lacey drive for sixteen
hundred bucks is that within the budget
okay we can move down the list what do
you consider sort the other way around I
did see one for $4.99 $4.99 not so sure
about the reliability of that one no but
we'll look at that in the same but okay
so you're plugging into your MacBook or
Y the one that I have will be plugged in
yeah tomatoknight my Mac yet and it's
reasonably old like it doesn't have
Thunderbolt
sb3 like a USB - yeah okay so USB - is
480 megabits a second okay so it's
pretty fast
way better than USB 1.1 then you've got
USB 3 which is like five gigabits a
second faster than an internal hard
drive as far as SATA you know first gen
goes or you've got Thunderbolt on the
max but so we'll just look at like a USB
drive because that's really the the only
option for you USB - USB 3 USB 3 drives
are backward compatible so get a USB 3
Drive and it's not gonna it's gonna work
just fine it's just gonna be at the
speed of USB - right I'm looking they've
got like CH a C's here they've got tons
of different things with a chassis like
an external harddrive you see how these
ones are only like 40 bucks you can buy
an internal hard drive and put it inside
of the chassis it's kind of cool how big
did you need if you can't terabyte
terabytes these are generally kind of
sorted by size because they get more
expensive as you go up 500 gig 500 gig
500 gig terabyte there's our first
terabyte it's a Seagate which is good
sigue it's gonna be better than like
your Western Digital there's a Western
Digital Drive there for about the same
price Seagate Drive for 70 bucks as a
terabyte external hard drive so that
sounds pretty good USB 3 so just a
standard kind of external hard drive
specs don't really matter because it's
an external right you're limited to the
speed of the bus your internal hard
drive you think about you know is it
7200 rpm is it super fast or is it 5400
rpm with an external because you're
limited by the speed of the bus it
doesn't really matter see so 470 bucks
times two you get two drives and what
are you gonna do with them one off-site
yes yes exactly
good good plan right so you could you
could use time machine to do like an
incremental yep on the drive that you
have at home take that one here's how
you would have to do it you couldn't go
get the one and bring it home to run
another backup because then all three
drives your laptop and the two external
hard drives are now at one location so
yes
and if there's if you have a fire you're
not apt to grab everything you gotta get
out right just as an example so so what
you could do is take your one hard drive
to wherever it is that you are storing
the other hard drive switch it and then
update so you never have all three
drives in one location at once that
could work really well this is the place
where you putting in have internet yes
so you can put your Pogoplug there no
nice so you actually access the drive
remotely brilliant
sounds like a good scenario I want an
update next time that you're here right
miraculously two fires have one in each
location no that never happens
oh good never happens it happens to be
in the shadow back you know and whatever
so that's pretty good 60 70 bucks for
terabyte drive so check it but they're
just on the south end area so you just
go take a look hey welcome to everybody
who's joining us in the chatroom nice to
see ya good to see everybody we've got
an exciting show for you tonight and
we've got the cat phone if you want to
give us a call get your questions in two
five four five cat five TV what else
have we got
just giving you a chance to speak lots
of congrats Conan that's really nice
thanks everybody for her on behalf of it
thank you
I want to say thank you as well to
viewers who were able to send in
donations this week we greatly greatly
appreciate that very very much if you'd
like me to remote into your system and
perform any kind of service tonight to
help you repair something we can do that
live on the air using TeamViewer so just
install TeamViewer and then just private
message me in the chatroom
its category five on freenode all right
well hey it have you ever been ok you go
out your wedding is a perfect example
why don't I just start over because it
makes editing so much easier so Christa
your wedding just happened you've got
all these photos right and they're
massively
has everybody you write probably invited
your friends with the best cameras
because they've got the best cameras and
they're huge that's why we exactly yeah
people with good cameras they just how
they made the less hey hey Doug you've
got a good camera right sounds like I
know it's amazing to come to a wedding
so you could oh no but you get this like
incredible amount of photos and they're
huge days because they're digital and
they're they're massive you want to
email them to mom and dad you want to
get them around and I don't know about
you but I have friends and family who
adamantly refuse to use Facebook so sure
I put my photos up on Facebook and it
does some scaling and everything but
there are other people that you need to
email the photos to seem so old-school
emailing your photos what just just
friend me on Facebook man but seriously
so you encounter that and what do you do
with these great big files that are you
know 6 7 8 10 Meg's each and you've got
20 of them well you MOG Rifai them what
it's like modified with a ger legit word
like I just made it up just right like
that but it's very convenient that it
actually is a real thing so gonna show
you how to do this if this is if this is
you then here you go I'm gonna grab a
handful of pictures from last week's
shows gallery there we go perfect
examples just because they're big photos
see how long this one takes to load
there it is so if I actually like zoom
into full its it's a pretty big photo
right there you go so we want to send
this photo to family and friends let's
grab all these photos okay first thing
you want to do when you're MOG Rifai
anytime you're doing any image
manipulation and what do you do krista
when you're you save the original files
yes high-five
she got a backup question right you have
a backup
you never overwrite your original I call
them the master file right sweet well
done okay so I am I'm very proud okay so
now I'm copying the original files so
that I never
at them because I don't want to
overwrite my originals I'm gonna go to
my desktop create a new folder we're
gonna just call this pictures go in
there paste those now I have a copy
they're huge there they are
take a moment to load because they're
quite big that okay so these are just
from the photo gallery from category 5
TV for episode number 309 that's what
these photos are just so that I have
something to use as an example I'm going
to go into my terminal because these are
much too big to email to mom and dad
sudo apt-get install image magic and
magic has a K that's all one word what
do you want to do do you want to go for
it yes this particular step installing
image magic is only needed once once
you've installed it you've got it on
your computer you never have to do this
step again but then you'll be able to do
what we're about to show you
there we go it's going through
installing setting up image magic on
Linux and it's done so I'm gonna go into
CD desktop pictures now you see there's
all my pictures and you'll see that they
are quite large and the three Meg range
there's one there that's five and a
quarter Meg definitely not gonna be able
to send this folder so what I can do is
I can now type ma graph I and I have
that command now because I've installed
image magic ma graph I - resize and then
pick for us a format a size that is
reasonable for email let's say 640 by
480 those are going to be your maximum
it's not going to stretch it's going to
simply maximize those that's as big as
its going to be I'm gonna say star
because it's gonna grab all of the
images or I could also say start out jpg
but then if I have a jpg upper case then
it's not gonna get it
so we'll just do star and hit enter and
you'll see what happens now is that each
photo is just gonna disappear for just a
moment because it's rewriting each one
of those photos and now if I click on
that file it's already done that's as
quick as it is that's the quickest tip
ever double click on that file look at
that click click click wait faster way
faster and you'll notice that the photos
are now
that one's six forty by four eleven it's
proportional so it maximized to 640
pixels wide but did not stretch to 480
however I've got one here of Hillary
that is vertical photo instead of
horizontal and you'll notice that it
maximized to a height of 480 pixels and
447 pixels width so that is a fantastic
tool for being able to send these photos
to your family and friends now that
entire folder is only one point eight
megabytes Wow with all those photos so
MOG Rifai and it's a part of image magic
with a K cool
this is category five technology TV
thanks for joining us tonight our
website is triple W category five dot TV
I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm Krista walls
well shall we jump right into it oh is
this that age-old question yeah the
age-old what could the question be you
forget already no I know what it is I
just I think they can't respond well I
know I can't be brilliant at everything
well yeah well back up a little bit but
remember when you came and and we did
the hacker episode we call it the hacker
episode where we kind of dressed a
little goofy and we dimmed the lights
and made everything green and and one of
the things that I did is I made my
computer look kind of cool by installing
some desktop widgets and since then I
would liked them so I just left them
there and I get a fair number of email
people saying oh how do I get that what
is that conky can I have that - all
cocky and I can't get it so tonight
we're gonna actually show you how to
obtain those kinds of things on your
desktop if you're running Linux this is
for you if you're running Windows or Mac
you can switch there is hope for you yet
all these things are free and you saw
you saw how easy it is to install things
on Linux it's a simple quick command or
you can use a package manager and it's
easy easy breezy so a couple of things
that we need to start out with of course
we want to install things that are not
just a track
and cool-looking but stuff that's useful
great so we want to know okay is our
hard drive almost out of space is our
CPU sitting at 100% or is it sitting
floating around 31 oh those kinds of
things what's our network traffic things
like here's one is my cpu overheating
right hmm do you know whether your CPU
is too hot I don't how would you know
I'll be right using things like this
again it becomes something that's not
just attractive and cool-looking but
also something that's useful because you
can now access that kind of information
so speaking of being able to monitor
temperatures the first thing that we
need to do is install something called
LM sensors so we're gonna go sudo
apt-get update that's going to load your
package list brand new and fresh and
then we're gonna go sudo apt-get install
is the command notice I'm doing this
from the terminal because I want you to
feel comfortable there it's not as it's
not a scary place sudo means become
super user it's super user do is what
you're doing sudo allows you to have
administrator access to your computer
this is one of the reasons Linux is a
lot more safe and you don't get viruses
is because you're not typically running
as an administrator so sudo apt-get is
this program that we're gonna use in
order to install this program the
command we're gonna use is install and
the program that we're going to use is
called LM - send Soares hit enter you'll
see that in my system it says LM sensors
is already the newest version reason for
that Christa is because this requires a
reboot and I knew that so I just quickly
installed this before the show I still
wanted to demonstrate how it's done
because I know that you at home you're
probably not going to already have that
configured and set up so next step now
that we've done that is we're gonna type
sudo you remember what that does it
turns us into an administrator so that
we make changes to our computer and
we're gonna type send sores
- detect and what that command is going
to do is it's going to detect all of the
available sense
that are a part of your particular
configuration usually safe just to go
with the defaults so see if I hit enter
it's going to say yes it will check my
CPU memory controllers for sensors so
let it go it says that it found one a
digital thermal sensor on my Intel chip
cool all right so now next one is super
i/o chips contain embedded sensors do
you want to scan for those default is
yes so I'm gonna let it do it I'm gonna
hit enter next one you know keeps going
and going I don't need to read each one
you can read them if you want but here's
one that says that's probably to say no
so I'm just gonna again go with the
defaults unless I know that I want to
say yes yes yes yes
checking my Nvidia chipset scanning for
all the stuff there we go let's picked
up one sensor there on my own video chip
enter now follow a summary of the probes
here we go okay so it's found a couple
of different ones that it could add to
our kernel in order to allow our widgets
to be able to monitor the thermal
sensors so do you want to automatically
add that to ease TC modules here's the
one place where you're going to say the
opposite of what it is defaulting to
you're gonna say most likely yes make a
note of /et see modules and the two
lines that are being added the reason
that you want to make a note of that is
because if you have trouble booting your
computer now after this change for some
strange reason you can now use a boot CD
like a live CD edit the et Cie slash
modules and comment out those two lines
until you figure it out so just make a
mental note write it down on a little
piece of scrap paper until you've
rebooted a couple times just to know
that everything is gonna be safe so once
you've said yes to that question I'm
gonna say no because I've already done
it will have already done all that stuff
and then you're going to reboot your
computer normally or you can just do
sudo reboot just like that I don't want
to do that because that's what we're
avoiding
so now that I've got LM sensors
installed I can monitor my CPU
temperature and those kinds of things
kind of cool so let's let's get conky
installed first and foremost conky I
would say you know I I have to show it
because it is you know we almost have to
pay homage to conky being as awesome as
it is but it is a little bit more tricky
to get familiar with and to learn your
way around because it's a bit of a
scripting language in in some regards so
you actually have to create your own
sensors or find examples online that you
can that people have shared online so so
it's a bit more you know it's a little
more hacker esque if you will it's a
very it's it's very well used in the
crunchbang Linux community which has
that kind of hacker ish feel to it as
far as the operating system goes I love
it you saw review a long time ago on on
category 5 TV of crunchbang so we'll
just quickly take a look at it not too
much in depth because it is something
that you're gonna need to get into the
scripting end of things in order to
really get good at sudo apt-get install
conky just like it sounds Co and Kay why
and here we go it's just gonna download
see this is how Linux installs things
you don't need to go buy a CDE or
anything you just get it online so there
we go so now I can't actually do
anything with conky because I haven't
got anything set up as far as widgets go
there's no GUI there's no you know thing
that I can bring up and just start
dragging and dropping widgets onto my
desktop that's not how conky works but
what we do have like I said crunchbang
is is one of the communities that uses
it fairly heavily so I've taken a look
at their forum and there are a few great
posts there I'm gonna go to cap 5 dot TV
slash conky and that's actually going to
redirect you to the crunchbang forums
and you'll see that here some wonderful
view users of that distribution such as
wanderer here in one of the first posts
or in the first post has posted the
script for their configuration for conky
and it looks really complex doesn't
here's another one oh hey here's root
says hey I like what you did here's what
I did and it looks pretty overwhelming
and as a novice user I might say well
that's crazy amounts of work but it's
not because they're helpful here I'm
gonna show you what you do it's really
not that complicated what you would do
is well first of all I'll show you what
we can't do yet
I'm gonna run conky I'm gonna minimize
everything I'm gonna just type in conky
well and you'll see I do have a
configuration file all right I need to
clear out the configuration I was doing
some testing before but what we'll do
all right
if you haven't run conky before and
haven't set up any scripts it's going to
actually just it might just crash out it
might do nothing it might give you some
kind of you know a little bit of
gibberish like I had there but what you
can do with these configurations is now
I can just simply copy any of this text
so or the whole script see what I'm
gonna do is just highlight this script
here copy that to my clipboard and in my
home folder I'm gonna create a new file
and we're gonna call it dot cuz it's a
hidden file conky Farsi just like that
and then hit enter and you'll see that
I've already got one there that's why it
was showing something up let's see if I
can you know what I'm just gonna delete
the original one and then I can do this
correctly
conky RC there it is
I can backtrack just a little bit there
we go beautiful Thanks all right so what
I can't do with conky here if I run it
okay so it's giving me some kind of a
default here and it's but there's no
there's no configuration and it's just
running the default kind of settings
using the scripts that are here on this
forum post just as an example I can copy
what other people have accomplished with
conky
highlight copy and now go into my home
folder make a new file and I'm gonna
call it dot conky R see that's the conky
configuration file and open that file in
your favorite text editor I'm using
pluma it might be G at it and simply
paste in what you copied from the the
forum there at cat5 TV slash conky and
now I can close everything and now when
I run conky with the simple command
conky and I can add that to my startup
applications you'll see the okay now
things have changed it's actually using
someone else's cool configuration that
they've made and it's added this nice
panel on the right-hand side you'll see
the conky is a little bit more text
driven than what I would go with because
we're not going for you know the little
tiny text it's it's very very functional
very very useful there's only one houl
well yeah we kind of want that Flair
factor of your graphic designer so you
probably want like the you know the 3d
yeah a little bit nicer than just plain
text and text ASCII kind of bar graphs
kind of thing so that's kind of just
coffee at a at a real quick glance I'm
gonna kill it by kill all - 9 conky and
it's off my screen now next up in our
tutorial this is the one that we
actually used on the show Krista and I
for our hacker episode and you've seen
it on my screen ever since then I'm
gonna go sudo apt-get install screen
lets the application is called screen
let's and do we want to install yep
just check that it's not going to remove
anything that's critical and so it goes
through the internet and finds all the
files that it needs in order to install
this particular widget daemon there we
go
almost there and it's done wow that was
pretty quick it is it is ok so this one
I can run it from the terminal if I want
but in fact I've got a helpful little
tool installed on my accessories menu
now and I can click on that and you'll
see that this one comes
with all these great cool funky little
things so for example if I want a
calendar I can click on clear calendar
and I can click over here this is how
this one works you highlight the one
that you want and then go start/stop so
when I click that you'll see boom
there's a calendar and I can drag it
around my screen and you'll see that
it's on top of my screen so let's say I
want my calendar to be up there so once
I've got it where I want it
now I'm gonna right-click on it and go
well I can go window and I'm gonna set
three things I'm gonna go widget so that
it now is something that can't be moved
well it isn't locked but it's it's a
widget now it's not an application
that's running on top of everything
right click again and go window sticky
so that it will kind of lock itself to
the to the desktop and then window lock
that's the final one and of course there
happens to be keep above is checked I'm
gonna actually change that to keep below
because we want it under everything so
now I can't move it when I click if I
move stuff around it goes over top of it
and it's a part of my desktop I can
right click on it I can stylize it a
little bit I can go theme and I can go
no background and now it's just a part
of my desktop and it looks pretty cool
as far as the calendar goes it's
interactive so I can actually change the
month and year and all that kind of
stuff okay so next up you know if you're
on a laptop you can add battery
monitoring for example I have no battery
so that's what it tells me that's so
helpful yep just in case I didn't know
you know all these handy little things I
don't need to go through because you're
gonna want to click through and check
out some of the widgets that are there
for you but the one that everybody you
know comes and emails me about and says
how did you do that is the what do they
call it here it's called the ring sensor
so with ring sensors we're able to
create this really really cool effect
I'm gonna show you how to do this so
highlight ring sensors here and now
we're gonna start it and you'll see that
it's just throwing a CPU monitor up at
the top there which I can drag around
so I'm gonna bring it over here and drop
it onto my desktop and I'm gonna
right-click on it and I can do those
same things window widget window sticky
window lock window keep below so now
it's part of my desktop can't be moved
doesn't appear to be you know
interactive in any way it's just part of
the death and the desktop now I'm gonna
right click on it again and I can change
things like the size which I'll show you
in a few moments and go properties and
make changes to what sensor it's using
so right now it's showing me my first
CPU core you might that want this to be
Ram so now it's showing me my RAM for
example so you can change all those
kinds of settings so let's leave that
one at Ram and now I'm going to in fact
click over here and go launch slash ad
making sure that ring sensors is still
selected so when I click that it's going
to add a second ring selector on to my
screen there you go so now I've got
access to that so now I can move this
one over and you'll notice that they
look exactly the same I don't want that
I want them to be different so I'm gonna
right click and go window
let's leave window for now let's go size
and we're gonna change this one to 60%
so it's a little bit smaller and put it
wherever we want and say okay well
that's what it looks like okay now let's
make it a little bit bigger than that
we'll go size and we'll go 80% and we're
gonna drop it right there right click
and go properties options sensors and
change your sensor to you know whatever
you want CPU temperature we think that's
pretty cool because we've installed our
LM sensors now and if it works see if it
goes there we go sixty degrees doesn't
really work in that particular size and
we might have trouble with that one just
because of the way that it's laying out
the text so it's not perfect and in any
stretch but cool nonetheless I'm sure
that we can make some changes to it if
we had a bit more time and wanted to
play around with it but for now you know
I'll pick one that works really really
well you can see even I can even see the
temperature of my GPU so that was the
CPU
just changed a GPU core and I'll be able
to see that as well there it is see that
looks a little better NVIDIA GPU okay so
I can right-click on that let's pretend
that that's what we want
properties options sensors and let's
change the front color of this
particular sensor to be you know let's
say red and the text color we'll leave
it as white ring thickness make it a bit
thicker just so that there's some
differentiation between the different
sensors let's see how that goes and we
can also a game as we're waiting there
it goes I can add another one and so I'm
putting these all over the desktop and I
can set them to be whatever I want them
to be here's another one and let's you
know we can leave this one at CPU
because we don't have a CPU one yet but
let's change the front color to green
and change the ring thickness to pretty
thick
let's do 40 there we go and now we've
got this cool thing so now we're gonna
lock these ones to the to the desk
desktop as well widget window or like
right click on the widget window log and
send it to the back and we'll do the
same thing for this one over here makes
me look like I'm using a lot of CPU to
do this eh don't worry yeah your system
won't do that that's because of our
desktop Broadcasting System
we're actually streaming this desktop
over the network to Wirecast it's just
really cool to be able to do that so
there you go and there's all these other
widgets that you can play with I suggest
that you give it a go you know check out
some of the meters that are there being
able to you know put these things
anywhere move them around your desktop
and then lock them and then of course
with ring switcher you know highlight
that and say I want to auto start this
on login and calendar we added that one
as well so let's also auto start that
one and now when we first boot up our
computer it's going to look something
like that
so we've got these really cool widgets
that are now a part of my desktop I
can't drag them I can't accidentally
move them they're not highlight able or
anything they are literally a nice
little portion of my desk nice it's a
good feature to not be able to
accidentally select them and it would
happen it would absolutely happen so
very cool stuff so check out our website
category 5 TV and if you have any
questions for us
or if there's anything that you want to
learn just pop us an email live at
category-five TV there you have it all
right you ready Oh am i ready time for
the top stories from the category 5 duct
newsroom buildup ok so a soft toy
controlled by Raspberry Pi a Raspberry
Pi computer has recreated Felix
Baumgartner's record-breaking skydive
mr. Baumgartner made the furthest
freefall in October of 2012 from a
balloon almost 39 kilometers which is 24
miles high now remember that a bear
called Babbage has now left from a
similar height after ascending beneath a
hydrogen-filled balloon the Raspberry Pi
low-cost microcomputer inside Babbage
transmitted his position position and
shot Stills and video throughout the
flight and sent the Raspberry Pi inside
the bear and his cradle switched from
stills to video to record the moment
when the toy fell off the computer off
the cradle sorry and started its descent
on the Babbage flight the pie inside the
Bears body logged altitude shot footage
and transmitted it back to the ground it
also constantly broadcast the crafts
location so the flight could be mapped
and the pioneering toy retrieved many
people follow the flight online via the
streaming video feed right via the
streaming video feed sent back by
Babbage I wish I could have a pie but a
cool little bear inside my belly that
sends pictures like a Google glass like
a pie cherry blueberry raspberry
for those of you who are listening and
don't get the visuals
raspberry-pi referring to that little
micro County credit cards sighs yeah
computer cuz I can't was ridiculous
things yes that's and they're all
food-related usually silly that's cool
that's kind of fun as a hobbyist thing
unfortunately I couldn't post a lot of
pictures I'd love for you to see the
pictures get onto Google or whatever
your favorite search engine is in search
for the guy who actually sent this up
unfortunately he made the mistake of
when he posted all the pictures on
Flickr he marked them as all rights
reserved
be careful we need to have a lesson for
you on how to use Flickr so that things
are Creative Commons or otherwise
distributable so that I can post
pictures but his cute little teddy bear
he sent it up into the stratosphere and
then it plummeted down was he safe it
didn't say if he's okay it was fine yeah
I saw all the pictures there on Flickr
but yeah show them on the show here's an
feet intact yeah everything's intact and
the pictures are great
taking pictures all the way down and
went up further than and the guy who did
it last yeah teddy bear how unfair is
that so unfair there he is
ah what a cute little ah what's his back
but there's the computer and the I guess
it looks like double-a lithium batteries
that they're using to power the thing
that's kind of cool but neat that they
were able to get loads and loads of
pictures mm-hmm stuff like that as well
well there have been some software
problems at Amazon and it is now knocked
out several high-profile websites
including Instagram Netflix vine Airbnb
and several other services they were all
reported being down nobody could get
through to the services late on Sunday
all of them rely on servers provided as
part of Amazon's Cloud Services and the
problems were traced to a data center in
Northern Virginia that was struggling to
keep up with the load after the problems
were resolved Amazon simply said that
the glitch was caused by a partial
failure this is a quote partial failure
of an
networking device and that's all they
said Wow it's very descriptive leave it
up to speculation yeah it was just a
partial failure it wasn't a complete
failure big deal
it's like me the short-lived problems
come less than a week after Amazon North
America's web store was in fact down for
about 30 minutes I can't buy a lot of
stuff if you're started down I wonder if
that affected us did anybody have any
trouble getting onto our website on
Sunday because our website is majorly
intertwined with Amazon and incidentally
on Saturday Sunday is when I had
transitioned some of the video
distributions so I'll bet you we took
out their data center it's happened
before not on Amazon boy oh boy can you
imagine the scale of the data that would
have to be going through there in order
to take down someone as big as Amazon
well I mean Netflix is using them to
power their service Netflix so that's
got to tell you something about the
scale of this caddy huge huge I think
though if at least if our website was
down on a day like that mm-hmm and then
people go on to Netflix and Amazon and
Instagram and really oh everybody's down
yeah then they think it was themselves
right yes it must be a DNS problem yeah
hey what else have we got oh this one's
interesting
oh that does look cool there are ticker
tape machines on there invented in 1867
ever used to print stock market data
arriving via Telegraph some of the
original machines are now considered to
be a high-value antiques mm-hmm a web
developer from Cumbria has built a
modern version of a 19th century ticker
tape machine which prints out tweets
requiring no ink and no computer so
pretty cool web developer and history
enthusiast Adam Vaughn created his own
version of the antiquated device which
taps into Twitter and prints out tweets
as they are posted he says the Twitter
tape device has build from was built
from scratch he's in second
parts from clocks and other sources the
wooden base hides a thermal printer and
a microcontroller the device connects
over Ethernet and checks for new tweets
on his account every 30 seconds but he
hopes to eventually add support for
printing based on hash tags or multiple
accounts that'll be neat that's pretty
cool I would much rather read not that I
have my Twitter setup but it would be so
cool what are you doing oh just redo
play let me check yeah I wonder how much
paper you would go through on a popular
channel yikes let's hope that you don't
Dakota like all of a sudden get tons and
tons of people using the hashtag that's
kind of neat oh and I wonder how long
it's gonna take before they show up
something like that on warehouse 13 like
doesn't it look like something that you
know they could they could easily using
that cool stuff I think that's pretty
neat I'd buy one I would definitely buy
one if it was for sale for a reasonable
price like $20 $20 and we'll throw in
this Ginsu knife say no to Windows 8 I
simply just read the picture I figure
that's probably know it's not your
slogan that is what Germany is saying
this week but on another story popular
benchmarking site HW bot org has in fact
banned Windows 8 records from its
benchmarks they've also discredited
previously submitted benchmarks after
noticing an issue with the way Windows 8
tells time the simplest thing in the
world the real-time clock in your
computer you may or may not know this
it's a chip built into your motherboard
it's powered by a little battery so if
the power goes out or you turn off your
computer the clock still keeps time
Microsoft said we're not gonna go with
that we're gonna build our own unlike
software clocks which can be easily
hacked and changed by software the
hardware clock of course is able to keep
accurate time but Windows is one OS to
rule them all kind of mentality has made
you know they want to bring their
software Windows 8 to device
which don't have hardware clocks so they
built it differently when the CPU base
clock frequency in software is changed
after boot up here's the problem it has
a huge effect on Windows 8 ability to
keep accurate time as an example in
their tests having down clock to test
CPU by about 6 percent Windows 8 lost 18
seconds over just 5 minutes
when overclocked go in the opposite
direction Windows 8 was 18 seconds ahead
of time overclocking roughly 4% after
only 2 minutes they were off Windows 8
was off by 3 seconds and it would
progressively get worse and worse so for
now HW bots will block any seemingly out
of line windows 8 based benchmark
results and it also is blocking all
windows 8 based benchmark records even
if the score seems in line with
expectations so there you have it what
do you think of that
just say no obviously telling it's Logan
anyways not say no to Windows 8 it's
like the opposite of thank you at least
now we've got something but they get
that printed on a t-shirt if somebody
comes up to you and says oh I'm thinking
about switching to Windows 8 what do you
think that's like do you like do you
like to tell time what time is it you'd
say it's let me check not why let me
check my phone and they pull out their
phone and they say well it's 751 see is
it because if you were running Windows 8
on that not it would be wrong see how we
listed that story into something that it
really wasn't so just say no right you
can get the full stories at category 5
tvs flash newsroom this week the
category 5 TV newsroom is research by
Roy W Nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think is worthy of honor
mentioned you can email
that newsroom at category five TV for
the category five TV newsroom I'm
crystal wells its Christa I've been I've
been working hard on developing new
software have you I love coding I'm like
I know well like when you sit down and
you know when you're when you create
something graphically and it feels
really good to create yes so for me
coding is that yeah so writing programs
that nobody else has done or that I'm
doing better than someone else really
feels like exciting to me so I've been
building new transcoders for the show
and what that means is that file sizes
for your RSS feeds and for distribution
on our website everything is going down
but quality is going up so strangely
enough you're able to get a file that is
smaller but it's better quality so it's
faster downloads better quality less
bandwidth usage and all that kind of
stuff so I'm thinking specifically of
people who are in the military and you
know maybe don't have access to really
good high-speed Internet and so we
created a new LD transcoder which is low
definition but get this an mp3 of the
entire episode of category 5 is about 60
Meg's
right the full hour including video and
audio being able to watch it in a
quality that is reasonable enough is
only 50 Meg's ah so anyway so this is
something that I've been experimenting
with and we're gonna be seeing that over
the next couple weeks so if you notice
some changes in quality it's probably
just me tinkering around with the new
transcoders but really exciting stuff
really exciting to to see what you know
what that's going to do for our viewers
I've always been working toward we've
been working on it for a couple years
now getting the show really readily
available in mainland China it's really
tough because of the Great Firewall of
China and so we have basically created
this whole system with that in the back
of my mind to completely avoid any of
that blockage or so everybody's gonna
have access to this is gonna be fast
it's gonna be the best that we've ever
had and it's gonna be just in time for
season 7 which is starting at the end of
next month so
pretty exciting and it's all content
distribution so it's all done through
Amazon who hopefully they'll stay online
all the time all the time that would be
helpful
hey do we have some viewer questions I'd
love to I know we're tight for time and
everybody who is here with us and for
sending in your questions okay all right
what do you have a few here question
from Xavier hey Xavier it says hi there
first of all I would like to streaming a
real event from a venue I would like to
stream a real event for venue therefore
I would like to ask your help to find
out how this would work
okay I would like to use two different
cameras and only software solution
acceptable for the encoding and for
video mixing as well sure I I have a Sat
uplink satellite internet so it's
reasonably fast but not very fast it's
always looking for some programs that
you could use to achieve as goals an SDI
s video or fire okay shall use that
those are different kinds of cameras
yeah SDI and firewire s-video are
different interfaces for the capture
device so firewire being a digital
standard but it's SD it's a really low
quality 720 by 480 if I recall so the
equivalent of DVD quality which you
think is really really high because DVDs
look good but in fact an SD camera in
the same resolution is not going to turn
out very impressive video unless you've
got a two to three thousand dollar
camera but if you're gonna spend that
kind of money and as well buy an HD
camera and they're gonna get way better
quality anyways depending on your budget
and that's a big loaded question because
you're asking me okay well what do I
need I would suggest you get two cat
five dot TV slash Wirecast it's the
software that we use I tried doing this
last week can I do this right now Krista
can we smile just for for our viewers
aver who is asking this question I'm
gonna try to take a screen shot so you
can see what this actually looks like to
us so smile for the camera
how's that did I get it so Xavier what
this software does now I'm really
quickly gonna go into GIMP and dry
pasting because what happened last week
is then when we copied the show notes
and everything at it over wrote the
clipboard so we're gonna get at this
time folks you're gonna have a
screenshot of a live broadcast of
category-five from within
Wirecast we got it yes okay Pence's I do
look pensive they're interesting it's
probably thinking about how I could get
the screenshot so with Wirecast it's
software and you can plug in as many
cameras as your computer can handle but
here's the thing the more cameras that
you have the more power you need
you asked about firewire so I'm going to
suggest ya go that route give it a try
and get cheap little firewire cameras I
wish I could reach one I can see one
right there we used to use them they
were okay they did okay for a live event
they work great you can run them off of
a laptop and it will still work
fantastically well because it's low
resolution you're not gonna get HD
quality but you're gonna get fair enough
quality it's gonna work really well
because there's not a lot of CPU
overhead on an SD camera as soon as you
jump into HD you need power and a lot of
it for us to run three cameras it takes
a whole lot of power it takes a computer
that is dreadfully heavy to carry around
you wouldn't want to use it for live
venues because to move it around is just
unbelievably heavy SDI is another good
option if you want to get a deck link
card from Blackmagic designs you can get
all that stuff from cat5 dot TV /bh but
you know I I don't know what else to say
Wirecast has a great forum a community
where you can get in there depending on
whether you're gonna be running Windows
or Mac get in to the appropriate forum
for Telestream Wirecast and just follow
the links and when you're there ask the
question there are some very helpful
people in the community such as Craig
ass and Craig will gladly point you in
the right direction and I suggest that
because that's what they do we utilize
the software we utilize the technology
we have been here long enough I mean
we're coming up on our seventh year
we're in our seventh year and
and so you know I've been around the
block enough times to know how to do it
but to you there might be specifics that
you are looking for so lighting is key
lighting is very very important for live
broadcasting we are blinded by the
lights that we have here in the studio
it's true I come out with a bit of a tan
afterwards I absolutely do
yeah yeah I haven't even been in the Sun
this year and yet you can see I've got
this farmer's tan going on yeah just
from these lights because I'm here every
Tuesday night for an hour so good luck
hope that helps it's a loaded question
my friend email me if you want more if
you want to just chat and we'll just go
back and forth together what else we got
do we're literally out of time do we
have time I just oh I'm so sorry folks
that I'm that I've talked so much that
I've talked too much
I hope that you've enjoyed yourself
knowing that it's been fun then I had
fun I had yeah yeah so if I had fun they
had if she had fun fantastic she even
learned to back up at first he's so
proud like a proud mom I finally got
folks have a fantastic week next week
aired kid is gonna be joining me we're
gonna be taking a look at some of these
really cool devices from Rico magic
we've got this MK 602 we're gonna be
taking a look at oh yes sits atop your
television and turns it into a Skype
video communications unit we've got all
that stuff the 802 for the the 702 to
remote control the dreamiest remote for
your HTPC it all comes to you from Rico
Magic we're gonna be looking at it next
week
with Eric kits so thanks a lot for being
here with us thanks Krista thank you
fantastic week see it
we hope you enjoy the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every Tuesday at
7:00 p.m. Eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category-five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution 2.5 Canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
