welcome to episode number 309 of
category-five technology TV so nice
having you here it's Tuesday the 20th of
August 2013 I'm Robby Ferguson hey how's
it going awesome how you doing oh you
know keep it real some are going good
very good how's my tan working re-engage
your tan from your head yeah how much
how much glare is there how much shine
on your screens at home coming up in the
newsroom this episode got a lot
happening in the world attack news nice
Microsoft and Google are battling it
over Google suspension of the Windows
Phone YouTube
Mark Zuckerberg Facebook wall was
breached by user watching his attention
about a security exploit his dad laid in
with yeah no it wasn't me it was and
what they did the exploit earth I just
said exploit the upcoming follow-up to
the hit game minecraft has been canceled
no no pointed and lastly some of the ads
you are seeing on YouTube might not not
actually be from YouTube so stick around
we're gonna discuss these stories and a
little bit
that's insane my goodness okay tonight
we are gonna tackle a question from pals
98 who wrote us this week and said is
there any way to send notification
pop-ups to computers on my home network
well there is we're gonna take a look at
how we can do it on both Linux and
Windows systems tonight so don't go
anywhere it's gonna be a lot of fun and
we also have a prize to give away you
know hi love
Isis hello make sure you are in the chat
true that's right the chatroom in order
to qualify for such a fabulous prize
final hint
what is this prize Robbie will talk all
about it after the break we'll be right
back it's gonna be an awesome show don't
go anywhere
this is category 5 technology TV
at eco alkaline z' we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkaline
zuv the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium Eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkaline
difference eco alkaline scum this is
category 5 technology TV I'm here with
Hilary rumble aah I have an iPod touch
he'll I heard yours got stolen yeah
let's just rub some salt in my wounds
oh I'll do better got a letter here from
Rob gore says hey Hillary hey this is an
8 gig iPod touch
that I wish to give to you what it's to
replace the one that was stolen from
your car by those Punk kids he says I've
included a new set of earbuds which
should work these came with a tablet I
recently got and haven't used I hope
that you enjoy it from Robert Gore's
insky aka Rob Gor in the chat room smell
burn Australia thank you so much Rob Gor
for thinking of them so thoughtful I
could but I'm not going to because that
makes for bad television I love our
community how everybody got together so
high the community and some of the
people here at the at the show also came
together and got you some iTunes cards
and things so you're gonna be able to
load it up with music get you up and
running I'm so excited I have been
without music for so long and this is a
special treasure thank you for thinking
of me all the way in Australia you the
best way to go rob Gore you're
officially the best in Hillary rumbles
books thanks and thanks to our community
thank you to our community for
supporting us
this week has been tremendous we've
received a fair number of donations
toward just funding the show and we've
talked a little bit about the upcoming
renovations that I'm really really
looking forward to I did mention it on a
previous show but we got our quote from
the renovator like the the person who's
gonna do the work for us he designs it
and he's got it all in 3d CAD and all
that and it is more expensive than we
had anticipated so so it's really just a
you know it's baby steps to saving up
money so that we can get that done and
and what that means to you the viewers
is just simply that we're gonna have our
own space it's gonna be sound proofed
it's going to be whole you know the
whole goal is to have better quality and
be able to do this on an ongoing basis
because we're coming up I don't know if
you realize but our 7th season starts at
the end of next month and so as we
approach that I'm starting to you know
get excited about what we're gonna be
doing over the next 6 7 8 10 years and
and so we really do need that a little
bit of space because right now if you
don't know we're actually broadcasting
from the basement of my house and there
comes a point where you know season
seven is beginning folks and and we do
need our own space we're at that point
so I appreciate all the support that
came in this week thank you very very
much for sending in a donation if you
care to send in a donation if you're
able of course you got to realize that
every little bit helps because if let's
say 500 viewers which is a very small
percentage of the actual viewership of
the show but if 500 people were all to
give 25 to 50 dollars then there's the
renovation project all paid for which is
astounding when you think about it so
even you know a reasonably small
donation with more people doing the same
thing can really have a huge impact so
we appreciate it but it's a cat5 dot TV
slash see if you care to participate in
that at this point and we appreciate it
very much I want to say hello to our new
viewers the list is growing ok once
again
sure hey cron welcome also to gizmo
kosis orbit ron's nice to have you
joining us here category 5 and we also
want to say hello to knots 11 - 2 -
sans-serif I love your font Phil
Crawford 1956 Hecht or ooh see down
sprint I'll be welcome you to Raphael
rods Oh 3 nice to have you joining our
community and twinkle - love your song
pals six - five six five welcome to the
show we also want to welcome Camello
claudio to nero and enemy of the
Federation
you're watching well also glad that
Sauber said 91 is watching - and finally
a new registration on our website
category 5 TV Laura and Tim very nice to
have you joining us on the show as well
thank you for registering on our website
you can do so at it's absolutely free to
be a part of this community
category 5 TV head on over there and
you'll get some extra bonus features
when you are a registered viewer for
example you can win stuff what do we got
tonight we've got another one of these
newer technology 7 port USB 2.0 hubs
with 4 amp power supply this has got
dedicated 2.1 amp output so if you want
to charge a device it has a lot of power
to it so make sure that you get into the
chat room it's really you know I can't
stress enough get into the chat room
draw bot is gonna be joining us there in
just a couple of moments time and so
that's what we're giving away tonight
we'll send it anywhere in the world
because we love you
wide world did I mention you got to be a
registered viewer on the website you got
to get in the chatroom don't worry if
you're not registered get into the
chatroom we're live
go to category 5 dot TV join the chat
room there you can go to interact and go
in there you can go in a category 5 on
freenode you can get in that way and
then if you win you can register on the
website that's all golden easy all right
before we give it away if you have
a problem with your computer I'm trying
to well I guess no you weren't here last
week nobody was here last week it was
all me the vacations special it was just
me and a camera in the community it
really Andrew Jamison kind of hit the
nail on the head that it kind of felt
like the olden days when it was just me
doing the show from the basement studio
and things were pretty you know a lot
less sophisticated back then but as far
as the community interaction when it you
know the the response from that episode
has been pretty astounding I appreciate
all your emails and comments on YouTube
and commenting below and and all that
but really kind of gave me a feel of you
know this this is really what it used to
feel like to do the show way back when
and you know things have changed because
we've grown and we but at the same time
it kind of reminds me that we really
need to be that intimate with our
community so one of the things that I
really want to step up is the ability to
actually help you with your computer
trouble so if you're running Linux
windows get Team Viewer installed and
we'll actually use TeamViewer as best we
can to get into your system and help you
with the problems that you're having so
if that's something that interests you
make sure that you install TeamViewer
and then just private message us in the
chat room also you can call us two five
four five two two eight five eight eight
give us a call and cancel yeah all right
so we ready for this yes we've got this
is the newer technology USB 2.0 hub it
will take a single USB port and turn it
into seven ports
it's got dedicated power so it's not
going to draw power from the USB port on
your computer that's fantastic
so here we go draw bot is in the chat
room and doing its thing
everybody good luck good luck
they draupadi ever in your favor
and of course we're gonna send this
anywhere in the world I don't care where
you live folks if you win this thing all
you have to do is email us live at
category five TV send us your address
and we're gonna ship this thing out to
you I see Paul are eight and Chasse
Linux and puffy make it cook good to see
you again Dennis Kelly kick
hey jot that didn't pause on your name
there sorry about that we tried to
program it Jim Gregory hey Pyrus Rock
Access web and correlate sensor if in
the chat room tonight for the USB 2.0
hub what would you do with this plug-in
like seven USB flash drives and have an
enormous amount of flash drives I love
it for powering my my computer devices
that are powered by us it doesn't
require powerful
right it's speeding up folks here we go
I'll Kent twg never Jamison I see you
there
really read them guys cut your names
on draw bot you take a long time when
there's this many people the winner is
zip
congratulations you're the big big
winner
I got one of these for you all you got
to do is just get on over to your email
application make sure you registered on
the website as well okay category 5 dot
TV but get into your email email me live
at category 5 dot TV and when you do
that just tell me your real name where
we can ship that to so that's your your
full address and probably include a
phone number in there as well just for
the courier in case yeah and no one our
luck we're sending it probably to some
crazy where are you from difficult and
maybe it's a different if gee who knows
all right congratulations I'll watch for
that email keep in mind you've got 30
days in order to claim your prize so
make sure that email comes to us within
the next 30 days so very good our mobile
site is up and running tonight MCAT five
dot TV now you've got an iPod Touch it's
got a camera you can scan that code it
will bring it up and you'll be good good
to go I think it's even got a full
charge investigator commercial break ok
ok what do you want to do just kidding
always lots happening here in category 5
did you know that category 5 dot TV is a
member
truly a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters thanks oh all right tonight
we got a well we got a question I guess
you've got that question there pals
98 emailed and that have this kind of
intriguing question for me so take it
away hell let's tackle this shall we
is there any way to send pop-up messages
to any PC on a home network
hmm well what operating system are you
using let's tackle them one by one it
doesn't say so we're gonna just have to
start with I don't know Microsoft
Windows we can handle that all right so
I've got we've got a couple systems here
tonight that have Windows on them mm-hmm
I don't like to show them on the air
because you know gives you that kind of
bile taste in your mouth but you've got
your Windows laptop we're going to
utilize that tonight I've got the
windows broadcast system here so what
we're gonna do first of all this is so
that we can send notifications so think
about why this might be handy and I
suggested in the email that I sent out
to you an hour ago for those of you who
are registered for that what happens if
you're you know dinner's ready and your
kids aren't on Facebook and you need to
get ahold of them not that that ever
happens you'll always get them on
Facebook but imagine being able to pop
up little windows on their computer to
annoy them that's fine time for dinner
or whatever it could be it could be
helpful for other reasons so this is
we're looking at a way to do that
without having to install something like
an instant messenger or Skype or jitsi
or something that allows you to use an
external server we're actually going to
send messages directly to each
individual computer so on Windows
there's a couple of things that we need
to consider so we've got two computers
one that's going to be sending the
messages and one that's going to be
receiving them so let's pretend that the
receiving one is the kids or whatever in
this case it's your laptop so the first
thing that we need to do is we need to
open regedit on your computer so this is
the one we're gonna be sending messages
to and we need to enable something
called allow remote RPC so we go into H
key local machine system
currentcontrolset and then in control
and then terminal server you're gonna
see that key allow remote RPC and within
that there it is it's up at the top
there the default is that it's set to
zero so we want to actually set that to
one it's going to now allow us to send
messages to that computer easy-breezy
right so then on the same computer
there's another
we want to do is we want to make sure of
course that the firewall is going to
allow us to send messages through it so
we need to bring up our control panel
and it's pretty easy to configure the
Windows Firewall you can you know some
people disable it if they've got an that
but what we're going to do is we're
going to do it what would be considered
the more proper way I'm going to go into
the firewall settings and click on
change settings and then allow another
program and we're gonna just browse to
the MSG exe application which is
probably located if you're on Windows 7
like we are it's gonna be located in C
colon slash windows / system 32 so let's
just find it here and once you've got
just push em and it jumps down there it
is so okay we've clicked on that hit add
and it's going to automatically assign
defaults for your home network you see
that it's now got a checkmark beside
message utility and we're good to go so
now we've got the ability to send
messages through the firewall on this
particular computer good thing so then
we need to actually make some changes to
the computer that we're going to be
sending the messages from in this case
I've only got a couple of windows
computers so I'm going to actually use
this from our broadcast system over here
so again I'm going to bring up some
settings for this I'm going to open
credentials manager and what we want to
do is we want to add a windows
credential and add the computer name in
our case it's laptop - - win7 and then
enter the username and password on that
computer that allows access to it so
once that's added now we're going to be
able to send messages so we can just
enter this simple command and I'm gonna
give that to you it's gonna let's go
back to the laptop and see what it did
there we go
lo and behold there's our message so the
command just so you have it and I'm
gonna post this in the show notes for
episode number 309 is simply msg because
MSG dot exe is the executive all you
don't need to enter the path because
it's in the path msg space slash server
colon the computer name laptop when
seven in this case and then I put an
asterisk which means any user because
we've already set it up in credential
manager I could have put laptop there
because laptop is my username on that on
the laptop and then the in quotes the
message that you want to send to that
computer because the quotes will allow
you to do things like have apostrophes
and spaces right if there if you didn't
have those quotes they might break some
stuff so that's one way to do it on
Windows and we're not going to get too
much into how to do things on windows
because harness our energies elsewhere
yes thank you
thank you I'd like to direct you also
though while we're on the topic of
Windows and um just do a quick search
here for an application called stickies
from Z horn software it's Z horn
software dot Co dot uk'
and this is another tool that I like to
use on windows and this is a little bit
different it's a little more like an
instant messenger in that it's an it's
an application that you install it's not
included with your system it's free you
can donate if you like it but what's
nice about it once you download it and
install it see these are just like
sticky notes and you can right click on
the title of any one of them and send it
to a friend
and so you configure your friend list
and your friend list is in fact IP
address is on your internal network so
that could work well for you too and
then it becomes something that's a
little more robust than just sending a
message that once closed it's gone the
stickies that's kind of like a bit more
of a data based system it saves flat
files and you can refer back to old
stickies and you can reply to them
and you know it's a little more advanced
so check that when I was a horn software
co uk slash stickies and again links are
going to be in the show notes for
episode number 309 cool dude
so that's windows all right shall we
tackle Linux let's let's do this way
okay so this this is where things get a
little bit all right I got to bring up a
virtual machine that I'm gonna use as my
other Linux computer here I'd like to
show you a couple of different options
here for our viewer who's looking for a
way to do this okay so I'll just bring
up the Linux machine as soon as the
delay as I do that yeah it's cool that
we can do that for sure
there are a couple of different tools
that we want to look at tonight in order
to make this happen so once I've got my
virtual machine up okay so the first one
I want to show you is that it called X
message and it's included with your
computer while that's booting up I'll
actually show you it so just go into
your terminal and watch this so the
command is going to be X message now
look notice that I'm doing this on the
local host computer right we want to add
a button that just says okay so it goes
just like that nice and simple and then
we're gonna actually locate it in the
center of the screen because you want it
to be noticeable and here's where things
are fun because you can actually have it
load a file but what we want to do is we
want to say no we want to instead I've
just put a hyphen there to say no we're
not gonna do a file we're instead going
to do whatever is within this quotation
so we'll say hello there Hillary okay
so then I'll hit enter and there we go
oh and I guess I don't need file - I
thought I did because it actually
appended that to the text so let's try
it without cool it's possible they've
changed some of the some of the the way
that it works or maybe I'm just wrong
well that works fine anyways about it so
there you go so that's a you know a
little bit of a pop-up dialog on Linux
but it's not that pretty and it's it's
pretty old
old-school alright I'm going to show you
one that is much much better and is is
becoming kind of the de-facto for Linux
especially if you're using you know
anything that's semi-modern we're gonna
do an apt arming sudo apt-get update get
the latest repositories notice I'm doing
this in the terminal because I don't
want you to be afraid of the terminal
nice and simple we're gonna look at lib
notify aka
notify send so we're gonna install that
first because this particular one notice
that X message I didn't have to install
this one I do sudo apt-get install lived
notify - bin I believe is the package
there it goes
ok so that following new package is
gonna be installed it's going
ok so now we're gonna type notify - send
and then in quotes again hello Hillary
okay now I'm gonna zoom out so that you
see what actually happens here as soon
as I hit enter there it is how great is
that and it damages after a little bit
and it also has an X button so that you
can close it if you want it to last
forever so you watch see there goes it
disappears yeah you can actually command
it to stay on the screen forever by
setting the timeout to zero and then it
will never go away until you click the X
there couple other nice little features
for example if you add a secondary quote
so let's add a title by having another
quote here and we'll say here's a title
and you'll see that it actually created
two lines okay with the two different
quotes alright so you see the little
formatting
really really simple okay so now that's
all localhost
so it's all fine and good but what we
want to do is we want actually be able
to send these messages to another
computer on our land or of course you
could do this for the Internet as well
because we're gonna do it through and
it's a secure connection called SSH so
we want to make sure that we have a
ssh server installed on the computer
that we're going to be sending messages
to remember that this is all happening
on that computer so I've installed
notify sand aka live notify - bin on the
computer that we're sending the messages
to so I'm gonna go where was I all right
oh yes as OpenSSH sudo apt-get install
open is H - server just make sure that
this installed mine says that it is
already the newest version so I'm good
to go
all right so now let's go to another
computer we're using a virtual machine
but forget about the fact that this is a
virtual machine okay because it's strict
it is exactly the same as another
computer on your network you don't need
to use a virtual machine this could be
another computer in another room we're
just using a so that we can SSH em okay
so what I'm gonna do is I'm going to use
that computer to SSH into that computer
so SSH Robby is the username on the
computer at and then the IP address
which we can obtain from that computer I
get rid of that dialog here so from my
destination computer and go sudo
ifconfig and I get my IP address which
is 10.0.0.0 back at my other computer
we're gonna be sending it from 10.0.0.0
diff all is good there we go so now I'm
actually connecting to that computer and
I have connected to its terminal so if I
do anything such as X message watch what
happens X message and then the format
that we used before we're gonna do
exactly the same thing button okay and
we're gonna use - Center we're gonna
leave off file - and we're gonna go test
and if I hit enter watch what happens
we're gonna get an error message here
can't open display what but I thought
I'd done it right I've SSH damn what am
I doing wrong here well the fact is I
I'm connected to a terminal session on
the compute
I'm not actually connected to the X
session which means the graphical user
interface as you can see I'm connected
to a text-based connection to the
computer so I'm entirely working in the
background and the person who's sitting
at that computer right now doesn't see
that I'm connected there's no obvious
sign that I'm connected yeah so how do I
get it to come up on their computer well
it's actually quite simple we're gonna
use a command called display and so all
I need to do I'm gonna bring back up
that message and I'm gonna just add a
space there it's all capitals here's
what we're gonna do display equals colon
zero that's our that's probably the the
display that you're using and when I do
that I'm going to move this virtual
machine out of the way and you can you
know that that's still an SSH connection
I hit enter and you notice there's my
test dialog on the computer okay see and
that can be whatever message hello Helen
right and again it's going to show up on
my ex display because I've piped it
through to display zero which is of
course you know I got a single ex
session running so it's golden it's
quite quite likely going to work for
every K so or you can play around with
it if you have any trouble so let's go
back to that same concept that same
premise and say okay well I'm SS aged
into that computer from my linux
computer to let's say another linux
computer in the house so now I want to
go display all caps equals : zeros space
okay and now we're gonna go notify -
send - t zero remember what that does
hel - t zero it makes it so that it
never times out so it's always gonna
stay up until somebody presses X that's
right
I remember you saying that but I gotta
grill yeah really emit I blanked out for
a second under pressure okay now in the
quotes we're gonna go
hilary is awesome stating the obvious
but very forgetful okay so wrap to the
next line okay what did I do here I've
got first quotes is gonna be what but
it's gonna do what it's gonna be the
title line yes and the second one is
going to be the actual pie line the
second line so you notice what did I
start it with it's gonna pipe it through
to the X display of the system that I'm
SS aged into it's gonna use notify sense
so now I'm going to again move this
virtual machine out of the way but I'm
gonna hit enter on that virtual machine
which is SSH tin to my host and there it
is there it is people and it will never
go away until I click the X because I
did the dash t0 and you can set the
timeout to something other than zero you
could set it to 30 seconds you can set
it to five minutes if you wanted to I
think it's in milliseconds so you might
have to do a little bit of math little
get into Google and see what they say
and there you have it I mean there's a
couple of solutions for you ssh into the
computer from linux and you're gonna
you're gonna be flying speaking of
getting access to to google to do them
half where were you did he make it
through the big google outage of 2013
what google outage it that's
inconceivable the google when she never
died I didn't even know what to do I was
like how do I find out news about the
Google outage when Google is down past
news.google.com didn't work I'm not
joking I know what do you do here we go
I was there people whoa huh
it's not just you it has never happened
to me before I win so I check the comm
it's not just Canada either what and
what else
so okay we know that Google also owns
some other big websites they do indeed
could it be that YouTube was also down
no but here's some sad news for you come
on yeah then how did you find out
anything I couldn't I didn't even didn't
even go there when did this happen
that was Friday at about a quarter to
7:00 p.m. Eastern Time
basically when Google goes down novice
users think the internet is broken I
would think that I'd be like oh great
the world is over well I tried Google
yeah it must be the apocalypse if Google
is fairly logical explanation I try
Google and I couldn't get anything
I checked YouTube what other websites do
you went to category five and it worked
so that was okay so least you know
somebody Scott everything but all our
analytics were down and our advertising
wasn't working what gives hey did you
did you catch it when it happened so we
literally need a t-shirt I was there we
go go on down when Google went down down
down down and it all Wow Google is in a
bit of a yeah a little bit of a fight
happening right now I'm gonna tell you
the stock top story from category-five
TV newsroom gentlemen a bitchin role has
broken out between Google and Microsoft
over the Windows Phone YouTube ah wait a
second did this fight cause the downing
of goop oh oh you Bing was up Google has
blocked users from watching videos via
the app saying it violated its term of
service in May Microsoft's first attempt
at creating a YouTube app was blocked
after Google complained it failed to
display ads correctly the companies
agreed to work together to devise a new
version but Google insisted it was
created using html5 an open web coding
standard rather than code specific to
the Windows Phone platform Microsoft
said it was unable to do this claiming
that the issues were manufactured and
Google was deliberately hindering the
Windows Phone platform in a statement
Google defended its action saying
unfortunately Microsoft has not made the
browser upgrades necessary to enable a
fully featured YouTube experience and
has instead we released a YouTube app
that violates our Terms of Service it
has been disabled oh I didn't even move
it I don't even think that the official
Google Apps for iPhone are powered by
html5 it makes sense they're pushing
that direction they want you know
obviously Apple has said no flash on the
iPhone so we got to find a different
alternative but is Windows Phone
actually using Internet Explorer 7 I
don't know it does seem a little bit
fishy though doesn't it that the Google
seems to be a little bit kind of well I
did why would they want to break some
major functionality for the world's
biggest internet based broadcasting
platform on a competing product that
makes would they want to do that maybe
it's a loophole suspicious maybe it is
what do you think we'll see what plays
out in the next little bit all right a
Palestinian programmer has highlighted a
flaw in facebook security system how did
he
he actually posted directly to Mark
Zuckerberg private wall they're not even
friends folks Khalil
Shree tech used a vulnerability that he
discovered in order to hack the account
of the Facebook founder and raise the
alarm mr. Street tech said he had tried
to use Facebook's white hat scheme which
offers a monetary reward when you report
vulnerabilities but he had been ignored
he found a security breach that allowed
Facebook users to post messages on the
private walls of people who had not
approved them as friends it overrode the
site's privacy features in the post he
wrote first he wrote although his first
language says is is Arabic but he wrote
in English saying sorry for breaking
your privacy and post to your wall but
that he had said that he had no other
choice after being ignored by Facebook's
security team who said that it was not a
bug well they were pretty thick pretty
fast to fix that they did fix it and
they said that they would not be paying
the hacker for reporting the problem
because he didn't do it by the official
channels that he was supposed to use
which as he posted on pastebin they
utterly ignored him and well I guess
they get a lot of emails and it's like
here's another guy who says oh yeah I
can post a Mark Zuckerberg wall maybe
he'll do it again and then maybe he'll
be commentated for his clear ability to
get around these I think it was pretty
clever and I do notice also that his
facebook profile hasn't been suspended
or anything so I think then they must be
being good about it and he certainly was
you know he was good about it he didn't
go and deface Mark Zuckerberg wall he
could but it is post started with dear
mint dear Mark Zuckerberg first sorry
for breaking your privacy and post to
your wall
and again is first the language is not
English but he says I has no other
choice to make after all the reports I
sent to Facebook team thickened the law
internet law in your own hands
how would you do it how would you report
this crazy bug I probably what it does
the same thing I've done the same thing
you heard it here homeboy hacker yeah
right yeah yeah developer Markus notch
Persson who created the hit online video
game minecraft says he's shelved plans
for a follow up after all hmm
the new project was provisionally titled
0x10 see it was to be space themed game
set in the distant future
Mojang the company behind minecraft
recorded all here mine in this ok 57
million pounds profit in 2012 and had
promoted 0 X 10 C during its development
mister person blamed both the high
levels of interest in the new game and
code copiers for his decision to stop
working on it he said I stopped
developing 0 X 10 C because everyone
started caring about it before it was
even done I just want to make small
games and talk to other game developers
about them forget all the hype he then
tweeted it was much easier to have grand
plans when nobody knew who I was hmm you
know it's the same thing when this show
became very very popular I was like
whatever come on don't you want don't
you want your stuff to go well he's just
a traditionalist I guess back to the
roots but it's like ok so you've built
up this massive following and people
want this game and of course you got to
take the good with the bad people are
gonna try to control what you do and
they're gonna make their own suggestions
and they're gonna post illicit ly to
your Facebook wall which has been
patched by the way but doesn't it seem
like you know you want that kind of
attention so then when he brings it out
it's huge and that's great understand
their own hey well if you want to you
know share category 5 with people and
bring
your friends then feel free we're okay
we're down with that but I am concerned
that with the cancellation of Minecrafts
successor mm-hmm what our 15 year old
boy is gonna post on YouTube from now on
I mean come on what's gonna happen to
YouTube speaking of YouTube all right
this is crazy as a Content developer on
YouTube this is kind of scary a
london-based team of security
researchers has exposed an Internet
scheme that is actually inserting
unauthorized advertising into Google's
YouTube Spyder IO discovered two
particular programs which placed ads on
youtubes website when viewed by the
affected pcs it said that the plug-in
had been promoted as a tool to download
videos from the service it said some
directed users to malware this is a
quote when a user who has installed
these plugins visits youtube.com
multiple display ad slots are injected
across the YouTube homepage channel
pages video pages and search result
pages YouTube's Terms of Service
specifically say that you are not
allowed to download rather than stream
video from YouTube so obviously they're
breaking rules to make this software
anyway but to inject advertising so if
you notice that YouTube has got a bunch
of new ads like that particular Snickers
out there that is completely not a part
of YouTube
here's my concern I don't know if you
know this or not but YouTube actually
pays a portion to help fund category 5
and all of the other shows that monetize
YouTube's platform and we're
broadcasting live tonight on YouTube
we're there we're a partner with Google
and YouTube and and that is very
important it helps us on the show so the
advertising that we display on the the
website on YouTube pays for the
broadcast you see in part so if this
tool is now injecting advertising that
is not a
part of my partnership with YouTube who
is getting that generated revenue it's
not me it's not the content providers
it's not YouTube it is some malicious
user or company hackers or whatever
clever plot but they've been found out
they're gonna have to shut it down
Google is going after any company that
tries to violate the Terms of Service in
this way but if you've noticed any kinds
of additional advertising on on YouTube
and you're concerned about it make sure
you disable some of those plugins
especially the ones that claim to be
able to download videos from YouTube and
they probably work but it's against the
Terms of Service and it's injecting
advertising in there that does not pay
the people who are delivering you the
content kind of scary very scary if you
want more information you can get these
full stories online at our website at
newsroom or category-five TV slash
newsroom and our newsroom of course is
researched by our amazing community of
viewers Android W Nash in particular we
thank you if you have a new story you
think's worthy of on-air mention send us
an email on newsroom a category 5 TV
from the newsroom I'm Hillary Rumbles
thank you yeah we use VTech cordless
phones here at this show and we've got a
net talk to a Wi-Fi that powers our
phone system and the two companies have
in fact teamed up for a back-to-school
special at Walmart Canada so get on into
the local Walmart Canada store and what
they're actually doing is they're giving
you a year subscription of phone
services of the net talk to a Wi-Fi
you'll find out more at net talk go to
cap five TV slash net talk is probably a
good way to do it
cap five TV slash phone and with this
device you get unlimited calling
anywhere in Canada the u.s. okay with
the bundle you get two cordless handsets
from VTech nice this is a back to school
deal but of course mhm
they don't check your ID you don't need
a student pass it's 80 bucks oh and you
get a full year service
Sasa unlimited long distance to Canada
us so you think about it kids are going
away to school maybe they're going off
to campus yeah and you want them to be
able to be able to keep in touch so you
buy this for them it's 80 bucks and it
gives them a full years phone service
and unlimited calling to you and it's
free to them doesn't cost them anything
you don't have to pay long distance they
can call all their friends and no
problem it's got 9-1-1 service all that
but also get this if you activate it in
canada so you get it at Walmart Canada
and then you take it as you can see give
it to your kid who is going overseas to
school it's been activated with a
Canadian phone number there in Scotland
doing their schooling you can call them
as a local call that they can call you
as a local call I love the way the
Internet has revolutionized the way that
we communicate and that talk duo is one
of those products that just drives me
mad with excitement check it out it is
the VTech and and net talk combined
back-to-school deal look for the
back-to-school stand at Walmart and
you'll see it there for 80 bucks nice
great deal sweets that's really cool
yeah well I think that we should just
you know jump right into questions
because we sent a lot of viewer
questions to attend to I want to get
into the mailbag and I want to chat with
you in the chat room as well do pick up
the phone if you'd like to give me a
call it's cat5 it's the cat phone two
five four or five cat five TV beautiful
well what do you got for first question
we've got coming to us from naked cook
okay and they could cook nikidik that
too we're not too sure which one it is
could be
fliora stuff no clothes on okay here we
go
sorry I haven't been able to watch a
show for a while I do have one question
and a request I have now moved from arch
to a debian based OS can you guess which
one
yes point Linux oh haha that was my next
guess I knew I read minds I love it and
and he says I'm really loving it it's
not as fast but it just feels right
anyway would you maybe mind doing a
short tutorial on getting the fun stuff
I'm getting to know this operating
system it was easy to install although I
move the bottom panel to include a new
dock which didn't work it was hard to
get things back to the way they used to
be so the question is triple booting and
removing one Linux OS is it just a
matter of removing that OS from your
hard drive and leaving windows and the
other Linux OS or does grub still have
all three
I have removes Linux so many times that
um but that's not just from a dual boot
it's easier to remove multiple OS or
harder while keeping two operating
systems well I think the risk that you
run when you remove an operating system
that's installed in one of the
partitions is that you could break the
bootloader so just be ready with maybe
like a super grub disk and you'll be
able to restore the grub bootloader if
necessary but otherwise just keep a good
backup you know what you can do and what
I quite often do in a scenario like this
is get a hold of Clonezilla it's free
you can boot it up from a CD that you've
burned from an ISO you can boot it up
from a USB stick Becca and I showed you
how to how to do that on episode number
307 using Clonezilla make an exact image
of your entire computer with all of the
partitions intact that way you can
delete partitions you can mess things
around and if you break it no problem
you can restore back from the image
you're good to go
so you've got more than a backup you've
got all your partition tables everything
in a restorable format so it's a
fantastic way to approach it because
then you can mess around and you're not
gonna break anything because if you do
you can restore I would say that well I
mean I've been using point linux for
quite some time now I love it
I'm going to point you in the direction
of our website go to category 5 dot TV
I'm gonna show you a little trick here
you can use the search engine but on our
website go to for example season 6 we've
done some
about 0.1 X so go to the show season six
and just scroll down to popular keywords
and you should see in here point Linux
and when you click on point Linux it
will actually take you to any of the
episodes where we featured 0.1 X so the
first one called
bringing bringing back classic Linux
happened on Episode two
pardon me 290 go take a look at that
episode we do cover getting some of the
awesome stuff going you know that you
know I'm a bit of an I can be guy yeah I
like it
I like being able to navigate my
computer in a in a productive and sane
way and doing all that kind of stuff and
so I actually show you how to do all
that sounds and through the course of
the show so you know look at each of
those episodes and and you can look at
the show notes and start at a particular
point in the episode if you like and
then if you have specific questions if
you're having trouble with a specific
thing you mentioned that you made some
changes to the panels and things and you
know maybe there's a specific issue that
you're having there that you want to get
get something working then just let us
know with a bit more specific so that we
can we can really help and again I'd say
you know I would like to get the show
more into let's provide remote support
and and if that can be something that we
can do with the show in such a way that
viewers are not you know that it works
with the flow of the show because we do
need to also keep in mind that other
people are watching who may not be
affected by the same problem so we try
to keep a good pace to the show but if
that's something that we can do maybe
you know if you have a specific question
that has to do with the dock bar or
something along those lines we can
remote in and see if we can service that
for you fix it show everybody else how
to do it great thanks for the email
mm-hmm do time for another one please
okay this is a three parter all right
hello I just discovered your show today
and I am completely inspired awesome
decided to build my own computer rig and
start broadcasting but I had a couple of
questions number one is windows the only
way to go if you're building a custom
rig and don't want to spend an arm and
ie format computers is a Linux is Linux
a viable alternative what is your
current broadcast computer setup ok well
tackle that one first yeah there are a
variety of different things that you
could do Windows is the most economical
I think way to do things because of the
fact that you don't have to get big
fancy hardware right you can get I'm
just bringing up a website here where I
can find some alternatives because
basically you're looking at you know if
you get a hardware unit that is
specifically for broadcasting with SDI
inputs and and all this kind of stuff
I'm not mentioning any names of products
you're gonna pay you know ten thousand
dollars and then plus cameras and it can
be you astoundingly expensive the nice
thing about working with a Windows
platform machine is that you can go with
Telestream Wirecast which the
professional edition of the software
will run you about a thousand dollars
there is a very very reasonable version
of the software available for you that
is about five hundred dollars we go to
cat five dot TV slash Wirecast it's just
a short link to get you there and you'll
see it as some of the options here what
this software provides and this is in
fact what we use for the show and just
for the sake of those who are watching
after the fact what I'm actually going
to do I'm gonna try taking a screen shot
of that so smile there you go so I've
actually taken a screen shot of wire
cast on my screen over there and if I
remember to paste from my clipboard then
then we should be alright
but with this software you're able to do
full camera switching everything on a
Windows or Mac platform and Windows is
cheaper than Mac because it's not in
proprietary Hardware so we built an i7
2670 dal OTT of power and that's not a
Wirecast issue that's not anything at
all if you're going to be doing any kind
of HD video production you have to have
CPU memory and really good hard drive
through but if you're if you've got a
little 5400 rpm laptop it's not gonna
happen and people complain and say oh
well Wirecast is slow or it can't it
buffers or no no but if you are creating
a bottleneck by having an insufficient
residual to give Wirecast it's like
we're doing HD video we're doing we've
got monitors all around me we've got
everything is running from one system
camera camera camera camera sound audio
I'll put our chain of how things work up
on the website on episode 309 we've got
a monitor out there for heather to use
so that she can see the show as it's
happening so that you know because we're
behind a whole bunch of stuff those of
you watching backstage pass can see
we're actually kind of blocked in here
yeah so all this is done from one system
it takes a lot of power so that's where
this is interesting this kind of leads
into why did that you then choose the
Thermaltake chasis chassis yeah
the Thermaltake sazar six was our first
really high you know quality chassis
that we put into the studio and it's
right in front of us here and it's
running the demo system so that's the
system that we do all of our all of the
on-screen display mmm then we've got the
Thermaltake level 10 Snow Edition which
you know if you if you look back at some
of the old episodes you'll know why we
went with that route it is very roomy it
has it's lightweight it's very solid and
it's a fantastic chassis for what we do
it's got a lot of room to be able to put
in extra cards we put in a pretty big
motherboard in there and here's the
kicker it also has a carrying handle and
that is specifically something that we
wanted in our wire cast box because we
wanted to be able to take it from place
yeah for sure
so that's that's a big thing too and we
wanted it to be solid enough that we
weren't going to have any trouble with
moving it around the other thing about
the thermaltake jassi's plural is that
they have incredible cooling systems so
everything is liquid cooled here it's
all done by
we'll take and and not only that but the
chassis do they do have some giant fans
on them and they keep the system's
running very very cool which increases
performance which allows us to do the
show without any kind of issues he had
those in the past I mean we we learned
from our growth I won't call them
mistakes it was we've done everything
that we've done with a budget and you
know a shoestring and we've grown as we
go and so it's been an exciting process
and that's kind of how we make our
decisions is what's gonna work best for
us within an economical standpoint but
also doing a good job of what we do so
if I if I can just take this call we
have somebody here on the line thank you
for calling hello hello who's this hello
oh no we established Who I am phone haha
call back you have a few minutes yeah
you got a couple minutes to call back
maybe maybe we'll hear from me again
okay I hope that was good and then it
was just the last thing this is a tip
for shooting this is I forgot to say
this emails from Corey and Corey's gonna
be shooting a piano playing and once
Andover cool shots do you have any
recommendations on a camera or camera
stand that he should be using to get
that
okay can we come right back to your
question about a stand because we've got
another call here hello Robert Gore's
insky calling from Australia thanks Rob
and we appreciate your you're supporting
us as well here at the show means a lot
and we love having you as a part of the
community do you are so fantastic and I
know that Hillary is going to enjoy some
awesome music on her new iPod thanks man
thanks for calling okay take care
bye-bye
okay so thanks for the call Rob Gore
appreciate it what are we gonna do to my
to put a camera on ya you need to kind
of keep that you need you kind of need a
wide-angle a and it has to be such high
quality that you can see the fingering
because if you're all up and down the
keys it it's got to work right yeah so
you want to go with something that's
gonna do HD yes that can be like a
camcorder we're using an hf r 10 from
canon it's cheap it gets the job done
it's hdmi output it goes to hdmi input
through a Blackmagic intensity Pro which
is you know cheap card the
you can put into the commands to do it
so it's not the best quality as he you
know you can see it's not like a twenty
thousand dollar camera but it's not a
twenty thousand dollar camera no you're
looking at it you know if you budget
five hundred dollars you're gonna be
able to do it you're good to go you can
do webcams if you want you can get a
good HD HD webcam for sub $100 but by
doing that you are going to have to
invest in lighting because webcams if
you don't have good lighting they're
gonna clock down the framerate and
you're gonna lose
you're gonna lose motion yeah as the
frame rate goes down in order to
compensate for the under exposure so get
something like a consumer hand camera
that is going to be high definition
again a high definition and can be
elevated how can we put it up in the air
Heather can you take a shot of just our
stand and you'll see that we use
microphone stands here at least we don't
use tripods we use these microphone
stands and with those we put a little
you know quarter inch threaded nut on
there so that a bolt and it holds it
onto the stand and I've been developing
something here which is a 5-4 head
tripod mount on a microphone stand and
this is kind of this is going to be our
baby so this is these are Microsoft
LifeCam studio cameras and we can here's
the thing we can make them move around
however we want okay but because it's on
a microphone stand look what we can do
it's got a boom it's got a swivel see
how the swivel works here
with that so now you've got the ability
to do any kind of shot that you need to
do you can get these things up pretty
high on your piano if you want to get
something like this
and get it right up there right so that
might be an option microphone stands are
excellent for that because of the fact
that you can move it around them and
extend it
very cool option creative of it a little
bit more maneuverability than a tripod
set those options know how you fare and
maybe will tune in to your show very
soon that sounds good I will post any
information that I have for you links to
product that we use to build that kind
of stuff in the show notes for episode
number 309 have a great week it's been
nice having you here thanks for joining
us thanks hell no problem it's been a
slice so see you later have a great week
see ya
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m.
Eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category-five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution 2.5 Canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
