welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w dot category 5 by
TV or email us at live at category 5
and now let's Kim here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 193
of category 5 technology TV great to see
ya it's Tuesday made the 31st 2011 ya
did it go June and it's feeling like
summer out there today was crazy it was
like freezing last week yeah oily last
week I couldn't put out my garden
because then we're gonna have frost on
Thursday and it's like Oh at like 30
degrees today amazing I'm Robbie
Ferguson it's good to see ya I'm crystal
walls and Hillary is going to be joining
us for the news in the meantime I'll let
you know what's what's coming up we've
got skype that went down just about two
weeks after it was acquired by microsoft
like we didn't see that coming I'll just
slip in some new features oh it's not
flying she'll be telling us more about
that in just about a half hour Apple CEO
Steve Jobs is going to make a trip to
the big stage next week at and he's
going to be making some announcements
about iOS 5 as well as their iCloud
service apparently it's no big whoop but
linux 3.0 is going to be released very
soon and also even when you think you're
buying a linux smartphone if you think
you're sticking it to microsoft did you
know that you can actually be putting
some money in their pocket so stick
around Hillary's going to have some news
for us in about a half hour in the
meantime tonight we're welcoming your
viewer point your viewer questions I'm
thinking viewer points because I know
we've got some sand photos to look at
but we do have we're opening up the chat
room if you want to get your questions
in Christa's watching there make sure
you say an hour you Kristen tonight are
you like also a star cristy awesome no
high expectations all right I will op
Krista so if you're in the chat room
just say Krista Robbie F and then your
question and that will hopefully get our
attention a little easier
we ask that you're not flood and God
will will kind of help to maintain that
but at the same time we do want to get
your questions in tonight so so do your
best to to snag our attention when we're
in between stuff and we've got our email
addresses live at category 5 TV if you
need to do so by email but the chat room
during a live show is a great way to get
to get your questions in alright so as
it was Sam we've got some viewer viewer
photos that were submitted this week and
as you know this week's challenge for
viewer points this is 400 viewer points
is too yeah a lot that's a lot 10 of
those will get you your first award so
this week's is is once again we want to
see category 5 TV being displayed the
way that you watch the show so it's
rather interesting to see you know
people watch it on their mobile devices
people watch it on big screen TVs and
then of course there's there's those of
us that that just watch it on the
computer as well so first up 400 points
we've got Dan Murphy who works from home
and uses this set up to watch category 5
technology TV it looks pretty good we've
got an iPad there on the right a
computer tower further right and what a
laptop on the left and a couple of
computer monitors so lots of room for
the chat room lots of room to to watch
the show full screen as well and very
very cool so Dan we will will throw 100
viewer points your way and thanks for
sending that in also I've got one here
from Jaguar who uses a mac connected to
the big screen TV now as you recall this
was actually this this gentleman had
sent us a video last week and I said ah
we got a we've got to actually see
category 5 up on your screen than there
he is very nice screen grab and what
happened is he explained that well I
actually used my mac to take the picture
with the webcam so I couldn't have the
show up on the screen because I use the
mac to actually display the show so good
excuse let you away with that there's
another hundred viewer points for you
two are all right next up we've got
shall live who has XBMC running on in
Giada slim
and 20 unit oh there we go one of these
times it's going to load properly there
we go that's very cool so looks like a
nice sized toshiba screen I guess one of
these computers is running XBMC XBMC
very cool cool and we will we will throw
a hundred viewer points thanks for
submitting that that's from shall live
again and we welcome you to send in your
viewer pictures if you if you want to
snap a picture of yourself watching
category 5 TV on your device be it a
mobile device be it's a big screen TV or
even just your computer we love to we'd
love to have a picture of how you watch
the show so send that in you can send it
to live at category five dot TV we'd
love to see it cool it with 300 viewer
points tonight smokes you're just
throwing them out yeah giving them away
oh yeah okay so I'm just double-checking
just making sure we're good I guess we
can jump right into viewer questions so
again I'll remind you to join us in the
chat room category 5 TV or if you're on
freenode that's an IRC chat system
server you can just go into the category
5 channel as well and we'd love to get
your questions in and tonight we're
gonna we're really just going to rock
the viewer questions we've been doing a
web development series for the past 12
well 12 weeks so we really want to just
take some time for you the viewers and
and give you a chance to get your
questions in and we'll certainly do our
best to help you if you have questions
about technology I always say you know
if you if it's a software related issue
or hardware or if you just need some
advice if you've gone into the store and
you're not sure which laptop to buy for
example you know well we're here for you
so so send your question in great well
let's start off our first question is
from Jonathan who joins us from Kevin
Jonathan he says thank you for a great
show I found category 5 through Miro and
I've been watching over six months now
I've been trying to watch live and get
into the chat room
glad I was able to be there last week
because I want a pogoplug awesome yeah
I'm in following the web dev series
closely as I have a few sites I would
like to build I work in systems
administration mainly using windows and
I'm trying to branch out into some of
more some of the more creative aspects
linux is my OS of choice and I have been
working on development with jumia joomla
sure my eyes are blurry I feel look out
their category 5 as a resource cool so
just a bit of a testimonial there and
I'd encourage you to consider submitting
of your testimonial on our websites
that's kind of like our time capsule for
that kind of thing but nice to know that
one you found us through Miro and to
that you're enjoying the show and
getting a lot out of the series that
we've been providing so it's nice to
have you along and if you have any
suggestions for the show or if you have
any questions in particular your
questions on the show are kind of what
guide the way that each episode goes
it's a unique format as the questions of
course they're going to really control
where things go with the episode so
thanks for your email excellent our next
email is from Todd he says do you see
any point in using a swap partition on
today's modern systems now that
processors are ridiculously fast and
many systems have more than enough
physical memory why would anyone still
want or need to use swap space
definitely a valid question i would say
in my opinion that swap space is still
something that you want to have and
that's because basically linux is going
to use your swap space for a couple of
reasons but one is if you don't have
enough RAM for the running applications
or the open files for example if I've
got GIMP open and I've got a huge amount
of image data loaded into the two memory
that data has to be stored somewhere be
it Ram be at the hard drive but if
you've got 12 gigs of RAM then most
likely you're never going to exceed that
during normal use but it is possible and
and the way that linux operates as it
knows well if I need to swap I've got
this extra space and usually you want it
to be now these days I mean the amount
of swap space that you have is
is probably not as relative to the
amount of RAM that you have especially
when you've got you know 8 to 12 gigs or
even more but it's still good to have
that and the other thing is that if if
there's an application that's running
that's not actually doing anything let's
say you just to put it in a real simple
sense if you've got you've opened a
spreadsheet and it's been minimized for
three hours and Linux says I've this
doesn't need to be taking up RAM swaps
it to the hard drive to free up RAM so
that other applications can now take
that and use that paging space so that
said then you bring up the application
puts it back into Ram so it's just a way
the Linux maintains your RAM and keeps
things running smoothly and then again
you've got you know these days you've
got solid state hard drive so now the
whole thing about hard drives being so
slow is not as much of an issue with
regards to swap space but a couple of
things you can do which are kind of
interesting is get into your terminal in
Linux and use the the swap on dash S
command and I'm just doing this on my
computer here and one of the things that
you notice is that ok I've got swap
space so oh here's what I've done sudo
swap on dash S and it shows me that my
swap drive is SDA 3 it's whatever that
is eighty eighty seven or eight gigs
eight point seven gigs but used a zero
because I haven't exceeded the amount of
RAM that's in my system so regardless i
mean you're talking about well if we
have this much RAM these days why does
it why do we need it if we have hard
drives that are a terabyte in size or
hundreds of gigabytes in size what is
allocating 24 gigs to your to your swap
space that means
absolutely nothing not that you'd ever
swap that much but you know what I mean
like it's so minimal I've got eight gigs
on my laptop that are dedicated for swap
the other thing is looking at your SWA
penis which is as it sounds it actually
I'm dropping yeah it's an actual word in
Linux SWA penis has to do with how
quickly Linux is going to decide that
that it needs to swap your memory to the
hard drive so what I'll do it's not
overly complicated but i'll send you a
link on linux com let's see there is
there's an article all about linux swap
space and it's a little data that goes
back to two thousand seven but it does
carry some of those commands that you're
going to want to use in order to see
your sloppiness for example or change
your sloppiness both temporarily and
permanently using the swap eNOS file or
the SIS control file so look at that
I'll ok let's see if I can throw you a
link right now
it's the neat thing about owning the
server okay cat five dot TV / swap is
going to take you to that link and so
those of you who are interested in
learning more about the way that Linux
swaps and all that it's good article
actually I've referred to it in the past
so check that out cat5 TV / swap thank
you for the question great so from joe
AKA j ffcc hey Joe Robbie with regards
to providing a DVD and ISO of the web
development classes you and krista did
would be great thanks okay thanks um
last week I think we're talking about
yeah the potential of creating a DVD
that would be downloadable as an iso so
it's good to know that so that's plus
one for Joe for going with a DVD iso
good to know thank you very much so from
Sharath oh hey Shiraz hope your wine
because if I use external hard drive
from a security system with eight
cameras will it work well a one terabyte
hard drive be good how many days would
that record okay yeah that should work
just fine I mean a terabyte is a huge
amount of space right basically it's
more than you know you're looking at
layman's terms of thousand gigabytes
which is like an incredible amount of
recording time you think about the
modern camera recorder so your modern
system for doing surveillance one of the
things that it does is it uses motion
capture so it doesn't actually record 24
7 it records when it captures movement
so if there's movement it starts
recording if there's no movement it
stops recording so the amount of space
that it's going to take is going to be
relative to how much movement there is
in the screen if you if your cameras are
pointed out at the road and there's cars
going by that's going to basically be
recording all the time if however it's
in a shop and and the the blinds are
closed and it's just to record people
walking within the building you're
probably going to be recording a
substantial amount
yes on a terabyte hard drive it would be
estimated to be able to record non-stop
so if you push record and let it record
non-stop you'll be looking at about a
thousand hours of video give or take
right it depends on the quality of the
video that you're recording it depends
on the loss eNOS of the video for
example but as I say you're probably not
going to be recording non-stop it's
going to be stop and go as the as the
video as the system captures movement a
couple of things i would consider though
you talked about putting in a one
terabyte hard drive into your
surveillance system there's two things
one how easy is it for somebody to come
in and steal that unit let's say
somebody broke in and I don't know the
scenario okay but what what kind of
redundancy is in place so if it is just
a hard drive if it's just a hard drive
in a computer could somebody just take
that knowing where it's located and be
able to completely circumvent the the
the purpose in having that system
secondly what happens if your hard drive
crashes do you have a redundancy as far
as a raid setup goes so if the hard
drive crashes you need to think about
you know can I have another hard drive
that is mirroring this data so those are
a couple of things that I would I would
think about and that said if if you okay
the other question was how long actually
calculated this based on thousand hours
that would be 41 days continuous
recording which you're not gonna do so
the terabyte is like insane for plenty
for what you're doing yeah but it makes
sure there's redundancy make sure
there's two hard drives make sure
there's something off site or at least
another device within the building
that's also mirroring the data would be
my suggestion okay thank you very much
for the question i hope that hope that
answers it for you you have more for me
i do i'm gonna grab a couple of the
questions from the chat room fantastic
so Chris reach and I hope I say
name right I'm sorry I say right so you
so you tell us Chris which is it whose
right is it Robbie or krista anyways he
says it do you have a preferred file
system and if so why fat16 it depends on
the application as far as and that's
kind of like an opinion thing and
depends on what you're what you're doing
with it and it depends on what kind of
system is going in obviously if i'm
going to be running windows i'm going to
want ntfs because then it's really easy
to access it from both linux and windows
but i don't i don't have any particular
reference i'm running ext4 on my systems
I've got UPS is so I feel safe doing
that I used to really love the research
file system and I still you know reasors
is fantastic it always was but if you
know the history behind the Creator hans
research it it's kind of become a dead
project unfortunately I don't think
anyone's really picked it up reasor for
was was going to be just spectacular and
I do use reasor the unrated system uses
reader FS and that's part of the reason
it's able to do a lot of the stuff it
does but on my system it's it's it's
going to be ext4 for most Linux systems
but it could be ext3 depending if I've
got a UPS or not on that system because
I wouldn't trust ext4 necessarily if
there was a power outage or something
like that because it might have data
loss in that case cool i'm still waiting
to hear who says who says the last name
ring is good answer Robbie thank you but
is it reeked or Reich or Rick or rich
that's what we want to know what's very
curious and excited reach like me like I
tried to make it kind of I tried to make
a gun in Spanish yeah cool I don't know
that I try this out I'm sorry I just
offended a lot of Spanish people
jerilee your hate mail to Krista at
category me sure all right well here's
another question here from JVS CC I says
long time ago you showed how to use
synaptic package manager to add effects
to windows so for example windows would
act like a burst into flames when you
open and closed it we still do this in
the new OS okay windows being not
windows the operating system windows as
in the windows in our Linux system the
applications that are running not to be
confused JVS CC has a right in chat room
it's called comp is way back in the day
it was barrel then it became compiz
fusion well originally it was comp is it
branched out because comp is was going
the route of the professional desktop
with cool effects barrel wanted to
create all these cool flaming closing
windows and beam me up Scotty window
openers they things like that it was
more the fun route but then they came
back together and now it became compiz
fusion it's the base of unity it's the
base of a lot of the stuff that we see
in Linux but a lot of the stuff is
stripped down so if you get the extra
plugins the add-on plug-ins for comp is
and install comp is config settings
manager which is ccsm in synaptic then
you'll be able to set up some stuff but
if you're running unity be very very
careful running ccsm because you can
actually break unity very very easily
and that's why we pull the unity from
perfect boom to this year because it's
just too easy to break unity but yes
compiz fusion ccsm to control it and
you're good to go it a lot of stuff
won't work with unity there JJ vs DC but
some of it will some of the effects will
you can't use desktop cube without some
pretty big hacks and and it doesn't
really work the way you want it to if
you're using unity you can try some of
those effects I'm sure that they that
they wouldn't break it but keep a backup
of your comp is settings as well and
then it's easy to revert to so ok cool
cool so from Kevin hey come says hi
Robbie and gang hello do you know of a
software way to emulate a comm port via
a USB port in linux or windows free or
paid free is much better i bricked a
router and need to revive it using
serial connection on the rotors main
board from a USB port thanks chatroom
what do you got for him kevin wants a
calm emulator software for USB i would
always have just thought to go the route
my son and how often do you encounter
the need for a comp ort these days i use
no i think he I think he means the
ability amazing gadwal saying use the
terminal I think what what they mean is
to actually create a connection am i
right smc routers have a real serial
port but I get the impression that maybe
the computer doesn't it depend yeah
there's so many different ways to look
at this question see when when you read
that I was thinking along the lines of
needing to turn a USB cable into a comm
port which I would just use an adapter
for a jamison wants to know if you're
using a commercial router Jonathan I'm
that's how I interpreted the question a
USB to serial adapter which is the
easiest way to connect a serial to
serial just by plugging in USB I got you
Chris right uh yeah okay so I haven't
seen it right Ryan's with like I've been
on Robbie gets a hundred viewer point
I'm on my way I mama well you know I
think I think I should get some gear
points for that yeah but a hundred
that's good that's I could send myself a
picture of me watching category five on
my device wearing a cardigan now I'd win
made a music video about it
show up yeah well you know for the win
there's a thousand points I don't have a
suggestion for that one that's just
going to old school for me and i'm not
i'm not into the hardware hacking
anymore so boy oh boy a chat room if you
have any suggestions let us know and in
the meantime Kevin you can check the
chat logs for episode number 193 after
the fact a timestamp right now is 723 so
you'll be able to scroll down to about
720 and start to see the conversation
there and yeah I I would just use the
USB to serial adapter sorry about that
so we're going to jump into the news in
just a couple of minutes but one of the
things that I wanted to show last week
the kind of failed Lissa was your viewer
locations I think it's the coolest
feature but of course if I'm live on the
air and I say okay everybody go to
viewer look newer locations then
everybody hits it all at once and and
plus we've got all the viewers that are
watching and it seemed to run really
really slow really terribly so I just
want to give some shouts out to some of
our viewers from all over the world I'm
looking at the United States here
manheim just kind of clicking around
Greenville dick Hatcher Mansfield sorry
if I mispronounced your ear city there's
haines city what else have we got Meza
and Sacramento nice to have everybody
joining us Auburn United States moving
up into Canada there's left bridge
Alberta we've got quiz Nell fort
mcmurray also in Alberta and Regina
Saskatchewan we've got there's one in
the states there Duluth little current
here in Canada st. Jacques welcome st.
John in New Brunswick and Halifax Nova
Scotia nice to see everybody joining us
tonight moving further south we've got
Cuba and Puerto Rico nice to have you
watching the show the Virgin Island
Venezuela Colombia Brazil santo andré in
brazil santiago del oh i'm moving too
quick sorry Santiago so nice to see so
many people joining us from all over the
world out last one was in Chile it's
it's really exciting to have you joining
us here someone there joining us in
South Africa tonight hey good to see you
in Nairobi joining us in Kenya for
tonight's show accra ghana interesting
to have some people here from from ghana
joining us tonight in nicaragua or
Nigeria pardon me that was Senegal
Algeria and Spain moving up into Germany
area over here we've got glasgow united
kingdom joining us tonight that looks
like we pretty much cover the entire UK
manchester and all the others birmingham
i see quite a few viewers and nice to
see ya look at our representation here
in germany nice to see so many viewers
that joining us from over there
moving a little bit further east down
south we've got Italy viewers in Italy
couple down there some viewers also in
Greece
viewers in Israel nice to have you
joining us tonight if you see your your
dot make sure you say hey that's me in
the chat room we've got representation
in India we've got viewers there so you
can see moving further east I see some
viewers in Thailand I feel like I'm
talking into the mirror on whether the
polkadot door but it's exciting to have
people joining us from Hong Kong it's
nice to have you here in Taiwan and the
Philippines there
Indonesia is represented we've got quite
a few viewers there Australia is we have
a growing viewership in Australia we
welcome our viewers there people right
along the coast in your Sydney New
Zealand right there in Christchurch it's
nice to have you joining us tonight and
also up in Auckland and that's that's
that's our representation for tonight
you can get you can actually view the
map live you can go to our website
category five dot TV click on about us
oh and there's somebody actually up
there in Iceland as well that's very
cool just as I'm catching this and back
to Canada as well nice to have a viewer
from Iceland it's it'll be interesting
to see as the the viewer locations kind
of move around the map and and I've been
watching it kind of to see kind of the
times that people are watching the show
and it's quite interesting so nice to
see everybody hey if you saw yourself in
the chatroom let are in the in that clip
of our overhead map make sure you let me
know and that's very cool in the
meantime yeah I was just thinking that
it's neat to see all the viewers and
kind of have an overview I know by
numbers how many of you there are and
it's it's really quite nice to kind of
be able to put a geographical kind of
overview on that and and see where
you're coming from so if you've never
contacted us before pop me an email live
at category 5 TV if you want to just
submit a viewer testimonial as well you
can do that off of our website through
the interact menu and that would mean a
lot to us I know we've got viewers all
over the world and it's it's really
exciting but as I was saying go to our
website category 5 TV and from that
website you leave the click on about us
and then you'll see the viewer location
map and that's your spot to to be able
to get to see the overview that you just
saw there cool so we're going to head
over to the newsroom Hillary is joining
us here and
Hilary I'll let you take that away prize
everyone the magic of television and now
we have our lovely news from the
category 5 TV newsrooms skype users were
unable to access the popular internet
phone service after it suffered a
worldwide technical failure on Thursday
just two weeks after it was purchased by
Microsoft for 5.2 billion pounds users
worldwide were unable to make calls or
login to skype instant messenger and the
products website was also offline in a
series of updates on Twitter Skype
claimed the problems affected a small
number of it's more than 66 million
users but more than two hours later no
further information was available and
users across Europe the US and asia had
reported that the software crashed on
windows mac and linux apple CEO steve
jobs will take the stage at the
company's developer conference next week
to introduce iCloud Apple's new cloud
service and the next version of its
mobile operating system iOS 5 in a
statement today Apple announced that
Jobs who remains an indefinite oh he's
on indefinite medical leave huh he'll
take part in the keynote section that
opens the World Wide Developers
Conference on june six jobs and other
company executives will highlight the
next version of Mac OS OS X nickname
lion during the keynote as well as iOS 5
and iCloud the name apples stuck on
whatever it described as its upcoming
cloud services offering moving along
Linus Torvalds the granddaddy of the
Linux kernel has announced that the next
version of the Linux kernel release is
to be three point oh he says I decided
to just bite the bullet and call the
next version 3.0 it will get released
close enough to the 20 year mark which
is an excuse enough for me although
honestly the real reason is just that I
can no longer comfortably count as high
as 40 Linux says we are very much not
doing a KDE
four or a gnome 3 here no breakage no
special scary new features nothing at
all like that we've been doing
time-based releases for many years now
this is in no way about features he goes
on to say that there's absolutely no
reason to aim for the traditional zero
or point zero problems that so many
projects typically have instead the
release will work on testing the build
scripts for the numbering changes but
will also include the usual to third
driver changes and a lot of random fixes
and some nice VFS clean up various vm
fixes he then goes on to say a name a
few more techno babbles hmm all to say
it's just another day in the life of
Linux with more improvements and a new
number did you know when you buy a
linux-based smartphone you might
actually be paying Microsoft hmm thanks
to a patent settlement with HTC over
intellectual property infringement
microsoft report lead gets five dollars
for every HTC phone running android this
has been revealed by Citi analyst Walter
Pritchard who released a lengthy report
a bell Microsoft Friday morning
Pritchard says we can expect more legal
activity to pick up around Android in
the coming months because he says that
Google appears to have very little
intellectual property to defend itself
with this is good for Microsoft which is
about to enter the tablet market and is
trying to make a dent in the smartphone
market to you can get these full stories
online a category-five TV / newsroom the
category 5 GV newsroom is researched by
roy w nash with contributions from our
fabulous community of viewers if you
have a story you think's worthy of
on-air mention send us an email at
newsroom at category 5 TV from the
category 5 TV news room I'm Hillary
rumble Hillary thank you so much it's
nice to see you back thank you nice to
have you back in studio with like no lag
in real life I can only imagine what
people heard last week well we were
talking you were talking about skype
there and how they massively failed it
already and
well it wasn't you i think i might have
been this guy up on my screen
unnecessarily him specifically right of
course i think a lot of people are
losing faith in skype and not only that
but a little bit afraid of where
Microsoft is going to take it they
overpaid for it and it's such a weird
scenario I don't know what's gonna
happen there but but it's nice to have
you back without without the stuttering
is typing up mm-hmm yes gonna be here
enjoying your summer so far it's not
even summer but it feels it feels like
summer today I was roasting alive yeah
pretty much so yeah thank you I'm back
smile for the camera we've got this cool
camera setup we do we've been like
staging photos throughout know so I
probably look stunned oh I kind of looks
dead we could see the Greeneville oh and
while Robbie was talking I was like
posing for pictures so I gonna be so
yeah interesting was yeah okay some
interesting ones too I look stud I can't
do this I can't go on thank you out here
thanks for being here Hilary good to see
you tonight's episode of category 5
technology TV is of course brought to
you by pogoplug and you'll find them
online cat five dot TV / pogoplug and
planet calypso you can join me in the
free online universe make sure you join
our society you can download the free
game at cat five dot TV / Calypso I'm
talking about the the camera setup that
we have here tonight and one of the
interesting things about it oh hi oh
hello that was interesting is that it
actually snaps pictures on a regular
occurrence and this is our way of we're
trying to increase the quality of the
photos drone or on our website and we
thought it'd be fun tonight to have a
little little game where we can we can
present our viewers with an opportunity
to you know we can make faces or we can
do all these wonderful things if you
have an idea in the chat room we're
there live it's a category five dot TV
before the show is kind of fun mm-hmm
well before the show is always fun there
are some photos I don't know if you
notice when you were talking there but I
have been making faces I don't notice is
that where your snickering that whenever
you see the camp whenever you see it
move over like that that's when you know
I'm pretty much over here and contorted
I I don't really know what happens but
just to give you an idea well you see
that's not fair because no one sees you
do it so it's like it pretty much goes
under the radar yeah how he looks like
ninety nine fours okay ninety-nine
percent of the time good guy thinks that
the the microphone on my face drives
them nuts almost looks like it's a
little surgically added addition or
feeling well and we have that thought
and and you know it's do we do we go for
the cosmetic of it or do we go for the
audio quality of it and I think we found
that obviously the the headset provides
the best possible sound what are your
thoughts be interested to know this of
course is a loaner that has been so
graciously lent to us to get through the
time that we're down two microphones
it's been lent to us by music pro on the
south end a very we didn't invite you to
say thanks to them by paying them a
visit if you're in the area Greg and
Texas I'm with you there that it sounds
great and that's that's really what we
need to be mainly concerned about you
know because it really does it really
make a difference that does it really
make a difference to you that there's a
dot on my face you know personally I
think you could add some nice like
rhinestones or something yeah it gets
like this and then a hair flip right
here it would be an instant pops are
singing Lego Britney Spears life I'd
have to like stride onto the set every
time that's it Krista's using a lapel
which you can point out to them but
tender lapel is the one lapel that that
we have that the functions correctly
after the power surge so yeah let us
know your thoughts about about the
microphone because we are still in that
time where you know we're not sure what
the best option is i think that this
audibly is the best
option and it doesn't pick up a lot of a
lot of background noise either so hmm
good cool we're not committed to it it's
a loner so love to know hey anybody
joining us that's that's brand new here
in the chat room category five TV can
you let us know we'd love to say greets
out to you and get your questions in JV
sec mic works great cool one of the
things that I've been working on lately
and I and this is just kind of a
precursor to actually having a feature
put together that we're going to be
working on one of the things I've been
working on is is as you can imagine as a
programmer i type a lot i'm at my
computer a lot and i'm using the mouse a
lot like to the point of its ridiculous
and and it can get pretty painful at
times so one of the things I've been
working on is improving the ergonomics
of my workstation and so over the next
little while we're you're going to be
able to get in on some of the the steps
that I'm taking to to personally keep
myself well through the course of my
career first thing that I did is I
bought a trackball logitech has the
wingman trackball I think it's called
and it's fantastic but they're really
really hard to get and apparently
logitech says they just people don't buy
them oh I just have one too and I
thought it was fantastic until i
switched the tablet well you've switched
to the tablet you've got that precision
of being able to draw yeah yeah but i
found like the same thing that what's
called the trackball yeah yeah I found
it was great once you get the hang of it
it's yeah it's fantastic yeah it took
took a couple days to get used to it now
I'm just flying on it but are you saying
they're hard to find like find in stores
they don't even have them on their
website oh well they have one on their
website but it's not the one that i
bought the one that i bought is more
ergonomic the one that's on their
website is more like a gaming trackball
ok so i'm not sure really what's going
on there i'd like to do a little bit
more research one of the other things
that I unfortunately found was the
Microsoft makes really good keyboards or
at least they pay a company to put their
logo on it
but they've got the natural curve
keyboards and they're they're fantastic
as far as the keyboard goes so that's
one step is also to to replace my
keyboard with something where I don't
know if you if you notice when you're
sitting at your desk but when I was
sitting at my desk I have my hands kind
of like this because I've got kind of a
you know wide shoulder base so my hands
are always kind of crooked here at my
wrist so so I was getting a lot of pain
in my wrist now with this new keyboard
I'm not like this I'm like that and so
my hands are just kind of in front of me
90 degree angle at the at the elbow and
feels really good after only two days
you take a little adjustment though
would it I take it a little getting used
to I'm still sometimes missing a couple
of the higher keys but I'm getting used
to it and i think it's it's working good
Chris Reich uses a walk-on tablet for
severe carpal tunnel syndrome and it's
literal that has literally disabled them
and how do you find that Chris and how
do you find the walk on tablet as far as
ergonomics going and being able to use
that as a you know I absolutely love it
I haven't found any kind of stress like
anything that I haven't had before but
I'm also probably the worst person to
ask I tend to not I sit every which way
except for proper this is probably the
longest I've ever sat um just like
straight usually like my knees up here
sitting cross-legged or so who knows
maybe because I'm moving around so much
higher right I don't know but yeah I
found the wrist wise or anything like
that haven't found any kind of stressor
random pains or anything like I'm our
that time to use it oh about six hours
and then I'll give me a full day go home
and do some more computer works over
another four hours provo 10 hours a day
right interested to hear how Chris is
found it with with having that really
bad carpal tunnel now I have all new
nerve entrapment which is kind of the
opposite of carpal tunnel syndrome which
you can look up and that affects the the
pinky side of my hand versus carpal
tunnel which is your thumb side so
really I'm trying to get that under
wraps so with my keyboard another thing
that I'm working on
learning is I want to get away from the
QWERTY typing which is really going to
be the biggest challenge for me and this
is why I wanted to bring this up is it's
going to be kind of an adventure for me
because I've been typing QWERTY qwerty
being if you look at your keyboard up at
the top left it starts with Q w.e rty
and that is a qwerty keyboard that's the
layout of the keys and you know where
that layout came from you know I heard
once but it was long time ago and
goodness it was a long trial remember
those old typewriters that have that
little the thing that hits the ribbon
yeah they used to get jammed really bad
like I don't know if this was like in
the 1300 sorcerer not really but way way
back right they would get jammed so what
they did is they position the keys in
such a way that you know it it would not
Jam the typewriter because you were
alternating from left to right kind of
thing I see so the most common letter
combinations that you're using our
rapist out each other yeah like they put
in an insane amount of research into
making it as not gamble as possible so
that's what what has transcended over to
computer keyboards so we're still using
this qwerty keyboard but doesn't make
any sense on a computer because there's
no arms to jam so let's look at it from
a different perspective let's look at it
from an ergonomic perspective and that's
where Dvorak key layouts come out but
surprisingly you can't really find any
Dvorak keyboard so I got on eBay and for
three dollars or something like that I
was able to buy some stickers that I'm
going to be sticking on my brand new
keyboard once they arrive so all this is
going to be documented but look up
Dvorak dvo rak and you'll find out more
and that's basically a keyboard layout
that's been designed so that your keys
never your hands rarely leave the home
row so if you hover your your fingers
over the you know the F and J and put
your fingers in the right spot you're
pretty much just staying in one spot and
you're going like this rather than like
this all over the place and getting
cramps and stuff like that so that's one
of the more challenging things that I'm
going to be doing because i type fast
but i type qwerty and i have all my life
it's been a lot of times it out compute
life is too boring it's really different
it's like it's like it I don't know what
to expect it would be to me it seems
like it's going to be like if I went
into a country where I don't know the
language and I was forced to learn that
language in order to understand I'm
going to be sitting down to a keyboard
that's going to be completely changed
layout the keys they're not going to be
anywhere near where I'm used to them
being I'm gonna have to retrain my mind
am I going to be able to then go to a
qwerty computer and be able to type as
fast as I used to or am I going to be
stuck with Dvorak on all my computers
who knows does anyone in the chatroom
use Dvorak would be interesting to know
you have any more viewer questions as we
I think I could scrounge up a couple
there was one here earlier and have to
apologize if I've missed a one in the
chat room so if I have mr. question
might want to repost but a good guy says
is there any way to make a ustream or
sorry to make a ustream windows without
the web page border you mean like lose
the I thoughtless the the decorations on
your on your window like you stream just
uses flash right so if that's what you
mean the the window decorations are
caused by your browser not by ustream so
you could disable the window decorations
if you use compass or something like
that wants just everything but the just
wants the actual video I I think what
you mean is that the the window
decorations the borders which are your
operating system not not ustream
specific so so I'm not sure on that but
if you're using Linux compass config
settings manager has that in it emerald
has that if you use emerald have the
ability to at least thin out I think
with Windows you can make the border
like one pixel and that's virtually
invisible
does that help at all if if you want
what you could do is also use the embed
code which would give you a close to
like I'm trying to interpret the
question but maybe what you mean is is
you want to get off of the ustream page
like you want to take that video and
remove it from all the rappers and stuff
on that website if that's what you mean
as opposed to looking at a pop-up I'm
thinking in terms of a pop-up then you
could use the embed code and just paste
it into an HTML file and just open that
with Firefox and it doesn't have to be
on a server anywhere you can just if you
call it like you stream dot of code am l
category five dot HTML paste the embed
code into that and then open it then it
would just open in firefox with nothing
else around it if that makes sense but
you will have what's called margins and
padding so look at the source code for
one of our embedded players click on
which is to play any one of our videos
and see how we remove the padding from
the body tag and the margins otherwise
you're going to have a couple of pixels
of white border around your video any
other questions any email live at
category 5 TV we have our top 10 videos
based on your votes on our website
category 5 TV I'd encourage you to click
on one of the five stars for every
episode that you see tonight's episode
of course if you're watching live will
be on our website within about two hours
after we sign off the air and I'd invite
you to click on how you liked the
episode from one to five and that that
will impact how things are interpreted
for our top 10 it's kind of a no-brainer
though it's a five right definitely I
definitely five
Chris Reich says in the past I used one
of those ms organ amma keyboards and can
recommend it here i use a logitech
comfort curve keyboard i think it was
doesn't say on the on the device what is
called and i did a review many many
moons ago and i really do like the
keyboard but it's not as split as the
microsoft so with the microsoft 1 i'm
really feeling like my hands are
straight i'm not curved at all this one
has got a nice curve to it but it still
have to kind of twist my arms a little
bit so it is a comfort curve amazing
gadwal confirms cool do we have any
we've got only a couple minutes left
your questions in one more question and
it is from Rex Damian everybody says hey
Robby maybe you can help you with this
project i'm making a wikia com page for
watching canadian TV online a sort of TV
Guide for watching stuff online and
totally new to it but I learn quick it's
at internet internet TV Canada wikia com
I've got a table in there so far that
I'm going to populate now the thing is I
want to have a page for each of those
shows and I want to have an infobox that
will pull data from that table is that
possible or do I have to edit every page
and input that data on every page I
actually cut off my cable TV and save
myself some money by now just watching
everything online so in the spirit of
free I'd like to make this site so that
others can enjoy the savings tube now of
course that of being in canva is only
going to work for Canadian viewers so if
you create a site like that most likely
because you're linking to legitimate
videos like on cbc.ca they've got a
great resource their global is another
website that that carries pretty much
all their shows you watch the
full-length show and the way they fund
that is it has where you normally would
have commercials it has web
advertisements so they're just like
television commercials but it's
programmed in such a way that you can
click it and you can get around at that
commercial break so it's kind of
interesting
and i think that's that's a really neat
way that the internet can can take us to
the next level as far as multimedia
content goes it's it's quite interesting
so if you're creating a repository or a
list of these kinds of sites and places
that you can go to watch your shows of
course you want to keep it legitimate
you don't you want to be very careful
and I know that your goal here I'm
looking at the first paragraph it says
that these are legal legal not illegal
legal online shows for Canadians and
that's that's what you want to stick to
of course but then to answer your
question as far as getting things from a
database the neat thing about using a
database is that you don't have to were
you smiling at the camera it's not a
saint in armies of everybody said no and
I was hoping they're just focusing on
you though just focus you know because
you were talking and I was but you're
sitting there going so I mean that you
know that they're focused on you there's
never actually a good time for me to do
it because of thing well you think I'm
there I just think it's not fair that's
all I think that everyone is privileged
and they get to see the whole three
seconds into the picture first and then
yeah okay right that's good right okay
sorry about that we digress forex Damian
the neat thing about data basing and if
you if you get into coding it from a
database perspective and realizing that
database really means that your site is
now dynamic and you you've got the
ability to interpret that data anyway
that you like I'm just kind of looking i
know i see collection is she doing it
yeah you know is she that happening do I
need to like okay I'll zoom in on me and
then she can you don't even know what's
going on over there stop that weirdo
with database and you could have for
example Rex one file that the PHP file
it could be just called you know shows
dot PHP and then you can have that
connect to your database and pull all
the data aggregate it put it out in the
format that you like and it could and
then it be interpreted using something
like HT Access Apache has HT access
which means so now you could go to my
domain com
ash global and it would automatically
bring up player dot PHP ? play equals
global or something like that so that
there's all different things that can be
done and it can be done without having
to code a whole bunch of pages whether
wikia will allow you to do it or not I
can't be certain because it is a wiki
website but is it something that that
they support I don't know but if you get
your own hosting package then definitely
you can do any of those things so fill
us in a little bit more on what you hope
to accomplish as far as the the way that
it's going to work and I'd be happy to
at least take a look and if I can make
some suggestions or if possible I'll
even provide a hand so but you know it's
interesting to to see you working on
that be interested to see where or where
it goes introduced a category 5 on there
somewhere cool I've got a couple minutes
left if anyone has another question for
us live at category 5 TV seriously
what's wrong with she didn't see
browsing oh it's been fun having
everybody here I still have time for
another question if if you've got one to
throw my way final bloggers just asked
kind of a generic question which dustox
desktop system do you suggest he buys
mm-hmm and it is your right at this kind
of generic I mean besides an act like if
you're a Mac is out of the question if
you have money to throw away why not
throw it my way I'll build you a nice
computer this PC and i'll keep the
change mm-hmm cuz I glow I could make a
close somebody sent me a dremel a light
bulb what kind of ups do I have we have
commercial grade 1000 volt amp ups there
I don't I think they were compact so HP
but after the most recent surge I've
kind of lost a lot of faith in getting
in using these commercial ups if
somebody said to me well why don't you
get something that has the lesser
battery backup but has the warranty and
that's that's exactly what I'm intending
to do I actually found a surge
suppressor just a 4200 jewel surge
suppressor which I'm going to put some
of our stuff on still looking into
whether or not it's safe to daisy-chain
this one because some things are saved
to daisy-chain some things aren't
depending on the way to the surge
suppressor functions but what turned me
on to this is that it comes with a 35 a
350 thousand dollar warranty so the way
that I'm looking at it is even if we
went without a UPS if we had a surge
like we did recently I mean we're
struggling to raise three thousand
dollars to replace the damaged hardware
and I and I say that with absolute
respect and thanks to everyone who's
supported us over the past several weeks
and we're and we're coming along but
it's really tough to raise that kind of
money when you don't have a registered
charity or you know when we're really
calling on view
to show their support to help us through
this problem wouldn't it have been so
much simpler just to have a UPS or a
surge protector that came with 350
thousand dollars of warranty so hey the
surge comes it fries our server room we
just replace it put it on warranty about
it's done and in hindsight that should
have been what we had done you know I
recommend it to two home users but
because of the nature of the show I
always thought it's best to have really
powerful really high-grade UPS's but
they didn't come with any warranty so
kicking myself a little bit for that but
you know we all learn as we go learn
from our mistakes so Chris Reich agrees
with the analysis so so we'll see where
that goes right now we're at an impasse
with our UPS is we have multiple
different types of UPS as our lights are
on UPS is every everyone is different
and and you know every three years we
replace the batteries so so that's you
know maybe at that point a couple of
them are on their way out we should have
a look at what we should do Doss bomber
had an APC UPS which caught fire as soon
as they plugged it in that's interesting
i actually had a UPS that did that and
anything that's scary like if that kind
of thing is going to happen in the house
and hit wreaked it smelled like awful
and they're probably toxic plastic fumes
and whatever else it wasn't an APC that
I had a PC you're pretty reliable but
agra moto wondering about problems with
ext4 and UPS's what are the issues I
don't think there's problems with them
if c4 the way that it journals the file
system is a little bit different so if
the power goes out while you're making
rights to the hard drive then there's
potential for data loss see if I can
find any information on that I mean you
could probably do XC 4 vs. ext3 in
Google
but you'll find that it's hard to know
with one minute left to the show what
kind of links i give you but do some
searching around and you know maybe yeah
you guys put me on the spot so much
prove the show is live what happens yeah
go watch Robbie think it has to do with
journaling that's all I know I don't
know a lot about file systems I know
about when they come out and stuff but
not their inner working so much sorry
cool yeah you'll you'll find that well I
know when I'm going to first started
using ext4 there was all this kerfuffle
about people being concerned about its
safety versus ext3 you XD 3 so tried and
true if you're hard you know if your
computer crashes it's easy to get the
data off and stuff like that same with
reasor get key for I have nothing
against it at all I love it that's fast
but it also has depends on you know look
at the the verses in the search engines
because there are advantages to each off
that to each file system depending on
how large the files are that you're
storing how frequently you're doing
reads and writes things like that it
that would be a whole show in itself
well thank you everybody for being with
us tonight it's been it's been fun
having you and we're looking forward to
next week next week we're going to be
looking at video editing software for
linux which i'm very excited about oh
yeah we're gonna be learning all about
that you have yourself a great week oh
you to thank you anyone yeah pop me an
email live at category 5 TV this week
we'd love to hear from you get your
questions in if you were able to get
them in during the live show will would
love to get those in next week for
episode number 194 so check this one out
on our website don't forget to vote for
your favorite episodes category 5 TV
this is episode number 193 and I'm
Robbie Ferguson I'm crystal balls see ya
hey guys
you
