welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 350 we realized it's
episode number 350 tonight so we want to
do to do something extra special for you
so we decided just before the show that
this is going to be the best show ever
of course you don't want to miss out on
this tonight we are gonna break Linux
we're gonna break it and then we're
gonna show you how to fix it using
chroot from a live linux CD don't miss
that it's going to be incredibly nerdy
that's how we like it incredibly nerdy
around here
fortunately Hillary Rumble is here to
kind of bring us down lose some of the
nerdy edge to the show too seriously if
it was just me chroot from the next live
Booton into the system hacking away
luckily I'm also here to tell you what's
coming up in the news room brilliant the
NSA is harvesting pictures online to
build its facial recognition system whoa
let's give them one the universal
translator is real and will be coming to
Skype the modern car is a computer on
wheels just waiting to be hacked by
someone like
and lastly Google is building satellites
to provide Internet service to the world
at large
stick around kazi's stories are coming
up later in our show heavily you have to
be careful
they have my picture now all right give
me a fun show don't go away
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
pillory Rumble
Kristen wells
Eric kid and your host Robbie Ferguson
introducing Beltone first a
revolutionary new hearing aid so small
you can hardly see it so comfortable you
can hardly feel it for the first time
ever you can control hearing aids
directly from your iPhone pick up the
phone
listen to music and use your hearing
aids like wireless headphones hear
everything that matters
try Beltone first for a free trial call
1-800 Beltone now this is category 5
technology TV I'm your host Ravi
Ferguson I'm Hillary okay I'm just gonna
just gonna tell everyone that category 5
TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here you can
check that out at cat 5 TV slash TPN and
we're also a member of the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash by a IB and that is what I
have to say at this moment I'd also like
to say at this moment hello to the world
wide web tuning in oh hello welcome
everyone reactive tonight hi stripe to
see everybody the chat room is so wild
and fun and full of fun people and I'd
also like to give a special shout-out to
Flo
Tennessee Frank has roped you in to
watch the show and it's about time
that's all I gotta say so we are so glad
you could tune in with us and I hope you
enjoy the show it's really perfect flow
because tonight is the best show ever
kiyo she ninja is in the chat room yes
I've always wanted to know about chroot
this is an exciting topic and to that I
say you sir are a nerd and so this show
is for you I'm very excited too so yeah
this is gonna be a lot of fun a lot of
fun you know speaking of fun I got to
switch the parody Drive in our unread
server you heard about it last week
thank you to everybody who contributed
some some money basically how else do I
say thanks for sending them some money
because it costed money to replace the
drive appreciate that very very much
and it helped offset the expense so we
put a 4 terabyte parody Drive in there
we cleared it pre-cleared it and got a
building I did and then one of the data
drives in our array so one of the drives
that actually holds data and not the
parity Drive remember I don't have a
parity drive right now because I'm in
the middle of building it one of the
data drives failed
Oh yikes here's where I'm so thankful to
be using on rate well there's two things
I'm thankful for one I use on raid not a
standard striped array where oh no I've
lost one Drive now everything is gone no
with unrated only the data on that one
individual drive could be lost but
thankfully here's number two I have good
backups of course you do we encourage
you to have I see it all the time people
who have a hard drive crash we had a
power surge last night here in berry
huge storm came through yeah it was
massive it was fierce and it lasted 18
seconds but long enough to take down
trees long enough to take out computers
through power spikes and just you know
computer after computer coming in with
failed hard drives unable to get that
off of my hard drive because I had a
good backup we were able to finish
building parity replace the failed hard
drive copy the backup over to the new
hard drive well the old parity drive
which I had moved into the place of the
old or of the failed hard drive and then
copied the data back we've got parity
we're good to go didn't lose a thing
thankfully whew but thinking about how a
traditional raid works had I lost two
drives and say you know like a standard
raid set you could possibly lose
everything on all of those drives
yikes so once again on raid saves the
day we've got lots of information on our
website category 5 TV episode 103 while
it's old it's a must view yes and if
you're on roku you know that i say
probably don't go back to some of the
old episodes because at least not right
at the get-go when you're getting to
know us because they're old they're very
low quality but
that's one of the ones content-wise you
need to watch that thanks big thanks to
John who was in the chat room and knows
quite a bit about on raid and and this
is one of the unique things about our
community not only can you go into our
chat room and say guys I got a problem
ladies I've got a problem because we've
got some ladies as we know in the chat
and you know can you guys help and I do
that I went into the chat room when my
drive failed it said anyone able to help
and John piped up and said here and gave
me resource after resource links to the
forum threads that were appropriate to
download for the pre-clear script and
that's our community and you know even I
tap into this community because we're so
much more than just a TV show here folks
so get on over to our website become a
part of this great community it's a
category 5 TV absolutely free for you to
participate in the show it's interactive
and we'd encourage you to register on
our website category 5 dot TV do it do
it
I am excited Battle of the Bands is
coming up this Friday night we've shown
some video clips on the show in previous
years but Sasha and I are actually going
to be there judging battle bands this
year just a fun little you know it's a
fun event for the youth that are
involved I guess it's basically young
people who are aspiring musicians and
have got their bands together and
practiced a bunch of songs and they get
up on an awesome stage with a big old
sound system full lights and smoke
machines and everything LEDs these days
lights are getting smaller cooler so
it's a fun event and Sasha and I are
gonna be there if you're in Barry drop
me a line we'll give you all the deets
come check it out do it people
yeah well coyote ninja is on the edge of
his seat what do I do
I have purposefully broken Linux oh no
even me I know okay there are a few
times where you can break Linux doing
configuration stuff
a good example would be working on your
ex configuration for your graphics
drivers something like that upgrading
your graphics drivers and all of a
sudden you can't boot in because your
graphic drivers are botched so you boot
up your computer and you boot up your
computer and there's nothing there and
you can't boot it and oh my goodness
in that well in that scenario here's
another scenario that falls under this
category FS tab you've edited your FS
tab file you forgot to do a pseudo mount
- a to test it first and instead you've
rebooted and as you rebooted you went oh
no Robbie said I'm supposed to run sudo
mount - a first but I forgot yeah and I
accidentally typed boat in my FS tab
file so now my computer won't boot I've
got no access to my hard drives I can't
do anything so in those scenarios here's
where Linux is great hell you can boot
up from a Linux live CD you can browse
to the hard drive you can edit the FS
tab file you can edit the XOR comp file
you can edit those configuration files
and fix your computer by simply editing
them and rebooting hmm easy right there
are scenarios where that just isn't good
enough would you like to hear about one
of them sounds frightening yeah I was on
site at a customer's site for lack of a
second words I was there in person
mm-hmm cuz Robbie does this stuff so I
was sitting at their server which is a
very comfortable server room as they all
are and I ran an apt-get update and it
worked great and I ran an apt-get
upgrade because we're upgrading this you
know upgrading all the components I'm
there might as well do that yeah
everything went great
somewhere in that script I've never had
this happen before
okay I've never had it happen since but
it does and can happen somewhere along
the line it tried to do a kernel update
and failed
I was left with a system a server mind
you so their whole company
infrastructures based on this server
running Debian with a hypervisor in the
hypervisor was all their domain
controller their web server everything
is in a virtual machine separate
individual virtual machines the
hypervisor is the one that I was
updating so no kernel means guess what
can't boot your computer oh there it is
folks well what am I gonna do with
minimal bash like lying editing support
okay for the first word tab list
possible command completions what
anywhere okay so well what do you do LS
o start X no that's an unknown command
you're stuck I've got no kernel on my
computer because something happened
during the update I'm giving you extreme
case because this actually happened to
me this could be anything
say you updated the package your graphic
drivers is a good example
of course you go into X or comp and fall
back to envy or something like that
that's a good fix but in our case we
want to actually fix the graphic drivers
or we want to actually fix the fact that
I have no kernel on my computer and
literally when I boot that's all I get
I've got no way to do anything you can
mount the drive and try to figure out
how to get it going it's just not gonna
happen
so what I'm gonna do instead I'm gonna
pop in my live CD I've got now this
particular computer I'll just say is a
point Linux three point no two point
three point one pardon me I had to think
about that point Linux two point three
point 1 which is Debian demyans seven
point one I think
needless to say one of the first
considerations as I'm doing this is I
want to use a boot CD that is of the
same architecture at least but so if
it's a 64-bit computer I need to use a
64-bit boot
if it's a 32-bit yeah not computer
pardon me if it's a 64-bit installation
that I'm trying to fix or if there's a
little bit installation that I'm trying
to fix I need to use the same
architecture even better is to have the
same version of the distro itself
because then you know you're gonna have
all the dependencies all the stuff that
you need on that particular boot disk
now that I've got that disc in the drive
I'm gonna try restarting my computer
okay let's see let's see what happens
here okay
so now with the point Linux CD in the
drive it gives me the option to try
point Linux without installing here we
go so it's gonna boot up point Linux
into this computer so keep in mind right
now what I'm actually doing hill is I'm
booting that broken computer so my
kernel is completely botched or whatever
is broken I'm booting into a live CD
Linux has got this great thing where you
can boot the CD you can get a fully
functional Linux desktop without ever
having to install it it also works
really really well for fixing things yes
we can see here you know it's booting up
I'm not getting any errors this time
that's great but I'm not actually
booting the computer per se
I'm not booting the the installed
installation of point Linux I'm actually
booting the basically temporary point
Linux operating system that is installed
on this CD which I've downloaded for
free from point Linux org I should
mention that the processes that I'm
showing you today are perfectly cross
distro compatible so if you're using arc
if you're using Debian if you're using a
boon to if you're using Manjaro whatever
you're using these methods are going to
be the same now if you're on Fedora say
for example or you know something like
that obviously when I do an apt-get
update you're gonna have to you know
modify that command to support your
package manager yum or something like
that but in our case we're gonna be
using apt-get but the process itself to
chroot into a system is going to be the
same so this is booting up you'll notice
that booting from a CD is incredibly
slow I had a lot of time to talk a whole
lot of stuff right because you're
booting from a CD CDs are really really
slow media but we're in ok did it but if
I go home folder you'll notice that I'm
looking at nothing there's nothing here
if I go into anything my user doesn't
even exist you know my home folder
contains a user called user that's not
me if I go into my terminal you'll see
that I am user at point Linux
so I'm actually booted on this point
Linux computer so to speak using this
boot CD now my computer is actually
called narf dog just so you know
narf dog so that's the computer that
we're going to fix being that we're
booted from a live CD now I can browse
to the computer I can see that there is
an 85 gigabyte file system and if I
browse to it and mounts it and then I
can see my real home folder oh there's
the Robie folder and I can do data
recovery I can start copying my
documents and my desktop and my pictures
I can I can simply do that to copy these
things I could copy that whole folder to
a USB Drive just to know that I have a
safe backup now
so live CDs can be used for that where
we run into a snag here is it's not the
file system per se I mean the operating
system itself is not broken we didn't
edit our you know FS tab file which we
can do here let's see
FS tab there so I could edit that I've
got to be route in order to actually
save any changes but if I broke it I can
edit it and I can save it to that hard
drive reboot and fix it no problem
that's on my hard drive in the e.t.c
folder right where we've got a problem
is if I go into the boot folder guess
what I have no kernel where's my kernel
you're gonna see a package called Linux
- image and then the name of your kernel
well I don't have one my systems been
botched during an update I'm using this
as a scenario to give you a case
scenario this isn't necessarily exactly
the problem you're gonna have and that's
why I want to show you that there are
other things that you may be able to fix
you
this method good to know alright so what
we're gonna do and this shows also
should say this is gonna show you why
Linux is is cat's pajamas is that still
a thing
do the kids say that these things no but
all right it's really groovy Oh Linux at
least you stepped it up a couple decades
but still not quite there anyway keep
going boss man all right okay okay so
let's close out of this because we know
that we've got a bunch system what do we
gotta do it's actually really really
easy this is gonna take us five minutes
but it's gonna take us about a half hour
because I'm gonna explain everything
sudo becomes super user fdisk yeah
- el is gonna show us a list of all our
hard drives in the computer our
partitions on those hard drives ICS da
one that is really really tiny I know
that that is my swap drive because it's
so incredibly small SDA - on the other
hand is rather large 83 gigs and I know
from here that it's an 85 gig file
system than my computer's detecting so I
know that is actually my hard drive
brilliant okay so let's make a folder
that we're gonna mount that hard drive
to I'm gonna put it in the mount folder
so I can go CD /mnt and if I do an LS
there's nothing there I'm gonna go sudo
because I have to be the super user in
order to edit anything in the MNT folder
I need to make a directory make sure - P
and then you're gonna know why I do that
in just a second I'm gonna go my drive
slash boot okay so what I'm actually
doing there is I'm saying create a
folder within mmt because that is where
I am and it is called boot but it's
going to create boot in a folder called
my drive that folder doesn't exist yet
so we're gonna do - P to make sure that
we create folders that are missing and
it's gonna create my drive slash boot if
I hit enter now just for the sake of
accuracy because I don't want you to
accidentally put this in the wrong place
we're gonna actually do this longhand I
can go make derp - P /mnt slash my drive
side
food with the psuedo at the beginning
hit enter now if I do an LS you're gonna
see that we've got a folder called my
drive that can be called anything but
we're just using that for the scenario
if I LS that which is to do a directory
listing you'll see that there's a folder
called boot and the whole thing is empty
because all I've done is created a
folder there's nothing mounted to it now
we want to actually do the mounting
process so we're gonna go sudo mount and
notice what did we say it's dev /s da -
in my particular case okay so because I
did the sudo fdisk - L and it showed my
list of hard drives and I determined
that s da - is my actual hard drive show
you another way to determine that we've
double we've clicked on the hard drive
on point Linux so now it's mounted
remember I said that when I double-click
on it it mounts it so if I type sudo
mount and hit enter it will actually
give me a list of all the mounted file
systems and you'll see that SDA - is the
very one that is mounted in slash media
slash and then the UUID which is this
particular hard drive if I go ctrl L
you'll see that the file location is in
fact that you UID in slash media so
that's another way to determine that
this is in fact SDA - because I've
mounted a ton point Linux so now that
I've got that folder okay we're gonna
mount it sudo we have to be a super user
in order to do these operations mount
dev slash SDA - that is the partition
okay SDA is the hard drive SDA - is the
partition you notice that there was also
SDA one but that is our swap partition
that's why it's so small you know that
if you try to mount it it'll give you a
warning that that's actually a swap
drive now we're gonna go slash mount
slash my drive without a trailing slash
okay so I'm gonna take SDA to that hard
drive I'm gonna mount it on slash my
drive not sure if I can do that while
it's mounted somewhere else let's see it
worked okay
LS my drive there it is wahoo
just to be safe I'm gonna right-click on
it and go unmount from the desktop so
it's removed it from media and if I do
an LS my drive that unmounted it there -
cool okay so let's remount it
and so I would do that first normally
there we go okay so it's mounted I can't
chroot to it yet because I've got a lot
of stuff that's gonna break if I try
understanding the CH root means change
root so I'm actually gonna basically
trick my running linux into thinking
that this hard drive SD a2 is in fact
the hard drive for the running Linux
then we can do all kinds of things as if
we were able to boot it but we weren't
able to boot it you're gonna see that in
just a second so what I need to do and
now I'm working with a very very
simplistic installation here I'll just
note if you have for example your boot
partition things like that on separate
partitions on your hard drive then you
need to go through the mount process
individually so for example I might if
I've got a separate home drive I might
have to go SDA through three sorry home
partition and I might have to put it on
home for example that's just an example
I don't have that scenario so for me
we've got our proc which is the proc
file system it gives a file like
structure to all of the processes that
are running on your computer we've also
got your dev folder on your host
computer the one that's actually running
on the CD those are the devices that are
detected in your computer right so if I
do an LS / d DV those are all the
devices that are detected I need to port
that over basically pipe it over to my
new chroot environment there's also a
folder called / run which we also need
to do the same thing because these are
the running processes this is actually
used by you dev as far as I understand
and it's part of the it's like a temp
file system for for it to use very very
important to pipe these things over if
you don't understand at all it's okay
just follow the steps sudo mount okay so
what I'm gonna do is - T proc that's the
filesystem type is proc and none and
we're gonna put mount my drive / proc so
we're actually popping this into the
prot we're mounting it on proc in my
basically mounted environment right so
that's all there is to that command okay
so now if I do an LS mm slash mount
slash my drive /proc I'll actually see
all the processes that are running on my
current install right
now I need to do the same not to install
the live CD sudo mount - oh oh yeah okay
just what we're doing is we're binding
this particular folder what was it / dev
we need to bind that to mount my drive
dev because we need to be able to see
your dev devices all your devices from
within our chroot environment so if we
don't do that step we're gonna lose
access to all our drives all of our
hardware all that stuff we need to do
the same thing what did I say the next
one was slash run rum
I almost typed rum yeah I'll say it was
I was thinking Hillary Rumble oh hell
yeah okay so there we go that's the
command that puts the temp file system
for the slash run in there now the
moment of truth here we go look at all
that we now have this crazy mount point
in our MMT on a live CD what have we
done we have mounted the proc file
system into that mount point we have
mounted the dev folder and we have
mounted the run temp file system into
that mounted environment okay now what
we can do it is now safe to actually
chroot into that environment sudo CH
root and now here are the two things
that we need MNT my drive the name of
the mount point where I created this
magic okay whatever you called it you're
gonna use it every time my drive is fine
and then BIM Bosch because we could
actually set it up as a chroot
environment for bin Bosch and there we
go now all of a sudden I've become route
sorry what but I'm still on point Linux
right let's do CD /mnt
because in /mnt that's where we created
my drive right so let's do an LS it's
gone what happened wait a minute I'm not
actually on the live CD anymore CD /boot
LS no kernel CD slash home LS Robbie nut
user so I have actually successfully
ported my session into that mounted hard
drive in my computer I can fix anything
and I'm not talking just the typical
traditional live CD fix and FS tab file
and reboot and hope for the best
we're talking about being able to
actually run things on that hard drive
from this environment let's try just for
example apt-get update I'm route
remember so I don't need to type sudo
anymore because that's only to give me
temporary root access okay I'm getting
my apt-get update here we go okay done
no errors apt-get
let's let's do an app let's just do it
let's just fix this bad boy app cache
search Linux image okay so what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna search for Linux
headers there we go this is what app get
tells me about all these headers
available to me so let's pick one that's
gonna be good let's say three point two
point oh four okay so that's the kernel
header that we want let's see if there's
a meta package that will just let us
select 686 let's do you're gonna need
the kernel that's appropriate for your
system and I'm gonna make the assumption
here that you kind of know a little bit
about systems and architectures so I
know for example that I've got a modern
modern system that's 32-bit right so I'm
gonna go with a 686 kernel with PAE
extensions because my brow and my
processor supports that if you're not
sure you can go with a different kernel
MD 64 is the 64-bit kernel right but I
know that I'm running a 32-bit system
with PAE so I can grab that one so let's
copy that to my clipboard okay and now
apt-get install and then I've hit alt e4
edit and then I can hit paste okay so
it's gonna actually install that kernel
but where is it installing it it's
actually installing that kernel on my
real Linux installation it's not doing
it on my live CD yeah there you go
and it's working there it goes just kind
of let you see this in real time
updating now this is the one thing
that's gonna take a little bit longer
it's gonna create an init Rd image file
for the kernel itself so let's sing a
song because this is the moment of truth
this is some advanced nerdiness here
folks some advanced enhanced on there
dienes oh I'd say some people in chat
room are are little they're into it but
they're like man this is intense but
that's the beauty of the show you watch
it again and then
again and again you can pause it watch
it again until you get it right it's
meant to be intense
we have intense music yeah all gonna
think I'm giving away a prize now when I
do that no story no prize just free
knowledge you can do your goes it's
coming along hey you know when it
happens to you you're gonna look back at
this video and go I am so glad I know
how to chroot because it's gonna happen
where you need it you know it exists
you're gonna go to category 5 dot TV
you're gonna do a little search on the
right hand side therefore chroot you're
gonna find this video and you're gonna
get a step-by-step tutorial with copy
and paste text in the show notes all the
commands over here genius user friendly
people he said it so I'm allowed to
repeat it I'm so kidding okay so that's
done okay
so now remember that I'm still on the
system we did us you know we did CD
slash boot and we did it in LS and what
did we see no colonel now let's try oh
we have a kernel hooray
and I'm not talking about chicken or
popcorn no popcorn stuck in our teeth
all right can I reboot this system and
we're gonna see what happens so back in
my my you know this drive on my CD I'm
gonna just simply do a restart there we
go let's let it boot up and see what
happens
magic for our very eyes people
it's called Linux folks there it goes
it's gonna need me to remove the CD so I
need to do that as soon as it's ready
real time magic where if I have to wait
you have to wait hey Carol copyright
really good to know yes everyone
recognizes remove the disk there's only
like a few notes of the musical alphabet
okay yeah especially if you're a modern
band
there you go look at that it's detective
now I'm booting from my hard drive now
it's detected the kernel which I
installed that's the 3.20 - 4 686 p IE
let's hit enter
and ladies and gentlemen no error
message booting right up it's gonna come
up oh yeah I have full confidence in my
abilities I have confidence in your
abilities as well working if I can be
fair it was a lot more complicated the
first time I had to do it I can imagine
so I had to I had to relay this
knowledge send it down the internet
waves to you well the world appreciates
and I know they do mm-hmm
you will when it happens to you yeah
hopefully Booton the black screen right
now but it's coming well there's my
cursor oh there we go and it is narf dog
dog in the house there you go there's my
computer folks raring to go it's up and
running beautiful disaster averted
thank goodness does this work on Fedora
does this work on Ark does this work on
man general or Debian or Ubuntu or any
other distro absolutely oh your commands
may be a little bit different you need
to be familiar with your own package
manager I used app get right because I'm
on a Debian based system Lubuntu it's
the same thing so boom - exactly the
same commands just where I put SDA -
that's why we ran fdisk - L the first
command so that you could get a list of
your partitions it's gonna be different
with your computer most likely ok so
keep in mind there we go systems up and
running beautiful back in the game
perfect
that is how to chroot your system folks
now we know you learned it here on
category 5 technology TV and it's time
this time it's time for the news the top
stories in the category 5 TV newsroom
the National Security Agency is
harvesting huge numbers of images of
people from the communications that it
intercepts through its global
surveillance operations for use in
sophisticated facial recognition
programs according to a top-secret
document the spy agency's reliance on
facial recognition technology has grown
significantly over the last four years
and the agency has turned to new
software to exploit the flood of images
included in emails text messages social
media video conferences and other
communications the NSA documents reveal
agency officials believe that
technological advances could
revolutionize the way that the NSA finds
intelligence targets around the world
the document shows the agency's
ambitions for this highly sensitive
ability and the scale of its efforts
have not previously been disclosed hmm
remember when this guy was up behind us
the technology exists folks remember
when he was up on the shelf just behind
us he was kind of back here there it was
okay we get pictures of the show which
we put up on our social media profiles
we have an intervalometer up there that
takes picture every 10 seconds so one of
these times it's gonna get a smiling but
I uploaded one of those pictures where
our Spock bobblehead was way back here I
uploaded it to Twitter and Twitter when
it uploaded yeah
asked me do you want to tag Leonard
Nimoy excuse me and it was his official
Leonard Nimoy account account on Twitter
it was back here
our cameras are not that crystal-clear
harm on the technology exists the NSA is
just stepping and stepping up their
stuff they've seen person of interest
they want
it's freaking me out I'm just saying
that did kind of freak me out and I
thought freaky weird oh man because
everything that you post is permanent
you can't delete leaves from the
internet anymore folks nope sorry it's
out there be careful what you post but
they're talking about actually
monitoring telecommunications on online
I don't use a telephone anymore not that
voice over IP has been compromised or
it's in bed with the NSA or anything
like that but do we have to fear as
we're going more and more that way that
we're no longer on landlines we're using
everything through the internet who
knows my face is all over the place you
know is just all over the place I'll go
google robbie ferguson and see what you
come up with all good things i well I
hope so whoa speaking of
telecommunications our next story and
NSA involvement here we go like TARDIS
or universal translator Microsoft has
unveiled a real-time language
translation feature for its Internet
phone service Skype chief executive
Satya Nadella said the firm would launch
a test version of the service dubbed
Skype translator for Windows 8 later
this year the move comes as competition
in the internet-based phone service
sector because it's been rising forcing
firms to look at the ways to attract
more users according to Microsoft skypes
currently has 300 million users o
monthly users globally and as we know
from SharePoint Microsoft never fobs the
numbers Microsoft did not say if the
service will be offered for free or if
users will have to pay a fee hmm what
people don't realize Hill is that we are
actually speaking French these
microphones are Universal translators
we're from Canada right Canada you know
then all we do is speak French namely a
universal translator though a la TARDIS
or I think about Star Trek's Universal
communicator pins
the fact that you here if I can have a
Skype video conversation with you
they've had it in the chat you know
typing right shot for quite some time
and it's been revolutionary but imagine
somebody's voice being morphed into your
native language that's amazing and then
does that technology then say now we can
take category five to Germany in your
native tongue could we use that kind of
technology can we as in the industry use
that kind of technology wouldn't that be
crazy amazing might not be good as
hiring actors to do our voices zoomit up
Dave Ferguson that was a really bad
actor we fired him he was horrible
interesting stuff to think about
I love that line of technology mm-hmm
meaning stuff but it does rent it raises
so many questions when we're afraid of
privacy obviously the communication has
to be monitored in order to be
translated by superfast computers yeah
hello which can do how many operations
per second how real-time is that what's
the latency who is listening in on our
discussions no freaky guys we're gonna
have to go back to the days of carrier
pigeons carrier pigeons that are
probably monitoring NSA would shoot them
down who knows in other news imagine
driving down the highway at 30 miles per
hour when suddenly the wheel turns hard
right and you crash then this accident
was because somebody hacked your car
yikes
freaky it's not a far-fetched science
fiction notion it's the near-term future
today's hackers are warned about most
people aren't aware that their cars are
already high-tech computers
realistically and now we're networking
them by giving them wireless
connectivity yet there's a danger to
turn your car into a smartphone on
wheels it makes them a powerful target
for hackers
Adams is a researcher at security
innovation a company that tests the
safety of automobiles referring to the
computers and software used to power
today's cars
he says auto manufactures are not up to
speed they're just behind the times
car software is not built to the same
standards as say a bank application or
software coming out of Microsoft the
nightmare is scenario hackers access
your car's core controls by breaching
its internet connected entertainment
system and tamper with your brakes but
cars are going wireless and that means
wires won't be needed to hack them hmm
that's a scary thought
petrifying absolutely we brought up on
the show a couple weeks ago about how
they were developing a system to safely
get you off the road an event even
whatever right but now and now we all
know we didn't even have to bring it up
in the newsroom because everybody knows
about Google's autonomous cars you've
seen those have you so like they've
actually developed cars no steering
wheel no pedals just a bubble on wheels
that drives by itself so what is to stop
somebody from I mean it's obviously a
good target for hackers or governments
or you know control or organizations no
not movie we're not conspiracy theorists
here find we're did it's a it's a
potential that's news people need to
consider right and I think where things
fall apart is that with vehicles we're
looking at an industry that has has
accelerated no pun intended
it's technology at a rate faster than
they have the understanding of those
technologies in such a way if that makes
sense
in such a way that your car while it has
incredibly sophisticated technology like
they're developing and the Wi-Fi
technologies and things it also
incorporates things that are so old as
far as the technological advancement
goes right so why couldn't somebody who
can get into your sound system say
through wireless then tap into your
brakes which are incredibly
unsophisticated in comparison right
why can't malware get into your
dashboard computer and then take over
some of the things that normally you
would control but then taking it to the
very far extreme are those Google cars
and any other autonomous car where you
don't even have control where if
something goes wrong you can't grab the
wheel interesting I'm just visioning a
made-for-tv movie in my mind let's start
making it made for the internet movie
trying to drive my car it's not driving
the way I tell it to and then you'd be
like ah controlling you with my iPod
sounds good to me I'm creative in other
ways don't be a hater this little story
was sent into us by Tennessee Frank okay
Jim Frank Google's plans for
satellite-based internet access just got
a little bit more concrete The Wall
Street Journal here is that the search
firm is preparing to build 180 small
high capacity satellites not ventured
here that will go into low orbit and
provide interconnections to um sorry
underserved areas while details aren't
forthcoming about these machines there
may be more on the way reportedly the
company could double its vehicle count
if all goes well
a spokeswoman didn't confirm or deny the
efforts but did note that having an
internet link significantly improves
people's lives yeah okay well what was
the news a month ago we're bringing the
Internet to the forest right well the
campground
yeah like campgrounds in the middle I
don't know if you've heard this where
you're from but here in Canada it's a
big deal where people go to places like
Algonquin Park specifically to get away
from tech
we're there to see the Moose great and
there bring an internet Wi-Fi well this
and people are outraged and people you
know don't want Internet where they are
in the middle of the woods hiking and
things this is going to be unstoppable
well it doesn't matter where you are now
we got a satellite over your head cool
owned and operated by Google all right
they've got these new cars coming out
that are internet connected so that's
convenient hmm
monitoring of positions through
satellites 180 of them what's Google's
involvement with NSA I said we're not a
conspiracy theorist but this is getting
crazy I don't know
and they've got all these robots that
they're building which are gonna be
internet connective before about yeah
can somebody please bring this to
Hollywood cast a company that makes
robots and robotic cars is going to have
satellites in their control that we'll
be able to communicate with every device
on the face of the earth no matter where
it is freaking myself out cue ominous
music well you can get these full
stories online if you're interested in
learning a little bit more category-five
TV slash newsroom the category-five TV
newsroom is researched by Rory W Nash
with contributions from our awesome
community of viewers if you have a story
thanks worthy of on-air mention send us
email on newsroom at category 5 TV from
the category 5 TV newsroom I'm Hilary
Rumble oh thanks Hill no bad I'm just
responding in the chat room that's okay
there's lots of interesting stuff going
on I mean we just had a different show
and I've been busy we got 30 minutes to
save the world here what can we say hi
to a couple of people we certainly can
hello hello everyone hello hello Flo
again for watching
hello stripe hello big red 1275
who else we got here today let's take a
look at our line viewer location map I
love this it's so interesting to me
Washington in Baltimore nice to see ya
in Monterrey and Munich huh
we got viewers we have viewers we have
viewers all over the world all over the
world and in fact I've been you know
even just even just hearing from you in
Nigeria and realizing that you're
watching the show in Nigeria and from
around the world our viewers in China
and of course our viewers in the United
States we have a very large viewership
in the United States in Canada we are
you know taking over the taken over the
whole northern hemisphere oh yeah that's
pretty cool you can go to our website
category 5 TV if you want to see that or
it's just map dot cat5 dot TV gives you
a nice overview of where people are
watching from that there we go that's
the zoomed out version and yeah we see
you see their world
I see Ethiopia there and of course you
know you guys can't even see your
country names everybody know Germany is
in there somewhere
Ireland we get in there we go oh look
the Czech Republic has appeared in
Switzerland and France so we love you
all cool very cool thanks for watching
category-five TV we love you
speaking of kind of you know the the
overview of our world and looking at our
viewer location map something that NASA
has been doing and something that I find
incredibly cool and I've maybe I think
it's NASA maybe it's not but it
regardless have you seen the video live
from the International Space Station yet
I have not to be honest I have been
wanting to mention this on the show and
so what I've actually done is I've made
up a quick little hot link for you just
to get there real easy cat5 dot TV /i ss
cam for the International Space Station
cam what it is is that they've actually
put HD webcams internet-connected
probably to a google satellite who knows
it's embedded testing on the space
station and so you can actually see you
know when it's gray that means that is
currently connected to a camera that's
not connecting or it's switching between
cameras so hopefully we'll get to see
something but you can go there camp five
dot TV slash ISS cam blow it up full
screen right now it's an incredibly
boring gray window earlier today I can
see the flyover of the earth and it is
really really cool and it's interesting
to watch the chat room too and realize
that this is really bringing people
together on a global scale and the
example here tonight as you can see is
really unimpressive but if you can
imagine I'll leave it up just for a
couple of moments just in case and of
course because of the way that the space
station goes around the world orbits the
earth you're gonna see a Sun up sunrise
sunset like a couple times in our kind
of so it's it's really really neat and
especially if you catch it during
daytime their time so that you can
actually see everything that's beautiful
so kind of puts things into perspective
in a lot of ways so cat five dot TV
slash ISS cam incredibly boring as I
tried demonstrated tonight because it's
gray as we know from reading over the
quick notes that if it's gray cameras
down which is acceptable considering
they're in space solid their internet
may not be as reliable as here on e
pluribus unum there you go we'll stay
tuned I'm eagerly and watching the
corner of my eye waiting for something
happen or aliens yeah well we're gonna
jump into viewer questions just for ya
you know I know that we have a couple
there tonight's show is brought to you
in part by Beltone you can learn why
Beltone is the choice of millions of
users when it comes to fantastic hearing
care checkout Beltone first it's a
revolutionary made for iPhone
hearing aid visit Beltone dot-com or
call 1-800 Beltone now for your free
trial very cool I like that I also like
questions indeed this one comes to us
from dawn hey Don and I think he might
have written to you before but I said I
couldn't find a way to connect yet in
pidgin I don't know if this is this
regards to the chat room for chat right
yeah okay I can watch the show weekly
live on my Roku and use my laptop's to
connect a category-5 chatroom from the
website so we'll try that next time
awesome
I guess that was no question all right
well in the meantime go over to category
5 TV click on interact chatroom and
you'll see that there is some help there
that will give you some instructions on
how to get pigeon setup also there's a
video and if you click on help you'll be
able to watch Eric and I demonstrate how
to setup pigeon he also has a nice
little comment here I went back to the
beginning of this year to look at the
prior shows and he's using Manjaro no
and it's been loving it who else it's a
rolling release and it keeps me current
with stable updated software and he's a
self-taught user at age 66 and it's had
no technical training so we enjoys
trying and testing new ideas so thank
you for the show
way to go Don thanks for the email and
that's so nice to have you as a part of
our community here at category 5 little
comments really I think so yeah we've
got a fanfare five and a half minutes ok
so um where did it go I had this book ok
sees you Tony
hey Tony says I started watching
category 5 of my Roku at Easter and it
was coming through well he is a Roku 2
watches an SD in composite video nice I
do the same that's what I love about my
Roku 2 is you can connect it through the
RCA cables it doesn't have to be HDMI
and when you do that it automatically
detects that you're on an SD screen so
it streams to you the SD signal rather
than the HD signal down
sampled so you actually save bandwidth
that way and it looks great on a CRT TV
looks fantastic no Rosie well he's just
just commenting that started with the
Roku intro and then went ahead to
episode 342 yes I got flicker but I
think everyone did but it was not very
distracting Oh back camera guard yeah
we're raising money to get a new camera
tonight we're using a webcam again and
it's looking pretty good tonight but we
get this crazy thing where you know we
have this crazy fisheye effect almost
it's like a super zoom so if we put our
hands out we basically look like crazy
hands anyways just a nice little comment
here about watching us on roku cool
another way to tune in very much love
having Roku as a part of our you know
way of watching category-five TV in I
know that there's a lot of people that
are watching the show through real coup
so we appreciate you we do and I'm sorry
I just I got a lot of cool comments and
comments coming through and you guys
always write such nice like essays here
I'd appreciate maybe like a one or two
liner but that's okay here this comment
actually comes to us from orange man
from Ireland hey lunch man and I guess
he wrote to you before about I'm using
Microsoft Virtual XP on Windows 7 right
go ahead
found a box from Maplin electronics cat
5e inline coupler for networks
oh yeah and when I want to use Virtual
XP I take the cable out of the cat 5e
inline coupler so disabling the network
and internet external wireless this
makes it safe to use when using virtual
XP so I guess it's just how to follow up
yeah yeah so he's physically unplugging
the cable from Windows XP I'm gonna show
you something really really quick orange
man here's a virtual box and here's XP
what I can do rather than having to
physically disabled the cable I can
actually go in here to my settings I can
go network and I can just
disable it by unchecking enable network
adapter then when I hit okay there's no
more networking in my computer Windows
XP no longer has network big news in the
chatroom they're letting us know that
we've got video over at the ISS this is
cat five dot TV slash ISS cam and as you
can see it's beautiful HD video coming
off of the International International
Space Station you got to check that out
I mean it's I want to put on some
classical music or something and just
check out what's going on with our world
it's just like look at that that's the
view that Mark Shuttleworth had when he
was up there so you just can't beat that
cat5 dot TV slash ISS cam it's all the
time that we have folks thanks for
joining us tonight
this is category five technology TV in
our website as you see down there
it's triple W category five TV follow us
on Twitter get all the links off of our
website
we're on Facebook we're on Google+ sign
up and follow us on those social media
platforms you get notifications when the
show is gonna go live and all that kind
of stuff plus if you register on our
website category five dot TV will
actually gladly send you an email at
your request
just with the helpful little check box
that says remind me don't want miss the
show remind me I said an email an hour
before the show and and after the show
they even send you all the files that
you watch it if you miss it
very cool we don't want you to miss out
shirt on well thanks everybody thanks oh
thanks for the memories guys and I hope
you learned something today
we've got lots of your questions have
been coming in lately we do our best to
keep up with it
keep them coming live at category 5 TV
or head on over to our website you see
on interactive and ask a question button
usually what happens we will put
together a viewer question extravaganza
to get through the mailbag if if we fall
too far behind and that's kind of
looking we're like where we're headed so
thank you everyone for sending in your
questions you haven't heard from us yet
thanks for tuning in and I'll see you
next have a great week everybody we hope
you enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m.
Eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV checking the
local show times in your area at
category-five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution 2.5 Canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
