welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 519 for Wednesday
the 30th of August 2017 nice to have you
here and I'm joined tonight by Sasha tor
made us and my friend shizue Yamaguchi
she's it what are you gonna be covering
with us tonight I'm gonna be talking
about the life-changing art magic of
tidying up by Mark kundo it's art it's
magic it's all about cleaning up house
nice we're gonna learn how to apply that
to my office and studio space as well
just in time for our 10th anniversary
when everyone's going to be here and
judging me for my messes also I'm going
to be covering Unicode characters
tonight we're gonna learn how to use
those in order to integrate font awesome
into our graphic editor tonight we're
going to be showing you in the GNU image
manipulation program a little bit more
about Dave's computer fel which is
awesome and on its way and also here's
what's coming up in the category 5 TV
newsroom my teleprompter screen is still
not working
oh so if you wonder why she's looking
down yes now you know Burger King now
has its own cryptocurrency in Russia the
Whopper coin the pepper robot has
demonstrated its ability to perform a
funeral in place of a Buddhist monk I'm
nasty firmware update butcher Samsung
Smart TVs so badly that they have to be
repaired and DJI has announced a bug
bounty program to pay hackers to have
report report exploits
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show
this is category five technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamers
tune in live every week week on Roku
Cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash IAI be welcome to the show
I'm Robby Ferguson please help me
welcome Sandra made us back with us
again tonight and for the first time
ever she's G hello and we're gonna get
all into you know how we know each other
and and what you're up to and we're
gonna be getting into it a few in a few
minutes time we are on our course tools
tonight that's right if you're not
familiar with them hate go over to cat
five dot TV slash stool and if you see
me kind of rocking back and forth that's
that's what's causing it thank you
looking like workout yeah the best thing
about these tools actually for me is
that they actually make me look like I'm
the tallest here I guess there we go but
now I'd be falling over seriously I'm
not confident unless my feet are on the
ground yeah
plain and simple um our tenth
anniversary is coming up yes September
27th
it's almost upon us folks how can people
join us to knit that night they request
tickets yeah yeah so do that category 5
TV folks our 27 on the 27th of September
is our tenth anniversary for category 5
tech TV it's hard to believe but we'd
love to welcome you right here in our
studio and that would be really really
cool to have you here so just head over
to our website category 5 TV and click
on tickets and you'll find out how to
attend
yeah a bunch of us are gonna be here
reminiscent of like the fifth one where
everybody was here a little different
because we have our own studio now
that's when we did the fifth anniversary
we had to get a auditorium and move all
the equipment over and set everything up
and tear it down afterwards and all that
now we have our own studio so here we
are the fifth anniversary one was like
my first ish episode the first issue so
this is like my fifth ish anniversary
show hard to believe a time flies okay
she's ooh yes thank you thank you for
having me
she's ooh and I worked together without
actually working together kind of the
world that we live in where emailing and
this is only the second time that we've
met my family and I went down to the you
set off yeah for a little bit there yeah
but it's so neat that technology has
brought businesses to the point where a
company like ESET we can sell to people
all over the world today I was remoted
into a customer's computer in Edmonton
oh wow their server to fix their remote
administrator well that's the world
Dianne where it's so connected that we
can we can do that kind of thing yeah so
we've worked together for quite some
time yeah yeah I don't really know each
other in person discussion was just last
week where we're just talking about it's
such a weird thing that you can get to
know somebody so well and never actually
meet them in person it's it's crazy and
it yeah I feel very close to like the
chat room like like absolutely no
friends but I've never actually met like
like literally I could walk past in the
street anybody in the chat room they'd
have to be walking down the street like
in the UK Hertz something but but yeah I
would I know I feel like I know
everybody so well but at the same time
physically like I don't I've never
I think you would run up to her and say
hi right please do y'all would recognize
Sasha yes so this is kind of neat so
tell us a little bit about yourself and
what you're doing these days sure yeah
so I am at Robbie at ESET we were
working together
I myself am a graduate of psychology
from the University of Toronto been in
Toronto for about 10 years I grew up on
the East Coast currently going into
school for graphic design at OCAD
University and running some businesses
on the side as well doing public
speaking training as well as graphic
design so that's kind of where I'm at
right now and your public speaking I
hear you're also doing some of the
standup I'm just starting with this so I
took a second city class stand-up one um
as a suite to an improv class that I
took with them a number of years ago and
I'm starting stand up to now and just
kind of dipping my toe into the world of
stand-up have done to form two
performances so far three to five minute
long sets and just and how do you find
that the first time I performed it was
in front of about a hundred people
friends and family I was too calm I felt
I was too calm and but the second time I
went up it was in front of also kind of
a friends and family oriented place it
was like terrifying I was like so
nervous yeah dude
so it's interested patton oswalt
introduce you
Toronto seven song where he needs to be
a full-time graphic designer
a crowbar and so let's upper get started
please welcome
[Applause]
my dad a Japanese is very much
disciplinary over the years no no that
was that was Jim Jim McAleese he's one
of the teachers at City yeah he's really
good he's really good it's a compliment
and a compliment yeah yeah well he does
the stand-up yeah yeah so that's that's
the latest thing so tonight you are here
with us because now I've been really
preparing for our 10th anniversary show
here at category 5 and we've all been
through this where you know you you have
trouble decluttering and organizing and
my biggest challenge here at the studio
is as you saw today so yeah yeah Suzu I
was explaining to her that you know you
look at the boxes that we have a product
that it has been sent into review and
and I know that there are some companies
that are watching even right now who
maybe don't understand when I've
unfortunately had to turn your products
away and this happens and this has
happened you know more more regularly
now than ever before
so we've got boxes of stuff to review
and then in come more boxes yeah while
you're standing here now we've got more
so so I unpack these boxes we review the
product as quickly as we can and then
we've got packaging we've got I go
through this where we just you know I'm
not here enough to keep up right so what
happens to the items after you're done
with them do you send them back or do
they stay or you hold on to them they
stay so we we quite often put them on
display oh yeah
for for the companies that are promoting
their products through us we'll write
off and bring them out again and
sometimes we'll even give them away as
prizes Wow so that's ultimately the goal
is to be able to okay I see that makes
sense hmm
so in terms of segwaying into this this
this book that I've read so you know
this is this is my predicament yeah yeah
and Shizue contacted me and said you've
got to check out this book mm-hmm tell
us about this okay well so the book is
called the life-changing magic of
tidying up and it's by author Mary a
condo she's a Japanese declutter er
that's what she does for a living now so
this book this is her job absolutely and
actually there are now consultants you
get it so it's a it was a New York Times
bestseller number one bestseller I think
in and around the beginning of 2016 so
this lady has a her so she's a declutter
er slash cleaner home organizer for a
living she has a waiting list of three
months of clients and the claim is that
after tidying up the way she does it you
will never have to do it again so it's
not the kind of thing where you do it on
a monthly basis do it around the six
months year you do it once and it's done
so I'm not sure if that applies exactly
to your scenario because your home I can
see it working yes at home definitely so
basically I did this method this past
Saturday so I took twelve hours of my
life out to take my room apart and at
the end of it I had twelve bags of like
twelve garbage bags sitting in my living
room Wow
there was so much stuff I had no idea
myself that I was such a hoarder like I
had so much stuff and my way of cleaning
up prior to this was just to organize
stuff you know just put the clothes
where the clothes were supposed to go
books where the books are supposed to go
that was the way I cleaned up I always
felt better afterwards but this time was
different
so her method is different in one
specific way and that is
she focuses like the the subtitle is
actually decluttering and organizing so
the first part is decluttering
and the rule that she goes by is to only
keep things that spark joy okay yeah so
what that means is that if you have a
shirt say that you wear once every three
months and you have maybe doesn't fit
quite right yeah you kind of like it and
you're like you have mixed feelings that
one's got to go get rid of it yeah get
rid of shirts that I ate despise okay so
yeah so this is gonna be arranged it's
gonna be shirts that you absolutely
despise a shirt that maybe you know a
relative gave to you 10 years ago that
you're holding on to for mementos sake
there's gonna be a shirt that you just
bought last week that was expensive it
didn't fit quite right and then there's
gonna be that shirt that's gonna be like
oh my gosh I love this shirt I love
wearing it it's it sparks joy and so
this is the method you go through and
it's very methodical you go through
clothes first and then all the different
types of clothings tops bottles all that
kind of thing
books and then papers which relates a
little bit to technology in the sense
that she basically says get rid of all
paper except for two types one type is
paper that you need to action on like
let's say it's a government document
that you need to send back like a bill
or something yeah something like that
that you need to action on and the
second type is basically any kind of
financial record so you absolutely have
to keep so in that sense having a
computer with a good Google Drive or
whatever kind of technology is a great
way of keeping your your site paperless
aside from those types of jobs so would
we start scanning things that look the
answer probably not I would say if she
had like a suite to this this book in
terms of translating that into a
technology kind of kind of field she
would probably keep that to a minimum as
well because the idea is is to have the
least number of things on your mind
your room but also like your mind in
your life yeah so that's that's part of
the results which is so I will get back
to you on on that question of what do
you do with all of that stuff well what
comes to mind Becca you know like we get
tons and tons of papers from the from
the kids teachers yeah yeah like it's
ridiculous and every parent out there
knows exactly what I'm talking about
Jeff is it yeah is it important to have
the actual papers could you not just
take a picture of them and like file
them in like grade three like just have
a file of like grade three pictures I
want to know your answer to that yeah me
run into this predicament of these are
sentimental in the way that our kids
have done these crafts and even math
homework and things that you know I'm so
proud that my son got a hundred percent
on his math yeah and so you know you
want to hold on to that what you know
obviously you've got to go through it
you got and and we recycle it what's
what's kind of the answer there should
be magic exactly on the cover of the
book and I feel like having great words
like magic on the cover of a book are
great but anyway she's been doing this
kind of work just as a side note since
she was five years old so she's been
obsessed basically with a home
organization she would throw out bags of
stuff that belonged to her parents like
she would go through the house and just
organize things take time off of school
to do these things correct me if I'm
wrong this is her method this is her
method but she developed this habit she
developed this method and so one of the
things that she did do at one point in
time was like try to take pictures of
the things that she found valuable and
so she's gone through all of these
methods and I think her answer would be
to that does it spark joy and if it does
hold on to it you know and if it doesn't
then you know you kind of you know you
say goodbye you know and that's what the
the process was like for me when I was
doing it was you know this this old
t-shirt they had had for about ten years
I said goodbye to it literally had tears
in my eyes because I was just like this
needs to go at this not for me and
and I just said goodbye but those things
that do spark joy you hold on to them
that's interesting and I like that ends
a lot of times with these kinds of
philosophies or sayings or jzn they're
the opposite is true so in the opposite
to that is things that bring sadness or
bad memories yeah those kinds of things
they can just go exactly and that's the
interesting part about it is that it's
very subjective it's because for example
you might come across something that
objectively came from someone that let's
say from a parent or someone that you
were close to at one time but it causes
you a lot of pain when you see it
because it reminds you of something
negative for someone else they might say
well well it comes from this person so
you should hold on to it but for you
personally it's about how you feel about
it so if you feel this it's a weight you
need to let it go so it's an interesting
process and I found it for myself to be
at points quite emotional and once a
process was done I felt quite calm and
more confident with my decision-making
because going through all of those
things hundreds of things of thinking to
myself does it spark joy does it what
emotion does this cause me to have to
let it go all these things that were
kind of caught up in my mind and in the
past are now kind of physically gone so
so actually this book is interesting
because the results are really
interesting for her clients
she's cited some clients have gone
through tremendous relationship changes
afterwards like for example separations
for example it can get pretty severe but
also like career changes and people
getting clarity about what they want to
do with their lives so to me it makes
sense I'm only you know so far a few
days into it but I feel much more chill
as a person as a result yeah
is there a part two to it so you're
decluttering the things that you already
have but have you changed the mindset
for acquiring new things now are you
only bringing into your life okay yeah
you joy well it definitely it's a good
question cuz now I find when I go
shopping or when I go around window
shopping I don't feel like I
want to buy anything cuz I have that
process in mind already like what is
going to bring me joy and I already feel
like I'm somewhat satisfied where I am I
guess now the only thing is just buying
things that may be okay that's kind of
embarrassing but so my my collection of
socks will say was not the best and so I
had to throw it a bunch of them right
now now I have to get new ones
essentially so these these are the kinds
of things that you recognize that right
old pair of sandals that I was wearing
for the past like two years like they
really needed to go and now I need to
get a new pair so you're looking at
things more in a long-term perspective
and I'm not in a perspective of oh you
know I feel like just buying something
right now right because you think oh no
I'm gonna have to deal with that when I
get home
very cool we're talking about the book
the life-changing magic of tidying up
with our guest she's ooh Yamaguchi and
this book is actually available through
our shop it's Kat v dot TV slash tidy
okay there so how can we try it now this
is obviously good advice and it's
something that I want to learn for for
my own life and for like at home and and
just keeping things tidy and and getting
rid of some junk but how can I translate
this into my office space my studio
space those at home who have home
offices isn't a good example I know
we've all got a lot of clutter that we
could probably do away with and it would
be so freeing to I would say to to take
the book and just go through the process
with your home office I think that would
be the method I think by going through
your papers and going through items such
as things that are being sent in you
would for yourself get a sense of what
kinds of things you'll want to keep and
what things you'll you'll put away or
you know the categories of things I
think will become more clear as you go
through the process of what you already
have so I feel like kind of dealing with
what you already have will make that
path clear for the future as to what you
want to bring in and keep and how you
want to deal with that so I would I
would highly recommend just going
through the process it takes some time
but it's it's an all in one go kind
thing so but I would recommend just
doing the process with the book even
just speaking with you right now she's
yeah just beyond you I see three
printers why Robbie yeah and that's just
you know so yeah okay I get it I get it
yeah so I need to read the book cat five
dot TV slashed Heidi any other advice
for us live long and prosper nicely set
nicely set well this is category five
technology TV welcome to the show it's
nice to have you here
Sasha we're gonna jump over to the
newsroom and find out what you've got
for us today here are the stories were
covering this week in the category five
TV newsroom Burger King now has its own
cryptocurrency in Russia the whopper
coin the pepper robot has demonstrated
its ability to perform a funeral in
place of a Buddhist monk a nasty
firmware update butchers Samsung Smart
TVs so badly that they have to be
bounty program to pay hackers to report
exploits these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name so your own com dice to
put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
just don't put that on the papers on
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dream host I made us
in here the top stories for the week of
August 30th 2017 according to New York
magazine who published the story based
on a Russian news report the Russian
subdivision of Burger King has launched
its own cryptocurrency aptly called
whopper coin for each whopper burger
customers purchased they'll receive one
whopper coin in a special cryptocurrency
wallet while the coins wider use is
unclear some reports suggest that the
whopper coin will be accepted as a
method of payment at Burger Kings across
Russia Burger King has reportedly issued
1 billion whopper coin tokens to date on
waves platform though it is possible
that there will be more to come
according to reports Burger King Russia
is now accepting Bitcoin as a form of
payment so a burger paid for in Bitcoin
would be like it would cost like point
zero zero zero zero three one four nine
good I like this you used pine yeah
anyone else craving a whopper right
about now like yeah Jeff is it I wonder
if this is just specifically that like
let's do something crazy just to really
get a lot of news outlets to cover yeah
whopper coin is that what they called it
yeah
it's no it's no different than any
incentive program at all really except
that it's cryptocurrency it's getting
them free viral promotions right like
crazy but it's kind of neat I like that
they're going that route and it's
interesting you know raises some
questions that it's only Russia but
we'll see what happens here in Canada
and around the u.s. when the robot
apocalypse apocalypse comes robots will
be able to say a prayer over your
remains thanks to Japan's Softbank
this week at Tokyo's international
funeral and cemetery show softbank's
pepper robot demonstrated its ability to
perform Buddhist rich funeral rites
through third-party software designed
for the tasks draped in traditional
Japanese funeral garb pepper not only
presided over a faux death ceremony it
also chanted Buddhist sutras taking over
the usual role of human monk during such
ceremonies so far pepper isn't actually
performing any real funeral rites but
Japan's Masai echo developed the funeral
soft software as it's the funeral
software for pepper as an alternative
when a buddhist monk isn't available or
when the family can't afford the much
more expensive human practitioner the
service will cost about four hundred and
fifty dollars versus the thousands of
dollars usually spent for a human Wow so
this this is where robots cost less than
humans and now can I don't know how I
feel with this and this is weird for me
to say because I'm really Pro robot all
the time yeah do you have any opinions
on this one you're big on robots and
it's it's interesting I don't know so
they actually perform the rites they
don't say that's it is really amazing
how that would affect the more the older
generation but I wonder if that's kind
of the target or the goal is to reduce
the cost of funeral services in order to
I mean because I think because it's it's
something that's so related to things
that are so emotional and so human
bringing that into it it's more it would
be more appropriate I would think in
like a shopping mall or like at a
checkout or something like that but I
feel like it's such a interesting
contrast moving it right into something
so deeply yeah spiritual exactly it's
yeah I feel like it have to be for the
right person and the right families like
that's my wonder like Millennials and
forward yeah maybe that's it but would
it be like a little bit and it's funny
because I really think that robots are
like super awesome all the time but for
my own personal funeral I hope it's a
person they do yeah yeah I think some
things deserve that human touch we're
gonna hear about this in a week folks I
do have a good example of what robots
can be used for so stick around and
we'll we'll talk about that in just a
couple of minutes okay
owners of smart Samsung Smart TVs say
their swish sets are basically unusable
after being after a bungled firmware
update the update was so bad it looked
as though people it will require people
to send or bring their televisions back
to base to repair for repair to correct
the issue pardon me
people posting on Samsung UK's Support
Forums report that an update released on
August 8th rendered many newer smart
sets such
the 50-inch ultra-hd and 49 inch 4k
displays entirely unusable judging from
the dozens of complaints the gear
functioned as expected prior to getting
the most recent firmware upgrade from
the South Korean giant after that
software is installed the smart
televisions are stuck on a single
Channel the remotes don't work the
volume can't be adjusted or in some
cases they're just totally inoperable we
saw this last week with the smart door
locks and it's a terrible situation for
end-users don't install firmware updates
and you'll miss out on security patches
and potentially be vulnerable to exploit
or other threats do install the updates
and your device might be bricked so is
every Samsung TV now going to be at well
no it's not it's not a risk to every TV
it's it's a it's a select patch but the
fact is this we're how do you even have
confidence and we're seeing this more
and more because computers are getting
their updates automatically devices you
know you pull your phone out of your
pocket and it says these the this this
and this has been updated
I never asked it to but it did it does
it and is it gonna break things people
bring in a Windows 10 computer that
won't boot anymore because Tuesday's
updates made it so that their computer
wouldn't boot yeah and what do you where
do you do you turn off the updates I
don't think that's the acts probably not
the answer right there should be maybe a
trial update done like a Samsung base
maybe maybe it's better testing before
they roll it really keeps learning this
lesson they can't make mistakes in their
time recently oh my goodness did we go
there yeah so part about explosions and
losses right so all you need to do is a
little bit of testing I would say all I
need to do folks bending to public
pressure as more and more drone hackers
break into their kits Chinese firm DJI
has now announced the bug bounty program
security researchers academic scholars
and independent experts often provide a
valuable service by analyzing the code
in DJI zaps and other software products
and bringing concerns to public
attention said DG eyes director of
technical standards Walter Stockwell in
AK and quote this comes on the heels of
a hat of hackers discovering hot
patching frameworks hidden inside DJ
eyes app which it removed last week in
particular DJI is interested in bugs
pertaining to safe flight or a data
privacy payouts will range between one
hundred and thirty thousand dollars
depending on the potential impact of the
threat conscientious drone hackers are
invited to email bug bounty at DJ DJ I
comm with details of flaws and fails big
thanks this week to the Albuquerque
turkey Roy W Nash in our community of
yours for submitting stories to us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom and don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
dramatis for the last time ever we'll be
introducing sasha Rickman in just a few
weeks yes Wow
it's upon us folks all right well this
is category five technology TV welcome
to the show I'm Robby Ferguson
I'm Sasha dradis I'm she's a Yamaguchi
nice to see you nice to have everybody
here and now I mentioned I was going to
show you a good use for a robot have you
heard of the da Vinci robot no no okay
now this I'm going to show you a clip it
aired about a year ago but it's just now
really making it's it's making its
rounds on social media and things like
that
so imagine use case for robots and then
watch as the da Vinci robot sutures a
grape oh wow okay
so speaking of good uses for robotics
and thinking about micro surgeries and
the intricacies
and how much easier it is for somebody
to to heal quickly and be able to leave
the hospital quickly right yeah if you
just needed simple stitches you could
just go to like the the stitches kiosk
in the go to like an automatic machine
where you drop in some coins and that's
right in size do you think that's how da
Vinci works oh my goodness I'm picturing
it like like the robot claw that comes
down and grabs the toy you like yeah
oh my wow this has really taken a turn
but there you have it so there's a
finished and amazing just so intriguing
but what a use for robotics yeah so you
know I think there are some good some
good use cases in in I mean you're
looking at it right now so not
everything is is perfect look at that
Wow from the Vinci Surgery inside a
bottle it's so interesting where
technology is these days when we go back
to the news item about those TVs
breaking down because of you know
updates but then on the other hand you
have these machines that can do a better
job than you know the human with the
shaky hand or you had a late night it's
really interesting that is just all over
the place it depends on where you are on
the map exactly where the benefits
coming in and then there's all those
risks popping up as well and I think
about how how miniature the surgeon can
be with those kinds of robotics and so
precise yeah that you hear about I hear
a fair bit about micro surgeries these
days we had a story about a 3d printed
heart it was on all one piece 3d
printers actually work it works and it's
only good for I mean it hasn't been used
in human yet but it only works for about
30 days yeah but really would bridge the
gap if you're waiting for it the
transplant
right so I mean most of the time these
things are amazing and then your TV gets
bricked or your phone explodes so yeah I
just thought that was interesting so
that's that's it for the news and we're
gonna move along with that we've got a
fair bit to cover but Sasha is actually
I'll let you know because I'm not sure
if you're aware sasha is building her
own computer yes yes this is from
previous episodes right it's a
multi-part series currently a part for
and so do you want to kind of explain
what where we're at at this point we're
at the receiving box's part so last week
we made a shopping list and I
immediately went home and I ordered a
whole bunch of stuff yeah it was super
fun and lots of the boxes have now
arrived so that's super cool so what do
we what every guy I saw the CPU fan
right
I start to CPU itself the motherboard is
beautiful it is sharp it really is
better than I expected
yeah keyboarding Mouse yeah is that it
that's it yes yeah
other things are sort of on our way so I
really do want to thank Frank Joseph and
Robert who all have donated for the belt
thank you so much from the absolute
bottom of my heart I cannot wait to
share this with Dave and to show him all
that everybody's done from you know
coming up with the idea of like the
whole vision was created by you so thank
you this is like the first cloud build
mm-hmm like you viewers you you've
helped to design the system to pick out
the parts to to even fund it now and we
appreciate that very very much if you'd
like to pitch in now understand that
this is a wedding gift for Sasha's
husband yeah but you're going to utilize
it as well could be your your family
computer so so if you'd like to
contribute to that as a bit of a wedding
gift to the the happy couple head on
over to donate dot cat
five TV and you can see there there's an
option to donate specifically to that so
a couple of questions that have arisen
since then right that we never thought
to bring up and I'll explain why because
some of the technologies that I didn't
bring up our things that I don't use in
a desktop computer ever I thought well
we better ask you and the viewers in the
forum at cat5 TV slash CPU 2017 wanted
to know do you need Wi-Fi is your
computer going to be connected to
wireless how do you currently connect
here well okay so I looked a little into
it right now we're connected into the
like the actual physical router like a
cable going into the computer yes
however okay so we rent a basement
apartment and we have one router that
connects like upstairs and downstairs
like we've all shared share it with the
whole house and right now it's in our
apartment but evidently there's
connection issues upstairs and they
wanted to move it upstairs so I've been
really encouraging that we don't do that
instead we get one of those things that
just like expands the you know there's
like you know talking about Peter yeah
so I want to keep it close so that we
don't have to be Wi-Fi the answer is yes
ish yes could be a predicament so Wi-Fi
is not as reliable and it's not as fast
exactly so you're gonna have issues with
Wi-Fi so we didn't put a Wi-Fi adapter
in it we didn't buy a motherboard that
had built-in Wi-Fi
we're gonna need it and I wanted to
suggest that if you do need Wi-Fi just
by a USB dongle because that way as
Wi-Fi technology evolves you can just
pull out that and plug a new one in
there cheap and it doesn't have to be
part of the build right I'm really
usually quite easygoing but I've very
much put my foot down and just pull
router movement thing so is there a
cable that goes from your router all the
way up to the apartment upstairs or are
they using Wi-Fi is it weird that I
don't know it's very strange
strange I wonder if they're using Wi-Fi
they probably are and it's not working
it having trouble and they want to
reverse that so you're the one having
trouble so I think you should have
somebody in that can run what's called a
network drop an Ethernet cable that goes
up through the walls or through the
floor okay to the router and then
extends that to what's called a switch
so you have the router and then a big
long cable going down to your apartment
or vice versa and then a switch on the
other end which turns that one cable
into five ports right and you can
network them all together but keep in
mind even the way that you're doing this
the way that you have your computer
connecting to a network with the people
upstairs if they got a virus if they got
ransomware
your computer is susceptible out okay
because you're on the same what's called
a local area network it's a computer
network all of them can talk to each
other like your office all the computers
can access each other's files and
communicate with one another so right
you're gonna be you're not going to be a
threat to them because you're installing
Linux on your computer mm-hmm however
they are a threat to you because I would
imagine that they probably have
Microsoft Windows and so if you have
files on your computer which you will
and if they are shared in such a way
that you can access them from your
laptop and you can access them from your
other devices well guess what so can
they
okay so your block is the same network
you're connected to the very same
network okay and I'm guessing they don't
have the infrastructure to add a second
subnet with its own isolated yeah not
not likely okay so so understand that
that that is the susceptibility okay you
might want to look into something else I
don't know
yeah probably do you concur absolutely I
concur with experts all the time oh it's
a very real risk though okay and
ransomware is the biggest concern okay
because they go out through the network
and look for other computers and encrypt
their files right it wouldn't actually
be like
the upstairs neighbor trying anything it
would be a ransom line well it could be
yet I mean whatever if the Wi-Fi was
open your Wi-Fi reaches like two
kilometers yeah like a mile and so
anyone who can compromise the because I
know it sounds like you probably know a
lot about your setup and sarcastic yeah
and so somebody within like a mile of
that router could connect into the Wi-Fi
hypothetically and still access things
and all that kind stuff so there's
there's some concerns
okay okay Google was doing that with her
have you heard about that
never yeah yeah yeah yeah what was it
we're just gonna leave it at that tell
more are you asking you to tell the the
Google Street View cars when they were
going around were hacking into people's
not hacking into but they were he says
hopping into the information that was
available on Wi-Fi networks that had no
password and then there were also I
think drivers that were going about and
just hacking into or tapping into Wi-Fi
networks that were unprotected by
passwords and offering to offer
protection or something like these I
think these days it's like the roofer
who put in their business card and their
flyer in our door because our roof needs
work like they they can see it from the
road you can tell that you need
protection you yeah I know that you need
this this security software because
you're wide open and I just got your
files to this thumb drive like because
right and they have to disclose a
certain amount of information the next
guy driving around with his laptop and
sniffing for open Wi-Fi hotspots is not
necessarily going to get caught
yeah you would never know and I don't
want to put fear in your heart but I do
because that's what protects you you
would never know if somebody was driving
around the neighborhood
got into your Wi-Fi and started copying
all your files
they wouldn't even know my password
you'd be like Oh our internet slow today
that's right that happens don't do this
to me I'm just saying that is something
more of the past though because most
people have passwords on their Wi-Fi
networks of course it's always a risk
but what's up we've gotten rid of WEP so
yeah so some my older routers came with
WEP as the security encryption okay very
very easy to compromise get around that
past that people put a password on it
and think they're safe well password one
two three yeah they also use dictionary
one two three four yeah they can use
dictionary attacks to try to find in
some of the most common passwords or
what people are using for their Wi-Fi
hotspots yeah so we did kind of digress
there into a security discussion but I
yeah that I didn't know that you were
sharing internet with another so what do
I do instead of having like unlimited
awesome internet I pay for my own
internet you could if they ran a cable
from their modem down to your apartment
okay
that's one Ethernet cable that is
connected to their network you could buy
a router so it would tree it would act
as this what you would normally connect
to a modem and connect out to the to the
world you could bridge that router so
that it thinks that the connection to
their apartment is actually a modem and
at just a connection to the internet and
it would act as a firewall it would stop
them from being able to access anything
beyond your router okay so that's one
way you could do it and that's
reasonably cheap like you can get like a
Netgear router for a good price you know
on Amazon or whatever okay I bought mine
at Future Shop but they're no more so ok
Amazon it is okay
there's probably Amazon's fault like I'm
gonna go home some questions about our
internet that he's gonna be like why are
you asking yes
there you go okay the one other thing
that we didn't ask about and this is you
know I'll get into it a little bit but
optical media so CDs DVDs being able to
burn things I have not
used a CD in so many years we've a ps4
okay so when you have blu-ray discs yeah
but how often do you have a blu-ray disc
anymore anyway so rare like how is it
the blu-ray is obsolete mm-hmm like it's
gonna be Netflix and anything else right
yeah so so you have a player that you
could play your desk so we don't need to
put the added expense of installing an
optical media reader into the computer
do you ever need to burn discs and
that's another thing like I used to burn
discs because I needed a I so burnt two
discs but now you use a USB flash drive
exactly yeah I don't think I never burn
a disc I don't think I would ever buy a
disc like I feel like when like you said
you know I know that are in retail but
realistically it's it's all about the
download it is completely and when
you've got the disc it's probably the
version that was burnt mm-hmm last
spring so you might as well get the
version that was just released yesterday
yeah and it's a free download for people
who have a license so I think the
question is does it spark joy I have
boxes and boxes of CDRs that have been
burnt to that I don't know what's on
them yeah and I can't throw them out
because I don't know what's on them yeah
but I probably could yeah through that
with floppy discs so many years ago Wow
but I do have an optical media drive in
my laptop but I can't remember the last
time I used it
yeah yeah that was me with a lot of my
CDs - I just the ones that I recognize
yeah I and and spread joy or whatnot
I kept but everything I just threw out
there's just no need even music these
days is mp3 and it really yeah but
Amazon sells mp3's yeah so the you know
if I buy a CD I can get the digital
download yeah I do tend to buy the
physical CDs because I like the physical
CD as like any joy it's something
tangible yeah I am yeah old-school that
way you have to have something tangible
but Amazon also gives me the mp3s at the
same time so I just I don't often even
open the CD it just oh wow it's just on
the
do you use like the the insects or
whatever like do you look through those
for the lyrics I don't even when I was
talking to the wedding DJ right well not
that I was hot I have a complicated
wedding planning thing I don't actually
communicate with the deejay I talk to
somebody DJ but anyway the conversation
well what songs do you want to hear so I
can make sure I can download them in
time yeah not like change I used to use
reel to reels when I was DJing Jeff I
mean we worked in radio and that was
after the reel-to-reel days but it was
all when we switched to mp3 but we were
carts before that so but I had reallt
I had two half-inch reel-to-reel machine
side by side rail - real reel-to-reel
tapes so no oh my goodness there were
only four tracks / / real so a four
track so you think of a video projector
happening the big wheels between another
real and it moves through so a
reel-to-reel machine would would play
the audio oh interesting but not a
cassette it's not a cassette at all
reel-to-reel player let's do that we're
just gonna Google Google yeah Wow so
it's honest I never even hurt this is
only audio right no look I've seen these
machines before but I don't think I've
ever I actually used to spin those as a
DJ
meaning what play music from those two
DJs so the music is on one and you're
like yeah you'd have you'd have tapes
and you make your own tapes cuz it's
just you just buy a spool of the tape
and so you've got the tape and you put
the music on it you record it on and
then you've got all these spools and so
I have spools of various songs and you
can skim to you and you queue them up
and everything so somebody requests a
song what do you do you have to queue it
up so you'd have a tape that has six
songs on it per side and you'd have to
put the reel on and get it spin them and
then fast-forward and it uses cue mode
so you hear it like a chipmunk and then
you find the spot the cue spot and you
stop it there pause it and then as soon
as it's time to play you have like three
minutes to do it so is it the same as
what Studios used to use to record bands
and stuff so it's pretty good
I was analog it's better than like a
cassette Wow it's like the pro version
of a cassette I guess it kind of looks
like a giant cluttered yeah it really
does
it's true ya know I lost that long ago
but Wow Oh indeed there are some people
in the chat room like oh yeah I still
use that well this is category five
technology TV and our website is
category five dot TV so Sasha we're not
doing optical we're not doing y5 right
we're good to go we're good to go we're
ready to rock fantastic if you've got
some feedback for her head on over to
cap five dot TV slash CPU 2017 we've got
a few more minutes time mm-hmm
excellent what shall we do well you're
you're kind of you're getting into
graphic design how far into that area uh
so I've done see so it's been an
interest of mine for a long period of
time probably about a decade and I did a
year of schooling for it at George Brown
College two years ago
so and I've done some freelance work
some for like organizations related to
the City of Toronto I had a billboard up
at Queen Street West at one point in
time so I don't know I've done a little
bit coming here and there yeah you
Photoshop user yeah Photoshop
Illustrator InDesign kind of the basic
I'm getting the vector or yeah I mean
that's illustrator illustrator is all
vector and related to the motor the logo
design that kind of thing but a little
bit of web design as well so that's what
I'll be diving deep into this next year
have you ever heard of the GNU image
manipulation program
aka GIMP no really oh so obviously it
does sound familiar but please explain
well think about Photoshop yeah and it
is a very pricy application licensing
the GIMP is essentially a an RGB only
alternative but it's absolutely free
it's open source okay so kind of like
how Linux is an open source alternative
train to microsoft windows or even mac
OS if you wanted to go there okay so
where would you like could you get it is
it just directly accessible through the
internet yeah free download
org so you can head on over to there to
get the GIMP
yeah it's available on Windows Mac or
Linux okay so we're using it on Linux
one of the neat things about Linux is
that because it's free and and GIMP is
also free people think hey it would be
really good to be able to do this and
then someone codes it and then releases
it for free okay on Windows it's not the
same because it's a proprietary
environment the people who make it have
to say oh we yeah we agree that's a
great feature so we'll add it in the
next big release or something like that
right so one really really simple
comparison a little Linux tip for you is
Unicode characters are we familiar with
Unicode at all Unicode is so you think
about the keys on your keyboard you've
got a through Zed and everything else
those are unicode characters but our
keyboard only can handle
104 keys or whatever it happens to be
because of space restrictions and of
course you wouldn't want a keyboard that
wraps all around you but Unicode itself
so the the amount of letters characters
numbers and figures that are available
to you are vastly larger than what's
available on your keyboard do you think
about for example an em-dash or the
pound sign for the for the currency or
the euro like these are all characters
how how do you type that into a keyboard
right right and that's where Unicode
comes in
so is this available let's say in
Microsoft Word is one of the language
like not languages but one of the
scripts or well you can you could change
your font to a Unicode enable the
ability you know word has a special
character selector or something like
that yeah yeah but we can actually type
Unicode with our keyboard okay so it's
absolutely possible in word using that
as an example and this is where Windows
is very much different than Linux it's a
bit of a pain in the butt or it's not
quite as well on Windows it's not as
universal it works in Word and pretty
much in nothing else okay
maybe WordPad but not notepad unicode
characters have to be inputted in a
special way so you have to first of all
know the unicode character so I'm just
gonna I'm just gonna hop onto Google
here and type unicode characters and you
can just do that and find some of the
characters that are available to you
so UNICOR unicode - table comm is a huge
repository of them and you'll just be
blown away at what's available so it
starts with the normal alphabet and then
you get into kind of foreign characters
and accents we see a lot of that in the
French language in typing so you know
being able to do accents they're complex
those kinds of things
all right so once you know the character
codes that you want you see all those
it's just huge like it's just loading
and loading and loading now on Windows
in order to do that I need to bring up
Microsoft Word and then in order to type
it I have to press alt X write in word
yes
punch in the unicode number right hit
enter and then it converts into the
Unicode okay but it doesn't work in any
other application right right on Linux
on the other hand all I have to do is
press control-shift U and it works
universally oh so to demonstrate that
even in let's say my address bar I
wouldn't be surprised if it works there
it did so see what happens in Linux it
creates a you with an underline so any
application that I am in so if I head
over to let's just bring up pluma for
example my text editor and if I hit ctrl
shift you now I have an underlined you
and you know that's an underlying to you
well it's not it's actually waiting for
me to input a Unicode number okay and
then I can input it so we know for
example an M dash is 2014 it's really
easy to remember because the year just
passed if you ever need an M - it's 2 0
1 4 the number is universal so if you're
on Windows Wow
you it's still 2014 but you just have to
go about importing it a little bit more
roundabout because I've got to go into
where and hit all decks
on Linux I don't care what application
you're on control-shift you and is
waiting for a number so it's waiting
right now I'm going to hit 2 0 1 4 and
then hit enter and it immediately turns
it into an M - Wow so similarly control
shift U and if I want to use let's say
the Euro symbol so 2 0 AC enter and
there it is Wow ok so in terms of the
the types of professions or people that
use Unicode most frequently who would
that be
or is it just for general users and the
convenience of being able to create all
of these different kinds of I guess
tight characters that you
and that's how and thank you for the
beautiful segue because at the beginning
of this segment we started talking about
graphic editing and how does this relate
to graphic editing and so we're gonna
look at a web what is traditionally used
as a web developers tool and it's called
font awesome it's just like it sounds so
we go to font awesome dot IO and what
font awesome allows you to do and we've
seen this on the show before font
awesome allows you to use icon sets
within a font so on the web we do this
using CSS classes right so if I need a
snowflake or if I need a little fire
logo or ID card all of these things can
be used in our web design or in our
demonstration tonight they can be used
in our in our graphic design mm-hmm but
how do we translate something that's
built for web into something that we can
use now in the GNU image manipulation
program or Microsoft Word I suppose
because if you're on Windows you could
install this as well the same way we're
going to do it here on Linux but then
you'd have to hit all tax and use the
unicode character because watch what
happens here as I'm looking at these so
let's say the you know let's just pick
one if I want the envelope and if I
scroll down a little ways so that's what
it looks like and you see here Unicode
f2 b6 so as long as we have font awesome
we can use the unicode character f2 b6
and it will create an envelope okay
because it is a TTFN of font it can be
any size it's vector and we can scale it
to any size and it will be it can be
huge it can be part of our graphic we
can use them as bullet list images icons
those kinds of things so in order to get
it let's just go back to the home and
you'll see a button called download nice
and straightforward and scroll down a
little bit here and we can just say no
thanks just download font awesome for
unless you would like to support them by
purchasing the commercial release okay
so font awesome is downloaded just like
that we've
fonts and we have all kinds of stuff
here it looks like we've got a TT F
which is a Windows true type font and
then we've got an OT F which is an open
tight type font and that is you know we
can use either or on Linux both are
supported if I open that let's see here
I may have to extract it first so I'm
just gonna extract that throw it on my
desktop and on Windows it's it's no
different now let's try opening this
let's see open with font viewer let's
see if it comes up no I've got a few
different font viewers installed but
well hopefully that one will work
I love how smoothly are going through
this it's like watching someone do magic
or something like that magic I get a try
installing it I just hit install and
let's see if that if that actually did
it so I can check that by going into
thanks for the compliment by the way oh
yeah you know let's just make sure that
we've got the font I'm just using this
to see so if I type in font awesome it
is there okay so again here I am in
LibreOffice writer
this is a free alternative to Microsoft
Word and I am using it in Linux and
because I am using it in Linux
what's the key combination I can use
anybody remember f2p 6 that's good all
that salt X in words if that's only if
you're in Windows oh and windows on
Linux doesn't matter what ctrl shift and
then what was the code that you gave me
Oh F - b6 I'm not sure let's try it
enter Oh way to go ok so now I've got
that graphic in because I've selected
font awesome as my font and I can set it
to any size I'd like and it's going to
be lossless because it's vector right so
bringing that over to the graphic design
end of things we can go into GNU image
manipulation program and one of the
things that we find and you you see this
in Photoshop and other applications as
well is that bullet lists can sometimes
be not very
because there's really no like there's
no you ELLs and L eyes there's no
bullets per se it's all done through
graphics so let's create a really quick
graphic I'll just make something that's
about a thousand by a thousand square
and then I'm going to create a text
layer this is the GNU image manipulation
program it's absolutely free and
available at gimp.org so once I've
created this I can say hello all right
I'm really creative with my lorem ipsum
z-- I can yeah there we go okay so if I
want bullet points now you know
traditionally we're we're gonna do a
hyphenation or something like that well
what I can actually do is we can hit
let's change our font for this
particular spot we're just going to type
in font awesome and then I'm gonna type
ctrl shift U and what was the code Oh F
to be six right there you go okay so
then I can I can either continue to copy
or continue to type that or I can copy
and paste it well just like that and now
now we're using an envelope but it could
be a check mark or it could be anything
else and because it's a font it's going
to be it's gonna be nicely matched up to
the the pixel height of the font that
you're using and those kind of things so
that's font awesome from font awesome
dot IO definitely a great tool for web
design because it is a web font you can
use it just by specifying the CSS class
and and we've shown that again on the
show before so head on over to category
five dot TV and do a quick search for
font awesome sounds like I named it this
would be something that you could use in
in business you've had it happen where
you know formatting is different on one
computer or something and bullets aren't
looking quite right remember the
checkboxes yes so you you you know you
had a form where in one application it
had a nice square for people to check
off print out and then on the other one
it the box already had an X in it
everything has already been checked off
so you could install font awesome the
font and then use the Unicode character
for the square and boom you've got it I
love it fancy fancy awesome fantastic
you just you just got sweet anything
else we need to cover tonight I guess
that's all the time that we have yeah
how do we get here
does the hour fly by or what it really
does I feel like the adjectives are also
great magic awesome did it bring your
joy it completely did can't ask for
anything more there you have it folks
well I will see you next Wednesday night
now you're going to be away I'll be away
for two weeks when she comes back she
will no longer be sad or made us but
Sascha Rickman that's right I'll be
Sascha are two instead of Sascha D -
nice Jeff will be here with me next week
we're going to be unboxing any of the
gear that has arrived thus far so you
can't be watching from the wedding place
right I without Dave headphones there
you go but that's gonna be a lot of fun
so head on over to cap 5 TV slash CPU
2017 once again and learn about what it
is that we're doing with that build so
she's ooh it's great to have you here
thanks for coming I hope you had fun
yeah I completely did this is a great
experience thanks for sharing the book
as well the life-changing magic of
cleaning up of tagging hiding uh-huh
tidying up I can't wait to get my copy
of camp 5 TV slash tidy and we will see
you again next week
take care
[Music]
