there we go and it's safe thank you you
rushing off all right
thanks Eric
yeah no problem
Thank You ads irk for the shirts Thank
You hailey see ya thanks again thank you
we're allowed to talk it's official now
before I wasn't actually so I wasn't
really allowed to talk you guys might
know the inside scoop go ahead and tell
them they want to know Oh little boy D
and Bradley Bradley asked if he could be
so lucky I was to keep me around for the
rest of his life the rest of his life I
said you could let it go yeah
congratulations
thank you is anybody around and I'll
hang out yeah people are Wow
congratulations on the jam yeah like
congratulations to the Brad where is he
what does he just pick that up by like
relation L yeah I'm sorry
so he's officially that's good that's
cute
join us for our hangout and then we can
talk to you otherwise it's just us
talking and that's boring I mean we've
been doing that for an hour
talk to Robbie I know who would want to
talk to me for an hour and really good
you like that that's good
cheers to a very happy marriage we hope
yeah oh I'm sure we put up with each
other for how long it is nice enough
mm-hmm
I know what you guys are thinking me and
my ads are shirt
he works out I know I lifted a dryer
yesterday by yourself
just like that
no my my stepdad helped me and that was
really really nice of them oh that's
good yeah that's good where's your dryer
is it down here yeah it said to come all
the way down these stairs or to go up
and then down to bring the new one in
mm-hmm they're like swirly stairs to you
yeah there's really stairs folks you
heard it here this is a lonely hangout
where we can hang out without the camera
on but you only Oh
that's just how I did my makeup today
before were interesting but I'm in
perfect focus what is that that's what
we need those - blurry now aren't I a
little bit yeah maybe maybe I've had
more to drink than you have it's my boy
very interesting people say the most
interesting things yeah at least they're
responding
Shallon but nobody's got webcams tonight
you see how I made you're you you turn
into a category 5 it's really thick no I
see you in that cool that's like really
really quick chroma key right there just
thrown together
cool yeah I know that's kind of me
Wirecast is pretty awesome
hey Jameson if the Canadian ever mocked
you they would have apologized that's
true
should we feel bad afterwards yeah even
the best insult to go oh I'm sorry I
really am here would you like to have
some money here Toby yeah
proof my fear is that we're gonna hear
echo we're oh he's using Morse code and
realize the other hey how you doing Toby
but you're so clever no no I get echoes
in the studio here I can hear myself in
an echo that's the problem with the new
audio rig that's because of the radios
off guard
now taping decode what you're typing by
the sound of the taps the world's lamest
as long as there's wine yeah we can hear
you Toby can you yeah
that's all the microphone out okay
surprise the words that walk into it
hmm yeah but your heart wait
hello okay now if I kill my chest hey
hey you hear me now oh yeah
you hear me you hear me where's that
voice coming from who at that
well it's me anyway
can you hear me yeah oh now I don't have
the echo that's way better yeah
[Laughter]
oh I suppose we should pose with our
t-shirts for the ad zurk okay
probably we're posing for that camera
not that's not see I work out you gonna
tell there's one get it okay I don't
know if I can compete with all the
clicking tape probably everything you
see on the laptop
okay any time you spoke TV on your
laptop
did you hmm
you did no someone else did oh yeah the
Bobby didn't make it he'll say oh well
this is a really incredibly pathetic
hangout folks
ya don't agree that was a great ads are
calm just to see what this is all about
you know that's what's supposed to
happen but hey we got hangouts working
tonight that's what's important mmm
that's really important
it's nice that people are watching on
YouTube not interacting come on guys
only one of these guys down here skip
your webcam
well thank you I integrated microphones
gonna love them
Oh jot what a silly guy so we
broadcasting the wedding live low-key oh
oh did they do you know mr. Winston
that's this guy you guys here we got a
dog - we got the birds obviously I saw
them so you got one of each
all you have two two birds we got two
birds yeah we got a few different
species going on the fish so my book
today
you've got the whole circle of life
going on it's kind of like a zoo and I'm
gonna get me here and it's like like the
orangutan I'm like the ringleader of
this circus that's who I mean when I say
the fish
I sure hope nobody's joining us and this
is their first ever hang out you know I
don't is you laughing those are they oh
you guys come on play nice we're here
for you just apparently you're not
everybody's watching on YouTube what's
with that I mean that's fine YouTube I
mean you can't interact on YouTube Plus
at least you can say hi I I now I have
to weed through all these pictures and
find the most embarrassing ones of
Krista to post up on Facebook
oh there's usually a few a good handful
the typing is slowed
I thought a shotgun wedding was wouldn't
you guys kind of redneck pregnant they
were trying to light it Jesse
that's what I thought stephannie time
yeah don't need any maternity leave I
don't know I was allowed to take
maternity leave from Pat fire please
don't I thought I was supposed to be
here and if I happened to have a child
on the show that's how it was
I'll deliver it you know it's just I've
been there I've done that like category
five what TV we pretty much do it all
here there I found the money shot good
good I'm glad there's one of those oh
I'm excited yeah it's really good I
don't I doubt those your fans are gonna
love it maybe they won't be fans are
much longer - easy
he told me let me know if anyone else
joins there cuz I've got something up
fullscreen on my screen here alright hey
you still hear me alright yeah I can
hear you fine how was the show did you
enjoy yourself that's great
Oh were you mmm just with your own with
your own system Linux Mint oh yeah have
you tried Linux yet sorry yeah I don't
know okay good and it's working fine
yeah
call his crashed on Linux Mint so I had
to reboot okay yeah I had trouble
getting in comp is working well on Linux
Mint so it lasted a couple hours on my
system in the night and then I was
fortunate enough to found point Linux
yeah yeah I installed it on my dad's
computer yeah his dad used it does he
like it yeah he doesn't notice the
difference yeah what was he using before
Zorin okay yes that's pretty close as
far as interface goes yeah that switch
opens vocals oh yeah I've been really
busy what's going good though lots of
projects hello hey don't worry yeah I'm
not bad yourself I'm mad at this
computer oh yeah yep that's never good
sounds live horrible things must be on
Windows
no actually I wanna Mack Oh way to go oh
he said he hates it
he's mad at it well maybe he wasn't
saying they he wasn't treating it right
so it's who's this we're speaking with
who all's here right now this is guest
Terry
oh hey guest Harry man how are you doing
good thanks up and going today might
have been a good idea yeah that's a
little that's a little Bonnie down here
yeah but these lights don't know those
palm trees and
[Music]
I just I was like sweet this party's
getting going
hopefully we'll get to start designing
yeah you want to be in on that I don't
know some kind of different setup
something where we're standing or moving
around a little bit maybe we're on
stationary bikes curving this as if we
didn't work up a sweat enough tonight at
least me fall that beatboxing I'm just
trying this other headset and you hear
me yeah I can hear yeah I wasn't clear
sorry about that before
to the Ferguson our Jameson says to
change the show name from category five
to the Ferguson I where I don't know how
this works
now look like superheroes today it's
true we do actually well we got our kind
of superheroes it's true and you're like
the flash look how quickly you got to
the camera in the next shot less than 10
seconds 293 episodes
people still are inside like of yeah
well it's just a rotation I mean the
ones who are have left and I got all
these new ones today so joyous yeah
wow the conversations never ends
exciting yeah hey Stephen North hmm
interesting
your Shetty and he is so stressed out or
spring anyway as to the spring and the
dog has freaked him out he'll get used
to it mm-hmm
all right guys just kind of learnt that
they were the kings of the hosts so when
they spotted the dogs would have
somebody filming your wedding and
everything no we probably won't get
anyone it's all them because they're so
expensive well got a photographer yeah
and you'd hate to not have a video of it
though even if it means just set the
camera at the back and press and record
yeah I guess huh you camera from the
studio or something you know if you need
to be cool yeah they are neat like the
videos that some of the companies do I
really need but yeah a few of them I was
looking at like $2,000 $4,000 $9,000 one
of them was like are you kidding who has
that kind of money for one day yeah but
it's not just one day it's it's the rest
of your life really yeah I'll be broke
for the rest of my life
people living on the street for a while
if I it's true that's probably no DVD
player to watch the video well you keep
it don't put it on DVD cuz that's 720 by
480 done like flash media
1080p but I won't have a computer to
watch it on right but you'll have a
flashcard you can carry around with me
you can watch it over here or go to the
library watch it while looking into
their computer see if it supports 1080p
at the library good luck with that
they've gotten maybe maybe they're
hip-hop moves yeah it's possible I was
was there anything tonight that stood
out you guys that was like exceptionally
awesome like that we should do again it
was just kind of the whole show
enjoyable there what was curious it was
awful watch it again comp is crushed off
of it a hole in the middle of the show
no that's too bad
and then you would have been really
jealous when you saw me playing all with
the comptes effects and screaming fast
it is and how flawless and how there's
no crashing that's point Linux that's
what made me is not playing with it yeah
yeah absolutely me too like it's just
comp is is dying on the other on the
other distros and it's it's screaming
fast and works great on this one why or
or what makes you change from zoar into
point linux well for me is cuz Zorin 6.2
was crashing on our demo system
unfortunately so the system that we used
to to broadcast the show like to
everything that you see visually it was
crashing with 6.2 so we tried 6.0 we
tried 6.2 and because we broadcast every
Tuesday it's this just wasn't the time
to figure out what was going on
unfortunately if I had more time you
know if I could take three weeks and
monkey around with it than fine
I just I installed Ubuntu 12.04 and it
worked but it was slow as sin it was
horrible and then found point Linux
that was it was everything that I wanted
and Linux so Zorin OS is fantastic but
it had real problems and when I got in
the forums there other people have no
same problems and basically it came down
to sorry your hardware isn't supported
so it's not gonna work for you that's
not the kind of answer I like I like to
see that oh you can just install this or
change this setting and you're good to
go mostly a time thing for us because if
I'm working on it on a Saturday I have I
know that I've got to be up and running
by Tuesday right and we've got to have
everything configured and streaming over
to Wirecast and all that stuff so it got
to the point where it's like ok I've
messed around with zoar no lasts long
enough I need to find something else
hi but I think if it works on your
hardware it's a excellent distro I think
it's a good one for I mean everything
still holds true it's a good one for
people transitioning from other OSS I
actually started using Zoran when you
show at first and I made it to 6 point
the only problem I have so far is chrome
chrome is not nice that distro and I
just found out that on my Windows
computer or let me just recap that my
wives Windows computer yeah well it
sounds like it's working for you though
eh
other than just the little bits it was
not even operation I wasn't even usable
on my system wow really
it was that bad there was one episode
where we kind of had a bit of a bit of
problems with Sora no asset agreement
yeah yeah and then when we did a boon to
12 point o4 it actually crashed live on
the air you weren't the only ones no
there was another podcast that I usually
watch and they were having problems with
that yeah so what's too bad I mean I
always loved to boon too
and I and I love having industrial that
is commercially backed but still free I
think that their I think their business
practices are admirable and the way that
they do things and I really like mark
but I think the distro is just not what
I was looking for in a distro anymore
because they're just pushing too much to
where the the touchscreens and all that
kind of stuff yeah since uni came out it
was just that yeah they're just waiting
for a touchscreen yeah and here they go
yeah all the cell phones and all that oh
not for me I mean I'm a programmer right
and somebody said it to me and say you
just can't use unity and have 500
windows open it just doesn't translate
to unity it's frustrating as anything if
I've got you know several G edit windows
open and I always have at least you know
five six seven browser windows open and
each of them have tons of different tabs
so to me the cube on campus makes sense
because I've got in my work environment
I have each customer because I have six
cube faces I have my email on one and I
have each customer that I'm working on
throughout the day on a different cube
face so when I switch around I'm
actually looking at one particular
customer so I have a G edit window I've
got their website I've got the FileZilla
FTP client all everything up on that
screen and then if I want to work on the
next client I just spin the cube and and
or the octagon or whatever it is and
start working on the next yeah I used to
the help desk and that's the way I did
it yeah yeah that's that's what I'm
that's what I came to love about that
kind of interface and I don't want to
lose that
well I'm glad Zoran is still working for
you give point Linux a try I really like
and we met we met Peter the few weeks
ago and he's a nice guy and seems
sincere about his motivations behind
point Linux and I can I can support that
well I wish I could just show it to you
but I'm uh what's the name of this
happen cuz I have it running well I
don't have it running I downloaded it
and I am still seating Oh point Linux
yep
oh great okay that's nice yeah I noticed
that there were quite a few new seeds
there since the show so that's that
helps them out too because it cuts down
on bandwidth costs and all that we
certainly know all about that yeah
folks I've officially filled my own raid
server I heard you were talking about
that a couple minutes ago yeah
I literally just filled it to capacity
with tonight's show we're running master
files are about six gigs per episode
so doesn't take long that's my way
thanks God you the drive and home and
such thanks I have I can show you guys
this is not good 99% full oh there we go
600 64 Meg's free on my array big
problem
so basically now you just have to
upgrade your hard drives there yeah you
wanna see yeah
this is unmeant which is just a
different interface run right it's it's
kind of nice I like it so you can see my
parity drive there the top one is it
doesn't show the size I know that it's a
I think a one terabyte so you see that I
also have a one terabyte in the array so
I can't put in a two terabyte unless I
replace the parity drive yeah that's
what you're explaining yeah so what I
could do because this is a one terabyte
drive I believe I'm pretty sure well it
looks like it might be a 1.5 I'm not I'm
not entirely sure but let's pretend it's
a one terabyte it doesn't show the
parity drive size if it's a one terabyte
I can take it out and replace it with a
three or four terabyte and it won't give
me any more space but then what I'll do
is I'll take one of these 320 gigs out
once this is built rebuilt parity onto
the three gig drive or a three terabyte
drive take the 320 out and take that
this current one terabyte drive and
replace one of these three 20s so then I
end up getting an extra you know 607
almost 700 gigs on my array and then
this drive just becomes a useless drive
to me which will give you what three
more weeks of video a couple yeah
several hundred gigs will do pretty good
yeah but that's the next step I think is
to get rid of one of those three 20s but
you see that these are you know some of
these are I think even some of these are
yeah look I've got SD SD g SD d so these
are SATA drives look at this one of them
is an IDE drive see that so that one
drive right there is 320 gigs and it is
actually IDE
it's an HD a so that's an old old old
hard drive and yet it's still running
really well in this array so I've got a
everything else is SATA you can see that
SD right and then there's an HD which is
IDE so the older interface and it runs
just fine
parodies good so what I would probably
do is I would leave that one in I would
get rid of this 320 gig SATA drive and
replace it with a one terabyte to give
myself extra for really really cheap
that's a pretty cheap upgrade yeah right
now it is yeah it really is so that's
what I'm gonna have to do though I do
have a quick question if you don't mind
and you know at the time as for a backup
software that I can just use on my home
network and just put it on my Linux
server any suggestions all of your
computers are Linux sorry do you have to
back up some windows systems - yeah
Windows at least one yeah why don't you
just so do you have a wind a Linux
server yeah could you just install a
OpenSSH server on that and share the
hard drive over SSH and then you can do
an r sync from all your Linux computers
and just get like Cobian back up and do
a backup of your windows computers that
work Cobian for windows it's free and it
will give you differential backups so
that you don't have to run a full backup
every time you'll get differential but
you also get a volume Shadow Copy which
is the equivalent of the Linux hot copy
so even if files are in you so you can
still back them up that's probably what
I would do
SSH for the Linux system will allow for
the Linux systems will allow you to
simply use our diff or our sink our sink
because you're on LAN is probably just
fine our diff if you want to do it
off-site so that it saves some bandwidth
and what that does is it looks at the
files let's say your My Documents on
your Linux computer or documents you
change one file
our DIF backup you can just google it
will actually just backup that one file
that changed our def way to this double
app yeah that's right that's our sync
and it like that real quick nitty-gritty
is to do a search for our sink our sy
and C but our DIF actually looks a bit
for bit so if you if you added a text
file and you only change one word and
it's the word the it will only save
three bits to your backup and so it's
really really fast but it's nice for
off-site but you don't really need that
in a land environment so you could go
with our sink which is really easy to
script and bash really really easy to
make a quick backup script run it on a
cron job right crista yeah that's what I
put inside yeah and then of the other
one for windows would be Cobian Co B I
am I've got both right here I was
thinking you will need to get that other
girl there in explaining something about
backups watch is in there I'm sorry I
just
we got Hilary we got yeah yeah Hilary
yeah with her iPod and all that stuff
Hillary's iPod was stolen with all her
music she hadn't synced to iTunes what
she didn't she just like put all the
music on it that was it oh that's tough
well you know we stay back up back up
your back up and then back up yeah right
right
I'm getting my iTunes of thing which is
hard drive is full you'll get to it your
iTunes a sink that's good so you won't
lose all your Justin Bieber a precious
music Justin Bieber yeah
all my Backstreet Boys NSYNC yes I do
he's asking me if you can hear what he's
saying yeah I could hear yeah how are
you that's meaning me yeah he can't hear
us oh hey you're on that's not yeah yes
I can I can to you guys whoa dad's got
it up loud yeah you can hear that
singing that's my crazy mom sounds great
sounds great you do at over Google
Hangouts there you go yeah
today was the first day of filming in
Rochester for spider-man - I heard it
was kind of awesome yeah oh yeah by the
way I don't know if you remember I'm
from Puerto Rico but I'm in Rochester
New York oh yeah cool we've got
syndicates in New York we got quite a
few viewers actually there in New York
as well
yeah there's I was just chatting a
couple weeks ago with somebody that's
from here from Rochester - yeah like two
other people here mm-hmm the chat cool
and that's just during the live chat not
a lot of people you know comparatively -
how many people are actually watching
yeah a lot of people join the chat
no it's still usually quite busy
this is the fun part I'm deleting things
off of my array oh she knows we're live
right right now I don't think she knows
watching maybe she walks into the room
right now she'll think oh look you're
watching category five why do they have
a cat why are they drinking white wine I
mean what's going on here is a different
kind of show or what yes and we'll be
like Candice I had really freaked out
when we say here it's the after show
well I don't know how's your Spanish
about as good as my word horrible well
that's what she'd be yelling out and
singing in Spanish does she speak
English understanding us yeah she does a
lot she's just afraid of speaking
because of a pronunciation okay yeah I
mean if you think I have an accent you
should see her no you sound great
oh thanks but you'll be talking like
this mm-hmm
but that's fine yeah well she actually
thinks I I think she does speak better
than I do
yeah I still make like we have an accent
to you and to many other people
especially being in in New York well yes
I'm not originally from from New York
i freed up 1.8 gigabytes so this is
about half of a third of what I need for
tonight's show
that's great that's a problem I want a
mate right
I think end of me is it let's take at
the schedule sense jadianna of May till
midnight what's that
today's the end of May till midnight I'm
sorry oh yeah okay Krista so this this
week you're on on the 21st of May yeah
that's basically gonna be the best show
ever
yeah that's how it rolls
do I have your birthday on this calendar
no you didn't it's in July in July well
I must have them attempt the 10th of
July exactly one week before your
birthday isn't that unreal
are we gonna celebrate him oh we're
celebrating right now Gurley celebrate
early you got wine I don't have anything
in here I just started taking it off
well mail some yeah in the glass pre
port okay so you guys got that on your
calendars July 10th is Krista's 18th
birthday
you know excellent your ad now we can
wish you a happy birthday around that
time good lots of birthday's coming up
all right well I'm gonna leave yelled
alright I guess that's it guys nice to
see you you carry good to see ya thanks
for the Dority yeah yeah awesome thanks
for joining us tonight guys see you I
hope you have a great week
yeah see ya yikes oh man zip
