now they're rolling you can look at the
screen to see that this data okay now by
doing them both at the same time
basically you know I might be a fraction
of a second off but now both sides of
the camera are very very close to sync
that's good it just makes makes things
easier I cut you off you were going to
say it makes things easier yeah aight
took the words right out of my mouth
Ravi mm-hmm ok so I'm going to try to
hold this fairly stable this is going to
be really weird for you folks because
I'm holding this and it's a 360 view but
there you have it so we're actually
recording right now increasing in 360
this is a video that we're going to be
using to produce to show you how this
camera can be used so I'm shooting 4k
per side so a full 8k a video and then
we're going to be putting it into a
spherical 4k equirectangular video
format eventually we're going to do
everything you're going to learn all
about how to work with this stuff
marvelous so that's all that that we
need to do now as you know we're
recording to these cameras with the
internal microphones just like you saw
in our unboxing video but I'm also
recording to the show with my headset
microphone always have a supplemental
audio source for any video that you're
doing so that might mean a lab alere
microphone going into a recording device
i use a zoom h4n it works fantastic so
you know that's a great way to do it and
then you just think up to the audio
layer and then you get better quality
audio alright sir once I said you can
sync by using a clapper or a camera
flash yeah you can use a clapboard I
like to use a clapboard but sometimes
I'll just clap my hands oh that's right
you and then you've got a nice little
spike in the in the audio and you can
also see the video portion of women your
hands have the impact
but there you have it okay so there's
our video how do we look tonight you can
kind of look around a little bit you can
see my computer screen you can see our
camera there we're actually recording
this live on the air on episode number 4
75 and this is going to be produced in
the next couple of instances of this
series as we look at how to make 360
video with these consumer devices so
these devices are available at Camp 5 TD
/ action cam and as you can see at home
we've got two of them but it
back-to-back and that gives us the view
of not just the front but also the rear
of the camera as well or however you
want to position it so that's all there
is to it nope hope you enjoyed the
demonstration super happy we picked this
episode to do this yeah cuz we look this
is how we dress thing is how we put it
every day I think I'm thinking that
might be a good thing I like the Hat by
the way thank you makes my head look
cute cuz it's itty bitty mine makes me
look like I have a little little
munchkin head mm-hmm alright well I mean
that gives us enough footage to work
with so there we go so now you just push
the power
