welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 584 Jeff is back
I am yeah I'm here and sash is here
we've got a great show planned for you
now we've been looking at single board
computers over the past couple of weeks
we're gonna teach Jeff about what this
whole giggle score giggle cost that is I
think you may actually be able to step
in on that I can explain it to you and
stuff we're gonna be looking at two new
boards well we've got an X you four
which isn't too new to us we've had that
for about a year here the Odroid xu4 is
an eight-core single board computer with
two gigs of ram then we've got the nano
PI m4 with four gigs of ram gigabit
ethernet 4 USB 3 ports and it's got 6
cores as well we're gonna be comparing
those learning the Google score and
seeing how they stack up against our top
winners from last week as we compare in
this battle death to the death of single
board computers we really what we really
need like some really cool music for
that yes but instead it's our theme song
so enjoy we've got a great show planned
for you stick around technology TV
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPM and the International
Association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV / i IV welcome to the show
everybody hope you're having a wonderful
week I hope it's been a good week and
just right off the bat want to say
thanks to those of you who took
advantage of Black Friday Cyber Monday
sales you went on to Amazon through our
website category 5 dot TV clicked on
support us and then shop through our
partners and there are links for eBay
and Amazon and gearbest gearbest has
also had some fantastic sales as really
oh yeah if you're looking for anything
for the geek in your life that's
definitely a great place to shop but
thank you to everybody who's been using
our partner links don't forget I mean I
think that Black Friday and Cyber Monday
have kind of become like a two-month
it's like oh it's we're recording this
on Wednesday and it's still Cyber Monday
somehow somehow yeah that's because they
hold this whole marketing thing to try
to get the sales away from December 23rd
when everybody wants to get home with
their families and move it kind of a
little bit ahead but certainly it's it
really means a lot for us that you
choose to use our partner links makes a
huge difference and coming up into 2019
we want to we want to start the the show
off really really strong in 2019 we've
got some exciting things planned and we
really appreciate you being along with
us we've got a couple new patrons
welcome as well cat5 dot TV slash
patreon great way to support the show
just by giving a dollar per per month
yes that's all it takes
I had a I stuttered there because
there's like a dollar per show no no
it's actually a dollar per month yes
that's right yeah that's all it takes to
support category 5 TV it's a really cool
way
you get access to behind-the-scenes and
various other kind of backstage videos
and and shenanigans yeah texts that I
you know I take some time to type out
what's going on behind the scenes and
you still do your how many characters
have I typed since such and such days
that's on my Twitter feed what pulse but
I I don't really use that much and I'll
tell you why Jeff okay because I code a
lot in nano in the terminal also it
doesn't log it doesn't log it because I
basically feels wasted I spend most of
my time in a Linux terminal right so
yeah if I was using a word processor and
write in a book then I do really really
well with it right but it doesn't it
doesn't really clock on me so I feel
like you kind of feel the same way as I
do when I go for a really long walk but
I forgot my Fitbit oh that hurts
yeah so when you do that do you like rig
up some kind of motorized things make
your Fitbit for an hour I feel like the
steps are wasted like and I realize that
that's but I feel the same way you feel
with your keystrokes I hear how many
characters I know not when I forget my
phone but when I and when my battery's
dead mm-hmm and it's like this is the
day that your phone died my phone dies
yeah by the time I get off work it's
pretty much I get to 25% I'm like well
do you have a charge orgy do you have a
charger at work I've got a charger at
work I got a charger in my car I gotta
say I don't know I mean affordable I'm
good I have a portable how do you not
have a portable charge I have the same
one as you right we've got this like 200
billion kajillion milliamp hour this
little box no ours is big big because
it's got a lot of cells and it has a
flashlight on it too it doesn't cover
that but I didn't know what at first you
know I think I told you that that's the
bus teaching you something you taught me
our charger though if you double tap the
check battery indicator and I say our
charger because we both got the same one
at the same time and it turns into a
flashlight
it starts lighting up the the I led
turns into a flashlight so one time Jeff
I am I my backpack
it was like illuminated what the heck
this is how I discovered that it had a
bill through Ashley so I look in my back
and the like the light coming out it was
like a Disney movie or something like
where you like open the bag and like
heavenly semaphores as soon as I opened
like glow of fairies flying out and
stuff it was like just beaming light and
so I finally found that it was my
battery charge of like my car charger
and I'm like what the heck why is it lit
up and I didn't never read yeah and you
know I guess maybe I should know where
did I it's a battery charger right who
expected it and so I'm like so I
actually ended up taking it apart into
the bezel Thank You Sasha for that
little giggle we're gonna have more
giggles later on tonight don't you worry
so I took the bezel apart and I took it
apart and I got into all the cells and
this is how I know that there's a lot of
battery cells in there I think there
were like 14 of them okay and in this
unit I follow the circuitry and I'm like
bad Papa died I'm like hmm I'm starting
to learn how these things work and
working with Arduino and stuff like that
and I'm looking at the circuit and hi I
push this and light turns off DoubleTap
light turns on DoubleTap light turns off
it's a flashlight
it's a bleedin flashlight you couldn't
have read the instructions so this is
why I like laughs because because to be
honest with you like Robbie takes things
apart and understands them I message
Robbie boil it I feel it's odd that
neither of you would go to the manual no
way who keeps the manual from a battery
pack for charge on their phone I've you
know literally has a USB port that you
plug your phone into that's it I didn't
realize that the LED that shows that the
battery is charged also doubles as a
flashlight I also read them but not for
a little battery pack I read them really
yes you sir have way too much time on
your hands
I like to know what that says about the
product so why use it incorrectly when
you say I know how to go back to the
company and say I used it correct so on
day one Jeff is the guy who's like dang
this thing's also a flashlight yes not
two years later like right in my back
yeah well there's always one in a group
like in my whole family we have one of
my siblings you've met her Colleen yeah
she is the rural reader for all games
right so if we want to play a game she
already knows yes or games okay she
knows it yeah there's one so Jeff is the
reader of the manual so if we have
something like for example we have the
same boogie board sink right if I have a
question I know that you're gonna know
the answer I still have the media yeah
but you don't have to read the manual I
don't my boogie board sink manual is
still with my boogie board I carry it
with me
you read it while you're driving
accidentally drop it in the power button
stick stop it
Oh dear me okay how's everybody's week
been any new technology news you've been
away for a couple of a few weeks yeah
been away for a few weeks new on the
tech front I used an app for hunting
really what I don't know how I do not
see I when I hunt I like the old-school
way like actually walking into the bush
and you know paying attention the wind
feeling it on my face all that kind of
stuff and yeah your whiskers yeah I feel
my whiskers wrestling this direction the
deer are coming from no no they were
frozen I couldn't move my mouth it was
crazy I said perfection of my wife it's
like white because it's all ice but no I
used the group I was with I used an app
so we use GPS location for all of us so
we knew where we were so hunter knew
where they were that's correct so we
knew each other words so that if you
know we're traveling in an area of the
bush that somebody else's I know where
they are we know it's a difference
between man versus beast the bright
orange jumpsuit that you were wearing
shockingly how thick the bush was you
don't always see if the person sneaks up
on you oh really but I also used it for
tracking all of the tracks the different
type of animals that we saw and it
really changed the way the hunt went to
the point that we were able to say okay
do
was gonna come out here let's push it
this way we did so five minutes later
bang I'm really disappointed when he
said he was using technology on the hunt
any Unreal Tournament game of the year
edition fans here yes any not me I
pictured a redeemer wanted the meat it
was meat using the app that's it
absolutely changed the way we happened
so now I have an accurate real-time
picture of the entire seven days of the
hunt so that next year when we go back
we can see if there's the same location
same location if the migration patterns
have changed if the trails are still the
same things have really judged it's kind
of neat that's really wild
so that's but for the fact that I'm
vegetarian that's a cool story yeah yeah
I'm surrounded I just like I want you to
like even the playing field and give
like the deer phone as well completely
plastered with like ammo I will say the
the Predators were a big problem this
time though
oh yeah like we were being stalked by
the wolves and the Coyotes really were
so prevalent yeah what's so technology
somehow found its way and it did
interesting yeah that's very cool yeah
it was a lot of fun it really changed
the way we do the hunt interesting how
about you anything new like you know
what not really except perhaps that
project I where I thought to myself Oh
cat five huh I've got this I've I'm in
school and I have a project due in a
week and a bit nice where I have to do a
60-second commercial about myself oh if
only you had access to the resources
that are required to create a commercial
the classroom was like abides with oh
how am I gonna do this and I thought
like tell you that this is a whole hour
of commercial right YouTube would say
that and thank you YouTube viewers
you're throwing against ooh knife so
yeah sure all I'm gonna do is like throw
my commercial and the teleprompter since
I'm a seasoned teleprompter next week
I'm gonna be ready with my homework
doing a quick commercial about me
and then BAM it's kind of fun as
volunteers here at category
TV that we can utilize the resources and
come in and do personal projects and
stuff so are we gonna get to see this is
this something that you're gonna release
maybe to this I think she's 60 seconds I
think she needs to pay for the airtime
except it's a commercial okay so I'm in
school to be a PSW personal support
worker which is sometimes called I think
a homeless I don't know yeah
so this 60-second commercial is about
why like a little bit about me and why I
should be hired by you the viewer who I
guess is also the interviewer remember
that year when we dressed up as severely
old people for Halloween should I just
whip out that oh maybe you could be
dressed up as the severely old person
that I was during that up somehow we
could work that in I've sense a legal
issues so she cares for me she takes
good care of me she doesn't ask how I am
she just tells me I'm amazing I've been
working really really hard on MEMS Linux
really excited about some of the things
that are happening there we're all
familiar with MEMS Linux it's a
monitoring tool for enterprise so if
you've got a servers hard drive that's
failing it'll let you know if you've got
internet issues or your websites down it
lets you know it's basically designed to
monitor anything and alert you the
administrator as to you know something
going on you can go to names Linux comm
to check it out but NEMS 1.5 is coming
out next month yes I'm so excited sounds
like a Christmas present it's like a
culmination and it costs you nothing is
free it is a culmination of community
feedback and requests people asking for
certain features check commands things
like that and they're all being
implemented plus some bug fixes plus
some incredible enhancements and it's
gonna be just amazing and we're really
working namste award being the
enterprise monitoring server it's Nagios
it's it runs on Pyne 64 boards on
raspberry PI's on Oh droids and and a
growing like base of single board
computers so the single board computers
that were looking at
tonight like these can be a monitoring
server for your enterprise network just
pretty impressed put this on your your
LAN and boom it's telling you if there's
a problem on your network and giving you
emails or SMS messages or telegram
whatever you you're gonna get those
notification telegram is in like dude
showing up a little bit talking no like
it's an app for your phone that that is
like for it's an alternative to SMS I
guess like cool chat messaging and
things like that it's growing it's been
getting good and really exciting and
that's a cool community - yes we're like
all about building communities here so
but hey if you're in business if you
work at a school I think this is really
appropriate for education sector
government I'm particularly interested
as a lot of open source ventures are
particularly interested in supporting
charitable organizations and yes and
providing a very economical solution so
that's why I give names Linux away for
free and you can just go out and buy
like a Raspberry Pi yeah which is you
know this is $35 plus the case plus
power cord or an S naught card yeah for
sub $100 you can get most of these
boards and that becomes your your nems
linux server so and then I just give you
the software for free you just put it on
the SD card and you're up and running so
you know it's I love that we're sitting
here talking about this and all these
single board computers and I just think
back to like the beginning of cat5 would
you ever have guessed that this would be
where things are when you started the
show no it was never my intention Jeff
didn't lead how it evolved oh yeah I
love it it's fun well because when this
started it was just like one on one tech
help right my first show was five
viewers and there were all people that I
knew personally right yeah and then it
just and super adorable
it was such a yeah such a cool start it
just makes me wonder like what kind of
tech are we gonna be talking about in
another you know 11 seasons from now oh
my goodness
yeah because the show keeps evolving
keeps chaos
it's very much stepping stones for
category five teams like your a-hunting
that's four to stuff imagine the
technology that's gonna come like you'll
put like glasses on based we won't even
be here
yeah alright okay lots of lots of great
stuff has happened over the past 11
years for sure and tonight is no
exception to that rule we've got some
amazing stuff for you now if you watched
the show last week you saw the single
board computer comparisons you notice
that I've still got some single board
computers out on the desk but there are
two boards that we wanted to match up on
our list so so far Jeff we've tested
four boards kay we're gonna test two
more which is gonna bring us to a total
of six boards so far to hopefully tell
us before kind of the Christmas season
here as where it was looking for yeah
we're looking for something that we can
hook up to our home TV maybe use it for
a little bit of retro gaming certainly
surfing the web watching YouTube and
Netflix things like that and these are a
great solution because you're not
limited to the operating systems
software it's not like an Android box
correct Android box you're like limited
to regions specific I have a great
Android box on my TV I can't run Netflix
because it thinks I'm in China because
I'm in Canada but get a VPN to come up
with the Chinese like the address the
operating system itself think it's
because I bought it from China right I
never realized that oh if you don't buy
it from Canada it's it's like region
coded basically right in a way so these
things anyways you install Linux on it
and whatever software you want and it's
going to work with your with your region
or whoever so you don't have those kinds
of limitations those kind of problems
but tonight we're gonna be comparing two
more boards and it's getting really
exciting as we look at some of those
really powerful boards at the xu4 and
the Nano PI m4 to compare and figure out
the giggle score we'll talk about that
in just a moment's time stick around
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
ok last week we were looking at single
board computer Sasha you were here Henry
was here Jeff you were not I was not so
quick recap we looked at four single
board computers we have the Raspberry Pi
3 model b+ we have the pine a 64 LTS we
have the pine ROC 64 and we had the part
of me that's the rock 64 pro yep and boy
then the wording gets confused the rock
pro 64 I'm already calling these okay
let's I'll just edit that out in post
this is the rock pro 64 and the rock 64
okay pine keeps doing that to me a 64
LTS Rock pro 64 rock 64 and the size
difference between each one is quite
well the rock 64 and the raspberry pi 3
are prettier yeah form factor when you
go to the next two it's like they're
significantly bigger they really are but
we're looking at the small form factor e
game tonight yes and we've got the xu4
from Odroid heart colonel and we've got
the nano PI m4 rush we're going to be
taking a look at tonight so last week
Jeff what I looked at is how do we
compare these boards when they're all in
in different price points can I explain
this to Jeff could you maybe okay so
Robbie created
giggles okay okay my daughter giggles a
lot so I don't know if you fully created
it but now you want I wrote the code
okay so you take the amount of money
that the single board computer cost yes
and then you take the performance of it
separated in the really seriously
yes exact yeah so you want to make sure
that your single board computer has the
lowest giggle because you want to have
it so that you get the most performance
for the least amount of money so you're
aiming for a low giggle count right
absolutely that makes very clear sense
to me and as you're describing I picture
myself walking through the grocery store
where you see like oh you buy this at a
kilogram and this set of nouns exactly
well how much is it per hundred gram
exactly that's what I'm then you break
it down you go oh that's the better deal
exact so we're doing here so we're
essentially doing that kind of breakdown
right for single board computers I use
the scenario and the the like a fake
scenario where okay Jeff I've got a
single board computer for ten dollars
and it gives me two thousand as events
per second right that's the performance
of it and it cost me ten dollars okay
now I've got another board that gets
four thousand events per second but it
cost me twenty dollars so if if I didn't
know the giggle score of these systems I
might look at that ten dollar system and
think oh it's cheaper than the twenty
dollars right so by the twenty dollar so
no because it's cheaper yes but what I
don't realize and I'm using very very
simple numbers so that the math is
really really easy to follow the ten
dollar one is oh is 2,000 events per
second the twenty dollar one which costs
exactly twice as much is exactly twice
the speed to four thousand events per
second so giggle wise giggle score wise
these two boards are exactly the same
giggle score right McNichol cost they're
exactly the same value for the money so
what we've done is we've said okay well
with a Raspberry Pi at $35 and a rock 64
at 45 and a rock pro 64 at 80 how do you
factor which one is the best value right
well and I remember when the Odroid came
out and we had that episode of of being
a high killer that was the big thing
we're like oh it's for core but it's
like of course
hey course that's right eight cores
double game Jason oh so much better
right so same deal exactly because the
Oldroyd xu4 runs 59 dollars that's this
guy right right so when you've got a $59
SBC versus a $35 SBC well how do they
measure up right make sense
so the giggle score will tell us now
last week we got the giggle score of the
Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ and the giggle
score is three hundred fifty point nine
okay the giggle cost I should say okay
so tonight we're gonna be looking at the
Odroid xu4 as well as the nano PI m4 now
when we started looking at the Odroid xu
for this was like bleeding edge
breakthrough we called it the Raspberry
Pi kids why because this was one of the
first ones that we found that had true
Gigabit Ethernet it had AI has the GPIO
it's got a power switch it's got USB 3
it's got twice as much RAM as the best
Raspberry Pi on the market right now
and same thing a year ago still hasn't
changed right a Raspberry Pi still
hasn't changed their brand-new Raspberry
Pi microcomputer has half as much RAM as
the one that we looked at a year ago
right so so this one's looked to us to
be hey this is really really good value
because it's so much more powerful
mm-hmm the giggle score will show us
what the value really is right and so we
haven't done that yet so we got to
figure that out tonight yeah and I say
that that this was like a year ago to
say that the nano PI M for this is the
evolution of single board computers the
rock 64 is the evolution of where single
board computers are going right we're so
close to single board computers these
little micro computers being a toss-up
between this and a desktop or a laptop
computer right when you can see this and
say I can get just as much power in this
as I can for a two thousand dollar
desktop say then you start to say well
why wouldn't I
this is the way to go yes but certainly
we're at that point
where these are hey set-top boxes buy
that $300 computer which is pretty fair
for a set-top box a basic computer that
I'm going to connect to my TV through
HDMI and give me access to things like
Netflix and YouTube and a little bit of
gaming for the kids and whatever else or
I can do this the Nano PI m4 for 65
bucks right which makes sense which has
six cores which is it's got four USB
three
it's got up to 10 Gigabit Ethernet
it's got integrated gigabit ethernet but
it's also got the GPIO that you can
connect 10 gig it's got all kinds of
other stuff let's get right to it so I
understand the giggle score yes so vp9
the lower the giggle score the better
the value for the money so so far where
we are compared to last week whose so
far got the best value from so far it's
the rock 64 the rock 64 is the best
value for the money as of episode number
583 of category 5 technology TV this one
has a giggle score of 50 1.37
next up was the rock pro 64 which is the
larger model which I actually expected
to perform better than the rock 64 but
it wasn't but it it did in some ways but
it this one this see this is where you
really got to watch the numbers that you
get from your giggle score comparison
because this is a free tool that I've
written get it through github.com slash
cap 5 TV slash cap 5 TV - SBC test what
you do find with this one Jeff and what
we found last week is the CPU benchmarks
about twice as fast as the ROK 64 okay
so if CPU is what you're looking for
then that's the way to go then this is
the one to go with even though giggle
score says this one is more expensive
for what you're getting right does that
make sense so even though the giggle
score of this one is is lower which
means it's the best value for the money
this one is still more powerful right
okay okay so don't want a steak don't
mistake giggle score for benchmarks
we've always had benchmarks but there
are tons of benchmarks of single board
computers all across the web
you can find them everywhere what we
have never had is a comparison that
shows us the value for the money that is
what giggle scores are I love it giggle
scores are Linux only correct are they
okay I don't know an SBC that I would
really care to put Windows yeah so these
are so and along that vein
yes I've I've opted for Debian stretch
on all of these boards as I'm testing so
I wanted the comparison to be very fair
I'm using SBC test version 1.0 from my
github page so all of the tests are
using the same version and so the
comparison is very accurate I'm also
I've even gone so far as buying several
of the same Kingston microSD cards okay
that IO wise everything is exactly the
same right makes sense all right so
we've got the X u4q this is from Odroid
this one goes for $59 okay we've got
these we love them they're powerful
they're awesome and then we've got the
nano PI m4 the nano PI m4 let's get in
on these so you guys can get a little
bit of a closer look I want to show you
now I know you can't see the board here
because I've got this in a case but I do
love it the X u4q it's got Gigabit
Ethernet it's got USB 2 there but on the
other side here we've got 2 USB 3 s it's
got a giant heatsink sticking out at the
top at least I thought it was giant
until I saw the m4 it does have a power
button which you don't get on a
Raspberry Pi I do like that
other side here let's see what we got it
has the MMC as well which is kind of
cool on my case it's covered but there's
a switch here that changes on this side
here this changes whether you're booting
from sd or EMM see we've got an SD port
here and that's where that goes a full
size HDMI and that's pretty cool so
that's the XE for now let's look at the
nano PI m4 so that's what it looks like
we've done an unboxing on the show if
you want to learn more about it it's a
little bit interesting in that first of
all the emmc is a different kind of
interface so this is the MMC port but
you have to have the special kind of
card in order to operate that it's not
going to take my standard emmc power for
this one is not a barrel connector like
it is for the xu4 it comes in on an OTG
or USBC cable and this is what's
interesting here too so when we're
looking at price we also have to factor
in things like okay well you true you're
gonna need a case for stuff this one I'm
just got it on the heatsink but this one
you're gonna need the heatsink yes
another seven dollars you're gonna need
a power cord but what's crazy about this
one is it needs four amps that's right
yeah so 5 volt 4 amps good luck finding
a power supply what I did Jeff is I took
a 600 watt ATX power supply okay I
adapted that to USB 5 volt 120 amp ok 20
amps plugged in USB C cable ran that to
the the USB C input port on the nano PI
m4 and a hundred and hundred and
some-odd 120 amps was more than enough
to power this bad boy I'm gonna say that
most people aren't gonna go that route
no I also had the thought today that you
could get like a laptop power adapter
right 19 volts probably about 90 watts
which is 18 amps and down step that get
a down step converter to take that down
to 5 volts then you've got an 18 amp 5
volt power adapter right and then you
just have to adapt it to USB see right
example like I've done here or of course
you can just PI a USB where there's that
4 amp yes
but it's they're hard to find I couldn't
believe maybe I did it not come with one
though no I mean a single board computer
you buying this this circuit board
you're buying the board and then all of
the accessories that you want in
addition I can't get it as a kit like my
Raspberry Pi like canna kit they are
already yeah of me too and they so they
have put together a kit and they're
selling that kit right but it's that's
them doing it it's not it's not
Raspberry Pi doing that necessarily it's
it's Kanaka doing that so so do keep
that in mind so this one I mentioned the
heatsink this m4 has a honkin huge
heatsink yeah look at that yeah and we
found out that this is actually quarter
inch threaded so you can put that on a
try
pod Jeff I guess though you could create
some kind of mounting apparatus to do a
really cool kind of rig interesting that
is kind of neat but huge honkin heatsink
so let's fire these bad boys up I want
to see how these perform now the reason
we're putting these two head-to-head is
because we understand these two boards
to be really really high performance
these are not raspberry pies these are
like the performing boards these are the
ones that we really expect to do well
yes xu4 with eight cores two gigs of ram
the Nano pie m4 with four gigs of ram
four gigs of ram and and six-course
right okay
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts ok so on your left we've
got the Odroid xe4 on the right we've
got the nano PI m4 head to head let's go
alright the value is $59 on the Odroid
xu for the m4 is 65 so the test is going
to tell us the value there Wow CPU is
already done for the CPU benchmark on
the nano PI m4 and that score is not too
shabby 3063 events per second that's
higher than our top runner the ROK pro
64 had twenty eight hundred ninety seven
last week and it's already done we
haven't even finished the CPU benchmark
on the Odroid xe4 that's surprising okay
so let's look at the nano pi m4 which
has an incredible giggle score can you
guys see that 50.6 50.6 puts the nano PI
m4 into the first place spot and the
nano pi m4 is now rated as our top
performing board but also the best
giggle value so the best value for the
money on the left hand side back to the
Odroid xu4 which was screaming about a
year ago 480 1.1 giggles I'm gonna give
you the breakdown so that puts the
Odroid xu4 at a very poor spot as far as
giggle value right what that tells us is
that dollar for dollar the value of the
xu4 is actually kind of bad that's at
$59 okay so let's look at the
specifications I mentioned the nano PI M
for the CPU result is incredible I mean
just awesome
twice that of the ROC 64 which was last
week's winner okay moving along to RAM
results here at $65 we have a result of
eight hundred and forty-seven thousand
three hundred and sixty eight events per
second which has a fantastic legal score
the mutex value 19 point eight three
events per second and again the giggle
cost is only fifty point six
if that is great keep in mind the rock
64 which really impressed us last week
right was 50 1.37 right pretty close
pretty close so we can look at this so
the value for the dollar between these
two boards is almost identical right
these are our top two right now so does
one have something that the other
doesn't yes
oh good that's why comparing the giggle
score to the the actual benchmarks that
is provided by the software is very
important so let's look at that they're
almost identical as far as their value
for the money the giggle score right
fifty point 650 1.37 both very good
value this one right here the rock 64
can perform 1422 events per second on
the CPU based on last week's test this
one just now this is the Nano PI M for
three thousand sixty three events per
second three times twice as - almost
three times incredible pretty
significant yeah so same value for the
money yeah this one is significantly
more powerful that said price wise so
now let's go back to comparing this
one's $45 this one's $65 right right so
we look at that we say oh well this one
seems like more value but we know from
the giggle score that they're actually
about the same value but this one is
significantly faster so you're paying an
extra $20 and you are actually getting
more before perfect value for the nano
PI m4 at $65 absolutely perfect value
for that extra power at $20 extra okay
is the the pine 64 rock 64 both
fantastic boards this one unbelievable
absolutely it was quick
yes the Odroid xu4 on the other hand
didn't do too well only 260 1.179 events
per second on the CPU significantly
lower than any of the other boards that
we looked at except for the Raspberry Pi
model 3 or the the 3 model B + C I would
have thought the Odroid would have been
screamin a year ago when all we had was
the Raspberry Pi 3 now keep in mind I
tested I tested the Raspberry Pi 3 model
b+ this wasn't out when we got the xu 4
right when we got the xu 4 it was
against the model the the model B
correct you know it probably performs
even less than the Plus ok I would love
to see the giggle sore for like the PI 0
we just don't have to ain't nobody got
that take weeks so keep that in mind
that was so this is not the newest board
in the universe ok right but it did
still perform a hundred and some-odd 140
events per second more than the
Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ right on the cpu
ram wise 360 three thousand five hundred
and seventy-seven events per second so
pretty poor compared to the Raspberry Pi
the RAM is in fact slower hmm that's
good good to know and the mutex result
at just thirteen point two three seven
events per second so again the giggle
score on this one is four hundred and
eighty one point one so that tells us
that this one is the worst value for the
money right now yeah
oh-oh droid have anything coming out
that might be better yeah yeah we'll get
there okay we're not going there today
okay but it's coming stay tuned it's
coming yes very interesting to see that
in reality like that's the reality of it
folks so our top boards right now the
Nano PI m4 is in first place the rock 64
in second place with a very close giggle
value so the value for both of these
boards are exceptional the rock 64 is
$20 cheaper so you're going to save some
money but the value of both of those
boards are pretty much identical the
rock 64 are the rock pro 64 is our third
and we're just going to talk about the
top three from this point forward and
eliminate the rest so there you go
I've get the giggle score of your single
board computer
by going to github.com slash cat5 TV
slash cap v TV - SBC test you'll be able
to get that free software for linux and
do test it against this the same
software basis us which is Debian
stretch that'll give you the best most
accurate results
io doesn't matter it doesn't test
against the IO so you're not gonna
affect things if you have a slow SD card
or a fast emmc
doesn't matter that won't affect your
giggle score let us know your thoughts
has this been surprising for you this is
really just kind of the start of this
because as new single board computers
come out we're gonna be testing them
with their giggle value and we've got a
graph there that is available through
that github page as well and you can see
the results that have been submitted so
far as as we add those unbelievable
that's crazy you know I had high hopes
that Odroid was gonna cream everything
simply because expected it to beat the
Raspberry Pi as far as value goes
because it is yeah it is a lot more
powerful than the Raspberry Pi keep them
yes absolutely value wise it's less
value for the money yeah but it is
shocked me it is still more powerful hmm
so do keep that in mind but now the m4
and the rock 64 blast the xu4 out of the
water like it's amazing how many things
Chandan 2018 when we're doing this yes
exactly and we're gonna see over the
next year now we're getting really
really excited as pine 64 is working
really really hard to bring out new
devices that are really really exciting
can't talk too much about we've got two
other vendors Oh droid yes they are
bringing out another port they've got
another board available right now and
more devices coming out from all
different vendors nano pi is getting me
excited right now
there's a lot of great competition out
there that isn't they're pushing the
envelope cool all right we've got a head
over to the news room Sasha what do you
have for us tonight well here are the
stories we're covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom Google has been
accused of disregarding European
data protection laws when it tracks
users locations a cache of Facebook
documents has been seized by MPs
investigating the Cambridge analytic
data scandal Google is making it easier
to connect boot Bluetooth headphones to
Android phones and the US Space Agency
NASA has landed a new robot on Mars
after a dramatic seven-minute plunge to
the surface of the Red Planet
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias Jeff
Weston Jemma you're building a brand new
beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat5 TV slash dream host i'm satiric min
and here the top stories were following
this week google has been accused of
disregarding European data protection
laws when it tracks users locations a
coalition of seven consumer
organizations is filing complaints with
data protection regulators over Google's
tracking system the complaints draw on
research by one coalition member which
alleges people are forced to use the
location system Google said tracking was
turned off by default and could be
paused at any time by users in a
statement the coalition said that Google
used deceptive practices to make people
turn on its different tracking systems
consented said was not being freely
given in addition it alleged google did
not give straightforward information
about what surrendering the data
entailed the statement warns that this
location data could give deep insight
into someone's lifestyle including their
religious beliefs political activity
health and sexual orientation
organizations in the Netherlands Poland
Greece Norway Slovenia Sweden and the
Czech Republic all plan to file
complaints to their local regulators
under Europe's general data protection
regulation the seven organizations are
members of B you see an umbrella group
that represents and lobbies for European
consumer advocacy groups in Brussels in
response Google said location history is
turned off by default and you can edit
delete or pause it at any time if it's
on it helps improve services like
predicted traffic on your commute
okay fair enough yeah yeah you know I
use my Google location and I love it but
I also that's the thing but I also see
it's tricky right like I if you didn't
want your everyday movements to be
tracked then you would turn it off and
you would think turning it off would be
fine except that I'm sure that there is
a little bit of trickery in the fact
that when you want to use something it
kind of makes you have to turn it back
on right oh sure yeah and that's the
thing like when you turn on your
location data well what else is
happening in the OS level that is trivia
for me though I love that say I lose my
phone or someone steals my phone I can
track it down right find it but I
understand that the caveat with that is
that Google yeah
or Google's partners I guess can also
figure out where I am and what coffee
shops I frequent oh yeah where I am
standing right now and and those kinds
of things but does that bother me it's
such a hard thing like we're in that
world right now right maybe it doesn't
bother me because I am pretty much
everything about me is very socially
accepted right so I am NOT in a
situation where I am affiliated in some
way with something that isn't yeah like
I'm not trying to hide where I'm going
ever ever may I everybody knows 100%
like privacy when you're you know you
don't like it's the whole Big Brother
scenario but is is our fear of the
technology based on the movies that
we've seen is it based on the thought
that the government and there are
regions of the world that where the
government is malicious in using this
kind of data I just I just we need to be
more careful do we need to wise up and
say you can't do this
I joke with my friends that if I ever go
missing they'll know the moment I was
taken because hey I have my Fitbit on me
all right I'm and I have my phone on me
all the time like there's no way say
and it's not probably not gonna happen
but let's just say I got kidnapped and I
dropped my phone I still have my Fitbit
right right this is your Fitbit connect
it connects via GPS doesn't happen yeah
so no matter handsome I know no matter
what I am going to be phone unless the
person who can ask me says okay take off
all your tech then we'll have chips in
our brain yeah what are your thoughts on
this because they you always have a good
opinion yeah that's true
well I kind of feel like you guys are
missing the point on this one what is
the point Jeff like you're talking about
the services I use and why you whether
you would use them or not that's not
what this is about
this is about the fact that using said
services is providing unintentional
information to the company too great
right so that information I can then tap
into it I can use Google's locate my
phone service to find where my phone is
right but what it comes down to and I
mean I'm actually in the middle on this
one I don't know how I feel about the
complaint because on one point their
argument hinges on the fact that they're
saying it's not forthcoming as to how
you're using location services data that
Google's clunking from you I'll guess
online I get that so makes sense but at
the same time you know that if you turn
on location services for a single app
you're giving us exactly so I think the
issue here is not about what apps you
like to use it's a fact that the
software itself does not
compartmentalize the services that are
being used that if if Google was to say
okay fine to deal with European Union
law we are going to make it so that if
you turn location services four ways on
location services for nothing else are
activated we don't pull the information
from your fan base operating system we
don't pull it from your email we don't
and you need to compartmentalize the
permissions that you give for each
individual app and when you turn it on
for the one app it does not activate or
allow the collection of data from
another app that's the simple solution
to all
again I'm not a Stella Grammer but
that's the way I look at it yeah I kind
of see where they're coming from but at
the same time I'm going if you're gonna
turn on location services the
expectation is that location services
are on whether you want to be or not for
everything else and jumping over to our
discord the foo' says it isn't just
Google that has access to that data data
wants to be leaked
there are API failures which are get
abused and Garvey goes on to say
most companies purposefully obscure why
they need the access and especially for
what they use the data and it makes
sense that Google who is a data company
and an information company that is their
commodity that is their currency the
information that they're able to collect
sure right it has to be useful to them I
mean I guess maybe I'm not in a world so
to speak of living where my location is
such a big concern the one feature on
phones that actually bothers me more
than location like care if you follow if
I'm in Starbucks or Tim Hortons or
whatever my issue is when you go to
download an app it's like we need access
to your data right we need access to
your storage we need to save a file so
we need access to your storage I can't
say I give you access to my storage for
the purposes of saving a file and the
moment you turn on access to storage I
know everything on your phone that is
collected and built in apps that they
can mine that information that one
bothers me more than anything else it's
so tough it is tough we're at this weird
time like I they just opened a Starbucks
up the street from the studio yes and I
think okay well for all the people who
have the Starbucks app installed so I go
to the Starbucks drive-through and I get
my coffee and they then see the way that
I go to work every day and they say we
don't have a Starbucks along his route
and then certainly there's one that pops
up and it's right on my route to work
and so it's like so they open a store
just for you they did it because that
way and I am there faithfully and so I
just I just wonder is that data
right and I can see well I can see the
way that they use it to really amplify I
guess your experience in life like they
do that but they're also what I was
thinking about it well Jeff was speaking
I was thinking to myself yeah I guess if
I were to say where to fall ill and I
didn't want people to know that but I
had to go somewhere for treatments right
and now my location services is on and
somehow my life insurance says that your
heart is palpitating right and right and
then I mean if that information were to
get out then then it could have
catastrophic catastrophic but with
Google who owns that information now the
advertising that you have as Google
doesn't care I mean they do care because
they want that data but I think at the
end of the day this really comes down to
the fact that people don't understand
what their personal information is being
usable and it's the eye it's the idea
that it's not even your personal
information anymore it's your personal
life habits those are the things that
are being collected and if people
understood that you know your personal
habits are what is being data collected
and monetized and categorized and that's
how you were being packaged as a
commodity entity I think that would
change people's perspective but people
don't see it that way they want
convenience and they go I don't care you
know
they see what I see they see an email
once a month from Google Maps that says
these are the places you visited that's
and I love it it is cool
we've got to move on to the next story
but please comment below this is a
loaded topic because we don't really
know what is the answer
mm-hmm but we're gonna see it unfold
over the next couple of years absolutely
comment below let us know what you think
a cache of Facebook documents has been
seized by MPs investigating the
Cambridge analytic escape data scandal
rarely use parliamentary powers were
used to demand that the boss of a u.s.
software firm hand over the details the
observer which first reported on the
story said the documents included data
about Facebook's privacy controls MP
Damien Collins later told the BBC that
he believed the documents were highly
relevant to his inquiry Facebook has
demanded there
returned the documents were intercepted
when an executive of US tech firm 643
was on a trip to London in a highly
unusual move of the House of Commons
sergeant-at-arms was sent to the
business man's hotel and he was given a
final warning and a 2 hour deadline to
comply with the order when the executive
failed to do so he was escorted to
Parliament and warmed that he risked
fines an imprisonment if the documents
were not surrendered the paper said the
firm is involved in court action against
Facebook in the US where the documents
were obtained through legal procedures
Facebook told the observer the materials
obtained by the DS DCMS committee are
subject to the protective order of the
San Mateo Superior Court restricting
their disclosure we have asked the DCMS
committee to refrain from reviewing them
and to return them to counsel or to
Facebook but Damien Collins chairman of
the Commons Digital Culture Media &amp;
Sports Committee says that he believes
the documents which include emails
contain important information about
Facebook and other parties and how they
handle user data Facebook and its
founder Mark Zuckerberg have faced
intense pressure over the social media
giants use of personal data and the
spread of fake news last month the UK
data watchdog find Facebook 500,000
pounds following its investigation into
the Cambridge analytic affair Facebook
has appealed against the fine claiming
that the watchdog found no evidence that
the UK users personal data had been
shared inappropriately and that the
penalty was therefore unjustified talk
about topical considering the
conversation that we just had right but
to think that they showed up at the guys
hotel room and said you need to
relinquish those documents that you're
holding in that there locked briefcase
or else I could go on for hours about
this one I just don't have the time job
you're right we don't I think in this
scenario I mean put the paperwork aside
I think at it I'm not I'm not supporting
Facebook or coming to the defense I
think they are the
logical whipping-boy right now they are
being made an example 100%
I think somebody who has or somebody's
have gone after Facebook and said you
are the easiest target to hit on this
one because they've been so open about
it right you look at Google you look at
Amazon you look at all these other
companies and the information that
they're mining from you and they're all
the stuff that's being used to monetize
you as an as an entity and they are more
back behind closed doors about it then
Facebook was like yeah you know what we
haven't raided our security settings now
you're completely public unless you say
don't I mean they changed the whole
collection of data they were the
frontrunners on this yeah like 15 16
years ago whatever was that they came
out I think they're the whipping boy and
this one they're being taken for an
unfair shake when at the end of the day
this is a massive issue that goes beyond
Facebook yes and I do think they're
gonna can like the the political
entities amongst the world are going to
continue to hound Facebook until it
drives it into the ground
hmm certainly had a big impact on user
base stock people withdraw his facebook
look like it's hot well it was the last
straw for me the Cambridge analytical
scandal was really like the that news
story happened at exactly the time I
step back from Facebook yeah it's like
the food saying about how data is just
longing to be exploited and stolen and I
use illicitly mm-hmm yeah it's I mean
what happens if one of those companies
decides you know what screw you here's
all of our files it's gone public take
that world who would do this no like
it's I mean you want to go conspiracy
theory because that's what this is all
about what kind of information have you
got on us so say what say that ahead of
Google calls up you know the US
government or any other European unit
says okay so you continue to push this
issue we're gonna have a hack tomorrow
all of your account information is going
live on the dark web including anything
you've ever searched right whatever
these companies own us they own us
there's no way you're gonna get out of
it and the amount of dark secrets that
people have that they'll try to hide
because it's like I'll use the privacy
filter on my browser yeah okay that just
means it goes through the extra special
folder I clear my history the fact is we
live in a world that is so open you're
not going to be able to control it I
just endeavor to be one of those people
who doesn't have anything to hide I
don't and I feel that's me right but
what if that happened but what if
something were to happen where then you
did develop something to hide what right
but here's the thing it's not about
necessarily anything to hide I mean you
look at I think a while ago we talked I
was telling talking about a podcast
where they they did an investigation
into Facebook and how many categories
that they have yeah and the data it was
like we loaded my info right so but you
take that stuff and the way that you use
your device is your way you use your
technology to create profiles about you
anybody gets that information you might
not have anything to hide
but your habits and the way you do
things they can submit it any way they
want like the fact is you just can't
avoid it it's that's true
wow that's dark and ominous thank you
Jeff for that bit of input sorry I'm
downer
the world's about to end you can't avoid
it
sorry folks but that's why I think I
think Facebook's taking an unfair kick
at the can on this one like they're
getting beat up sorry Jeff we're gonna
move on Google's making it easier to
connect bluetooth headphones to Android
phones last year Google announced fast
pair to make it easier to connect
wireless headphones to Android devices
and now the company is taking that tech
step for tech a step further once users
set up fast pair on an Android device
that signed in with their Google
accounts
their devices at that are signed into
the same account we'll be able to fast
pair as well this allows fast pair to
work similarily to apples W chip series
that also makes it so users don't have
to repair their headphones to multiple
devices that are signed into the same
account Google is taking it even further
in 2019 when it plans to add the feature
to Chrome OS perhaps after that it will
come to Android TV as well the feature
works by sending out signals over
Bluetooth Low Energy that will then
prompt nearby Android phones running
Android 6.0 a newer with a notification
that says tap to pair with device google
promises that it's working with tons of
manufacturers like j-bird anchor Bo Bo's
and more to bring the technology to more
headphones I like that because I feel
like I'm constantly having to repair my
headphones yes really annoying yep and I
can't stand it when a Bluetooth device
accidentally gets paired with like a
neighbor's speaker system or something
although it makes a really good gag I
don't okay I have to hear that one
Sunday we went to a New Year's Eve party
at the neighbor's house down the street
but actually quite a distance down the
street and Dave cast it to their TV yes
just for the the night like some music
videos and everything well then he tried
to cast to our TV and it was connected
to them and it was still connected to
theirs now it was like hilarious and
like it was just like another music
video or something but they message Dave
immediately they were like are you
trying to watch I've done that in a
hotel thing yeah cuz if you're in a
hotel where they've got you know like
connected TVs I've been watching TV and
had people cast to my TV they pair it to
you yeah they go to the next door so I'm
like nice gag folks okay so I know
they're a frequent flyer of this hotel
so I'm trying to cast at the same time
because like I can connect to class or
at home and all that's one casting my
plex stuff to the TV and you know so
it's like no now I'm gonna cast here and
we becomes this casting battle like this
with with Bluetooth
pairing and being able to sync it to all
of my devices yes I'm getting the point
like I'm building up my plethora of
Google devices because they're just it's
so handy to be able to use my Chromebook
yes and my Android phone and
interconnect them together and I've got
a nest at home
well my thermostat is a nest thermostat
so I can control that by voice operation
from my phone I can just say the term
and say set the temperature to 32
degrees and it'll do it so surprised you
wouldn't have said said term because
YouTube will crack down on me so hard
really absolutely absolutely I think it
would have been fun to do like the whole
Super Bowl thing one day we'll do the
demonstration though and you know all of
your devices are going off yeah so be
ready for it
the US Space Agency NASA has landed a
new robot on Mars after a dramatic
seven-minute plunge to the surface of
the Red Planet
the insight probe aims to study the
world's deep interior and make it the
only planet apart from Earth that has
been examined in this way the robots
touchdown ended in an anxious wait in
which it radioed home a series of
updates on its descent NASA's mission to
Commission control at California's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory erupted into
cheers when it became clear insight was
safe on the ground the agency's chief
administrator James bridenstine
celebrated what he called an amazing day
President Trump called to offer his
congratulations and the director of JPL
Mike Watkins said the success should
remind everyone that to do science we
have to be bold and we have to be
explorers insight is now sitting on a
vast flat plain known as Elysium plenty
shot up close to the planet the red
planet's equator before landing NASA had
dubbed it the biggest parking lot on
Mars the first picture of this landscape
came back very quickly within minutes
it showed a smudged fisheye view of the
robot surroundings the image was taken
through the translucent lens cap of a
camera positioned on the underside of
the lander the dust kicked up in the
descent obscured much of the scene but
it was still possible to make out a
small rock one of the probes feet and
the sky on the horizon a later picture
captured by the camera on an insights
topside was much clearer insight entered
the Martian atmosphere faster than a
high-velocity bullet using the
combination of a heat shield parachute
and rockets to bring itself to a gentle
stop in sights first critical tasks on
landing was to deploy its solar panels
which were stowed for the descents the
robot had to start generating power to
operate its systems and to warm
equipment in the sub-zero temperatures
that persist on the Red Planet
notifications of the panel's said it
came seven hours after landing this will
be the first probe to dedicate its
investigations to understanding Mars's
interior scientists want to know how the
world is constructed from its core to
its crust earth is one data point and
Mars will give researchers a different
perspective on how a rocky planet can be
assembled and evolved through time so
cool very cool we just watched the
Martian two weeks ago oh cool so then
watching the landing well you didn't get
to see the landing but watching NASA and
the team waiting for it to land and
calling out and you just think about how
spoiled we are with the CGI effects and
the abilities of movies to show us so
now of course I'm visualizing what's
happening based on what I saw in this
Matt Damon movie and I'm thinking and I
say and I turned to my wife and I said
if I was to design insight if I was the
guy who designed it well first of all it
would have disintegrated upon leaving
Earth's atmosphere but if in my head if
I actually did a good job I would have
had a secondary unit that would have
separated from insight just before it
entered the atmosphere of Mars and it
was just a camera unit that just took a
video of it going down onto the planet
and then sent that either to the to the
unit or back to earth
because hearing them call it out 20
meters 17 meters 8 meters that's like a
text advice it's just it just yeah
there's the anticipation in the
excitement and understanding what's
actually happening right here and how
huge this is for science and discovery I
just think it's a giant step that they
put all that money into the device and
the first thing that comes back is crap
we should have put wipers on that camera
the lens cap will go that's littering
but it didn't that's cool
according to coin gecko here is what the
crypto market looked like as of 1800
hours our time Eastern Time Wednesday
November 28 2018 we've really seen a
drop Bitcoin has lost 1548 dollars in
twenty four cents USD in the past two
weeks of course
Bitcoin kind of being the base that
other currencies are based upon we're
seeing a drop across the board as well
like coin lost nine dollars and 22 cents
US dollars bringing it down to just 34
50 and I should say the Bitcoin went
down to four thousand two hundred
forty-one dollars so with that said you
know how's my Bitcoin looking it's not
looking that great right now if theory
um is down to one hundred $21.67 US
dollars as of today that means it lost
sixty one dollars and sixteen cents u.s.
over the past couple of weeks Manero is
down to 63 ten oh that hurts ah I lost
thirty dollars and fifty five cents US
dollars we've also got the small guys
stellite I lost two point five eight ten
ten thousandth of a cent bringing it
down to two point five seven ten
thousandth of a cent basically cutting
it in half from where it was two weeks
ago at five point one five ten
thousandth of a cent turtle coin is down
to zero point five seven ten thousandths
of a cent losing point sixteen
and thousands of assent this is just a
fraction which is a tiny bit just a
fraction we'll see that I mean you're
going through this and I'm like mitre
Mekons doing pretty good no it's not no
okay what comparable I mean lose as much
just remember we can joke about it the
cryptocurrency market never closes and
it's always volatile we've seen it
dropping over the past couple of weeks
and don't really know whether it's is it
people not really sure whether they can
put confidence in it is various markets
we don't know we're not gonna touch on
it job
nice try I saw that hand raising we
can't touch on it because we do not give
financial advice on this show but Sasha
yes I would like to say big thanks to
Roy W Nash and our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm Jeff Weston thank you everybody
for being here this week it's so great
to see you so nice to have you here well
I guess I can't see you but you can see
me but I know you're there I see you in
discord I see you checking us out on
YouTube and through our website category
5 TV don't forget as you are doing your
holiday Christmas shopping you can do so
through our website go to category 5 dot
TV click on support us and then shop
through our partners you're gonna shop
on Amazon you're gonna shop on eBay
anyways gearbest banggood think geek
whatever sites you're using if you go
there through us we will get a
commission and that supports our
voluntary organization which brings you
free family-friendly content every
single week and we appreciate you doing
that thank you so much have a great week
everybody see ya this same time next
week
[Applause]
