previously on category 5 technology TV
would you like to take over the con and
fly this thing I would love to
the continuation welcome to episode
number 324 of category 5 technology TV
it's Tuesday December the third 2013
nice to see I'm Robbie Ferguson I am
Sasha tomatoes and coming up in the
newsroom amazon would like to start
delivering your order order via unmanned
drones mmm I know Google is working on
replacing you with a robot at least on
your social platforms all right mm-hmm
Wow both of those are yeah it's only one
of the robots folks a man from Newport
accidentally threw out a hard drive
containing 7.5 million dollars worth of
bitcoin and sony has filed a patent for
a smart wig yes it's just as the name
implies stick around these stories are
coming up later in the show sounds great
thanks Sasha tonight we're going to be
taking a look at the brand new Wirecast
five from Telestream also incidentally
we've got a professional copy to give
away don't go anywhere this is category
5 and it's gonna be a great show this is
category 5 technology TV starring Sasha
tomatoes
Hillary rumble
crystal wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology t be so
nice to have you here I'm Robbie
Ferguson I am Sasha drew Matus category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat five
dot TV / tpn and the international
association of internet broadcasters I
know the tricky cash cat5 TV / ai ai be
very gasps oh she a shin no
international association of internet
broadcast that what it is I a I be like
I I I Oh has changed since the last I've
been on how about this i will post links
show notes to your episode number 324 it
makes it simpler for you it makes it a
lot simpler for Sasha wow that's what
we're talking about also don't forget to
check out our mobile website MDOT cat
five dot TV head on over there if you
want to check out the show on your
mobile device exciting stuff all right
wait we've got a fun show tonight I'm
excited to show you Wirecast 5 i'm
playing with it kind of leon i'm getting
familiar with the new interface myself
so if you see me going mm-hmm let's go
so everything else in the show is now
cancelled it will all just be rough so
basically the whole show is
strategically it's all about Wirecast
five tonight it's really just me you
know just making the show go really
Wirecast oh it's the software that
allows us to do camera switching and
play spots and do all the overlays and
you know that flying in the QR code all
that stuff is powered by wire cast and
that's what we're giving away no full
broadcast sweet professional edition
worth 9000 1909 hundred and ninety five
dollars worth four easy payments of no
it's it's like a thousand bucks that's
incredible so you really can't go wrong
I mean this is the show to be watching
it especially you know if you're
interested in doing any amount of
broadcasting be it for your own show if
you maybe want to broadcast church
services or something like that sports
events leagues you know kids are doing
hockey this winter set up a camera grab
why
cast in a laptop computer boom live to
the web like that incredible lots of
great ideas there I've got the cat phone
strategically positioned over here I can
go get it if somebody wants to give us a
call maybe you've got the number there
do I have oh I do have the number huh
there it is 25 45 cat5 TV easy breezy or
you can email live at category five dot
TV get your questions in this is you
know that's what category 5 is about is
getting your questions in and being able
to receive help from the live studio
personnel that's us speaking of help
thank you very much to all of the
viewers who sent in donations during our
IndieGoGo campaign you can still support
us financially at HTTP set a colon
semicolon yeah that's cat five dot TV /
see ya cat five dot TV / see if you want
to donate beyond the IndieGoGo campaign
I want to say thank you I mean Sasha
said it but thank you to everybody who
pitched in we didn't even come close to
reaching the bare minimum to get the
studio built but you know what every bit
helps and we're a lot closer we raised a
bit a little over three thousand dollars
which even though you know in the grand
scheme of what we need to get done it's
not going to get us there it is a huge
chunk toward you know it's in the right
direction so we're going to keep at it
and you know we're not giving up and
it's not discouraging at all I'm so
appreciative of everybody who who is a
part of our fundraiser and who wants to
see this show grow and we're going to
just keep going and see how quickly we
can get this done so lots of great ideas
to think about and I'm going to take a
bit of a downtime for the next week or
two because it was a lot of work getting
that all together so and we're just
gonna kind of let it breathe and then
we're gonna come back to it in the new
year and we'll see what we want to do
and we'll talk to you about that as well
at home you don't have all the money
saved up in Bitcoin on a hard drive oh
goodness wouldn't that be nice oh I
forgot I've got a hard drive over here
somewhere that just happens to have
4.2 billion dollars in Bitcoin I totally
forgot about this this is oh it's so
good i was so gonna throw this out Wow
coming up later in the new do you
imagine that poor guy spoiler spoiler
okay yeah we're gonna hear all about
that oh goodness I want to say hi to
people who have newly registered on our
website I know I've got a list here of
your names that we've written out here
it is lazy cackle moto nice to have you
registered on our website category five
dot TV you want to take one wits I will
take wits and nice Linux hello nice to
have you both of you joining us John
0101 and latta or late ebb also want to
welcome back vb cohen who has been
absent from the show for quite some time
and reregistered on our website category
five dot TV so nice to have everybody
registering becoming a part of the the
show and the community and it's it's
encouraging also to there's constantly
people registering on the website and
wanting to be a part of this fun
exciting community here at category five
and we love having you here so it's free
category five dot TV it's how you win
stuff you've got to be registered we've
got some contest announcements tonight
we've got more stuff we're giving away
before Christmas so you don't want to
miss out make sure you get registered at
category five dot TV yeah everybody else
all the cool kids are doing it all the
cool kids so you're registered am I
registered are you registered she's not
cool Oh news however the new know it's
it's actually it's not anywhere near the
time it is I don't know what I'm
registered now in my defense I have like
a solid soul like in your defense you
don't even own a computer exactly let
them know that is my defense I am
computerless I have like one tiny little
smartphone with not a lot of space for
my time we have a mobile website yeah
except that it is difficult to navigate
my computer ok let me honestly tell you
and I it has nothing to do
does no I'm not digging anything let me
for some reason you know how when you're
typing something and you type it wrong
and a little red line comes underneath
and you click on it and it changes to
the right thing yes sure it doesn't do
that for mine when i click on it and
change your disabled the autocorrect no
it's the autocorrect is gone haywire so
when I go to correct a word down here in
the body now for some reason it keeps
that bad word or not bad word sure
incorrect word but that it inserts
additionally the correct word way at the
front of the body lycra okay that's
inning it's pretty good it's crazy I
don't know how to fix it I don't want to
get a new phone it's hard to explain to
the tech people there why I would like
to have my phone replaced hmm it's like
a weird strange thing and it's so
irritating that you might have noticed
you'll email me these nice like
loquacious huge emails and i'll email
that's your way of saying that i'm long
winded three words I'm like yes okay see
you then yes when I go to type or change
anything it it's very annoying on my
phone and I would really like a new
computer for Christmas Santa hint hint
sandton watching santa baby santa baby
watching sup hopefully well i can email
him a copy of the show yeah I am begging
for a laptop all right okay I really
want to get straight into Wirecast okay
I'm excited about this we've been seeing
it coming for some time waiting for the
next big release Craig in the forum has
been alluding to it for about 17 years
everybody's like when's the next big
version coming wins the next pic version
and all he can really say is oh well
we'll bring out updates as they come and
there is a big version coming but I am
NOT allowed to say anything it's under
embargo so it's here Wirecast 5 and you
can get it from cat five dot TV /
Wirecast i'm going to bring it up for
you cat five dot TV / Wirecast gets you
there it's here and there is a free
trial downloadable ready for you to play
around give it a test with your webcams
see how you like it see how
works for you it's exciting so one of
the things that I was a little bit
hesitant about just to be honest is that
we are a very active Wirecast produced
Wirecast broadcast show in that we never
have any down time we go from week to
week to week and we're always
broadcasting there's never a chance to
take two weeks down to play around with
the latest and greatest there's never a
chance to if i install it when do I have
a chance to uninstall it if something
goes wrong right so what's risky it's
risky it's always risky for us so last
night this is how close it comes right
because we were wrapping up everything
from the fundraiser we're wrapping up
everything from last week's show and
then last night deployed Wirecast 5 and
lo and behold perfect seamless process
to get the upgrade from wire cast for so
I was nervous because I was doing a
major upgrade not just wire cast for 24
point 0 1 i'm talking Wirecast 42
Wirecast five new interface they said
there's new codex it's going to be brand
new it operates a lot differently how
big of a jump is that going to be so
let's go through the install process
together this is the install of wire
cast on our actual live broadcasting
server we agree to the terms and
conditions where do we want to save it
this is on Windows 7 Wirecast 5 is
compatible with windows 8 this question
here is important do you want to install
the virtual microphone Wirecast 5
Wirecast has this great feature called
virtual microphone which allows us now
to output the audio to a capture like a
virtual capture device so now I can
actually source audio from Wirecast to
skype video I can use it as the source I
can throw it over to Google Hangouts I
can throw it over to in our case
I'm called but which is broadcast using
this tool and that's what we actually
stream category 5 radio with okay so
that gives you the audio feed coming off
of Wirecast virtual microphone all these
crazy names i did say you're talking out
of talking out of our butts here at
category fat I software I don't name it
I just use it so back to it we
definitely want to have the virtual
microphone setup it is a fantastic
addition ever since they brought that
into Wirecast has really opened us up to
being able to source video out to other
devices okay so carrying on with the
install really really easy super fast
remember that I've I've already been
using wire cast for on this system for
the longest time and it's done it's
complete and so we can close out of the
installer and just open Wirecast and lo
and behold this is the nervous point
right here what's going to happen to my
files and it actually loaded the last
episode of category 5 you'll see the
shot list is from episode number 323 you
see Eric's shot there and everything
like that and everything works just as
would be expected so that was both
surprising and exciting for me coming
out of the box being able to fire up
Wirecast 5 for the very first time with
no incident and not only that but it
loaded the last episode the saved file
from my hard drive from wire cash for
and allowed us to just continue
broadcasting so I didn't have to
recreate any of my shots we're in fact
here we are using wire cast tonight
there we are we've got all the shots
from previous weeks and everything is
working just fantastically well that's
amazing yeah so that that's good it's
compatible with Windows or Mac OS there
is not a Linux version of wire cast and
that you know we would love to see
something like that but truth is
sometimes there are instances where you
absolutely have to have
or Mac here's one of them so what is
Wirecast we know it's a camera switcher
okay so think of it this way starting at
only the price starts of 495 dollars
right you're able to get a full camera
switching production suite for live
broadcast and record to disk all in one
piece of software so it uses your
existing hardware which has to be
reasonably decent hardware in order to
operate of course you're going to be
switching probably HD cameras these days
but multiple inputs we use black magic
intensity pro capture cards and
everything comes in just fine new
version also has black magic output so
that you can have monitors using HDMI
which is another fantastic thing but
let's take a quick look at what it is
there we go so this is actually we're
live right here you can see if I raise
my hand and wave we're actually live in
the shots down at the bottom there so at
the bottom you'll see that the frame
rate is very very low and that is in
fact the way that we want it because we
don't want to have a high frame rate in
our previews because that's just using a
whole lot of CPU power for something
that we don't really need previews are
handy so that as I'm working here and if
something dramatically changes if i take
my desktop over here and change it isn't
it nice that the thumbnail right down
there in the bottom left actually
changed as well so then when i change to
that Sean you know there you go so why
are cast gives me a good live
representation of what that is through
that thumbnail so these shots are
basically as I click around this changes
the camera up here you'll notice that I
don't have a preview window because I'm
live to air and so preview just as more
work for me to use you can use a preview
window if you like and that just gives
you a double shot so that as you change
camera angles it will actually show you
on the left hand side your preview
before it actually cues it up and goes
so you can disable your automatic live
setting and it will it will do that a
little bit differently but I like to
just have a go live instantly as I click
and that's me it's different for
everybody that's what's nice
but Wirecast is adaptable so it's a full
suite it's it feels like it's really
evolved and grown into a professional
broadcast tool and wire cash has always
been on the higher end of this software
spectrum when it comes to broadcasting
but this is really pushing it toward wow
it feels like an appliance it feels like
I'm running you know high-end appliance
ardh wear for my broadcast and there it
is so you see a few different things you
see that the audio meters over on the
right-hand side give a representation of
my voice any audio that's happening and
that's coming in off of our mixing
console you'll see that in my shot so
you'll see that here I am this is my
camera there it is there are two line in
devices the first one is an a
high-definition sound card and the
second one is a sound blaster just a
sound blaster card that I stuck in pci
express and the first card is actually
pulling audio off of our mixing console
that's the board that that actually runs
our microphones and all that kind of
stuff the second one is actually a
tablet so you guys don't see this at
home it's kind of interesting but the
second sound card is in fact a tablet
system and android-based tablet that we
run our sound off of so if I want to
trigger our our music it's as simple as
just touching our theme song on that
screen so that's kind of cool so that
comes in on the second sound card and
then we've got up here you see our
checker and that's in fact the lower
third that we have there so when I put
in Robbie Ferguson with Wirecast I can
actually change that as much as I want
to my heart's content right and it's as
simple as that remember we're doing all
this live is that not cool that's
amazing that we're able to actually do
I'm actually clicking and doing
everything that you're seeing on your
screen right now is happening live now
thank you recorded and he's not even
breaking a sweat not even incredible
we're cool we're cool I love it so next
up on wire cast here let's take a look
okay we've got our output settings this
is where you've got your virtual
microphone you see how that works so
virtual microphone is set up to send the
audio that I see here on the left right
out to other software and devices so
that's where there's but broadcast using
this tool is actually pulling that audio
and is pushing it out to category 5
radio okay okay so beyond that we've got
all of our sources so cameras our demo
computer screen which is just an IP
address on our network and that works by
a software called desktop presenter
which is also provided by by Telestream
and as part of the Wirecast software so
you'll see oddly enough even though
Wirecast doesn't work on linux desktop
presenter in fact works just fine on
linux and that is because we're using
wine wine wine wine makes everything
work fantastic wine is a piece of
software that allows us to run Windows
applications some windows applications
on Linux okay we've shown it on the show
and there are videos on our website go
to our website click on the search and
do a search for desktop presenter and
you'll see how it's done you can
actually make it work on linux so that
lets me stream the desktop through our
network right so there's no hdmi cable
going out from the computer to the input
on the on the broadcast computer we
don't have to do that so I can pull in
as many computers as I want at 60 frames
a second and stream them live to the
Internet Wow directly through water it
can be any operating system that can be
Windows Mac Linux mm-hmm running desktop
presenter absolutely Linux is not
officially supported but as I've shown
here and as I've shown through the show
and we've actually done a demonstration
to teach you how to install it on Linux
that is absolutely functional even
though not officially supported very
neat so
a little bit more in-depth these are our
shots I've shown you this just really
really briefly and for me to edit any
one of these shots it's simply a double
click so there's Sasha and I mm-hmm and
if I want to edit sashes shot there you
go sometimes if the camera is too high
or too low right live on the show i'll
actually reposition the camera which is
as simple as doing something like that
I'm making a difference dragging the the
mouse there you go and again changing
the the checkerboard if we want that's
the lower third titles if I wanted to I
can create new shots in Telestream
Wirecast and there are a few different
options first of all if we want to add a
video file if we want to add an audio
file or if we want to add a desktop
presenter screen desktop presenter is
what's actually allowing me to show you
this screen right now I've actually
created a desktop presenter shot with
Telestream Wirecast so if I wanted to
create say a virtual studio set I could
go and add a new shot and with that new
shot I can create a virtual set and
you've seen this as we demonstrate some
of the things that we were hoping to do
with the new studio we can actually
create virtual sets and things like that
so absolutely limitless as to what we
can do with Telestream Wirecast really
exciting stuff i'm going to be showing
you over the next couple of weeks we're
actually going to do a few we're
actually going to do a few shows where
we're going to demonstrate the the
product and how to use it with various
different cameras what kind of
difference the cameras make what kind of
things you need to do in order to get
good audio and how to actually use
telestream Wirecast so very excited you
know tonight is just show you this is
what it is this is what it does and
we're actually going to be teaching you
a little bit more about broadcasting
over the next little while and we're
going to actually give away a free copy
of telestream Wirecast Pro Edition and
that is worth 995 dollars so definitely
something you want to get in on do you
want to let them know how they can win
that I I can let them know cuz you're I
know she's like I want to do the new
I'm so excited about these stories our
contest announcement basically we're
collecting ballots right now one it's in
yellow so you know so you know where to
go yes we're collecting ballots email
live at category 5 TV with the subject
line I want Wirecast I want Wirecast in
cap locks you know what explanation lots
of explanation point emoticons will help
and in the body of the email give us
your registered user name on category 5
TV it's that easy although you do have
to be registered you register a category
5 TV today it's free join our family so
and then win simple as that as simple as
that I gotta do register send us an
email when say i want Wirecast tell us
who you are that's right when put some
smiley faces in their mom them good luck
is it used time yet it's news time are
you ready yes I'm really most excited
for the new story number 40 start with
number one now John was saying i'll just
say John was saying that there's
something is there something
illegitimate this news story but it's
it's come across the wire this is the
real news and if it's if it if if this
is not actually happening then I need to
know about it but is essentially that it
might not be it might not actually be
real but is in April first no it's not
that it has a daughter element our legs
or somebody's pulling our legs but this
is the news as it came across the wire
today so so here you're so here's hoping
this is this rate the chief executive of
Amazon Jeff Bezos says that they are
testing unmanned drones to deliver goods
to customers the drones called
octocopters could deliver packages from
the world's largest online retailer to
customers within 30 minutes of them
placing the order I feel like this is
something he would do actually after
listening to some interviews with him I
think this is my definite riot this is a
brainchild oh this is yeah even if it's
not legal
right it can become legal with the
buying power of the company like Amazon
now this says that that I know this
looks like science fiction but it's not
mr. Bezos told 60 minutes we can do half
hour delivery we can carry objects we
think up to five pounds which is two
point three kilograms which covers about
eighty six percent of the items that we
deliver the US Federal Aviation
Administration has not yet approved the
use of unmanned drones for civilian
purposes there you have it but it could
take up to five years and it could take
up to five years for the service to
start yeah I guess once you start
approving unmanned drones for things
there's gonna be people want to walk the
streets wearing helmets thank you really
yeah you'd have you be in trouble even
if they had like a height limit like
your kids on Chinese just gonna walk
long to buy an octa cool things gotta
fly pretty high right these things can
fly a kilometer up or something so what
yeah yeah why not what if it crashes
though right then it's a book I mean and
it's an octocopter it's it's not gonna
I'm not saying I just because I kind of
really love the idea I'm just imagining
why it will take a little while to be
proved because those I pelo what if the
what if category is pretty high for
catastrophe yeah it's like you just
stand there like you know cake so place
your order and then stand out on your
front deck and just hope that it lands
on you you want to make carrier that
anything your address is right you know
how sometimes on google map we might
have to actually a location or something
what if it lands on your roof what if it
lands in a tree who's piloting these
things these are the questions that we
have for amazon right what I'm gonna
order a book and get free drone delivery
I don't order books from Amazon know
even though I totally appreciate the
idea I really love going to the
bookstore and getting personal customer
service I love it at a books too I love
no offense to bookstores everywhere but
they're great knowable by now it's it's
a it's such a catch 22 because I love
the convenience that I have already done
a lot of my Christmas shopping
from the comfort of right here and it's
not just books anymore amazon has
furniture and appliances and barbecues
and everything it's like your big box
store online and it's quite often free
shipping that's convenient I octocopter
by off yeah mine came by Canada Post but
it got here which is amazing oh yeah now
that said I went a couple of days ago to
our local bookstore yes and do they have
what you were looking for no there you
have a check temple X so what do they do
they say this is the problem I've gone
to the local bookstore and they'll say
we don't have the book that you're
looking for this very specific title we
can order it'll be two weeks I'm sorry
mm-hmm why don't you order it from
amazon and then get it the next day and
sell it to me for a markup or something
that's where it kind of falls flat
Amazon's got it going on they do they
really do they haven't completely won me
over yet because I like conversation I
bought a book on amazon for my daughter
for christmas and in transit it got
damaged by Canada Post I mentioned
Canada Post because then everybody who's
listening can go oh yeah yeah yeah of
course it got damaged of course so then
got shipped back to the person who
shipped it to me which sold through
amazon they weren't actually amazon they
were selling through amazon and they
said well i can't sell this as new it's
damaged and by damaged i mean they
folded it in half and creased the cover
oh which is a really stupid thing to do
when it's obviously a book but that's
what happened so they actually signed it
off and said you know we've refunded
your money can't sell it as new so here
you go and they sent it to me anyways so
I ended up getting the book for free
because it had a creased cover and just
good customer service got here in a
timely fashion and well in advance of
Christmas so hmm can't be done no but it
didn't get delivered by another copter
guy I just really want that to catch on
in a safe way where I don't have to wear
helmet everywhere I go yes
um is that a picture of me wearing a
helmet is that happening oh yes oh we
just happen to have a picture of Sasha
wearing a helmet well that is one creepy
looking robot as a matter of fact oh wow
wow uh-huh anyhow on to the next story
it would just happen to have avatars of
Sasha on standby I feel weird if
maintaining your presence on social
media is becoming a burden Google may be
able to help the drug the search giant
has patented in a patent plans for
software which slowly learns how you
react on social networks the software
can mimic your usual responses to
updates and messages from friends and
relations to help cope with the daily
data deluge okay so hold on thinking
about every teenage girl on the face of
the planet so basically this thing will
automatically like photos of kittens yes
will automatically tag things with LOL
and smiley face smiley face I'm not just
a teenage girl thing no I love my
smileys and yeah how hard is awesome
exactly multiple explanation X so you
can sit back on that name some points
yeah ! what uh what happens when
everybody's using one of these robots
nobody needs to talk to each other and
it's just everybody and it's just a
whole bunch of robots just liking each
other and LOL Aang and each other and
right smiley faces what happens if I
need to react to something and it's been
reacted to in an inappropriate fashion
and then I have to backtrack and be like
oh I'm sorry my other self said that my
robot me said that because there are
some things that come up in social media
that you need to actually think outside
the box use critical thinking before you
use you respond hmm you know makes you
think done that mm-hmm what would our
social media robot act like would it be
a jerk I hope not no mine would just
have a lot of smiley face like a bunch
of lots of light those kittens no I
don't I don't do that just in case it
said means
political memes even know what that
means memes me oh that's horrible you
need a robot I need a robot the software
off also analyzes continuing interaction
and flags messages that demand a more
personal response there we go oh you
flag so it lets you know yes fabulous
this one is from mum please respond wait
I gotta log in like oh I can't see this
going great places I'm kind of freaked
out that google is now trying to read
our thoughts actually don't worry about
thinking says Google will do that for
you will actually replace you we know
where you are what you buy whatever what
you do what you think how you eat what
you watch here's a list of things you
might like and you know what don't even
worry about considering whether or not
you like them we'll just like them for
you perfect i'll just sit back you might
show google you'll just be in your
backyard thinking i would really like to
read this book and all of a sudden off
the copter is just gonna drop it beside
you google thought you my life suddenly
it's liked on your profile i mean just
like that oh the world so I love how is
that it for that that's it for that wow
that is done oh dear look at this be
careful what what you throw out when
cleaning up all that computer junk in
your garage a Newport man has been
searching a landfill site in South Wales
hoping to find a computer hard drive you
threw away that is now worth over 4
million pounds or 7.5 million dollars
how I hope he didn't tell his wife
bitcoins are a virtual form of currency
for use online and James Howells hard
drive is said to contain 7,500 of them
having spilled a drink will possibly
wine on his computer back in 2009 he
pulled the system apart and kept some of
the components in a drawer including the
computer's hard drive it SAT there until
this year when he cleaned the house and
threw it away no this is the Sasha move
extraordinaire asked me where my baby
pictures are oh it wasn't until later
that he remembered
it contained the bitcoins they were
working next to nothing they were worth
next to nothing when he obtained them
back in 2009 so then it didn't matter
but this week a single bitcoins value
hit one thousand dollars or 613 pounds
for the first time it means mr. Howells
collection is now worth 7.5 million
dollars or 4.6 million pounds and now
that we've said this online everybody's
going to be in the landfill yeah we're
dig through Newport go to the Newport
landfill well here's the problem I mean
he so he's there and he says to them
okay well how do I find it and you're
looking out over the abyss that is the
landfill and it goes on for as far as a
football field and not only that he
threw it out sometime this year after
cleaning not last Wednesday right so you
figure that big of a space and something
five six weeks gone like something that
long ago that got thrown in the landfill
would be maybe seven feet underground
under all that garbage every hoarder on
earth watching this right now was saying
AHA is why I keep this stuff I'm keeping
it very much might be worth so much told
you I wouldn't just throw that out I
don't use oh I had 7,500 bitcoins maybe
it was something he was drinking that he
spelt that made him forget the fact that
he had coins on his hard drive I hope
that he had strong drink oh yeah so that
is so painful moment of silence Bitcoin
sorry buddy oopsie yeah now on to my
fave okay you got another one for us oh
look at these and the answer is cuz i
saw the question in the chat room not a
wig i'm not a wig not a wig extensions
yes awake no totally different sony has
filed a patent application for smart wig
as firms jostle for the lead in the
wearable technology sector it says the
smart wig can be worn in addition to
natural
and we'll be able to process data and
communicate wirelessly with external
devices kind of cool kind of cool I'm
picturing that orange wig on top of your
head can be worn in addition to your
normal hair so it's orange to here and
then black the rest of the way except my
natural hair is actually shorter than
that which is why me reading this story
is extra funding right well not in our
hands on one of these how would Robbie
look with that blue according to the
filing the smart wig can help navigate
roads and collect information such as
blood pressure so all of those blonde
jokes gone because you put the blonde
wig on a sudden you're so smart you can
just think you want that book and then
the octocopter Google dad needs your
mind so I can be standing there with my
blonde wig and I can read your mind cuz
Google imparts it to me blown away by
this I was creamed out and freaked out
by the other stories but what fashion
isn't now it makes sense now I'm like no
I all comes together you probably can
drop your wig from optica we can find a
wig for you order it from amazon amazon
don't get a ship I can't hit a post know
the Japanese firms said the wig could be
made from horse hair human hair wool
feathers yak hair Buffalo hair or any
other kind of synthetic material let me
tell you in all of the research I did
opt for human hair a little bit more
comfortable it might be more expensive
but it's less creepy more comfortable
less creepy than sorta less creepy than
yak hair words there's a woolen is it
beautiful you have to have like real
curls right let's do you have your hair
done I know I shaved a horse boy at the
same time the communication interface
and sensors placed in the wig are at
least partly covered by white parts of
the wig in order to be hidden from sight
during use that's important for example
you wouldn't know that these are
extensions I can understand you like a
little thing in there this is my real
hair anyway yeah it said that as a
result the device has the potential
become very
popular as it could be used as a tech
not at technically intelligent item and
fashion item at the same time if it
looks real then it might be smart no the
fat no it's so ludicrous it's such a
ludicrous hilarious thing that it first
off it will work right right super
bright I can't leave the house yet
because I can't think on my own without
my wig right so you have to you know let
me google that for you you have to like
chew on your hair how does that work how
does it work I don't know I it must
communicate wirelessly in the rain you
get electrocuted I mean that's a problem
yeah but if you're going to go through
all the trouble to buy smart wig you're
probably not going to end up in the rain
yeah you probably have a smart umbrella
that will automatically deploy itself
upon great humidity yep wow I am so
happy I was here today to read the news
and we're happy to have you Wow ok well
you get the full stories category five
dot TV / newsroom that's you how you can
take it from there where is it is it not
there no oh you're just supposed to have
it memorized you can go ahead and do it
put on your smart wig hey yeah google it
how do you eat your hair that you can
get the full stories on our website
category 5 TV / newsroom if you have a
story that is worthy of on-air mention
all you have to do is email us newsroom
at category five dot TV and we will do
our best to get your story in and give
you credit on the newsroom block took
the words right out of my mouth for the
category 5 TV news room she is sasha
tomatoes I'm Ravi I'm just here along
for the ride I've been looking for
interesting kind of creative ways to get
Christmas gifts this year ways to think
of ideas or wasters yet different ways
then going into big box stores and
buying the latest toys for the kids so
what I'm just not into that so you're
thinking of buying stuff and modding it
for yourself um no no not necessarily
crafty or you're able to really get into
that concept but one thing that struck
me is that we were in a store you know
where they have the shelf full of
personalized pens and pads and magnets
and stuff my daughter whose name is
Natalia says the one thing i don't like
about having she's eight years old and
to have her say it so articulately was
so cute the one thing i don't like about
having a unique name is that there's
never a pen with my name on it and she
shows me she's there's one that says
natalie but there's never one that says
natalia i hear you tally I know cuz let
me tell you Sasha first off is a boy's
name no it is a boy's name what are you
talking and you won't find in the voice
actually but you also won't find it in
the girls section just doesn't exist and
you may find it on a food dish for a
German Shepherd because that is like
most sashes that I know are German
shepherds oh dear she's got a great
cereal as I was growing up everybody was
like a human Sasha my neighbor's dog's
name was Sasha and yeah I went through
the whole like I'd go into the ass
sections my sister's name is Sarah and
she would have liked that a plastic
plate in a little plastic mug and a pen
and I would have nothing so what school
you've hung out with Daisy and oh if I
would have been like wait there was not
a rope they're so mean that would be so
cool I've never I've never even thought
that about your name come on well it's
true it means defender of mankind and
course it does of course grace you can
told my middle name is sword so there
you go there's nothing it just soared
literally well it's out live ran late
since I have a long princess name but
one of my middle names is sword like
actually the weapon I on the other hand
do not have a long princess named you
don't have a long princess named I have
a Jedi name but that's a whole another
story huh mm-hmm anyway so with you
thinking along those lines yes so I got
online and of course vistaprint came to
the forefront and said okay well this is
cool because you can get pretty much
anything made so you know think
about that and go in here and lo and
behold what do they have but they
actually have you know pens and
stationery and all that kinda stuff
there's pens so I can go to pens and
it's so easy choose a pen get started
and what struck me is it starts at five
bucks and that's pretty that is pretty
good right and not advertising you know
we're not associated with vistaprint or
anything like that but just to give you
an idea maybe this is something that
might give you a good idea so I say okay
well let's look for butterflies she
loves butterflies and isn't that perfect
looks brilliant right so you just click
on the pen it's a pretty smart system
and I haven't used vistaprint in a while
when they first came out they were
pretty good too but so I said okay
Natalia Ferguson isn't that cool that is
that is incredible 13 and it actually
shows you that what the pen is
approximately going to look like and I
said okay let's see what happens here
and I click Next and okay that looks
really really good I approve that and
click Next and lo and behold five bucks
puts me through the cart and a couple
days later comes in the mail oh and
there you go and it's just that easy you
know what what it was way better about
this story what is if you pretended like
it just happened now oh look at that oh
it's already here oh that would be fun
sester his base for my crusade whoa it
just appeared from an opto copter but it
looks great than that and yeah so it
matches her personality's got her name
so if you've got a child with a unique
name maybe that's an idea for you as
well vistaprint see is where I went it
was like five bucks plus shipping it was
brilliant or a normal name with a unique
spelling eysies anything like that or
you just want to do something custom and
not have to leave your house I am the
opposite I like look for excuse I know
tell you go to stores and talk to you
Liz it 50 stores just to see if there's
a natalia pen i know i don't even make
my own decisions on
to the store I'm like let me tell you a
bit about the person that I'm buying for
yes please tell me what they would like
and they're like lady this is Walmart
all I know is what you like check out it
would you like a cart no offense to
people who work at Walmart oh god you
it's them or Canada Post I feel like we
should have a lot of maybe couple
dislike not nice yeah yeah people who
work at Canada Post are some of the most
wonderful people it's not you it's it's
them how's that all rights that's a good
disclaimer do we have some questions we
do we have some questions awesome all
right question number one hi Robbie
hello well not a statement yeah I really
enjoyed watching your videos there is
really helpful all right it would be
great if you could help us with this
issue below okay um our setup to
panasonic AG hpx 250 cameras I guess
yeah a mac pro with it up p x 250 that's
right let me google that well ok i will
google it in my week i will keep talking
let you google ok but i got i'll be them
model number ok ok no a G dash age
gx-250 50 goddess two of those a mac pro
with black magic deck link HD extreme 3d
plus ok ok that's the capture device so
we've got two cameras to capture device
right um and ATM yeah 1m switcher
alright and an ATM won emmy broadcast
panel ok there's the camera and wire
cast for but let me tell ya ok could be
Wirecast oh yeah win wire capsule and
fire y yeah that wire cast for is
fantastic though I mean so with what you
have it's not you're not restricted in
any way ok so here's the question that's
what they have ok currently all the
camera inputs or video inputs to the ATM
won Emmys switcher must all be set to
the same format and the format I choose
to stream our church sir
our church sermon using wire cast is
720p 59.94 for streaming okay okay we
really can't afford to purchase two more
agh PX 250 so my question to you is can
you recommend a less expensive camera
that has an hdmi output and with the
option to change the format to 720 59.9
forbes yeah okay I'm looking at this
cameras 50 150 200 bucks on B&amp;H oh yeah
so so with the ATM switchers what it
sounds like you're doing this is what
this viewer is doing is they've got two
cameras filming the sermon going through
a switcher which is a hardware version
of what we saw Wirecast ass okay so
Wirecast is the software version of what
he's doing with the hardware sort of
thing but Wirecast is also a part of his
chain because wants to be able to
broadcast it live to the internet and
wire cast can be used as a you know the
end of the chain if you want to do it
that way it can also be used if you've
got a powerful enough system as the
switcher itself so you can eliminate the
need for the atms unless probably the
ATMs are used to put stuff up on the
presentation projectors right right in
which case Wirecast 5 as I mentioned a
little bit has hdmi output through the
black magic card so you could replace
the ATM with that so that's neither here
nor there that's not what you're asking
we're looking for a cheaper camera right
so for Morris this is the thing okay
Morris thank you thank you very much for
the question fifty two hundred bucks a
camera yeah you're right 10,000 bucks to
get two more right it's pretty pricey
specs on this you know probably produce
them i don't i'm not familiar with the
camera but so there's a couple of
different cameras that i would look at
i'm on B&amp;H i would please ask that you
go to B&amp;H through cat five dot TV / bh
it's going to take you to their store
but what it does is it just puts a
little cookie in your computer that says
you founded them through us it lets them
know that when you purchase it goes
through category five and they actually
give us a kickback that's one of the
ways that we pay the bills so if you're
gonna shop at B&amp;H anyways this holiday
season please go through cat five TV /
bh
so we're using that website because it's
one of the ones that came up in google
there's the the camera that you're
currently using first camera that I
would look at is maybe and because
you're looking at this one doesn't have
I SDI outputs does it it looks like when
you mention hdmi where it does it not
have photos our data may be in the specs
if it has SD IH like HD SDI STI one BNC
so it does have are you using the BNC no
you're using HDMI right so you're
strictly using I because if you're
buying a camera that has BNC connectors
you're paying for a feature that is
quite expensive that you're not using if
you're using HDMI that's the consumer
level as far as the price goes so so
let's look at cameras that have hdmi and
not be NC so where I might recommend the
xf105 I would instead look at the XF 100
xf105 being the same camera but with
with the SDI ok so here's the XF 100
you'll see that this one is about half
the price 2499 is canon camera it's
pretty decent it's got nice optics it's
probably going to meet your needs i
would look at the specifications I don't
have really all the information in front
of me to you know let you know it does
do 720 mode video so I would expect that
you should be able to get I don't know
if you can do 60 frames yeah 60p mm-hmm
see it does say 60p at seven-twenty mode
only so you can't do 60 frames in 1080
mode but you can do it in 720 which is
exactly what you were asking for so
that's probably the that if you can
spend twenty-five hundred times two then
the XF 100 from Canon is probably the
way it would go another camera that's
caught my eye recently because it's just
come out actually I don't even think
it's out yet it's from Panasonic as well
just like your other cameras as the AG
ac8 and it's a lower end consumer know
why did it change this search query
let's try a G dash a c8
enter this one is only 1200 bucks so
this is dirt cheap and it is a AVC cam
it's quite you know it's quite a bit
different the optics are not as large
I'm not too sure about the the quality
of it I've looked at a couple of
different reviews and some videos but
it's still it's not even available on
VHS says it's available for pre-order
only but it is only 1200 bucks is from
Panasonic and it has I'm seeing here 720
x 480 no that's not what we want we want
full 720p let's see the 720 spec 720 at
60p there you go so this will do 60 p
just like you're asking for but it's
only 1,200 bucks the optics are a lot
smaller in this i'm not sure what to
expect or whether it's even you know i'm
not necessarily recommending and I'm
saying check it out is the price is
really prices an incredible deal you
can't pass up Wow kinda it's a good name
it's a shoulder mount camera but I'm not
too sure if it's kind of consumer grade
hardware within a shoulder mount chassis
at this point I don't know that because
it still hasn't been released I haven't
got my hands on one to play with it and
review it I'd really love to but it's
coming so that is the AG dash a c8 from
Panasonic and the that's available on
B&amp;H too so hopefully that gives a couple
of different options but like I say if
you've got the budget for the XF 100
from Canon is a really good way to go
this one again is / that one in half
you'll get two for the price of 12 for
the price of one that way so two
different tears for you hopefully that
will help and you might also win if you
go into I want Wirecast I think you
should because then you get the hdmi
output that is a fantastic feature for
you you can get the hdmi out from that
deck link card up onto the big screen
thank you Morris alright there's a
question here from I'm probably going to
get this wrong okee systems tech am oae
systems yeah
so um he says or she I converted an old
computer dell optiplex 330 into a server
using easy blue software and it is a
linux-based distro I'm unsure of would
love some assistance to get it up and
running for something other than a print
server would like to use it as a web or
file server or both I have very little
experience with Linux and want to
leverage the system and utility of Linux
I was thinking that maybe we've heard
this question before only because I've
never heard of easy blue myself and then
I remembered that maybe this one came up
at the end of last show or something but
check out Apache for your linux computer
that's going to give you web serving
also if you're looking to do you know
PHP you can look at the PHP 5 package
refer back to our last episode i think
that the tail end of the show actually
touched on this question so okay thanks
for sending it in so let's see if I can
find one that's kind of a fun cuz yeah
we've got a couple minutes left but all
right yeah running right out of time how
do we do that okay here is a question
from Andrew I use a win a program in
windows 8 that came with my motherboard
that allows me to have a more fine-tuned
control over my sound for example if I
want to Knable it to boost dialogue
audio and videos automatically without
having to constantly adjust the volume
to compensate for low voice audio like
normalization yes and it can adjust the
overall volume in general to prevent
those times with the audio in a recorded
video when it changes drastically and
has you rushing to the volume control
not cool this is done through the THX
software that came with my motherboard
for my integrated sound card right my
question is is there something that can
mimic all or some of these features on a
Linux environment I find my sound tends
to be way too hard to manage in Linux
after gone from the above-mentioned
feature set to the default tools found
in Linux he uses Fedora primarily as my
linux distro of choice but i know most
linux solutions are able to be used on
any distro
so hmm does anybody in the chatroom have
any suggestions specifically for Andrew
on that one I don't use anything like
that and I as you're reading the
question sash I kind of think I'm I'm
hearing in my head maybe give a try to
Jack sound server because there because
what it does is it kind of works like an
in-between for your pulse audio or your
alsa and your actual playback and it
allows you to add various features
better mixers things like that as far as
a specific mixer I wish that I had a
suggestion for you specifically Andrew I
have a question on dangers behalf
because he says with his work schedule
he doesn't watch the live shows anymore
but he watches the on demand okay will
he be able to access then ft watches can
he can you access the chat room
afterwards and see ya way ok good you
can actually see the chat logs in the
show notes for episode number 324 we do
that with every show ok and can I touch
on this new feature that's coming yeah
you want to hear about this we are
introducing I'm very excited about this
i don't know why i think it's kind of a
neat feature to help you as you're
watching the show on demand video that
includes closed captioning text provided
by the chat room locks so if I've said
that right you follow me as you're
watching the show you will in fact be
able to see in place of closed
captioning the things that were said
live during that moment based on the
logs that's a feature that's coming to
category 5 very excited about that it's
going to be available on our website you
have to be a registered viewer and then
you have to go into your profile and you
need to enable that feature and then
when you're watching the show through
our website you will actually see the
the closed captioning itch it which is
the chat room you may notice at times
when the co-host gets off topic in the
chat room people start talking about
we're like what is going on here
chocolate
sorry don't have an exact answer for you
Andrew of course I'm gonna look at I'm
gonna see if I can find anything for you
and maybe let you know and people are
making a few suggestions in the chat
room thank you everybody oh and it looks
like andrew is here nice to see is he
here yeah is actually here watching whoa
Oh first day off in a while beautiful
well that was perfect timing no um hello
who's on next week Robbie next week I've
actually got crystal Wells going to be
joining us and we're going to be sitting
down and we're talking to Bill mill
creased from ESET and we're going to be
talking about some of the latest
antivirus protection that they're
bringing out a tea set really exciting
stuff there are some and I mean that
there are some really innovative tools
that are coming for it from the ESET
labs and also they are bringing
something with them that I think you
should know about because we love to
give things away they are bringing
preloaded visa cards chock full of cash
and we are sending them out to you to me
to you are you 20 to you YouTube viewers
who are registered on our website we are
going to be doing some contests over the
next little while courtesy of ESET we've
got visa cash cards that we're going to
be sending out and that starts next
tuesday night as ESET is going to be
joining us we're going to be talking
about their products and and giving away
some of those so you don't want to miss
out it's gonna be awesome Sasha it's
always great having you here thanks crew
it is always great to be here I can't
believe we're at a time folks wish I
could be here every Tuesday but that's
unfair yeah everybody just sounds to the
other co-host have you ever known Ellis
is very fair and well and also to the
restaurant that serves half priced wings
Oh hunt I want to be there and sorry
folks Tuesday night's show is cancelled
oh I'm sorry for your luck see I'm
eating chicken wings
half price can't beat that they open
after eight yes they ice comes with a
side of fries fantastic sounds just like
a plan see you there you brought can we
broadcast of the have internet
broadcaster yeah we have let's do this
all right let's do it see ya every week
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
