[Music]
hi and thanks for tuning in to the
endpoint security dot CA podcast from
positive e solutions I'm Robbie Ferguson
and through the course of this podcast
combined with our blog we want to
provide you with a free resource to be
able to educate yourself and your staff
about the cybersecurity issues that are
affecting you and your company in 2019
here in Canada we tend to take our
infrastructure for granted light power
water even snow clearing we could be
pretty sure that all of these things
will be taken care of for us at least in
our major cities and the surrounding
areas as a prosperous nation we've grown
accustomed to this degree of reliability
and although it's a nice way to live it
might be dulling our senses somewhat
when it comes to staying on guard
against threats to life and limb there's
always someone else out there who will
do it for us but what does this mean for
cyber security our Canadians ready
within the invisible world of connected
technologies in 2018 he set published
its cybersecurity barometer it's a
collection of poll results designed to
assess people's attitudes towards
cybercrime the report was based on a
sampling of 1,000 respondents and it's
available for download on our web site
endpoint security dot CA it's author
Stephen Cobb a senior security
researcher at ESET points out that more
than 80 percent of Canadians surveyed
believed that the risk of becoming a
victim of cyber crime is increasing and
nine out of ten Canadians now identify
cybercrime as a serious challenge to the
country's security bigger than terrorism
corruption and other criminal activity
so it sounds like Canadians certainly
are tuned into the potential threat to
look at this in more detail
I've asked Stephen Cobb himself to
elaborate welcome Stephen Stephen when
we talk about Canadians as a population
we're basically lumping together private
individual citizens as well as their
roles as employees or business owners
your research show
that they're aware of the cybersecurity
and cyber crime threats but are they
actually doing anything about it yes
they are and that that is I think some
of the good news from the study the the
study asked this question yeah what have
you done in the last few years in
response to your concerns about security
and privacy online alright so yes as you
as you said in your intro there
Canadians really see this as a problem
now and one of the things that we wanted
this barometer survey to do is take a
measure of that level of concern in
society we did a parallel study in the
in the United States and the design of
the study actually parallels one which
is done in Europe every two years so
next year we'll be able to compare
actually now in 2019 later in the year
we'll be able to compare Canadian
responses u.s. responses with European
responses to the same set of questions
okay there's one question is you have
you done something about this and we
found that forty percent of Canadians
had done one or more of these things
restrict themselves to using their own
computer right and that's interesting um
you know not sharing the computer as
much as either used to with other people
only visiting websites they know and
trust so I don't know if you're familiar
with the stay safe online program of
stop think connect is their slogan about
going on the Internet
stop think before you connect seems like
Canadians at least forty percent of them
are doing that um also only opening
emails from people I know was one of the
responses yeah and got 40 percent of
people are very good to here relative to
things like phishing attacks and then
about the same percent had installed
software security software like
antivirus and so yeah they are taking
action not all of that action though
would necessarily be good news on the
business front if you think of business
is and even governments now relying on
the internet for communication so people
are to a certain extent cutting back on
some communication some online usage in
terms of banking and online shopping
it's around 20 percent saying they're
doing less of that online all right so
that so you know security responds in
terms of being more careful taking
precautions
good news for security but potentially
an issue long-term in terms of trust on
the Internet so right yeah quite frankly
I use that to try to hit companies over
the head with the need to do better on
security it really boils down to the
education piece too you mentioned about
phishing scams and I think about how
spear phishing is really becoming a hot
topic and because it's a real concern
and the advice to you know watch out for
email and make sure that it's from
someone you know but it can sometimes
look like it's from somebody that you
know even though it's it's quite
potentially a malicious party so so
there are software things that can you
know introduce anti-phishing but I think
it really boils down to understanding
how those emails can be recognized even
if they look like you know if it looks
like Stephen Cobb is sending me that
email and I know he's in cybersecurity
and I can trust him well there are red
flags that I watch out for and we've
spoken on that on our blog at blog and
point security dot CA and of course you
know there's some there are some great
resources that are available to you in
recognizing those types of threats I'm
Stephen in the ESET cyber security
barometer report you wrote and I'm going
to quote you here not only our
individual people victimized by cyber
crime they elect the politicians who
determine cybercrime policy and they
foot much of the tax bill for law
enforcement efforts to reduce cybercrime
knowing what the public thinks about
cyber crime and cybersecurity is
essential for successful cybercrime
policy development and critical to six
in society's cybersecurity efforts so
Steven do you feel that Canadian
politicians are in tune with the worries
and the actual dangers the Canadians
face so me commenting about what
politicians think could be tricky and to
be honest I'll be completely honest here
you know I don't fall I follow Canadian
business more than I follow Canadian
politics so I don't want to I don't want
to speak you know without well I want to
qualify what I say like I'm not
following this as closely really as I
would like to in turn in terms of the
details of Canadian responses but more
broadly I think Canada is actually
setting an example in this space because
of a couple of things privacy
regulations and laws in Canada have
evolved quite differently from for
example in the United States and
Canadian privacy law I think is is in a
better place than American privacy law
and you've had this um this very
interesting development there where the
the idea of privacy by design in
technology which is enshrined in things
now like the general data protection
regulation the GDP are in Europe which
has become really kind of a centerpiece
of a lot of work in privacy and
protection of data came out of Canada
dr. Kevorkian who's who's there in
Toronto now was in privacy role in
government there really pioneered this
concept and I think that has informed
over the last ten years a lot of
developments is in policy in Canada to
what extent to your point about
education to what extent the government
is doing education or pushing education
around cybersecurity for example in the
schools there I'm not familiar with but
yeah I think the area where I see the
need for more resources from a
government perspective and more
awareness is
politicians have a lot of things to
worry about and a natural tendency so
via security is a complicated issue to
to sort of say yes we need to do more
but not understand really what all that
takes you know there's a lot of effort
required particularly around crime
deterrence through prosecutions arrests
indictments and so on one of the thing
one of the things we learned from
criminology is that the biggest
deterrent to a crime like stealing
things
it's like burglary or or many parts of
cybercrime is swift justice you know a
burglar won't stop burglaring if you
double the penalty necessarily and
underbidding actually interviews a
support of criminology I would have
loved to cut into is is going into
prison and talking to convicted
criminals and I say well look would you
carry on being a burglar at the current
sentencing rate you know which states
five years well I know what if we double
that to ten years would you quit I was
like no well why I only do it because I
don't think I'm gonna get caught if I
thought there was a high chance of me
getting caught I wouldn't do this
mmm-hmm quite frankly there's a whole
bunch of cybercrime where your chances
of getting caught today are very very
low so that's an area where you know
focused action can really produce
results and we are starting to see that
and and kudos to the RCMP and other or
law enforcement people cooperating
cross-border and particularly
internationally this this is where we
need a lot of focus is on that
international cooperation so that the
people who are carrying out the cyber
crimes are identified very quickly and
they are they're fingered very quickly
or you know to use a legal term indicted
and some people will say well we've
indicted a bunch of hackers in oh let's
say Russia for example that's not going
to deter them because we are you know
we're we're not ever going to arrest
those people right and that's not true
right and also even if you live in
Russia and get indicted by the United
States that's a bad thing because if you
leave Russia um you're going to be
setting off alarms and that's how
several criminal hackers and no district
Russia have been caught is they go on
vacation to somewhere sunnier no and
they take a trip it sets on alarms off
alarms at Interpol they get picked up
and so that activity is very valuable
our law enforcement certainly here in
the United States doesn't have the
resources that they should have to do
that of course there are a lot of other
crimes which get money too and part of
it is setting priorities but to to my
earlier point about some people not
using the intimate Internet as much as
they could because they're worried about
it being an unsafe place there's
actually a a societal dividend and a
commercial dividend to decreasing the
amount of cybercrime so more people can
trust the internet and make full use of
it yeah and we Steven we know and maybe
you know some of us don't really realize
that we're all essentially connected
through the internet so not only are
these the you know specific attacks from
as your example Russian hackers for
example but like a device or even a file
somewhere else on the planet might end
up being the very piece that infects a
company here in Canada or a government
office through a wide collection of
pathways there are loads of endpoints
and connections that you know all of our
devices are connected that's why of
course ESET and companies like it exist
but if if we were to draw up a list of
actions or steps that people could take
to truly be prepared against cyber
security threats like that both as
individuals and within the workforce
what would that list contain well in
terms of specific steps you know it
would be a very long list and and I
really don't like to overwhelm people
with long lists I think
you know one thing I would say is that
you want to have a good piece of
security software on whatever the your
point of contact is so on your computer
on your laptop on your phone on your
tablet you want to have security
software on there that's for sure
but I think a bigger thing we all need
to enter your point about the variety of
devices out there is what I would call
maybe situational awareness being aware
that if you buy an internet-connected
toy for your children or an
internet-connected phone the internet
connected camera all our phones are
internet connected and internet
connected camera at home it is on the
internet and it becomes as to your point
an attack vector and you might say well
I don't put anything useful on that well
that's kind of not the point it will
look for useful things right so for
example if you've got something
recording in your home recording your
voice or pictures and you're not aware
of it that can lead to problems and so I
think one of the one of the things which
you know publications like yours are
working on is is putting out the word
about this connectivity and the fact
that it's two-way now we can control it
to to to a great degree through things
like security software I mean as we were
setting up our conversation today I got
an alert popped up on my screen you know
software wants to access your camera is
that okay mm-hmm it's like yeah that's
okay for this exactly yeah we know we're
about to do an interview so right right
that's good
right but but it it's not a level of
control that you need and I think you
know to to keep an eye on what's
happening out there you know what my my
team the security research group here in
North America and and the global
research teams are a V set or publish
their findings on
security calm which is a place people go
they actually subscribe to the the
newsletter comes out once a week keep
you up-to-date on the things that are
happening and it won't just give you an
example the first thing I do in the
morning make my coffee open up my my my
phone for the latest news and one of my
colleagues had published an analysis of
Android software that can steal your
crypto currency wallet number all right
and so you go wait a minute yeah there
are people who are into cryptocurrency
things like Bitcoin cerium and yes they
have a wallet on their phone and they
pay people on their phone this piece of
software monitors your clipboard and if
you're I don't know if you've used
digital currency but one of the key
parts of it is this very very long
number of your wallet number and it's
not a number I think any human being can
memorize so you're always having to type
it and a lot of people put it in their
clipboard and cut it and paste it so the
malicious code looks for that and then
as it pastes it it changes it to their
number oh wow oh so instead of paying
whoever it is you're paying with your
Bitcoin you're paying that and I think
it's a good example even people who
don't use Bitcoin oh the level of
deviousness and creativity if you will
in the malicious world in the crime
world so whatever it is we're using to
live the digital life somebody's looking
to abuse that for money and just that
situational awareness can can help and
to your earlier point about phishing
it's still probably the it's the most
popular line of attack for a criminal
and people can learn I was mentioning
before the broadcast my mom
turns 90 next year she will still send
me phishing emails she spotted um where
she's one of the first people to
actually spot it and I know I know a lot
of Canadians will know this that in
England you have TV licenses right you
have to buy a license if you have a TV
sheep my mom got a an email saying she
was going to be arrested because she
hadn't paid for a TV license and she
immediately sent it to me she said I'm
an old-age pensioner we don't have to
pay for our TV licence so really it's a
phishing email sure and and the fact is
if that applies to one in every ten
people one in it like that's ten percent
of people going oh I better check into
this if they're not careful but she also
knows to hover the mouse over the email
address or the links in it manually if
it's Netflix telling you you have to
contact them about your account and the
link is to somewhere in you know Brazil
then you know it's it's it's a fake and
and you know I guess situationally aware
is probably the main thing and and make
sure you keep up with the news in
cybersecurity thanks Stephen your
insight both here and in the ESET report
is highly valuable everything is indeed
connected and we've been learning that
there appears to be no expiration date
on the data that's out there Stephen
thank you for joining us today
my pleasure here at endpoint security
dot CA we're obviously very concerned
about the safety and security of our
customers their businesses and their
data but as our chat here shows the
concern can't end there we have a blog
that follows on from this conversation
you can find it at blog endpoint
security dot CA and just a reminder that
it contains a link to the ESET cyber
security barometer report as always as
you know our close relationship with the
experts at ESET means we at positive
e-solutions
have your back so thanks again to my
guests Stephen Cobb for joining me today
and thank you for being here as well
stay safe out there and be sure to come
back again
for the next chapter in our ongoing
series on cybersecurity for Canadian
business from endpoint security dot CA
from positive II solutions I'm Robbie
Ferguson
