[Music]
this is you every day with Jeff Weston a
man screws
well hello everyone and welcome to new
every day my name is Lawrence Cruz and
Jeff Weston my co-host is away on
business again this week and tell you
what business is pretty important to
that guy he's taken another week off
well it doesn't matter because we have
another very special guest a new friend
to me named James Burgess welcome James
thank you
thanks for coming and glad to have you
as part of the show well it's great here
yeah well that's one of the reasons why
James is on the show is because I'm
holding in my hand his book which is
entitled beyond the breakers now James
you are kind enough to get a hard copy
in my hand but for those who are
watching if they wanted a copy of this
book can they go to Amazon to get that
yeah they can go on Amazon you can get
it on Kindle for a digital download yeah
great yeah beyond the breakers
discovering your best life beyond
circumstance wow that man you must be a
smart guy with a big title like that
I was pretty thin why did you say yes
Lawrence I am yes Laura James before we
talk about the content of your book
which I very much enjoyed in my copy I
highlighted much of it I was I mentioned
to you at one point in the past I had a
friend of mine say to me should never
highlight more than a third of a page
because then you're defeating the
purpose yeah well I got that idea so you
just highlights but there were many
pages where I was seeking for just a
word or a phrase that I would be able to
use to help me articulate some of the
deep recesses in my own heart and here I
was doing the whole page and I could
hear my friend Wayne saying Lawrence
this is defeating the purpose but I
don't think it is it's PQ what I'm
telling you is it was very rich material
and so thank you for writing a
well-written book I'd say my pleasure
yeah make it a little bigger though
would you next time the font my 51 year
old eyes at our time
hey maybe
ears are going dude you should talk to
my publisher no that's okay you do what
you want you're the author so tell us a
little bit about yourself where's home
for you home is Edmonton Alberta Canada
oh yeah yeah just north of Calgary
okay the governing city of Alberta like
that other guy can go yeah yeah we we're
good friends so oh that's great how
about the Stampede in Calgary have you
ever been to that I have yes thank you
he's pretty well Edmonton Edmonton is
very focused on its sports teams
everybody understands Edmonton Oilers
Wayne Gretzky city of Champions but
they're very very festival oriented in
the summertime beautiful River Valley
areas and of course they have a lot of
pride in Klondike you know all things
Klondike and you know they're there
Oilers are everything and Eskimos I just
want to say we've been there for 28
years and raised two kids there and okay
yeah so we I'm assuming you my wife and
I Sharon and my two sons Brandon and
Gavin ones 22 ones 18 oh well what is
yeah we've recently you know one out so
no kids hanging around no no no not yet
whole new chapter in life it is it is my
wife and I discovered last summer that
we had a relationship
Wow all right yeah when they fair away
all summer long right so we were like
hey we can talk about things that's a
great we're gonna talk about marriage
counseling right no no James will talk
about this amazing book here beyond the
breakers now if I turn it to the back
yeah it's gonna make me sound like I
really know what I'm doing here I love
discover your best life beyond
circumstance now one of the thing it is
if the book is about a journey of
breaking free okay it's like okay now
you piqued my curiosity it's about the
discovery of personal
and purpose okay now there's a lot of
people who are asking the question what
am I doing here on earth and what's it
all about alfie is sawing like that and
how are you able to say it in 70 pages
yeah well you did a good job you know
and you gave us a compass oh I read the
book a compass to navigate through some
of these questions so here's a line
though that that captured me it is about
mastering the lifetime art
of exploration now okay we've got a few
minutes to talk about this hey James can
you talk to us about the content of this
book because I know you put it on pages
on paper but this is from your heart
so tell me tell me about this book like
like what is it or what inspired you to
write it or however you want to start
into the conversation well I first of
all I walk in the area of coaching so
I'm not a psychologist I you know I walk
in a way that with people that is all
about progress versus perfection I you
know if you think about 12-inch ruler
this is how you know people that are
professional coaches live the 12-inch
ruler the first two inches are people
that absolutely need professional help
and therapy and you know really
concentrated healing restorative work in
their lives and then you have the top
two inches of the ruler which is people
that are very surrounded by a very
positive circle of influence they have
good people feeding into their life so
they're very well-rounded well well
supported in their in their networks and
then there's the rest of us in the
middle we are the mass middle and over
the years of my coaching what I've heard
the message just over and over again is
is I'm not sick enough to need therapy
right but I know I need something more
and and so my my job as a coach is to
explore areas of life love liberty and
progress and push and help people
mobilize forward in their life and in
their preferred futures yeah okay that's
interesting I was getting a little
concerned there that maybe there's going
to be a test and I was going to have to
know which part of that rule
we saw but you helped me there you said
for most of us were in that that those I
guess it would be eight inches whatever
yeah yeah hospital hey I did the path
right there did at the mass middle yeah
this is where coaches really thrive they
really thrive to help people they're not
assuming brokenness necessarily but
there are many people that are they have
desires and they either lack the ability
or the knowledge of the the tactical
next steps or you know what does a
fruitful life look like you know and so
we're helping to kind of focus the lens
so that people can see the life forward
in a more clear way so okay so another
okay you just use this phrase yeah like
what do I do
like like oh what am I supposed to do
but how do I go about it James I'm
asking and and I'm inclined to think
that this is true but I'm asking you the
question have you do you meet with
people do people call you or part of
your clientele people who say like I
think I can do this but I don't know how
or I don't know what the next step is
cuz I've met people who I think are
fantastic people nothing I know they are
yeah but they seemingly get stuck and it
seems like a shame to me that good
people who've got so much potential
would be stuck in the in their life it
becomes like unrealized potential yeah
so is this part of what is this
something that the content that the
truth in this book would that would help
these people I mean first of all you you
let's let's establish a foundation that
this book is full of biblical principle
and personal experience you can't argue
with either the the truth of either one
of those things and so in our lives of
faith we are called to be fruitful and
but that sometimes people think that you
know like the parable in Matthew 25 you
have the five talent that's the master
gives one guy five talents of money that
the other guy three talents of money any
other person one talent many of us feel
in our lives we're comparatively like
one talent people and and so we we feel
somehow less comparatively and but
that's not the truth I mean if you look
at a one talent person or you feel like
you're like that one
talent guy I don't know much I don't
have much please understand that God has
trusted you with that talent and that is
that is a master saying I still believe
in your capability to be fruitful and
multiply so multiply is not just in
babies it's it's more like fruitfulness
and influence in life so we take each
each person seriously like God has a
purpose for those people and we need to
you know not everybody is in the
sunday-morning mode where they can
receive the the typical language and
terminology so I I operate very much out
there what I call the neutral zone it
sits in the place where people are
seeking for God they're seeking for as
you mentioned in other videos a you know
fatherhood they're seeking for that
relationship side of faith they're
seeking Wow who believes in me yeah
right so what what I've tried to do with
the book as a whole is to use it like a
key to unlock the the tenderness of
people's hearts and then once they
they're sort of in that relationship
with trust well then we start producing
tangible results feed them first and
then they'll hear every message you know
through through that trust relationship
so if I help you in a tangible reality
maybe maybe we prosper the family maybe
we build a new business maybe we we sort
of see relationships patched together or
you know brought together then then
people start doing well what is it that
you have that that I'm looking for I
want to know more so that's what I'm
seeking to do by way of case study by
way of personal journeying experience
and then of course applying those
principles to a very foundational
compass that I've used for many years I
just brought it together in this book as
a you know sort of an easy pathway okay
this is amazing I'm enjoying this
experience I think I found a new pattern
in my life I want to read the book and
then contact the author and have a
conversation with him or because it's
amazing to listen to you and to see your
passion about what I was privileged to
read yeah James we need to take a break
here but this is fantastic thank you so
much there's a couple of questions I
want to ask you going forward but I've
read the book and I know the compass
plays a big part of how you've presented
your material so we'll talk about that
friends don't go away we'll be back with
author James Burgess Burgess I'll try
that again we'll be back with James
birch Burgess and after a word from our
sponsors
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today count 5 dot
TV slash shirts well hi friends were
back with author here goes James Burgess
of the book behind the breakers yeah
just a second I think I got it I didn't
trip over it we were laughing on break
there how I just couldn't seem to get it
out beyond the breakers discovering your
best life beyond circumstance fantastic
available on amazon.com or amazon.ca for
you crazy Canucks out there that works
and a good read well worth it now I see
on the front I've got this nice design
of a compass or is that what we call
that what is that that's a compass north
south east west even upside down I got
that yeah James tell us about this
compass it's a great tool I think to
understanding the content of your blur
can you tell us a little bit of or a lot
about it yeah the the journey of how the
compass came together in the book we
talked about referring the the movie
castaway with Tom Hanks right and it's a
fantastic example about how many people
will fall off their track in life and
they get stuck and the idea beyond the
breakers was the frustration that people
getting beyond the you know how is it
I'm trying everything but I'm still
spinning my tires I'm still here so I
know I do this yeah in the middle of
this ocean of nothingness now like I
can't see land anywhere yeah now that's
kind of what was in my heart earlier
when I was talking about people with so
much potential but yeah where do I go
well you know a lot of us are navigating
life and we don't really have you know
destinations in mind we think we we want
something or we put a goal out there and
we say let's my life goal is to pay off
my mortgage but once the mortgage is
done or once you you know you kind of do
something then you're you're kind of
looking well now what and so I try to
help break people beyond that to life
purpose so the value of the compass
first of all let me explain a few
minutes here with you is north is is
like a North Star built off of that that
beautiful sort of example of the North
Star in the in the sky is the one body
in the Northern Hemisphere that does not
move and so in history when caravans or
sailors will get lost they would always
refer back to the North Star once they
find the North Star they would
eventually find their way home so a lot
of us are we have beliefs and values
maybe and so the North Star is the
established belief some values that we
carry as in and so what happens when
life experience kind of comes in and
throws us a monkey wrench well throws us
off course we can actually come back to
our values and back to our beliefs and
say does this align with with where I
really want to be going in life so we're
now able and empowered to make more
clear decisions to say good opportunity
but not the best all right so we align
our decisions in our track in life with
our values and and beliefs and this is
typical coaching stuff but but the idea
and making it simple for people is that
okay well so let's not just set up goals
well let's say well what do you believe
it and why you do it this way what what
what's why do you have these certain
ethics in your life and these values
well we explore that so once we do that
we empower the east and the East is
representative of all the people that
you surround yourself with you know it's
funny in somebody mentioned this that in
the in the sort of expansion days the
colonial days they come for
the east of Europe and they go west so
it's it's like your community of origins
who do you surround yourself with that
they're not afraid to affirm you confirm
you believe in you and challenge you
without fear of retribution so who do
you have in your life like that you can
basically tell you tell it like it is
right in there it's a scriptural value
that that faithful are the wounds of a
friend the one that says I'm not afraid
of you and I care about you enough to
tell you a truth a reflection can I help
you and sometimes we don't always enjoy
that but after it's done and we start
walking in that sort of pathway we we
can sort of get ourselves aligned and
and and so we feel accepted we feel
loved we feel cared for and that builds
confidence and and courage within us to
go south maybe even safe may I because I
read it yeah so that we're talking about
community yeah right I'm an extrovert so
extrovert so this is like okay this is
and I remember east means the people in
my life I'm stronger if there's people
who I have that love me right believe in
me and also are gonna tell me hey
Lawrence can we sit down and have a chat
I'd like the government is that that's
what I'm research truth and love right
truth okay okay another biblical yeah I
suppose you can look at this as a
personal community a business community
you you want to be very choosy now you
know we do have a compass for personal
compass for business and a compass for
faith walk right so we have three
different ways of looking at it so once
you once you understand you have these
good people around you and and really
who you surround yourself with is really
going to determine the kind of quality
of life you'll achieve if you want to be
a leader you find leaders to hang out
with you want to be a positive person
stop hanging around people that are
spitting out negative messages right
right so you know and and sometimes we
can't choose that you know maybe we have
family members that are really very you
know hurting or toxic or something we
can't choose that but but I think you
understand what I'm saying so when they
didn't get to choose their parents or
brothers and sisters leave that for an
exam when you have that
laughing on the end zone it we come to
south and this is where a lot of people
actually find themselves when when on
teaching the compass they automatically
go here south is representative of your
reconciled past right there are many of
us a carry severe baggage from our past
experiences types of trauma bad memories
and you'll find yourself coming south
frequently okay James we just awakened
just about everybody okay like I'm Tom
right into the quiet here
okay so we're paying attention now
there's somebody watching who says just
a second year he's talking about some
hurts of the past I'm listening to you
James yeah okay so this represents the
suck this oak south on your compass yeah
and you use the word its reconciled yeah
okay so reconciliation a lot of us will
talk about forgiveness and forgiveness
is a very hard place to reach sometimes
and I respect that in people because not
everybody is ready they're not ripe in
their heart of the spirit to really you
know come to that place of peace on
things but reconciliation isn't always a
an eraser of the incident it is a
recognition that the past happened and I
cannot change it I recognize that it's
there but here's where we go one step
further is we recognize it's there but I
am going to now extrapolate the value of
my life lessons learned come on okay so
I'm gonna look at that a little more
objectively and say look it still hurts
and I'm in process that's okay we're all
works in process but I'm gonna pull out
the value my life lessons learned and
that's where my wisdom is found helping
people today and that's why I share in
the book a lot of personal experiences
because I want you to know that it is
possible to find closure and sometimes
God does set things up for you to
literally find that closure I'll close
that door there's an incident there
where I have with a schoolteacher that
is just fantastic
all I remember yeah and again I was
there with you when you were walking
towards him in the restaurant right
right I could feel it right yeah and it
was you have you have only a split
second to see the opportunity sometimes
and you have
to make that decision right but I I made
the decision to to lay it out and before
this this teacher that was very hard on
me mm-hmm so so sometimes God is gonna
set up things that'll give you the
opportunity to find a literal closure
anyway the value of life lessons learned
you extrapolate that so that you can
turn it around and say look how can I
help you in what you're doing today and
it creates in me the ability to become
fruitful see lots of people get stuck on
their past yeah they don't become
fruitful because they're too busy
looking behind if you ever read the
story of Genesis of Lot's wife lots is
called out of Sodom and Gomorrah and
Lot's wife can only fix her eyes on the
past right and all she became was a
bitter pillar of salt useless to anybody
and so we get fixated on things we try
to change the things we can't so I'm
trying to help people come to the
precipice of that and make a choice and
and the value of what our coaching is
always empowering choice that's one
thing that God has left you with you you
have that responsibility to choose and
this is in my life I know I'm challenged
by the Spirit of God is that you know
this is yours
I'm empowering you son to be fruitful to
do these things here's an opportunity he
is not forcing me to reconcile right so
the idea of reconciling is there is a
journey of healing but it's sometimes
it's like that accounting term we just
match the we match it up and we go okay
I recognize it's there I'm gonna find
some closure to it and healing will come
when I choose to come face-to-face with
that well so then that once that's done
then we move to west which is
appropriate risk-taking
we're not risk-taking because we're you
know blind go west young man go west
young man so so the idea is risk-taking
I don't know you're a creative person
you're your singer-songwriter or artist
or whatever keep going yeah yeah so
you're a creative person but have you
ever been in a place where you can't
create you feel frustrated and that's
probably because you're dealing with
things behind you and all your all your
energy is trying to fix this stuff
behind you I manage a mismanaged life so
therefore you have no power and ability
to start the new business that you've
always wanted to you feel very hamster
because you can't go on those world
tours because wherever I find the money
well I'm too busy you know doing this
stuff so we actually help people come to
the place of readiness to take risk
right so taking risk isn't always a
blind thing it's not a blind step out
over a cliff we're after it shouldn't be
no it should be well you want to do what
they call in business due diligence sure
and there's there's something good about
doing due diligence in life you may have
a great idea but have you thought it
through anyway the point of the compass
is the the final wrap-up of this is
having my values in north set my
principles my beliefs and I'm there it
empowers me to choose better who I hang
out with because now I'm aligning the
character of people that I know or that
I could experience and say is this
somebody I can spend time with right so
now that empowers this once I have great
people around me and and they will
hopefully empower me to take care of my
junk you know get rid of my baggage
they'll they'll pusher or they'll help
me support me to deal with the south to
reconcile things that paralyze me and my
potential progress in future so then
once I'm closing the door on myself I'm
now empowered to really take leaps of
faith leaps of risk I'm energized for
life rather than trying to say how come
how can I cope how can I just kind of
manage and and unfortunately this is
where a lot of people find themselves in
restorative work they they just get
stuck in that perpetual I'll never get
there I'll never get there and I'm the
kind of guy that says no we can get
there we can shut the door we can make
choices that that empower James you did
it again unless linked to you enraptured
they honestly I mean it was all I love
the passion that I'm witnessing
experiencing coming from you
what a great tandem for me to hold the
pages of your book and to hear you say
it what a great idea
it's I'm here with author James Burgess
beyond the breakers it's available on
amazon.com amazon.ca James if they if
someone wanted to get a hold of you is
there a way for them to do
yeah you have an email address or a
website or something
yeah they can get ahold of me directly
through email right now I'm actually in
the middle of rebranding my my
consulting company to the Endeavour
Network so our temporary email is
endeavour the English space spell they
not the American with an O you are not o
are and never network at gmail.com or
you can even just send me a text
directly and I'm happy to respond to any
requests
friends if you want to reach James even
through the show we'll make sure that
all the information that you use there
may God richly bless you thanks for
tuning in today we'll see you again next
time
episode of you every day every Friday
morning
