what we have here is an old laptop that
runs great but it overheats and then it
starts going really really slow and you
find that hey if your laptop has a poor
cooling system what is it going to do in
order to prevent damage to your internal
components well the computer has
intelligence built-in that says oh I'm
getting hot I need to do something here
I need to turn off the fan ok fan isn't
doing it it's still getting hotter so
now I got to turn down the central
processing unit the CPU what happens
when we down clock our CPU all of a
sudden our computer starts to go slow
right yeah so it does that in order to
prevent damage to the components of the
computer and this is both desktops
laptops whatever even my phone if it
gets too hot will warn me there's
getting too hot and it starts shutting
down things yeah unfortunately Samsung
didn't implement that feature so are you
getting updates yeah that's amazing
during the live show it's time to
restart your device your device will
restart at 8 o'clock to finish
installing updates this is really this
is my laptop that I have it from home
yeah it goes warns you at 15 minutes
ahead of time yeah I guess your device
will restart at 8 o'clock they finish
installing updates if this time works
for you select confirm if you want you
can restart now or we'll try later to
restart Outsiders we hate to get
sidetracked but once again Windows 10
interrupts everything and if we're if
we're lucky
Wirecast will not that computer won't
reboot itself for another during the
life
Cass okay so we've got this laptop here
which does not have Windows 10 on it
it has Linux actually Ubuntu mattei is
installed on here and as I was saying
the computer will slow itself down in
order to keep itself cool because
there's something wrong with the cooling
system so first of all we can open it up
we've got the battery in it and fire it
up
and oh oh there was like a snapping
sound good something didn't sound good
and there's there's no air coming out of
this side vent here I wonder if there's
something in there because it started
grinding not good okay so I'm not even
going to turn it on this is your this is
your laptop from home this is like bad
guys laughs this is just an old laptop
okay demos on the show okay you it
wasn't at home with your kids right like
it may actually have a Hot Wheels in the
cooling system it's possible okay so
with this particular laptop and every
laptop is just ever so slightly
different the one that we're looking at
tonight is a compact 65 10 B so that
dates it you can see that it is a rather
old system but we can we can buy time on
these old systems by adding of fixing
components so you can take this to a
shop and they'll say oh it's really old
or whatever but it runs a boon to might
a like a dream but it overheats it gets
really hot and then it gets really slow
under ten dollars it's pretty cheap on
Amazon you can do a search for the model
number you can type compact 65 ten be
cooling fan and you'll find it for like
six bucks okay so yeah two a two hundred
dollar repair or having to buy any
laptop so with this particular laptop
again it's gonna be a little bit
different for each and every one
but let's I've got this camera here
specifically so that I can kind of show
you around so on the bottom here you can
see this little icon that looks like a
keyboard and that points to a screw and
you see that there are a couple of those
three of them in fact
there's one here it's a little hard to
operate everything all at once but
there's a keyboard one there and a
little screw hole and one over here and
that's there so quite often we need to
remove the keyboard in order to gain
access to the internal components the
keyboard here actually has a lot of
stuff underneath of it like the
motherboard the cooling system the
processor all that stuff is under there
so let's get in there I'm gonna just
simply remove those three screws that I
showed you there it helps to have a
screwdriver handy you know those are
those are necessary usually oh yeah now
this one's a little bit different
because this one is actually a door to
the memory compartment no less see if I
can get you a camera view here or is it
dead
no I charge the battery it just shuts
down after a few minutes of non-use
that's all I want to want to get you the
view okay so this is actually the memory
so if you want to upgrade the the memory
that's here okay and that's a simple
flip of the wrist like that okay this is
the wireless adapter here well can you
guys see that okay this is the memory
this is the wireless adapter there's the
antenna coming off of it and there's a
screw here that looks like the keyboard
screw so it's hidden there I'm just
gonna simply loosen that one off we've
encountered before with this laptop I
loved that the screws don't actually
fall out that's something that I do like
it has like a spring mechanism that
holds them there that's kind of cool
alrighty so now that that is loose first
of all I'm gonna be getting into the
internal components and I should have
done this before I each act up the RAM
but remove the battery we don't have any
power ok cuz that could hurt well we
don't want a zap it or anything like
that we could also ground ourselves if
we have any static issues so there we go
so this keyboard again a little
different than some others this
particular keyboard now that I've
removed the screws got a taut cable
there
there we go this particular keyboard now
that we've removed the screws we need to
flip these little switches here can I be
different one quick second because
everybody wants you to remove the
battery did I already did okay yeah
really Batman might not have noticed
right on top of it it's over there now
it's perfect okay I took it out and and
I stopped touching things with with my
static fingers Oh perfect thank you
alright so I've got a couple of these
little switches here it's really hard to
do this there we go oh I've only got one
more case there we go so now that those
are done I should be able just to kind
of pop it here do you want to take that
camera you can hold it up a little bit
higher so that we can see there I should
be able just to get right under there
and if I can't watch the keys you don't
want to pull the keys off there we go
okay so there we've got the keyboard up
and out of the way and here is the
cooling system so this goes to a heat
sink that goes to the CPU and this then
blows air over the fins here and out the
side of the computer so there's gonna be
a couple of screws here that we need to
remove first screws it looks like it's
attached and should be one more screw
here somewhere which looks as though it
might be under this bezel so if we're
careful she'll be able to get that up
there we are and you can see there's one
more screw here how you doing Kelsey
pretty good doing all right there camera
guy there we are okay so now we've got
this screw here don't lose those so this
is the cooling fan that's completely
dead and you can see that here's the
power for the fan I'm just gonna pull
that out of the motherboard carefully
you don't want to break anything
there we are okay Oh see that hello
buddy
there was a screw inside the CPU fan the
cooling fan no one probably that
grinding noise valve would have been the
grinding noise I guarantee ya okay
so let's pull out the the new fan that
we've got here you see how easy and how
quick this is to repair a folks so again
the the part itself is only you know a
few bucks under ten bucks on anywhere
you want to get it
Amazon is where I picked it up so that
just goes right in there and I'll show
you again so this heatsink here now I
might want to clean that up I probably
will I'll take it apart again and blow
it out with some compressed air but
we're not gonna do that on the show
tonight so we're just gonna put that in
there got the two screws totally called
it in the chat room set way earlier that
it was a screw in there do you think it
was oh absolutely
way to go yeah so way to go out right
nicely done okay so in here we got our
screw back in there sorry about the
counter folks might be a little shaky
that's especially if you take a little
alright um I wonder if this screw would
actually fit cuz this screw is attached
to this fan so can I use it could this
be the blessed screw that allows us to
oh it's some kind of weird it's not
Philips it's like an allen key screw
this huh I don't know where it's from or
what it's for where did you come from
where did you go what are you doing
where did you come from there little
screw so I do need another screw for
this I mean I kind of do it's tight in
there it feels good so in this
particular case I'm short one screw I'm
gonna find one and all so I'll put it in
there no problem
yeah and it reminds me of jot when I
built the server and I forgot to put a
couple screws in he gave me the hardest
time now I you know anyone wants to talk
about
the CPU fan is held in with one screw
and here's the power for that there we
go
that's just gonna go in one way there we
are so make sure that there are no
obstructions in the fan no screws this
does not go right there there we go good
thing to do nice and simple put that in
clip these guys back together get that a
top part back in properly oh the bezel
here yeah that just snaps there we go
okay almost almost
so I say so I say thanks copy 7 issues
issues so Robbie what are the chances
that the original fan actually wasn't
broken and then maybe it was just the
screw oh well see the problem is sasha
is that the fan itself with a screw in
it would not be able to spin and so the
bearings would actually burn oh ok that
makes sense you would need to replace it
rather than just take off the screw ok
yeah the fan itself is no longer any
good I wouldn't trust it at all okay
that's good to note yeah I'll just leave
it like this and you can there we go I
got the bezel in anyways yeah so this is
only go in one way
boom
bear okay so I've got the three screws
at the bottom here to put in I can do
that I'm gonna do that after the show
cuz I know we've got more questions I'm
gonna throw the battery and let's just
see if that fan fires up I can hear it
nice I can feel it it's cool air blowing
out of there yeah definitely cool air
brilliant repair complete folks how long
did that take
in all honesty could we have done that
in five minutes if we weren't carrying
on and they having fun probably probably
good okay so I've got a couple of screws
to put in the bottom here I can do that
right after the show and then there we
yeah that's your basic simple repair to
a laptop if you've got a dead cooling
system I've got an extra screw if we
ever need somewhere probably I'm someone
