welcome back this is category five
technology TV back in 2016 we looked at
nims 1.1 and now two years later and
several thousand downloads later it's
time to look at nems one point four
point one what the heck is names Linux
that's the question running through your
mind if you've never heard of it before
well NIMS stands for nagios enterprise
monitoring server so if you've heard of
Nagios that's fantastic now you're onto
it if you haven't heard of Nagios let me
give you a really quick rundown it's a
tool used by IT administrators of any
size network in order to monitor network
assets what does that mean well to
simplify it let's imagine your hard
drive in your server is running low on
disk space how would you know that
unless you were standing in front of the
server or actually actively monitoring
that maybe one of the hard drives in
your raid array has failed and you need
to replace it well how would you know
that unless you look at the server and
see the amber light there are a variety
of different ways that Nagios can help
enterprise and home users to know if
there's an issue on the network and it's
very proactive because we can see things
say if your hard drive hits 80%
threshold then we get a notification so
that we know that it's time to look at
maybe deleting some files or perhaps
adding more storage to the server and
that's exactly what I set out to use
Nagios for here at the studio because
we're always throwing HD video at our
server so if we ever run out of space
that can be a big problem it really
helps me to know that I'm running low on
space it's almost time to add more
storage to the server that's very
helpful
Nagios is used by big business like say
NASA NASA for example if I can pronounce
it right
NASA is obviously you know everything
that they do is mission-critical it's
very important for them to know if a
system is failing or failed or has some
problems they need to know about that up
upfront in advanced so that's where
Nagios comes in
and Nagios is also in use in home
networks and you know just users that
are power users that want to know if
there is a problem on their home network
so it doesn't matter it's completely
scalable and what is really really
beautiful about it is it's also
absolutely free and it doesn't matter if
you're dealing with two device network
or a ten thousand device network it's
still no cost so now we look at the
hardware that that you're gonna use to
run your Nagios server a lot of us would
figure that we need to have a server
like an actual physical server maybe
something in the rack or maybe repurpose
an old computer but the problem is is
that with that you're going to be using
a lot of electricity for that one
computer doing that very important
mission critical task of monitoring
everything else but why are we using so
much power for something that can be run
on lesser equipment because these days
we've got things like the Raspberry Pi
that's really quite powerful the
Raspberry Pi 3 has a lot of oomph behind
it but deploying Nagios on something
like that can be risky because of things
like well what if your SD card fails or
something like that
so NEMS linux comes in and takes Nagios
core at its heart and has created a
distribution for your Raspberry Pi and
other s pcs that allows you to deploy
easily on low cost and not just low cost
up front but low cost ongoing
operational cost equipment such as the
Raspberry Pi 3 full disclosure I am the
developer of NEMS Linux so maybe that
gives it a little bit of maybe that
gives you a little confidence in it if
you've been a longtime viewer of
category 5 technology TV but certainly
it's important for you to note that you
know I know a lot about it because I
built it so that's where I'm at so let's
take a look at how we actually get NEMS
Linux I'm gonna hop on over to our
website nems linux.com it's as simple as
that
and you can read all about what NEMS
linux is
kind of the the mantra if you will of
what our vision is what my vision is
with NIMS Linux and essentially it boils
down to getting names Linux and hop on
over we're gonna deploy this on a
Raspberry Pi 3 now I mentioned that hey
if I'm gonna put it on a Raspberry Pi 3
I need to know that this is going to be
reliable right this is my
mission-critical stuff I need to know
that it's monitoring and it's working
and that's where NEMS linux does things
very differently from any other Nagios
deployment in that it has an automatic
backup system and not only that but it
has an automatic restore system so if my
sd card ever failed I can easily and
very very quickly recover and I don't
lose my configuration or have to go
through an onerous deployment process so
that's where this is really really
different so on this page to download it
I can get the direct download or a
BitTorrent now I've taken the liberty of
pre downloading it just so that we could
expedite things for the sake of this
demonstration today so I'm going to
bring up a program called echar which
you can get it at your dot IO we use
that to burn and I say burn it's an old
term that we used when we used to burn
CDs right so you take an ISO image and
you burn it to a CD well these days
we're using a microSD card and etcher is
the program that we use in in order to
burn if you will the image that you're
gonna download from Nimes Linux com to
your SD card through an SD card reader
so I've got mine here but you notice
it's not plugged in so what I'm gonna do
is I'm first gonna select that image
that I've already pre downloaded for us
and I've put that in my downloads folder
as simply as where it's default
downloaded to there it is so I'm using
the names Linux for point one point four
point one for pi now and when you click
select destination select Drive you
notice that it is empty and that to me
is very very important I want there to
be no Drive listed in there because when
I plug in my drive I want it to be the
only external drive the reason that I do
that this is my own mindset is so that I
don't accidentally overwrite the wrong
drive because you could easily do that
using etcher so now I'm gonna plug in my
device and you see Windows 10 pops up
with all these dialogs and I just need
to cancel those and now I'll see my
drive in the list and I see it's the
only one so I can continue and now press
flash through the magic of television I
am able to do this in fast motion so we
can be very thankful for that so it it
takes about 13 minutes for me to burn
this on to my own SD card and then it
goes through a verification process
which simply checks the checksum of the
burnt image to make sure that it in fact
matches the one that I downloaded now
it's popped up again because Windows has
mounted the drive just close these
windows and I can see the flash is
complete now if there was any error
message there you might want to look at
maybe a different card reader may be a
different micro SD card but basically
that's telling me that everything has
worked just fine so now I'm safe to
disconnect this now I've got my micro SD
card which I'm going to insert into my
Raspberry Pi 3 and this is now going to
become my name's Linux server with this
Raspberry Pi 3 you notice there are
three cables plugged in I've got the
power cable which obviously is essential
I've got the Ethernet cable which is
also a requirement of NEMS Linux now
consider this as a monitoring server and
it needs to be able to communicate with
network assets so if you do not have an
Ethernet cable connected you're doing it
wrong it's a necessity you absolutely
have to have that I recommend against
using Wi-Fi although NEMS Linux does in
fact support the Raspberry Pi 0 though a
lot of our users are plugging in an
external Ethernet USB connector in order
to connect directly to Ethernet but you
can use the Wi-Fi on the Raspberry Pi 0
simply hit ctrl alt f2 on first boot
speaking of first boot which I'll show
you I have an HDMI cable plugged in that
is only for your benefit tonight so that
you
see what comes up on the Raspberry Pi
screen typically an M server does not
require being plugged into a screen
whatsoever and in fact it's kind of
pointless so I'm just gonna switch over
to the capture device here and I'm gonna
power on my Raspberry Pi and we should
see there we are it's gonna come up for
us and this is all happening in real
time folks everything is live and so
everything that's gonna happen here is
exactly the process that you're gonna go
through in order to make this work on
your own system so let me zoom out there
sorry about that clicked on the wrong
one so it's booting up
NIMS linux for the very first time and
once it's up we're gonna get this splash
screen there we are
so you seen M's Linux is is up and
running on 10.0.0.0 no.1 it also has a
host name of NEMS dot local and it's
detected my device as a raspberry 3
model B and current CPU usage is rather
high and the reason for that is because
when it first boots up NEMS linux is
going through a check process it's
checking for any updates to the
operating system to the actual NEMS
linux system itself and it's getting
updates and things like that so so just
kind of hang tight for a couple of
moments while things while it does its
thing but first boot it's going to use a
fair bit of resources and so it's
important to let that kind of go and
then you can go back over you'll notice
also my disk usage is at 81 percent well
that would be a problem but we're gonna
resolve that once we do what's called a
nems in it or an initialization process
and we should see that that CPU usage is
gonna start dropping down again you
don't have to wait for that but just
know that it is it's gonna take a few
moments before NEMS is ready to go when
you first boot it up and when you first
turn it on when I mentioned about the
Raspberry Pi 0 you see the instruction
there to log in use SSH or press ctrl
alt f2 so on a raspberry pi 0 you press
ctrl alt f2 with a connected USB
keyboard and then you type RasPi -
config and you set up your Wi-Fi then do
a reboot and then everything will be up
and going and ready to go
looks like everything's ready for us now
and I'm gonna bring up my computer
screen again here we go and we're gonna
head on over to 10.0.0.0 1 and when I
get there it says your nem server is not
yet initialized ssh to your nem server
and run sudo names in it so let's do it
now I have putty installed on this
computer because I am on Windows 10 and
I'm gonna go 10.0.0.0 1 now again
remember I haven't had to configure
anything so I just burnt this and I've
booted and I'm just following the
instructions on the screen
so how nice is that let's I'm just gonna
bring just gonna kind of zoom in on that
putty window so that you've got a better
a better view there we go that should do
for us now I'm gonna login with the
username nems admin password is also
NEMS
admin now that's our default and that is
only for now its going to change and I'm
gonna be the one to change it so looking
at this initial message of the day like
loader screen you can see again very
similar information to what we saw on
the splash screen and we can see uptime
current load is actually going down and
we can again see that we are using 81
percent of our disk space so now I'm
gonna follow those directions and type
sudo NEMS dash in it type in my password
which again is NEMS admin and it says
welcome to NEMS initialization script
goes through a little bit of updating
just to make sure things are up to date
before it goes through and that just
makes sure that if there are any patches
or updates for your system before you
initialize it that those get applied so
let's just let that finish takes a
moment generally speaking I'll just say
this is going to be really the only main
time that you're going to need to access
the terminal in Em's Linux because NamUs
linux has been designed specifically to
be very GUI based in your web browser
and you're gonna see that and it's
certainly something that makes names
stand out
based you know in comparison to
traditional Nagios deployments for
example so there we go it looks like
it's just wrapping up okay there we go
now we are ready to initialize what
would you like your names username to be
I'm gonna use Robbie F all right
username accepted and now I can enter
what I'd like my password to be it's
asking it for it again and that is to
make sure that I typed it correctly and
you'll see now it goes into it's adding
the Linux user its deprecating the old
names admin user migrating data
initializing a new Nagios user and going
through the whole process that normally
I'd have to do manually it's creating
contacts and contact groups and now it's
asking me for my time zone make sure you
select yours appropriately you see that
Nagios failed to initialize that's
because I have yet to actually configure
my server so that's not going to
initialize until I've done that then it
generates SSL certificates you see that
so it's important to note that NEMS uses
a different SSL certificate for every
NEMS linux server out there so if you're
afraid of man-in-the-middle attack don't
worry that's all part of the
initialization process that every nemser
ver gets its own its own an SSL
certificate generated during
initialization then it says now we will
resize your root partition to give you
access to all the space done
you must reboot now when you reboot your
login you must log in as Robbie F keep
that in mind because now the NEMS admin
user is gone I'm gonna hit space server
has unexpectedly closed the network
connection well I know it was actually
expected so I'm gonna close out of that
zoom out for you and actually let's jump
back to our raspberry pi because it's
rebooting so that's just the screen that
you would see over HDMI and once we see
that blue screen again and you don't
have to you know again you don't have to
watch this on a TV or anything you just
know that it takes a couple of moments
to reboot and all of a sudden you're
gonna get a ping and you're gonna get
a response when you try to go to the IP
address in your browser that's when it's
up and running so no harm no foul and
almost there so this Raspberry Pi is
going to be able to monitor all of our
network assets in in such a way that we
can be notified if there's a problem
goes through the regular checks and
kernel drivers and everything else that
Linux does
I should note too while we're waiting
that that NEMS Linux one point for point
one is based on Debian stretch
everything is as current as can possibly
be names one point for point one was
finalized just a couple of months ago
and is looking really really good there
we go so we are up and running so now I
can jump over back to my computer and
let's just refresh the page that was
telling us that we need to initialize
and I should see something completely
different because I have initialized my
name's Linux server and there we go
names Linux version 1.4 point one is up
and running so let's do a quick rundown
of the menu system configuration we've
got the NEMS SST or system settings tool
this is a great component of nebs
because you remember if you've ever used
Nagios before setting up things like the
resource CFG file if you don't set
things up correctly then Nagios won't
start and you have all kinds of trouble
and it's onerous to work with config
files in the Linux terminal this gets
you out of the Linux terminal and into a
UI and allows you to set up things like
your SMTP server settings and a bunch of
other things we are going to look at
that today then we've got the NEMS
configurator or end conf and that one is
very important because this is how we
configure all of our Nagios
configurations such as hosts services
check commands all of that stuff is done
there again through a web UI then
reporting we've got Nagios core which is
they're really just for the old-school
Nagios users because some of you may for
for to use the older interface Nagios
core the web interface works really well
and we've included it for you
but I would suggest that if you are new
to Nagios that you instead look at
adagios and even if you're an old-school
Nagios user check out a dog yes I think
you're gonna be really impressed so a
dog yes being an alternative to Nagios
core quick rundown from a programmatic
standpoint me as a programmer the
difference between them
Nagios core is an old interface based on
tables it is not mobile responsive
adagios is a mobile responsive bootstrap
theme that is a complete rewrite of the
interface using live status from check
MK so if that means nothing to you
basically it is a much more modern
interface to achieve the same thing nag
vis is a visualization platform to allow
you to create visual maps of your Nagios
configuration pretty handy and can be
really cool to set that up NEMS mobile
UI is something that typically you
wouldn't bring up on a computer but you
would bring up instead on your phone and
tablet and it allows you to use a mobile
responsive web interface in order to
access your your status of your Nagios
alerts and things like that see how
things are going
the names TV dashboard I actually have
up and running right here so this is the
nems TV dashboard it's it's designed
specifically so that you can have a TV
set somewhere and say like your server
room or something like that that at a
glance just by looking up at it you can
see Oh everything's hunky-dory or whoa
we've got something going on because
there's some red status indicators on
the NEMS TV dashboard so that's
something that you can actually just you
just plug a TV into any computer and
then you access the NEMS linux server
through the web browser and then just
make it fullscreen that's exactly what's
happening here I've just got Chrome
pointed at NEMS dot local slash TV and
made it full screen with f11 so that's
available to you and that does not
require login although you can set it so
that it does require a log and if you
want that extra privacy on your land
under system we've got monitor X which
is a great tool for just simply
monitoring
the Raspberry Pi itself I'm using
Raspberry Pi is the example whatever
your hardware is monitor X will show you
things like the CPU load and all that
kind of stuff memory usage and
utilization swap file usage of the
actual server so that is this device has
nothing to do with Nagios it has to do
only with this particular device and
that's pretty handy and it looks great
cockpit is something that is very handy
for sis admins but you may or may not
need it but it comes pre-installed now
anything in M's Linux now I'm gonna log
in using the initialized username and
password that I used nice thing about
cockpit is that I can see real time CPU
usage versus monitor X which uses like a
snapshot on a cron job it takes a it
makes images that are based on like a
cron this is real-time visualization of
resources so now if I head on over a
nice feature of this is clicking on
terminal now I can actually access a
terminal session without having to use
putty or do anything like that this is
actually connecting me to the nihms
linux server that's kind of cool it also
does allow incidentally I should mention
without getting into too much detail it
allows you to administer multiple names
Linux servers through cockpit at least
with the features that cockpit offers
then we've got our PI monitor is a
feature only available on Raspberry Pi
based boards when you install it it will
detect and it will install this for you
this is this is just a dashboard that
shows you some of the resource usage on
your Raspberry Pi kind of cool wet min
is a great interface for system
administrators to administer the the
system itself again this has to do with
the Raspberry Pi not Nagios so this will
allow you to do things like configure
your networking or do disk upgrades and
things like that if you want to go there
but do keep an M's backup because what
if you break something right but this
gives you an overview and gives you
access to various system things that
otherwise would be you know under the
hood would be terminal-based
next up and finally in the system menu
is Monnett this is a fantastic program
that simply monitors the things that are
running on our NEMS server so you'll see
nemesis is up and running
mariya DB is up and running apache 2 is
up and running
Nagios is not execution failed I'll talk
about that in a second Sambas running
monitor X is running and 95 90 which is
a dummy port listener is up and running
and I'll talk to you about that as well
why is Nagios not running that is
because we have yet to create our
configuration and therefore Nagios is
not ready to be operational just yet
I'll show you how to do that
what happens if apache 2 crashes if
apache 2 were to crash because it is a
part of our our nems
monit configuration it will
automatically restart that's what's so
beautiful about montt yet it will
automatically restart failed services so
in the background it's watching for
running services these are the ones that
I've sent pre-configured and if they
fail if they go down for any reason like
if you stop the Apache 2 service you'll
be like well why did it start again it's
because Minette is actually monitoring
and making sure that apache 2 is always
running that's very handy migrator I
talked briefly about it but NEMS
migrator allows you to create a backup
of your NEMS server how hard is it
well let's click on download and see
done I've got it there's my backup NEMS
migrator also creates a Samba share for
us if I go slash slash NEMS
dot local I see backup and if I type in
my names username and password you'll
see that same file backup dot names
which is updated automatically every
five minutes if I go back one you'll see
that there's also a home share and this
I can actually drop my my existing
backup names file into to make restoring
a lot easier you'll see also that there
is an optional off-site backup service
this is fantastic
users are loving this it'll
automatically backup your name server to
a cloud server in an encrypted format
that keeps everything secure every
single day and then to restore you
simply just type in a quick command and
it's easy-peasy
nice and quick then you can buy a PI
support us various ways you can support
names Linux and how you can get help
through the documentation priority
support community forum and the official
nems
website let's get right into it I'm
going to show you how to configure names
Linux now if you've ever used Nagios
before you're used to using the config
files now keep in mind on M's Linux you
never have to touch a config file again
it's all done through your browser so
let's do it first off I'm gonna go into
nems system settings tool and here we
see a personal encryption decryption
password well that's cool let's add one
that will now make it so that my backups
are encrypted automatically NEMS
migrators off-site backup license key if
registered you can enter that here and
then scroll down Windows domain access
you can follow through the documentation
to find out how all this works pushover
account info I am gonna set up my
pushover account I've already created an
API key just for the demonstration and
with this I'm going to get pushover
notifications on my phone but I also
want a mail so I'm gonna configure my
email server as well so we just punch
all that information in
and then save all settings how easy is
that the only other thing here is our
optional services we can turn off
optional services if we want to reduce
the resource usage not that anything
here is heavy but it allows you to turn
things off if you're not using them it
also allows you to disable the automatic
login to the NEMS TV dashboard so if you
want to force a password requirement you
can turn that off and it will then force
the user to have a password okay so now
that I have my pushover account info in
there you can learn more about that in
the documentation at docs.bmc.com plus I
have my SMTP email configuration in here
again in our documentation there is some
great information on how to set that up
including using Gmail as your SMTP
server so now that I'm ready I can go
NEMS configurator and in the nihms
configurator first of all I can click on
hosts show and I see that nems is
already being monitored at address
127.0.0.1 the local host if I go into
things like services I can see that the
names root partition the hard drive is
being monitored as well I mentioned
about hard drive usage if I jump back to
our splash screen here notice our hard
drive usage is now 11% you reason for
that is because
NEMS linux during the initialization
procedure resized the partition in order
to utilize the entire capacity of our SD
card so now let's let's actually add a
host so I'm going to call this my
hypervisor there we go and I know that
this is 10.0.0.0 on my local LAN and it
could be a Wan address or something like
that as long as I've got access to it
and I'm going to monitor that with
default Nagios which is our only
available option we're gonna check 24/7
and notify 24/7 leave the rest as is
then we're gonna notify the contact
group admins stick around I'm gonna
teach you a little bit about that in a
moment
and if we want we can make that a part
of the parent host but in this case
we're not going to do that and I'm gonna
leave these blank because I want to show
you what happens if there
an error message so I'm gonna submit
that and that's gonna now create that
host so now if I go into house show we
now see hypervisor and NEMS I mentioned
about the admin group so if I go into
contact groups you see that there are
admins and in men's is all set up and
raring to go and Robbie F is one of the
admins and you can add more if you want
but here is Robbie F under contacts
first things first before you deploy we
need to set up our contact for receiving
these notifications so edit that contact
set my email address because presumably
I'm gonna want email notifications but I
also remember I set up notifications by
pushover so I need to see okay first of
all host notifications so if I click
here I see notify service by pushover so
that's not the one I want I want notify
host by pushover host okay now click the
right arrow now my user is going to
receive notifications by email and
pushover this just for the sake of the
demonstration you're gonna probably pick
one or the other
now service notification commands I want
to use notify service by pushover and
there we go
so now my user Robbie F is going to
receive emails at this address and
notifications by pushover and email
submit no changes have happened yet - my
Nagios configuration because I haven't
generated that configuration yet so I'm
going to now take the settings that I've
changed and hit generate Nagios config
and remember I I purposefully made some
errors so that I could show you what
happens so error deployment not possible
due to errors in configuration and of
course when we see error we think ah
this stupid thing it doesn't work let's
find out why there's an error NEMS is
very smart about helping you to get this
thing up and going
also notice Nagios core four point three
point four just in case you're wondering
this is not three point five the base
that is available in apt it's compiled
three point four point three point four
so here's the error message and made red
so that it's easy to find invalid max
check attempts value for host hypervisor
now you remember we just added the host
hypervisor so we obviously did not enter
the max check attempts which is
acquirements so let's edit that host by
going show and then edit and then scroll
down aways and we see okay max check
attempts how many times do we want to
check it number of times to retry
checking see over on the right hand side
let's say 10 yeah check interval for the
sake of the demonstration we're gonna
make these really really small retry
interval one minute first notification
delay one minute notification interval
one minute and notification options are
what what the heck does that mean
possible values d'oeuvres so head on
over to the documentation Doc's dot
names Linux comm and if you scroll down
a little ways on the first page you're
gonna see Nagios notification
definitions
what's derf notify by when host is down
notify of host is unreachable upon
recovery and if the host is flapping
like up down up down up down and the S
stands for notify if a scheduled service
downtime begins or ends so I'm gonna
want to all of those so notification off
options I've already got it listed there
but D comma u comma R comma F comma S is
gonna give it all to me and now scroll
down and hit submit it's important to
note if you're not getting your
notifications I'm gonna go back into
edit remember you have to set the
contact group so that admins is the
selected items and you do that by
highlighting it and clicking the arrow
that points to the right to move it into
the right column okay submit you're
going to take some time and learn how
the system works get into the
documentation get into the community
forum and then you'll be able to find
out get some help
generating that Nagios config now works
perfectly it says it's ready to deploy
so deploy and now we're gonna get into
the front-end interface so that's the
backend to configure things and you'll
notice that we currently have an an
error message per se up on the TV but
now it's gone see that now that the
hosts are available the error message
was basically because I hadn't yet
configured Nagios now that I've
configured Nagios and set up some hosts
I see that two hosts are up it looks
like I've got eight
services that are being monitored and so
on and so forth so that's up on my TV
now so back here I'm gonna go into
reporting I'll show you Nagios core just
quickly because I did a lot of work to
make it look nicer there it is it looks
a lot better than say your normal Nagios
core deployment you'll see that
hypervisor is still pending check ok so
it hasn't checked it yet because it's
set to check every 1 minute then I'm
gonna check out Adagio since Ted Adagio
is a much sleeker interface and it is
the the go-to for you on your your
name's Linux system unless you want to
be old school so we have no problems
there's nothing going on there's nothing
that I need to really be concerned with
here in the overview will show me that
and it shows green so while we're kind
of looking at that let's go back to
Nagios core did it check it yet let's go
to the host details yes hypervisor is up
see it's green so let's check out some
of the other features here first of all
the web the mobile UI I think the best
way to show you a mobile UI is to
actually bring it up on my phone so
let's go there I had it up a little bit
earlier doing some tests okay proceed
because all of your security
certificates your SSL certificates are
self signed because we do not have a.com
or anything associated with it so you
see that there's no problem I can click
on my host and I can see there's my
hypervisor everything looks good so this
is the mobile interface that you're
seeing here in Rita in real time that's
pretty great TV dashboard you see it
already but I'm going to bring it up
here as well on the computer screen so
you can see it a little bit closer
that's what it looks like and you can
bring that up in any browser just by
going to your IP address or NEMS dot
local slash TV so let's make something
fail let's go over to NEMS configurator
and let's open our host hypervisor and
all I'm gonna do I'm just gonna emulate
that this is down by simply changing the
IP address to something that I know it
is not so I know that 10.0.0.0 Stu think
that the server's down because
it's not gonna reply at this point so
let's bring up a doggy us and see what
happens let's kind of keep an eye on
things and it should check pretty
quickly and if all goes well I should
also start to see things on my mobile
interface I'm going to go back to the
home screen here so that I can show you
that and with the dog shows up on my
screen will very quickly see what's
what's actually going on and if I want
to I can bring up Nagios core they're
basically interchangeable they do the
same thing what does the dog eosin
Nagios core allow you to do not only is
it a status panel for me but it's also a
way for me to acknowledge outages so if
I know
ok I've received the notification I'm
working on it I want to stop receiving
the notifications I can acknowledge that
outage and I can start working on it and
then it will stop notifying and it will
show as everything good on the TV
dashboard it also allows you to schedule
downtime so both of these products do
not use core and adagios are both
included on your names deployment it
allows you to schedule that downtime so
if I know I'm going to be replacing hard
drives in a server it's gonna go down
for any given reason I can pre-schedule
that downtime so that my administrators
don't start receiving notifications when
things go down so we've got to take a
really quick break I'm not going to
touch a thing but I do have to take a
quick commercial break to say thanks to
our sponsors when we come back we're
going to see how those notifications
have been happening I'm not going to
touch anything I'm just gonna wait and
see what comes up on our screens stick
around
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV this
week we're looking at NEMS linux Nagios
enterprise monitoring server which we've
deployed on a Raspberry Pi 3 this
becomes an entire enterprise monitoring
system that communicates with all of our
peripherals all of our endpoint devices
and tells us if there is presumably a
problem so that we can be proactive
towards support now before the break I
said I'm not going to touch anything and
I didn't except one thing because I did
miss one step you remember in Nagios and
conf in M's n Comp pardon me let's head
on in there and after I set the IP
address to the incorrect IP I then
wondered why I wasn't getting my
notification so I forgot to press
generate Nagios config now when you
create a new configuration setting in in
nimes n conf you have to actually
generate and deploy that configuration
otherwise you're gonna wonder why your
new configuration isn't taking place
make sure you add that to your to your
to-do list right at the end I'm going to
deploy and now that I've deployed first
thing I notice of course is that my TV
display the the nems TV dashboard shows
that the hypervisor is an unhandled host
problem and I can also see that there is
a host
down let's bring that up a little bit
closer for you I'm gonna bring it up on
my screen so that you can see what the
TV display looks like there it is
so you can see that's what it looks like
when the host is down so I've got 50% of
my host down and it's alerting me
through the red color that hey there is
definitely something going on that's a
problem so make sure you push out that
NEMS configuration to your Nagios server
before you move on and do a presentation
live on TV for example so now if I look
at a doggy OS I can see that there is
something going on 50% of my hosts are
orange what let's click on open problems
and I can see that my hypervisor does
have a problem and it says that it is
simply down critical host not reachable
it's unreachable oh well that's because
it's the wrong IP address we know that
but it could be let's say that the
server is actually powered off or
something like that or maybe it's
crashed it could be any one of those
things let's look at Nagios core just
for those purists who want to know how
things look there there it is
hypervisors down and there it is and we
can actually acknowledge this host
problem if we want through Nagios core
but we like the interface over at
adagios because it is a mobile
responsive much more current much more
modern so I'm gonna hit acknowledge
that's that button up at the top left
here if you hover over it will tell you
what they are acknowledged scheduled
downtime and so on so I'm going to
acknowledge and I'm gonna hit I'll fix
this and then acknowledge the problem so
now in my adagios it says this is a this
has been acknowledged and presumably I'm
gonna start to see some changes around
here I'm gonna bring up my notifications
and everything did ice look at this so
here's the NEMS mobile UI i can see that
it was down hypervisor before that
acknowledgement comes in there it is I
can see that it was down in the mobile
UI and this is going to automatically
update itself as well but let's head on
over to push over whoa I've got some
notifications there folks and if I click
on one it says hey your hyper visor is
down critical host unreachable
it's got the IP address let's go over to
my email and see what we've got there Oh
more emails too you don't have to have
email and pushover configured I'm doing
this for the sake of the demonstration
but you can see that the email is pretty
much the same thing oh and that's an
acknowledgment you see it actually sent
me an email about the acknowledgement
host unreachable there's the actual
hypervisor is down alert that's what I
got by email going back over to pushover
I'm gonna receive a new push over
notification about the oh I already did
the acknowledgement is there there it is
so let's let's now head back over to n
conf and let's bring everything back
online let's say we are powering it back
on presumably or in our case oh I
realize somebody punched in the wrong IP
address submit and finally generate
Nagios config and we're going to deploy
that it's instantaneous it's going to
take effect but it is going to check as
we know every one minute so that problem
is not going to disappear instantly but
it will disappear very very quickly and
then we will start to receive
notifications and things like that now I
noticed that this has already said the
TV has already said everything's good
so hezid Auggie O's caught up to the TV
yeah no a doggy Oh still says there's a
problem so there's like a slight I don't
know 30-second delay or whatever it
might be between different applications
everything's communicating with the same
back-end which is the Nagios core on
your NEMS linux server and then they're
gonna all update together so I should be
receiving notifications I just felt my
phone vibrate here it is
so here's pushover and you see a new one
up at the top host recovery we've got
hypervisor is up and there it is we've
got no packet loss everything looks good
I should also receive an email there it
is recovery hypervisor is up so that is
the power of animos linux server it's
available absolutely free at NEMS
linux.com I'm at a time I would love to
show you everything adagios now says
that everything is good
that is NEMS linux big thumbs up from
the developer I'm biased but it is so
sleek so go check it out MEMS Linux comm
I'm out of time to show it to you but
there's great documentation there's a
fantastic community forum if you want to
become a patron to support the project
you can interact directly with me about
the project and it's a great way to get
involved as well
[Applause]
