welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 535 and tonight
we've got a lot planned for you first of
all we have another copy of debt Effect
2 VR to give away so if you've got your
ballots in stick around you might be our
winner and we're gonna tell you how you
can cast your ballot as well because we
still have some copies left tonight we
also are on the same camera and we have
4k so we can zoom in and it's lossless
we're gonna tell you a little bit about
how that works and what's coming up over
the next couple of weeks and we're gonna
show you how to install Plex Media
Server on a Windows machine which is
going to allow you to create your own
pseudo Netflix allowing you to stream to
your devices your home videos your media
library your pictures we're gonna get
all into that to show you how to do that
not show oh yeah newsroom a password
manager that gives your private
passwords to any website comes
pre-installed with Windows 10 a
nonprofit in San Francisco is taking
Heat because their robot worker costs
far less than a human the FCC has voted
to eliminate net neutrality rules and
Google will be using lasers instead of
fiber to deploy high-speed Internet in
India stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show this is
category 5 technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players and for
local show times visit category live TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show now for the next
four weeks this week included we are
going to be switching cameras every
single week we have four different 4k
cameras and we're going to be
demonstrating each and every one of
those by broadcasting the show using
that camera so if you're thinking about
maybe becoming a broadcaster if you've
got a small studio and you want to look
at some of these cameras this is a great
opportunity for you to look closely at
these see the quality see how it works
out in a studio environment like this so
this week our a cam is the Sony FDR a
x53 it's a 4k handy cam provided by B&amp;H
photo video and we're bringing it in to
Telestream Wirecast at 4k 30 to 40 buy
or whatever it is 31 at 4k what is it
now people are gonna say well what is it
the 3840 by 2160 that's the resolution
of the camera coming into Wirecast the
way we're able to do that and this is
something that you need to consider if
you're going to do the same is we've got
a 4k capture card for mage well that's
the ex i 100 de HDMI 4k capture card so
it's able to bring it into Telestream
Wirecast at full quality so we are still
a 1080p broadcast so to be clear we're
not broadcasting at 4k but instead we're
now able to give you this nice wide shot
which is 4k downsampled to 1080p or we
can punch in 200% and you get a nice
zoomed in shot which is not lossy and
also we don't have these multiple
cameras that's it so it's a single
camera tonight
plus the laptop screen and that's all
we've got for you folks so here's hoping
the tech works out well but that's
definitely a good opportunity for ya a
good opportunity for you to check out
some of these cameras speaking of 4k
cameras the fourth one has arrived
it's the JVC the HM 170 you now the 170
when it first came out it didn't have
the handle on the top really love in the
form factor but it's got XLR inputs
which I can punch in on see that so it's
got two XLR inputs
you've got controls here it's got
built-in mics as well it came with from
B&amp;H cat5 TV slash B&amp;H they throw in the
shotgun mic free as well it's not
technically included but they give it to
you nice looking camera and again we're
gonna be demonstrating this live on the
air we're gonna be shooting some video
with it and showing you the quality and
we're doing that with all four of these
cameras so again tonight is the
entry-level what you're seeing on your
screen right now it's the very entry
level Sony I guess the 33 would be the
the lowest end of the 4k but you would
probably not go with a 33 at this point
the 53 is a good step up it's not a lot
more money and it's kind of like the the
next gen of the 33 basically the same
camera but the 53 is the better version
so that's the more current version so so
let us know what you think the whole
show is gonna be shot on that I have
been doing something interesting this
week to get into the show let's let's
get things started what have you been
doing I have been trying to take some of
the redundant things in my profession
and autumn's what such as sending emails
that I start to realize after many years
of sending the same emails that hey
these emails even though I type the
email every time they're very similar in
their content usually you know because
we only deal with so many different
skews and usually when I'm talking to a
customer it's the same conversation over
and over just a little bit of a
different context right so I've been
writing an artificial intelligence in
order to help me to become more
proficient in my job and that means
being able to do more
sailes being able to being able to help
more customers and being able to focus
on other work while the AI is doing
you're making psycho Robo Robbie I call
it Robbie 2.0 at the office it's a
little tongue-in-cheek but it's been
working really yeah don't feel like
you've been replaced I feel it was a
little it was a little uncanny if you
will
Tuesday yesterday I it sent me an email
oh it's first email to the world was to
me like its master creator no it
actually taught it emailed me as though
it was me and it was crazy it was weird
did it sound like you it read like me
why would I email anyone now I've got
the AI to do it here's the thing I do
email Robbie sometimes and now I'm gonna
question she's easy though she's really
really easy to impress because I just
have an autoresponder anytime Sasha
emails me it just says did you try
turning it off and on again and she
always writes back and says oh thank you
clever AI there Robbie what you do is
try to mess with its ashes so next time
you email them in say something like the
chicken ran away with the egg and I
don't know what to do right I just mess
up the AI I think that'll work then
you'll be able to tell if it's Robbie or
not you should just be like I think we
covered that on the show sometime try
checking out the website my motivation
is pure and I've had conversations with
my employer and kind of plan this out
and let them know my motivation is you
know what I could be doing other things
while the AI is doing the stuff that I'm
always doing Fred I'm always spending my
time doing that can be automated by an
AI and it's you know they respond and I
can then interact with them as well in
place of the AI so it's been working
fantastic but if your motivation is not
quite in the right place things could go
wrong
okay and it happened this is awesome now
of course we all want that kind of
ability to sit back at work and just
kind of relax and let everything
automate itself and I'm starting to see
the potential in artificial intelligence
yes well there's a Reddit user named
filet-o-fish 1066 well got hired and as
a programmer and decided you know what
I'm gonna automatically what they did
and as it turns out they spent six years
playing video games you know surfing the
web and often doing nothing what their
automated process did their entire job
for them and rather than being more
proficient and doing other things and
utilizing that as a way to become more
productive they said I'm gonna just
chillax so he got the job he spent eight
months automating the entire task that
he had to perform okay which was like a
programming job that it's like analyzing
programs and finding bugs and things
like that automated the whole process
and he automated his entire job by his
computer so he was pretty antisocial at
the office of nobody knew him so nobody
approached him nobody talked to him once
in a while the boss would check in with
him see how things are going and just
respond back he was sitting back at his
desk doing whatever he wanted to do and
you know probably had his monitor the
back of the monitor to the door or
something
$5,000 a year 95 thousand dollars a year
he was doing his job because they at the
IAI or this automated process is doing
the work for him yeah think about that
for a second okay he browsed reddit
he'd go to the gym and work out well it
was doing its thing basically anything
that he felt like doing and one of the
key things that he did at his job was
play League of Legends
okay just sitting online just addicted
to League of Legends
so it sounds childish and stupid and you
know who would ever do something like
that but here's the kicker after six
years so he created this automated
process and after six years of just
sitting there doing whatever that he
wanted to pay ninety six thousand
dollars a year yeah what he forgot how
to code he had not coded in six years
was probably right on point show
somebody finally go obsolete
he's obsolete and he's fired they caught
him know and fired the guy and now he
can't get work because he's out of
practice lucky him he was a freeloader
all the way he also lived at home and
ate the meals that his mom made for him
and everything else we damn cheap fish
sandwiches and he was able to put 200
grand in the bank good for him he'll
need it two hundred grand if I was able
to automate my entire job I think I
would take it to the next level going
what else could I do yeah we're starting
to hear more stories like this we're
starting to hear more stories like this
and it's it's really intriguing that you
know people are tapping into AI I'm
tapping into AI for productivity reasons
but my job is very much unable to tap
into AI feel in the early days of you
know when I first moved to Barry I was
doing telemarketing that's one of the
ways I was able to get here it was a
higher paying job than working flipping
burgers and they brought in the angel
dialer which was a kind of an AI powered
by a human brain so you had a keyboard
and you push the button that
correspondent to what you wanted the
robot to say kind of an early version of
what could be done these days through
true AI hmm interesting
food for thought what do you think
of your job could be automated and if
they decided to automate it would you be
out of work I my job is secure we deal
with people I deal with one on one in
person exactly and it could not do what
you my job to care on so many levels
and that's the thing like a robot can do
but a robot can't care I'm gonna
challenge that one oh really do you
remember that news story we covered
woody
about a year ago where I want to say was
a Japanese hospital put in a caring
receptionist it was it was pepper and it
was a receptionist that would help bring
them to the area they needed to go right
well I just said Bryce it was supposed
to be right there was also an emotional
component built into it to empathize
with people like if they came in angry
to address that they came inside like so
right well maybe you could be replaced
by pepper I doubt it
I think about how like indispensable I
don't want to like I don't want to say
that about myself exactly but we have
hundreds of patients at the clinic
hundreds and I know like every thing
that they've ever told me about them I
still have in my brain right and when I
see that it's almost 4:45 and one of our
patients who's in a wheelchair is about
to come in I know to get to the
vestibule to clear the shoes out of the
way before you pulled up so I thought
give some thought this week Sasha and
you at home
what of your job could be automated I'm
not automated my job like this guy did
I'm relieving some of the menial tasks
that like the initial contacts and the
cold calling and those kinds of things
that yes they have to be done and yes
they're important to my job but and
they're important to my customer but a
lot of times those kinds of things can
be automated so I'm starting to figure
it out for me what would it take to
automate some of the things to ease your
workload we've got to take a really
quick break when we come back we've got
the plex media server we're going to be
setting it up on a Windows system this
time we talked
that in just a few moments cuz all of
our Linux loving fans are going word
windows I'm unsubscribing and becoming a
biggest fan on YouTube we'll be right
back and when we are we're gonna have
some fun so stick around Operation
Christmas Child is one of the great
stories it's unfolding in our lifetime
we are only seeing just the beginning of
this project
and these children will change the world
welcome back this is category five
technology TV broadcasting tonight on
the ax fifty three from Sony we've got
one camera so now we can step outside of
our usual box and high-five Sasha here
that's how far yeah and I'm looking down
there yeah yeah I was looking at the
washroom he's always got to go he's
probably gotta go hey our patreon page
has been revamped if you are a patron
please please please head on over there
learn about it and make sure you update
your pledge if you previously gave a
dollar per episode of category five TV
due to these changes that's now a
monthly pledge you are now giving 25
cents per episode because it's one
dollar per month so please make sure
that you check that out find out what's
going on and change your pledge to a
monthly pledge it's not hard to do I
definitely did it while I was in there I
updated my profile because I had forever
I'd never created a you've got a bit of
a bio and everything else and everybody
see everybody's BIOS well I think if
they know how to find you unless you
have it set to like private or I don't
know but if you can if you can see me on
there you can set whether or not people
can see what you pledge to I don't know
if you can hide yourself ask me to do a
a bio nice and I did no no everybody's
reading about you and they're
challenging themselves to try and out
fund you head on over to patreon comm
slash category 5 to become a patron it's
an awesome way to participate in the
show to support us and you can watch the
exclusive patreon vlog this week I
ranted about how angry open-source made
me gotta be a patron to find out what
I'm talking about
ok debt effect to VR yeah write it yet
Jeff I have not know you've got your
copy
I saw them your code
everybody just installed it now it's
gone have to give you another one he's
got it now folks who else has got it
well this week
niebo 13 0 13 watching on the Roku 2
from Stonecrest Georgia that's near
Atlanta well welcome and congratulations
and if you'd like to win Jeff how can
they win they can send an email to
contest a category 5 TV let us know
where you're watching from how you're
watching and if you want to send us a
picture of your setup that would be even
amazing cool yeah we love that kind of
stuff
yeah and Chris Lee actually posted today
on Twitter some of the stuff that he's
bought through our partner link if you
go to our website category 5 TV support
us our partners and how cool is that
Chris loves seeing that kind of stuff
thanks for sending it in purchased a
bunch of networking hardware and has got
it all set up to the T and it looks
great it's really easy to make that move
like even when I was building that
computer for Dave I purchased everything
through the links right oh yeah pretty
much all of our Christmas shopping
support in the community - I mean you
folks been awesome thank you so much for
supporting us such a cool way to support
us and it works oh thanks
goes right back into everything that you
see happening here ok Plex Media Server
think of this as kind of your own home
brewed Netflix love it Wow
kind of a good way to explain it because
we're all familiar with the Netflix
interface and how it lays out you know
you go into comedy and there's all your
comedy shows and this kind of stuff Plex
allows you to create your own service so
that you can import your own library
your favorite online shows if you want
to add category 5 TV for example we're
gonna show you how to do that you can
add your home movies yes that's your
music library we've got we've ripped
absolutely and we've ripped all of our
Christmas music this year and we put it
on our Plex so now we just say play
Christmas music and it's just a shuffle
library of non-stop Christmas excellent
very cool commercial free
flex is a free piece of software now
they do have some commercial components
they do have a subscription service
called Plex pass Jeff maybe you can
touch on yeah a bit of what the
advantages of that are yes so I did not
initially sign up for plex pass just use
regular plex media server and then about
six months in I decided I want the
ability to download download yes sir
you're gonna download my files from or
black remotely so you said well that's
one of things that comes with Plex pass
so I signed up for the lifetime
subscription I think it was under 50
bucks or something like it was but now
I'm covered for life okay but it allows
me to on my other Plex devices so say
like my tablet sure I can wherever
you've got the app installed right your
laptop your computer your tablet your TV
your Roku yes I could be sitting Amazon
hotel and download my files and so you
have a local copy yes you have to
download it or can you still have to you
can stream it also with plex pass comes
some of their other additional features
they're always rolling out some cool
I think trailers is one that I would
really find appealing I'll be able to
see the trailer before I click on the
movie yes even on my own library right I
love that we're looking through Netflix
Becca and I my wife and looking for a
new Christmas movie and how do we do it
we bring up the trailers on Netflix so
we bring up the description oh that one
sounds interesting play the trailer mhm
well you can do that with a plex pass on
your own plex server yes it's it's good
there's a lot of added features and
truthfully I don't even utilize them all
sure because but they're there you get a
lifetime subscription that's done
exactly yeah yeah I'm so plex media
server itself is absolutely free we have
installed it and shown how to use it on
multiple kinds of devices so go to our
website category 5 dot TV and simply
click search and do a search for Plex
ple X and one of the videos that we've
done Jeff and I did a tutorial on how to
set up Plex Media Server on a Raspberry
Pi 3 which is how I'm running at home
so keep in mind that makes the Raspberry
Pi 3 your server
than any device that you use your tablet
your phone your computer your your Roku
can connect to that and stream the video
to your TV or whatever that's it's so
cool
so we've shown those things go to our
website and do a search for plex to see
those but tonight we're gonna do
something a little different something
that we haven't done yet and that's to
show you how to install plex media
server so this is the server component
on your Windows machine ok you may have
a Windows machine that's always on and
if you do we can treat that as our
server and that's the one that all of
our other devices in the house will
connect to and be able to stream video
from in addition to that our plex
channel has been updated to version 1.9
now that's a big leap for us we're gonna
show you tonight how to download and
install that on your brand-new plex
media server all right so hello to the
chat room I see you up here on my laptop
but I'm gonna have to minimize you my
friends bringing up a new tab and in
order to get plex again it's free we're
just going to go to Plex I'm gonna bring
up my screen just so that you've got it
plex dot TV slash down loads just like
that alright so I mentioned that you can
install this on multiple kinds of
devices one of the things I need to
mention as well you can in fact install
plex media server on your Nass yeah
think about that for a moment if you've
got a smart ass you can install Plex on
that and then your Nass itself becomes
the server I have it installed in on
raid on my own raid server yeah so I've
got 8 hard drives in my server and I've
got a massive library and it's amazing
and you've got the power of that of that
server as well so now that I'm at the
download page I'm one step closer to
awesome I just click on download and the
skins me down here I'm running Windows
right now so it automatically detected
that but check this out Mac Linux
FreeBSD Synology Netgear QNAP these are
nasa's QNAP on raid robo a su still a su
store the so star trek us now we're
getting into the obscure ones folks the
ones that nobody's ever heard of we're
moving along Seagate we've heard of them
Western Digital hard drive manufacturer
Terra
sir and then other docker its hello
doctors like a kind of like a
virtualization platform but really it's
like sharing resources on a Linux
architecture oh so those who use it know
what it is how it works we today for the
sake of the demo or on Windows so we're
just going to download that as simple as
this boom again it's free and I'm gonna
click to open that so that's gonna take
seven five four because windows knows
countdowns three three minutes three
minutes yeah but that little blue two
minutes little blue so as that downloads
we're gonna take a very very quick break
when we come back we're gonna install
Plex we're gonna get it set up and then
we're gonna put our you know category 5
TV Plex channel on our plex server so
that we can watch category 5 from
anywhere on our devices check it out
we'll be right back
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play I don't
know you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
the download is complete and we are
ready to install Plex Media Server on
our Windows machine now there's really
not a lot of options here where do you
want to install it - I'm just happy with
the default and we're gonna go install
already yeah sorry he'll want to install
this well I yes thank you for asking
windows ya rhotic if you said no in the
middle of show ya
why isn't it working so this is
installing all of the components for
Plex Media Server and Wow is it done
already so yeah apparently so let's see
what it does when I click on launch it's
most likely gonna bring up my web
browser because Plex is in fact a web
browser-based utility on a computer I
mean you're not going to install a
program from a computer in order to
access it you just can access it through
your web browser it's as simple as that
didn't bring didn't launch anything
let's try 127.0.0.1 : and then the port
the default port for Plex is always 30
to 400 and then slash web and it is
there it's running look at that
beautiful my dashboard is empty now I
can add a library and I can say this is
movies and I can say this is movies and
I like to say movies drama or
movies sci-fi and I like to organize
myself that way so that everything is
kind of together and then I can click
Next and I can browse for media if
you're not sure how plex media server
works from that end of things go back
and watch our PI episode in its plex
media server for Raspberry Pi 3 you can
google it you can go onto our website
category 5 TV pardon me and search it
there and you will find it so what we're
interested in tonight is getting
category 5 TV to work on plex so people
are asking hey how can I do that how can
I get plex installed on or how can i get
category 5 TV installed on my plex
server without having to download you
know through an RSS feed and get all the
files downloaded locally and then that
takes up a massive amount of space so
here's how we do it folks you ready for
it
category 5 dot TV slash subscribe this
is where you go for any of your
platforms that you want to use for
category 5 TV shows you can break it
down by show or you can get the
consolidated feed if you want the RSS
feeds we've got audio we've got low
quality SD and HD and so on so but here
we're here for plex
we've got Roku and Cody as well let's
get our plex plug in now I'm gonna walk
you through how to do this because it's
a little complex for somebody who's
never done this before I want to show
you how to obtain it how to install it
how to get it up and going so this is
called github and this is where we code
the plex channel so you'll see you know
here it says three days ago it was
updated so you know that hey this is
this is more recent than the one I
installed three weeks ago so we click on
cloner download and then we go download
zip and that's going to download our
channel and it's extremely small so it's
going to be really really quick to
download there it is it's done and now
show in folder is what I'm clicking on
but basically it's in my downloads
folder and now I'm gonna right-click on
it in windows and go extract all similar
process on Linux or Mac or wherever you
are so now there's a folder called
category 5 TV - master first of all I
want to go into that because I see that
there's a redundant copy of that folder
within that folder
so we're gonna actually work on this one
go into that and you see oh those are
the files okay so right here now the -
master has been added by github this is
a known thing and if you read the Plex
manual it'll tell you you got to remove
that so we removed the - master so that
it is now called category five dot or
yeah category five dot bundle and that's
the naming algorithm for Plex so then
I'm going to cut that folder now I'm
ready to move this into my plex
plugins folder it's going to be located
at different places depending on your
platform but here on Microsoft Windows
it's nice and easy to find I'm gonna
simply go into my address bar up here at
the top and type % local app data % okay
hit enter and this is the local
application data for all of my installed
applications and I see one now called
plex media server which I can enter
within that folder I see plug-in support
and plugins the folder I want to enter
is called plugins you'll see there is
something called service bundle before I
paste I want to show you in Plex
what we're actually doing if I click on
channels I want you to be able to see
the difference you see that there are no
channels installed so now back there I'm
going to right click and go paste and so
now within my plex media server /
plugins folder
I've got category 5 dot bundle and if I
enter that it's not another folder it is
actually the content of the github
repository you can also use git if you
want so that you can just do a git pull
and it will automatically update to the
latest version that's a good idea if you
know how to do that but we're showing
you the kind of a novice entry level way
of doing this so that's nice and easy
so now that I've pasted that into the
correct folder I should be able just to
simply refresh my browser with f5 in the
channels folder here on plex and lo and
behold we have one channel installed
it's in fact syncing to our channel
right now that's why it took a moment
for the for the icon to come up if I go
back home click on channels now I see
it's instant right click on it and there
we go so we've got category 5 technology
TV the newsroom new every day the pixel
shadow scratch coding for kids nature
sounds we've got shorter clips and watch
live so watch live obviously during a
live show you can use that if you want
to go shorter clips you can see
shortened clips like little seven-minute
segments instead of the full 1 hours
these are great so that you can just
kind of skim through the content if
you've missed a couple of shows and you
want to see what's going on or if you if
you want to share it with somebody as
well
category 5 technology TV obviously our
full-length show so these are like one
hour plus and this goes back you know
you can you can go back how far can we
go
baa baa baa baa baa there we go just
scroll Scroll scroll hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of hours of free
HD video content you can flex and chill
amazing Jeff just Wow
so here's last week's episode so if I
just simply click on that you'll see
that it shows me the description it
gives me a little bit of info about it
and then I can hit play we go back in
time by a week oh goodness
look at my hair I am so much older than
I was then our camera this week looks
way better yes it does so you can go
fullscreen don't we look better yeah
it's it's us I'm gonna just mute the
sound here because I don't want you to
have to hear it and us at the same time
but there you go so that's actually
streaming to Plex to my plex media
server to my browser and and I'm able to
access that now in our scenario tonight
I've installed and I'm accessing Plex
from the very same computer Microsoft
Windows installed and and so on now all
I need is the IP address of that laptop
or my computer that is now running plex
media server right and from any other
device on my network I can connect to
that URL so the IP address colon 32400
right slash web and now I've got the
plex interface and I can stream to that
is awesome a computer connected to your
4k TV perfect nice attached
an app installed on your phone good tabs
nice I'm the guy saying nice this week
I've said it once already there you have
it folks so that is Plex Media Server
with our channel installed on a windows
system check it out let us know
what you think we'd love to field your
questions we'd love to know how you're
enjoying our channel as well as your
just Plex in general remember go back
watch the Raspberry Pi one because we
get into more details about how to add
your library and yes like that and just
play around with it have fun it's cool
it's non-destructive so you can add your
library your home movies and it's you
know create descriptions it's a database
on that computer which you can backup
and you know it's fantastic it's your
own home brew Netflix check it out
plex dot TV very cool I do like this
being on one camera this is fantastic
what I need to remember though is that I
can in fact zoom in because you know
part of the 4k experience is the fact
that we can do this kind of stuff Jeff
and I can have a conversation now I
should mention that the a x53 is running
in full auto mode tonight so if colors
are off a little bit we may want to
tweak the the way that it's you know the
the exposure or the white balance and
all that kind of stuff right Dax 53
because it's very entry level it's a lot
of automated features is not really good
for doing manual stuff is there a way
for a viewer to call in like via Skype
or whatnot
I have Skype on my phone are you
thinking that you want to call in today
because we're not really connected for
it but if that's something that you the
community would like to have certainly
it's something that we could enable on
the show we've done it in the past and
certainly you know we'd love to do it
again but we would need to kind of know
that there's maybe we'd set aside a
couple of you know a couple of shows for
that I would love that and so with the
chat room perfect how great would that
be okay we'll put that on the to-do list
for for the new year folks because we
got a lot to do over the next couple of
weeks
how's that sounds sounds good patrons
especially get your comments in to us
let us know what you think and if you
are not already a patron please become
one that's a way for you to really
one-on-one interact with us especially
myself because I am in the the patreon
channel or the page hey hey come on I've
vlog you know it's me
maybe it's just CG maybe it's gotten
really good these days
like Beowulf anyway you ready for you
start looking like the ESET guy I do
already he's my brother that's right
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
password manager that gives your private
heat because their robot worker costs
India these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five dot
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias I'm minute here the top
stories were following this week for
about eight days some versions of
Windows 10 bundled a password manager
that contained a critical vulnerability
within its browser plugin the flaw was
almost identical to the one that the
same researcher had disclosed in the
same manager plug-in 16 months ago which
allowed websites to steal passwords
Google project 0 researcher Tavis
Ormandy in a blog post Friday is said
that the keeper password manager came
pre-installed on a newly built Windows
10 system when he tested this
unrequested app it prompted him to
enable a browser plug-in and that
plug-in contained a bug that represents
complete compromise of keeper security
allowing any website to steal any
password with only basic changes to
selectors Ormond ease old proof of
concept exploit worked on the new keeper
plugin his posts linked to the publicly
available proof of concept exploit which
steals an end-users Twitter password if
it's stored in the keeper app and the
plug-in is enabled after the post went
live a keeper spokesman said that the
bug only affected version 11 of the app
which was released on December 6th and
only when a user followed keeper prompts
to install the browser plugin they fixed
the flaw in the just released version
11.4 by removing the vulnerable
functionality the fix came 24 hours
after Ormandy privately reported the
flaw to keeper
well at least they fixed it quickly
please
hope it wasn't exploited in the wild it
seems like malicious action do you think
it's an accident solar or do you think
that its passwords right let's get into
the conspiracy theory aspect of this
Microsoft's products are closed source
I'm assuming the app is Microsoft I'm
not sure but it comes with Windows 10
anyway so yeah but it's closed source so
it's not like publicly open source
application that can accidentally accept
a PR or something and somebody can
inject code so it would have to be
somebody that's actually or just an
accident maybe that was an whoops a bug
that allows the passwords in your
password manager to be sent to any site
which is crazy
I miss you password box I feel like
there's been enough like Windows bugs
over the years that I'm sure this is
just nothing more than an eclipse it's
the same though that happened 16 months
ago that's it yeah 16 not 15 see said
yeah 16 months ago there was a bug that
caused this it was reported and fixed
and now here it is again so what does
that mean it can happen I mean it's a
bad a bad case because this these are
your
for your private passwords you trust
these applications I don't use this you
know the Windows password management app
but does anybody does anyone do you and
are you affected by it that's the
question I don't use it simply because I
don't like the idea that possibly being
used as a marketing thing is where does
that sound Windows yeah like if it's
built into the Windows software I'm sure
there's some sort of marketing that can
we've seen your past where it is
well I pass and the thought that comes
to my mind is and there have been little
exploits here and there with with
LastPass and and bugs and and whatever
else but nothing nothing that's
revealing my passwords to any website
that requests them right but what would
happen and and first of all how does
this happen
really how are there not security
measures in place when you are building
a password management tool it's like if
you accept credit cards online
why are you storing them in plain text
in a MySQL database like it doesn't make
sense why are you storing plaintext
passwords there's no rhyme or reason to
that why would you not pay special care
right to this but what would happen you
know what how would I feel if LastPass
had such an exploit well and here's the
thing now I used passwords yeah and then
when it switched over to true key now I
use true key but is that what happens
then like all of my trust really and all
of my enthusiasm was in password box now
they switched us over now I just went
along with it
right yeah it's the same trust I had in
password box is it the same that I
should have in true key or is it all
right but you know what I mean like okay
McAfee
I use - lame I've never even heard of -
lame it's it's a subscription service
yes I love it
it's crop it's cross-platform and it
works on multiple devices and if I
create a password on one website it
syncs up with my account for any of my
other devices so like LastPass or past
exact same deal but it's yep I find it
seamless it's I've tried getting in
the database and its garbling good
you can't figure if Jeff can't hack it
folks that's the one thing he didn't try
that's the best way to exploit the
windows up did you try just entering
root and then pressing enter a San
Francisco Animal Shelter has announced
it will no longer use a night scope
security robot to patrol its office
after a widely circulated report
described the robot being used to deter
nearby homeless encampments and rising
crime the San Francisco SPCA said that
it has received hundreds of messages
inciting violence and vandalism against
their facility after the story of the
robot went viral in response to that
pressure the organization will seek a
more fully informed consensus oriented
local approach to the use of security
robots San Francisco authorities had
already advised the SPCA to stop using
the robot on sidewalks without proper
approval mountain view based nightscope
has said in a statement that the robot
was not brought in to clear the area
around the San Francisco SPCA of
homeless individuals but only to serve
and protect the SPCA the recent influx
of tech companies and their high paid
employees has helped drive income
inequality and make San Francisco the
most expensive place to rent an
apartment in the United States those
underlying tensions have boiled over in
protest against tech companies including
over private shuttles run by companies
including Google the San Francisco SPCA
facility is located in a rapidly
gentrifying neighborhood where
inequality is particularly acute
contributing to the rise of homeless
encampments on the sidewalks the SPCA
reported a recent rise in vandalism and
theft which it has said declined after
the security robot was put into service
but in San Francisco's current context
the thought of using a high-tech robots
to deter homeless people doesn't
go over well the robot could also be
seen as taking a job from a human the
president of the SPCA earlier told the
San Francisco Business Times times that
the robot cost just six dollars an hour
to rent while San Francisco's minimum
wage is $14 an hour as a non profit the
cost of a human worker would be cost
prohibitive so while they are retiring
the robot they have no intention of
hiring a person to take its place
wow that's a lot because it's not like
the robot is taking the drop of a human
right right it's a non-profit and they
can't use a robot which would really no
doubt help but it's because they can't
use the robot because there's this
homeless situation and so there's
homeless people all over the sidewalk
the problem is bigger than this robot
but the robot seems to be definitely a
sore spot the scapegoat
one thing what's not clear from this is
why are people upset like how is the
robot approaching the homeless what what
is it doing is lasers jack is it doing
something that's upsetting them or is it
just the presence of a robot right it's
well that's the thing it's probably the
presence of a robot because truth be
told what could possibly be doing it's
just there to patrol the area it's a
monitoring system it's an advanced
monitoring system and realistically in
my view I think it's not the robot
that's causing it's what the risk
represents it's more what yeah I mean
it's shedding light on a situation where
tent cities are popping up and the SPCA
is having to bring in a robot in order
to simply patrol and it's getting
vandalized and it's getting abused and
you know so there's all kinds and San
Francisco is already making a scene over
robots accessing sidewalks and public
areas and things like that I mean it's a
hot spot for story like this
to come out of right but sure I mean if
minimum wage is $14 an hour and it's a
nonprofit organization they're not gonna
be able to see even say to one of the
homeless people hey I'll pay you six
dollars an hour because it wouldn't be
legal then you have to pay $14 an hour
whereas any of those people would
probably take the six yeah oh boy yeah
Wow it's it's a messy touchy subject and
we're really in that place aren't we
where this is really gonna start coming
to light I think in more places as well
well it's no different really than the
story last week of the drone flying
around after work right it's now it's
it's a machine that yeah affecting the
behavior of the people and now people
are going to start feeling a little bit
what I finally interesting about this
and maybe this is more of a
tongue-in-cheek comment
it's the SPCA wouldn't the dogs be
deterrent they're in cages the dogs yeah
the dogs are inside this is this is
generally outdoor this is outdoor
vandalism yeah probably
oh yeah okay sorry like I'm just
thinking like hey put up an attack dog
on premises sign or something and you
know have somebody watch absolution is a
violent one let's make them attack
canine no no it's the psychology of it
you've got you've got the dog just sign
up and then you go to to spray paint now
only dogs are barking oh my god all
these poor kittens in the shelter that
are scared out of their ever loving
minds because this attack dog is
constantly barking at the homeless
people have you been to the SPCA year
and berry yeah I was going bark it all
the time recordings of like you remember
that see it's just the shotguns the
Federal Communications Commission voted
Thursday to deregulate the broadband
industry and eliminate net neutrality
rules that prohibit
Internet service providers from blocking
and slowing Internet traffic going
forward home and internet providers and
mobile carriers will no longer be bound
by strict net neutrality rules but
rather by whatever promises they choose
to make ISPs will be allowed to block or
throttle Internet traffic or offer
priority to websites and online services
in exchange for payment as long as ISPs
publicly disclosed the blocking slowing
or paid prioritization they won't be
violating any FCC rules the Federal
Trade Commission could punish ISPs if
they make promises and then break them
but there's no requirement that the ISPs
make promises in the first place the FCC
will have to defend its decision in
court as pro net neutrality groups plan
to appeal advocates are also pushing
Congress to reinstate net neutrality
rules so do you think that this repeal
will go through yes well I mean the Jeff
question he works for the Union this is
a political answer at best which we know
always brings out a lot of opinions
online I mean if you look at the way
things have been going in the US as far
as changing of the rules
it's very business centric right which
was the platform that was offered
exactly you know and that's you know how
he Trump got elected so this just falls
in line with that so it's a political
answer is it gonna get overturned I
don't know
the big question becomes what is going
to be the impact of it because we did
have non net neutrality the net
neutrality came in to curb some of these
issues now you're taking it away is
there gonna be almost a Wild West
type mindset amongst the big companies
say hey we've just had the leash taken
off let's do this and we're going to let
everybody know we're doing it so we're
not breaking any rules and that's gonna
be the big thing is is whether it's
appealed or not remains to be seen but
what is the fallout from this and how
far is it going to go before people go
whoa put some reins on this and what
happens then that's what I'm interest to
see when you
I mean whether you're for or against
regulations when you put restrictions on
something it changes the way that you
play when you remove restrictions sky's
the limit and it's gonna be very
interesting to see how this really tough
to know really tough to know right now
because I think that if my ISP was
throttling the services that I use and
making it so that they're not
functioning very well what happens then
I would switch ISPs right so they're
gonna lose my business right so now it's
the deregulation just simply means that
the ISP has to now make wise decisions
for their customers okay so you know
there's two sides of it and and maybe it
boils down to is the ISP a moral company
are they obviously they're in this to
make money but would turning down the
speed of the throughput of BitTorrent to
a reasonable level thinking of QoS
quality of service way turning it down a
bit help those who are watching on
Netflix be able to watch with better
experience and if yes then that's
quality of service right we're
restricting something that you're gonna
let this run overnight anyways and
whether it takes five minutes or five
hours probably doesn't make much of a
difference to you but the person sitting
there watching a 4k video on Netflix is
going to be impacted by that spinning
wheel that says they don't have enough
bandwidth right so there's really two
sides to it well if I recall correctly
when the whole net neutrality thing came
in several years ago was it not because
people were finding that the Netflix in
particular was throttled by certain
deities right and what happens now is
this can effect viewership and does it
now open up the door for the services
like Netflix or any of your streaming
services to start going into business
deals with certain ISPs saying look you
know we'll cut you a portion of the
revenue of all of your subscribers who
use our service right if you don't
throttle and now we're
start seeing hey if you buy our service
you'll get better Netflix right because
it's actually throttled that way it'll
be interesting to see those out and says
hey we run throttled our service is
unlike work it's hopefully you know and
is that gonna be a marketing gimmick now
right probably yeah and how is this
gonna affect prices so understand this
the impact here is simply that the ISPs
now have the choice so we're not saying
and and nobody's saying Netflix is going
to start buffering or category five is
no longer going to be viewable in HD
because they don't have enough money to
pay the ISPs for the better bandwidth
right that's probably I can't see that
happening because it's still the
Internet and if it's not working I'm
gonna change ISPs but the fact is is now
the ISPs will have the legal right to
make those decisions right it's gonna be
interesting to see how it plays out yeah
those ones where I feel like popping
some popcorn sitting back and just
watching the show it's too tricky for me
to make a decision on how exactly I feel
except that I never imagined it would be
an issue like I didn't actually know
that net neutrality was a thing until it
was well we're here in Canada yeah and
we have net neutrality rules in place
that protect us even though the states
are going through this but it could it's
a finicky thing to you know Bell is
fighting that with the CRTC and we could
see it say bye-bye as well okay and then
it's it's gonna impact us as well the
one thing that I was thinking about as
I've watched this play out over the last
couple of weeks is what about things
like online shopping online shopping is
huge right now so you go yeah and like
with Boxing Day deals coming up and like
cyber deals is this gonna open the door
to say hey we you know we're gonna
partner with this online retailer so we
won't throttle your purchases here but
if you go to this one we're gonna slow
it down so when you're trying to process
your order
there's McGann quantity you hope you
hope that isn't it it's the same like
buying tickets again they they have the
legal right to do that but would they
yeah it would be silly for them it would
be silly that fella and if it produces
dollars and especially if it turns into
revenue fool it's not gonna produce
dollars if I say you know what your
service stinks I'm gonna switch
providers to somebody who correct it
works with Amazon or whoever whoever
yeah here's a good story Google will be
using lasers instead of fiber to deploy
high-speed Internet in India there are
two main components to getting an entire
nation online the last mile and the
backbone the often talked about last
mile is the final piece of the puzzle
the cable running to each house or the
wireless link between your cell phone
and a nearby Tower but in order for that
last mile to work it has to be hooked up
to something normally that means a
dedicated fiber line running from the
cell tower to a local exchange which is
time-consuming and costly to run so
faced with the challenge of bringing
rural India online Google is trying
something very different alphabet
Google's parent company has entered into
an agreement with India's government to
provide high speed wireless internet to
millions of residents using a
point-to-point laser connectivity system
routers reports the system will
reportedly involve 2,000 boxes installed
in total with some up to 12 miles apart
some kind of optical system which
essentially means lasers will be used to
connect the boxes together the system
will provide a backbone for cell towers
and Wi-Fi hotspots which will allow
residents to access the internet using
basic smartphones the optical data links
have a capacity of up to 20 gigabits
according to alphabet far more than
traditional radio waves this wave
systems that they currently have can
achieve the project is a spin-off of
alphabets project loon a concept that
uses giant floating balloons to
distribute wireless internet
to rural areas the optical link
technology might be related directly to
loon although alphabet hasn't provided
any details to that effect so I don't
know who is keeping track for the
category 5 dictionary but way do raves
is new got it down shut it down when I
was younger I used to have a really bad
speech impediment put me on a guilt trip
ok this is important I couldn't pay my
hours at all and so I went to a speech
pathologist and it was I was like 10 or
11 like embarrassingly old by the time I
could save my arse but in order to pass
my class from my speech pathologist I
had to stand in front of the class and
read a book called Ronald the racecar
driver
my way to initiator oh you did great
sash now I read the news and it's crazy
for me because there are hours in like
every like radio waves yes yes so we've
got Blazers for point-to-point
communications and this would solve the
Australia problem just try to eat
through my lasers yeah cockatoos okay I
I love the story I love the potential
that comes with this and I think of all
those remote areas that are stuck on
especially in Canada satellite service
right a delight internet but that's what
FM or no it's a different freak
something else okay 802 11 or some sort
yeah I used to install satellite
internet dishes and I forget all the
details but but something like this
could be very effective but at the same
time I'm I'm thinking of the report that
just came out this week from I think
it's California
hey don't keep your cell phones in your
pocket don't have your cell phones
beside your bed because the radio waves
and the cancer-causing agents blah blah
blah now we're shooting lasers
everywhere we think about the speed of
fiber-optic cable right right a laser is
basically fiber-optic without the cable
right but is somebody gonna turn around
and say I potentially have become ill
because you've been shooting lasers
through my body when I didn't ask for it
to be in there probably above the oh
maybe but would they be affected by
weather and stuff like I'm looking here
sure yeah like sheriff punji has a
subtropical climate in India with looks
like the city's yearly rainfall is
eleven thousand seven hundred and
seventy seven millimeters it's a lot of
rain that's a lot and rain as we know
will affect line of sight communication
laser think about a raindrop going
through a laser and how that would
affect it it would just scatter the beam
right so that if they didn't have
internet before right then any amount
would be don't complain you can't expect
to surf the web when it's raining and
you're stuck inside what's the
possibility of stealing Internet this
way oh boy you have to redirect the
laser beam oh goodness me that would be
but if there's transmission I mean could
you using I don't know how it works I'm
just not as soon as soon as you
intercept that they're gonna know
because it's been cut off so the
receiving point has not is no longer
receiving the signal so but yet you're
still pulling throughput so now I
couldn't do you know it it's it's a cool
concept regardless I mean we've does it
down in South America you've got I think
it's Google is doing drones for Internet
now we got lasers for Internet I think
at one point of her that there was like
balloons for internet yeah yeah like
then Facebook has got their drone the
big big drone yeah yeah okay how else
can you get they're looking for cool
ways yeah they're looking for
technological ways that are achievable
now to bring Internet to areas that
can't normally have it and fiber through
the air would be very fast absolutely
you know compared to speed for the
copper cables that they would probably
have
run it's cheaper much cheaper you've got
the transmitters and receivers and
everything else in between is god-given
now lasers don't have degradation over a
distance do they well I suppose they
would through fog and rain and things
like that but if it's like clarity
oh yes so but I mean like degradation
like no you could if it's strong enough
you can shoot a laser to the space
station okay but that's that's where my
thoughts going I mean oh so you could
have internet on the moon yes
somebody just I think it was last week
that they're gonna put a colony on it
was it Japan so they're gonna put a
colony on the moon oh yeah or maybe I
didn't hear that it was an order from
Trump I read it last week somebody knows
somebody someone wants to go back to the
moon they want to try starting a colony
and then launch from there to go to Mars
I heard the NASA rules have changed
based on Trump's order okay maybe so
maybe that's related yeah but I mean how
cool would that be to Mars I'm thinking
about the connection between continents
yeah how we're still very dependent on
the underwater cable yes and that's
fantastic in the back you know it's been
really quite good considering you know
holy cow they ran a lot of cable can you
rip the laser transmission sure oh yeah
yeah is this a data transmission and
reception that's oh yeah you encrypt it
on the transmitting end and that's cool
what do you think we're at a time big
thanks to Roy W Nash in our community of
yours for submitting story stuffs this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman awesome
thanks Sasha this is category 5
technology TV I have to tell you I am
really really good friends with 25
letters of the alphabet but I don't know
why
ah okay well not the reaction she was
hoping for took me a second I'm like oh
that's just got something to say sasha
has a corny pun okay
so I've got one for you see as soon as
this is a tech show why should you not
pass gas in an Apple Store why because
they don't have Windows that's a joke my
kids would eat up it's getting bad for
everybody watching have a very Merry
Christmas
absolutely Happy Holidays season's
greetings all that good stuff
be safe out there spend time with your
family your loved ones and soak up the
holidays and make wonderful wonderful
memories it's gonna be fun I got a lot
of fun stuff planned with my kids I'm
looking forward to just relaxing and
having Christmas with them I hold a
special Christmas traditions our
Christmas traditions yeah
any special ones no not really you know
what there's nothing really that stands
out to me as a Christmas tradition
beyond you know getting up with the kids
and opening opening gifts on Christmas
morning and you know making it special
for them that's the transition for us
with three kids at home I'm sure you
found the same it's it's like now it's
about making it fun and exciting for the
kids and yeah we do Christmas very
special time for the kid my parents did
that yeah okay yeah yeah cuz they go
through the pajamas every year you know
they get something fun on you know
Christmas Eve fun pajamas and then we do
the ornaments yeah so that would be our
tradition so a Christmas tree ornament
that you know every year they have one
so that when they get older and have
their own Christmas tree they've got an
assortment of ornaments that means
something to them well I don't have any
real traditions like well we have an
ever evolving of a big crazy family I
have many siblings and
most of us are now married so we do
Christmas our Christmas celebration
together the first weekend of December
so it's all ready that part's already
done this is Dave and mine and Dave's
first year being married so whatever we
do this year is going to be the
tradition I would think so what we are
doing this year which I'm so excited
about we're gonna go and also we're
going to the Nottawasaga in which is a
nice in closing I yeah they have an
all-you-can-eat Christmas dinner buffet
Wow
oh that would be fun as a couple other
people there right it's gonna be like a
big dining room full of other people
that don't have other plans for the
holidays and we're just gonna eat all
you can eat dinner perfect fits on
Christmas Day tip big cuz those workers
are working yes I will I do I used to be
a surfer yes alright everybody will
Merry Christmas and we will see you
again next week it's been fun having you
here and looking forward to seeing you
next week
