hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie wedding said on today's
show we're going to talk about so what's
in a name so stay tuned be right back
[Music]
hi and welcome back to new every day
we're surviving opinion and we're still
on the road in Tennessee we're headed to
Nashville we've had a great experience
so far done a whole lot of things came
in like oh yeah as interesting as we are
we're on the road we always make you two
connections between this is what we see
what's happening and yet but what is the
word of God say looks and how has God
called us them without our life in and
so really what this whole series is
about is I want to say living the life
God has cause to according to his work
like why I really think about what is
one of the purposes of why why it is
what we do a lot of it is like what's
happening in life now hot what it's got
how does got called to live out his
truth what
his life through what in the world that
he's given us to live in like you know I
mean like you coughed up a relationship
with him holes and how do we do it we
see everything that's going on in the
world how do we how do we actually live
as believers well how do we make these
connections i want to say so a lot of
what happens actually in our
conversations together is like well this
is what's happened today and then Carol
be scary with a powerful word of God
says like oh yes how we should respond
to each other again I can step back in
and then putting your experience over
top of a compass what happens next thing
at the radar so I might actually have
the right thinking because if you're
bombarded with messages all day like
where the news in the states is so
different from Janine yeah so it's kind
of a lot more in your face and a lot
more messages are pushed to make you
think a certain way at least that's the
way I felt even just watching the short
snippets that we have and the
commercials are is all up in your face
trying to get you to think a certain way
or buy a certain product yes
but yeah I'm always I can do actually
believe that or like we were watching
infomercials infomercial ya know the
Jewelry channel you will really have
their own channel amazing so anyways
they're telling me with all this bling
and as I'm watching and I'm like oh my
gosh it's so funny I can't believe it
turns out that now that watch more like
oh we got a point you know Lester when I
got a good deal it's are believing what
they're telling me anyways that's an
aside but it's very different here and
it an enjoyable experience and so part
of experiencing a new culture is finding
places to stay in and so a couple of
times we booked online with I want to
say right there we reputable places
every step ensures online looks good
like you go through in your life okay
that looks nice okay those rooms look
nice and I know there's one place that
we folks online I was like yeah that's a
great deal and one of the reasons that
we chose to you know come to Tennessee
and so clearly I want to groupon I'm
like kidding
that's three where's that all tense and
that was burning I'm like what's around
gatlinburg Smoky Mountains I'm like okay
if you could do some hiking which is
something we both enjoy doing and so I
booked this place online after reading
the reviews and looking at the number
thinking okay okay it looks okay so on
the way down we had to book a place to
stay and booked online we thought okay
this is okay and we get there and I said
control the night sent to carry I think
Manchester remote works and we have
never in Iraq and we went in and we sort
of knew it for over room before we go
into thanking God for the opportunity to
be there and we walk in we look around
and Carrie we will have roles we walk
into a room carry checks for bed bugs
and I've never done to support but you
know what i had another friend that did
this before Carrie I just grew up
thinking every time I go into a
situation always thinking the very very
best and so when I stayed with a friend
of mine overnight once at a hotel and
she had Brooke like literally she
brought her own things to sleep on I was
like what are you doing that just wish
like walls bedbugs and I'm like no way
yeah I have rust I have a silo sleeping
bag at places I always dated
we have state has sketchy places and my
camera keeps moving and so even though
so anyways so here we go then he does
the nurse thing she check the back box
and I tend to go to the bathroom and
check linens and stuff like that to see
if they're clean so this is sort of the
rules that we've sort of adopted so we
did an awesome like we're on our own it
wasn't a big deal oh yeah but and this
is the thing like we are renting race we
don't want to take anything back no
although we didn't leave and that's very
important like that before do you want
to because we also the place where we
live Leigh Brent from somebody else so
it would be very bad if we take a crater
back with us and then introduce it we
got yes and so what's interesting is the
first place that we went in we're like
okay you could we could stay here and
then on our way out series like what's
that I'm like I don't know just like
that's cockroach a big in case she takes
the photo of it and we go downstairs and
we're just like we cannot stay here
I got a good conscience no no so they
gave us our money back went to another
place stayed over I was fine so the next
night we look to play that looks great
online that looked great on my eyeball
great great great right we get there can
we drive in and I'm like this is like
not safe this is like sketchy fun pal it
was very dark the lobby area was very
sketch and like clutter and like
cardboard box was laying around and the
attendant was like cat I think he had
had a little bit too much it was
respectful to her head outside and miss
Carrie we should approach at do and so
anyways one of them can we go in and
actually the rumors quite nice oh yeah
my nights were like okay okay kit and
you know what I've been listening to a
talk sound a bit princessy but given the
fact that we're staying alone right now
happen easy we have to make big
decisions
we want to get back to Kansas alive yeah
and and then we ran right like it is all
these things you gotta keep in mind so
yeah we go in the room mostly looks like
and then as we going to leave the room
kerry looks up to the ceiling if she's
like what's that i was with you his
throat chakra takes a photo go back to
knocked on the door and the intended
says oh yeah pest control guys coming
tomorrow show it to me what you think it
he come back to the room go into a woman
he's like yeah and he gave us the money
back and what good night and we're kind
of feeling a bit defeated because we're
like well when this time is eleven
o'clock 1130 yeah anybody found another
place and the guy showed us some room
and we're like okay and it was ok so you
might be saying okay what is this happy
with
but we got talking about the fact like
because of what is shown online and the
reviews were like hey this seems like a
good place so as we had the commercial
break why you be thinking about have I
ever made a judgment based on what
somebody else has said or how some be I
want to take portrays themselves and
it's been wrong for a brand name or a
brand name so hope think about that and
we'll be right back Jeff Westham yella
you're building a brand new beautiful
website what are you all right you're
terrible actor what this we're acting
comes into play oh I don't know where
Arctic you're supposed to act okay fair
enough are you building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account if you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website that's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
com guys to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five gb flash
green Hope's don't put a little paper
sorry just don't do it but hey it's a
great deal folk best deal you're going
to find five dollars and change per
month go to cat five dot TV / dreamhost
hey and welcome back you're watching you
every day go check out our website and
everyday TV thank you so much the
category 5 TV and Robbie Ferguson to
make this show happen and thanks also to
all of our partners if you go on our
website go to our partners page you can
go on and see all of the wonderful
groups that are supporting it and if you
would like to support us through a
donation we would just be so grateful
for that to be able to make this show
happen am so thankful that you are
tuning in so again we are talking about
if you've made decisions based on a name
for based on face value of something
right so okay if you walk into a store
are you going to choose brand name
Kleenex or a
brand name okay and if you could have
like no name Cola or coke I've have seen
folks just feel like I want people that
love it but I prefer someone asking one
time they were doing a survey versus
like organic organic produce purchases
versus none are getting the wall if you
walk into a store and you look at the
apple and um it's a nice red delicious
shiny and beautiful and beside it is an
organic one that's a little bit smaller
and maybe have a few marks on it which
would you choose probably is a nice
looking red one yeah definitely even
though the 01 might taste a whole lot
better
so you might be thinking okay what does
this have to do with God because we
introduced this whole topic about you
know what's in a name and how does this
all connect with the way we think about
things and as I was because I was
sharing this with carys last evening we
had to book some squats to go into
Tennessee and Terry get on at all to
make some reservations and the guy said
would come back with these name-brand
places like big name places and I go
okay that sounds really good and I said
and then I go online and I check the
reviews and I'd be like Carrie we can't
say there it says cockroaches or in the
reviews and I know you can't go to spy
reviews but when the reviews are like
negative negative negative magus make a
bold positive negative like whew and
what cut because we have the
conversation but they carry remain like
so if you hear some of these like ours a
main name places you'd be like a
porcelain stay there and one he said
what about this place and as I went
online to check the reviews they said we
have stayed at this place again not this
name again and again and again
and this is the worst one we've ever
stayed in and I was like oh can't stay
there and we just got talking about how
like they have been named but they're
not living up to the name and we like
what I think of some people's experience
with different churches
they have had a bad experience in one
year and then every other church or
religious experience of organized
religion in general is totally written
off because of that one native
experience or one person who maybe
didn't ask them at the door or you know
one person within my community treated
them poorly and then that becomes
reference they become representative of
the entire church body or higher
organized religion and that can that can
really dance in people's experience and
make them not one to think of church in
the future yeah and and then we also
talked about how our response like we
are representatives of Christ like
Christian means little Christ and so we
are representative of Christ in Jesus
and who he is and we hear a lot that
people say well I don't want the church
I don't want Christians can you Jesus
well I don't want anything to do with
the church right because of people and
opinions I think part of it is
how we live out our lightly do we live
out our as a believer you live out your
life in humble realization that you
can't do this without Jesus I think
that's part of it like or the things
like dry and unforgiveness sort of well
up in your life you seek to understand
like Carrie is so good at this like last
night we were at a restaurant which we
were told to go to it was actually quite
good was comfort food and our server to
be honest first off I sort of looked at
and I'm like I don't want to talk to him
and Carrie was so gracious so gracious
she just starts talking to him and
drawing out pieces of information I'm
Justin you're going I can't really know
he was interesting but if she chose to
see past the outward facade to who his
person really was and I was of the mind
like my pride came up and I'm like I
don't need to talk to him like why would
I talk to him and it's that a whole
example I'm like okay it's like okay
what would use it
just so cliche when we're so true like
Carrie chose to extend love and grace
and mercy and interest like a whole
offering of love where I was more like
please don't talk to me and I did repent
actors and we kind of conversation about
that that were they of what was rising
up in me because of poofy why before
training himself to be it and then it's
like okay but if if we're to be
represent to subscribe we have welcomed
everyone whether their user arc we don't
have to agree with review so we have to
welcome and happy wanted to have those
conversations which our faith works are
based in in love and welcome and when I
look when I look back at the people who
have taken the time like I might have
not have been the same as a more like my
life is different than their to be
taking the time to
me and they wanted to hear from me and
they actually cared about me oh boy like
I have been the recipient of that and
I'm so grateful channel well you did
that for me just like we may be were
unlikely friends right we're coming in
after and and here you are but if you
spent time to get to know me and become
my friend them from result of that and
we also we were packing up that power
claim is still there you go and at the
top there were these two guys and the
one guy was they were both setting up
this huge antenna things i think you
mean what are you doing and the guy said
oh this is amateur radio amateur two-way
radio again and we're trying to see who
we can talk to we've talked to people
from Russia Chicago all over the world
he's like we shouldn't be able to pick
up beer up on the other side of the zone
and you say it's super nerdy so super
I'm like are there other people on the
other line like waiting to hear from you
and you was like yep there's all sorts
of doors in the world I thought wow that
is so different than anything I would
ever do and as we're walking back down
this mountain and like connecting with
different people within our community is
so important like how do you actually
reach the people who are doing we're
sitting in the basement playing video
games that we just don't even play or
having the necklace people doing to
spend all their time doing this radio
connection thinking ahead they are so
valuable and loved by God and can be so
important to have in the church body
like everybody needs to be part and
everybody is welcome and it needs to be
a place for them and the church and how
do you connect whereas face value I
would be like why I can't even having
nowhere is there talking to you you know
well yeah cause he actually downplayed
himself right he's like you know it's a
nerdy thing like that's cool totally
downplayed himself when we talk about
like the title of this segment is like
what's in a name Ryan he he labeled
himself nerd almost like downplaying it
like it was an important and yet we have
to look beyond you have a god curry to
do that way it was this kind of quirky
really coolness and how do we reach into
that and we looked at you know the fact
that these big hotel chains have the
name but unless the person owning it or
the people underneath the owners that
employees actually without that name
then you know we can sort of turn people
again and so it really is this outward
like
people look at the outward appearance
but the Lord looks at the heart yes
First Samuel 16 7 and so like I guess
you want to encourage you today like
just because it's bright and shiny or
everybody knows about it or or
preconceived ideas like actually take
time to check it out do your research
get to know someone have that
face-to-face conversation look at
yourself and like I have to look at
myself and go oh 10 like carrie heather
i deal with our server lines i am
talking to em getting to know him and is
part of my fear always is like well
what's going to be the expectation in
the end whereas Carrie is like no you
just get to know someone you'll worry
about what the expectations are you just
treat them as a real person and get to
know them and then worry about the
outcome later but I'm always like
thinking ahead to the end as oh no I
don't want that outcome so I actually
probably mess it up an opportunity to
get to know people so actually spend the
time getting to know people and when you
know I'm thinking about the the radio
guy who labeled himself as has murdered
but that's a whole segment of people
that you know God loves and God losses
wants to reach and so I'm guess I guess
in the end like when we say what's in a
name we'll really challenging you just
to see past the name while there it's
big name brands that looks bright shiny
well check them out see you know yeah
really what the worth is there and I say
I even about being searched like
actually check it out and and if you can
turned off quiet church before well
don't go go check it out again and if
you've been turned off by people because
of whatever whether it's a race or
belief or a mindset walk have the
conversation so when we say what can you
name we just encourage you to actually
researching absolute wisdom and
discernment and a heart for
understanding and located on us and it's
okay to ask
and so on that note let me pray Heavenly
Father I'm so thankful that you
challenged us to look beyond what's in a
name whether it's right signing we want
to fully accept it but it's not
necessarily good or it might not be
bright and shiny and we want to tune it
out and but yet there's a person they're
both father would you grant us heart for
people and a mind of discernment and
Lord God help us to choose your way side
and directives or that you have a detox
and Lord how big the believe possible
lead they do are interested in the way
that we treat other people in the
conversation
for your honor for your very tied up in
common thanks so much for watching and
we're going to stay on the road and we
hope they go to the next week as we have
more adventures at attack them
Oh
you
