welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to category 5
technology TV episode number what is it
257 your guess is gonna fight whoa hey
everybody good to see ya polygon next
thing on can you hear us can you hear us
mm-hmm yes Randy Jenkins old guy Jim
Garvey agamotto is today Chris Wright
day I didn't what size right this an
actual national holiday this is amazing
we're we previously notified like it
says I didn't have it in my calendar did
you have any I didn't have a nap hype i
feel really bad i figured every day okay
yeah i figured every tuesday it was
Christmas yeah how's everybody doing
good to see you great to see you yeah
I'm actually it's easy enough now yeah
like Sunday I was pretty sore yeah just
to back up a little bit Saturday we
moved
everything mm-hmm you would have no idea
how long it takes to remove all Robbie's
Star Trek posters it was alive all those
posters having to tear them down and put
them back up in the location you're
crazy it was a lot of work thank you so
much by the way oh not a problem you
needed some strong people and I did
inside I wish mr. wells cuz look at
those arms folks look at those arms um I
am sore today man totally well you're
still moving boxes like I know what you
guys can't see this way but just thought
that's intentional just boxes I did okay
sunday mmm pretty good Monday today not
so you call in sick to work no I I'm
Sofia rude oh I could have used some
time after in this move to I tell you
what I mean with all the stuff that
we've had to go through and stuff
seriously but yeah I'm sore tonight so
if I look like I'm like dark raining you
have to turn your entire body to look at
me yeah Krista this could be one of
those awkward shows at least we've got a
lot more room now so I can like to know
you could spin that way or something
it's just kind of that Star Trek stuff
that's pretty cool that's very ironic oh
and we've got ya would mention it's like
we can just kind of wheel all over the
place of backstage pass nice to see ya
check out over there over there yeah hey
guys you're so far away from us now I
barely saw you there mm-hmm you're just
wave your hiding behind the desk let's
uh good to see you hey Doc joining us on
backstage pass and thank you for joining
us on the main feed which is much more
exciting because it has sound at least
we think he does I hope it did you guys
can't hear us right did I um no one's
complained yet maybe that's why because
I can't hear it's like this little a
great show very good excellent jodha max
tick tock hey good to see ya Wow I have
some fantastic things in the news most
fantastic thing and if you can all hear
me i will share
you so coming up in the newsroom the UK
will have the fastest broadband in
Europe by 2015 according to WHO the UK I
I guess so no you you wrote this oh yes
I'm gonna call my bluff you're like Eric
tonight well someone's gotta do it why
did you go and close that it's like the
magic of TV and I close something to
bring up a video copy that I accelerated
make it seem like it was installing
faster someone's got a color yellow on
it somebody's gonna call me out and of
course it's gonna be Eric but I never
expected this from you well you see it
was only been a week since I was here
last so now I'm catching up on my spiffy
come back your saturday it's like so
it's been like two for three days Krista
too much Krista is only a good thing
continuing on it also in the news the US
Air Force wants to fly it more than
57,000 km/h but failed again stompy the
rideable spider robot is a go what can
you say that again that news story is
only good things stompy stompy neurotics
not rideable is rideable spider robots
I'd aroma who comes up with those I
don't know who writes this stuff you
still like in moving like oh yeah what
should we put on the news I've got I'll
make something up right away by durable
it's a rideable robot and it's ghost on
and it's spider this is one of those
serious shows oh and also last but not
least Apple is the most valuable company
of all time but who didn't know that
stick around these days are coming up
later in the show I cut you ask okay ask
the stock market sure but if you Ashley
if you asked Mac fanatics mm-hmm yes not
so valuable to us hi AZ user so Apple
yeah
alright tonight we're gonna be taking a
look at a very very serious issue with
the modern internet and that is guess
what i'm going to talk about backups
still haven't packed up my files this is
very consistent I've been helping you
move oh right that's good thank you um
no we're gonna be talking about cloud
backups not backing up to the cloud
we're doing the exact opposite we're
backing up the cloud so stick around
we're gonna learn all about that tonight
with some free right software software
as a service yes yeah so the move went
pretty well literally but an hour and a
half ago we got hydro in the in the
studio good thank you very much who are
kind friends at quarter electric
actually Sean was here from quarter E
and I guess he's one of the newest
members of the team over there quarter
electric and and he was putting in the
receptacles in the studio gadget was in
guru gwg in the chat room was asking on
Twitter well what do they need to do
because you move into a house or
wherever and that you always have power
so just uh get in what way but what
happens is we we have let's see if i can
get this straight you read it that's
like it it's a certain type of i call it
i think it was like an inverted load or
something like we have so many ballast
in our lights we've got ten lights
mm-hmm to run the show just in front of
us not to mention that the stuff that's
over our heads and stuff so ten lights
to light us all the audio gear all the
computers the servers everything and
what can happen if you if you get into a
place that has the electrical done say
in the basement which is usually where
we end up stick in the studio because
it's when my wife gives me which is a
bless or soul it's nice down here it's
down here and but the thing is is that
usually they put one wire around the
room and they put all the receptacles
off of that right so you drawing from
one circuit and I found out the hard way
after you know by
cheers and explosions and things like
that burnt out computers that that that
pulls from one side of the sine wave
which is a really bad thing in
electrical terms and so it was messing
up our equipment so they come in a
quarter electric and they recognize that
there at like three electrical companies
coming Corey electric nailed it they fit
this is it the old place and so here
they just came in they knew exactly what
to do exactly what we needed fantastic
bunch of guys and really encourage you
to check them out as quarter electric
com will give you that link again later
on show but yeah they've got us all
fixed up so we've got light we've got
video audio computers wrapped around us
backstage pass can see this I will have
to take everybody on a tour of the new
studio sometime maybe you want to spiff
it up full online yeah we'll clean it up
a little bit not saying it's not an
organizational it's functional you made
it through the eye well there's a little
goat pass through here or something I
mean it sir that's a good good work
Margot Robbie said polo that's like open
found you oh I would got our mobile site
mcat five TV if you've got one of those
you can just bring that up gadsden five
dot TV and certainly that's a good way
to check out the show if you've got a
mobile device and we're going to take a
quick break before we hit your viewer
questions but stick around also join us
in the chat room its category 5 on
freenode on our website click on
interact and you'll see the chat room
there we'd love to have you join us and
interact with us there if you're here
live if you're not here live if you're
watching this after the fact you can
still join the chat room it's a little
less active of course when we're not
actually live on the air but there are
some people that would like to hang out
there throughout the week including
myself crystal you've been known to pop
in once in a while yeah so you can join
us pretty much anytime but yeah get on
over to category 5 on freenode or of
course our chat room loads up through
our website a category five dot TV your
questions can be sent alive at category
5 TV or through the chat room and we'll
be right back right after this quick
break at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but here here and here but
with one exception you should also be
able to trust your batteries here Eco
alkalines of the world's first and only
certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference Eco alkalines
calm this is category 5 technology TV
i'm your host Ravi Ferguson I'm crystal
walls so what do you got for us tonight
oh I don't know why do I have for you
tonight questions oh I have questions oh
yeah I do would you like to hear some
yes okay I'd love to this is really
awkward nike fidgety i'm not fidgeting
it's that my charity i feel like you're
almost trying to like bump me out of the
shot too is like until there's no more
krista and that's just the rob you show
okay are the christus sure we've never
had wood floors before you have to get a
little carpet sample just to put it
underneath it does okay it's just an end
of the roll this little piece doesn't
matter what it looks like kind of
dinosaurs hmm look good excellent so
here is our first question I'm from
California um can you add gnome 3 to
debian debian sure that's what i said in
a different kind of way Chris right day
oh yeah debian squeeze the current
version is it's there are three
different types of debian there is the
stable version this is a linux
distribution mm-hmm there's the stable
version which is the one that you're
typically going to download then there
is debian testing that's where you can
install gnome 3 actually comes with
gnome 3 i believe can you install it if
you download the iso for debian testing
also there is the unstable release of
debian i can actually bring up the
debian website we'll see if we
find it that the download locations can
be a little bit obscure I find on their
website it's a little bit difficult
sometimes to find it so sometimes it's
easier just to to go and google it
because that's a verb folks yeah because
it's kind of hard to find let's see
small CDs because these are all going to
be stable what you want is debian
testing if you've installed debian
stable you can change your repositories
over to testing and this will just take
the word stable out of the repository
change into testing and you'll be able
to get that going let's see if we've got
that just to a sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
see if we can find it though so the
testing version of course introduces
some newer software but stuff that is
not considered stable nuts not stuff
that is considered safe but not not say
unsafe just it could break your system
because it's testing well I have no idea
where to get it off of their website
though makes it kind of difficult
doesn't you little bit yeah let's go
about it a different way and it's
probably right staring me in the face
all right so debian testing download
well that helps / devel / Debian
installer and it's a better one of seven
point oh look at that you're not even
looking at the 6 release this is whoa
that was the wrong switch still learnin
learnin folks yeah alright so that's
debian 7.0 betta one release that would
be the one that you would probably
download again it's a testing distro so
it could have stability issues but then
again you're wanting to try some of the
bleeding edge stuff anyways so debian
stable is for those who really want a
rock-solid system you're doing you're
using it for business you're using it
for you know and perhaps you don't know
a whole lot about linux and so you don't
want to monkey around with Oh something
broke and I don't know how to fix it
debian testing on the other hand is more
for slightly power users people who are
a little bit
or living on the edge want to be able to
try new stuff stuff that's coming out
bleeding edge software that maybe could
cause problems but you know how to fix
those problems when they arise and then
Debbie an unstable is the next one and
it's stuff that will probably break your
system but you know what you're doing in
your power user and you want to play
around with some of the really really
cool stuff that hasn't been released yet
to the general distributions and that
would be the one to try at that point so
well I'm story short yes gnome 3 can be
installed in debian but you'd want to go
with debian testing here's the unstable
kind of a follow-up question in the chat
room from drumstick he says how much
does it take to move from ubuntu to
debian stable version and can i format a
system and use existing home well you
wouldn't so much take your home folder
and just copy and paste it and i think
your home folder in linux this is really
really cool same thing goes for mac
you've got your your home folder and it
is like a self-contained folder tree of
all of your settings for your entire
system so if you have a backup of that
folder in your system crashes you can
pretty much reinstall on any computer
copy the stuff over from your home
folder and you've got your app and
running system including all your your
system settings so essentially drumstick
to change from debian or from ubuntu to
debian is is easy breezy for one reason
the same really i mean ubuntu is based
on debian so it is at its core debian
and then they've got their packages that
they put on top of it they've they've
compiled kind of the packages that they
wanted into their distribution so but it
is debian essentially at its core so
back up your home folder you might want
to back up you know certain system
folders if you've modified things like
your FS tab you might want to back that
up from your etc' folder in the root
folder of your hard drive there may be
stuff in your slash user folder that you
may want to save but essentially all of
the stuff that you your user have have
created
or installed the settings are going to
be found in your home folder so slash
home and then all the subfolders of that
so usually what I do is I back up those
folders but I don't copy the whole tree
over reason for that once i've installed
debian now i've got a backup of my
entire home folder so i know that
everything is safe as far as my system
settings go but i don't need my mozilla
firefox cache files anymore I don't need
to copy those back onto my hard drive so
instead I just go in and I get the
bookmarks file and I migrate those into
now speaking of it might be a good idea
before you format your your Ubuntu
system in your backup process actually
launch programs like Firefox and do an
export export to a bookmark shot HTML
file or something or JSON file so that
you have an easy way to import without
having to convert your your bookmark
bookmark files over but then I just go
in copy and paste copy and paste
whatever I need remember not to cut
because that is your backup you want to
have a you make a copy and replace on
your hard drive with some of those those
files from your back up pretty easy
breezy I don't think you'd have any
trouble and certainly you know keeping
them back keeping the backup of your
home folder means that you've got a copy
of everything that's really critical to
you so you can always go back or you can
always try again if you fail but it is
pretty straightforward I think good I
take the question drumstick thanks
everybody in the chat room for for
joining us uh here's a question from
guru of the matrix hey guru of the
matrix how do you sync your iDevice with
linux what are some of the applications
you suggest I'll suggest a way to sync
your iDevice just kind of threw it in
the river open she's an apple fan girl
sheena be nice and get on with the show
yeah um amarok banshee are you know the
a and the B it's like i'm reading the
alphabet just realized that that's
amazing a Moroccan Banshee are two
different applications that are pretty
well respected as far as doing stuff of
course gtk pod is a good one for sinking
let's take a look though actually what I
probably would do is that I remember
there's a Wikipedia article we keep
pedia ipod for Linux let's try that ipod
linux wikipedia no uh-oh maybe no it's
true so close I know so close well who
would have thought comparison of ipod
managers that sounds promising this will
help ok i look amarok banshee Clementine
diskaid it is alphabetical it is yes gtk
pod I rip iTunes of course itunes no
linux support so what you would do is
with this chart which i'll put up at cat
five dot TV / ipod just to help you okay
so amarok for example is on linux see
that all the ones that say yes and the
far right column are on linux so second
from the bottom there is rhythm box
there's another one so then you go
through and see what what other settings
are so okay amarok is able to do most of
the you know copy music copy videos copy
smart playlists copy album artwork
extract drm free music extract brm free
videos but it cannot copy content to the
ipod interesting then you look at gtk
pod right here and it says that it can
do all of these things including copying
content to the ipod so that might be the
one to try keeping in mind that you
you're looking for one that's compatible
with linux so what about rhythmbox
rhythmbox can do a lot of the stuff
rhythmbox is a little easier to use i
think than gtk pod most likely but it
does not support copying of videos or
copying of smart playlists but it will
allow you to copy content to your ipod
so hopefully that list would help you go
through some of the different things you
know there's i pod sinking and
maintenance features and it lists out
you know the difference between amarok
versus gtk pod etc etc so there's right
I don't actually sync my ipod I I know
it's kind of silly but I listen to
internet radio pretty much exclusively
so I don't have an itunes library
because I just can't stand itunes and I
can't stand having a media manager
control my music so just can't handle
being controlled we're managed no I
suppose though you know because I Justin
you know so into jogging I'll probably
end up putting some stuff on here you
know but really I just listen to
internet radio because you're usually in
range of a Wi-Fi hotspot great and when
I'm not listening to you well if you're
jogging just circles around your house
you'll always be a Wi-Fi hotspot jog in
the backyard back and forth but I also
use my pogoplug so i put my mp3 files on
the pogoplug and i can stream them
through the ipod through the pogoplug
app so i don't again I don't need itunes
because well my mp3s are on my pogoplug
and i can listen to any of the CD albums
through Wi-Fi so i don't have a use for
end because i'm on linux i just can't be
bothered to try to find an alternative
but there are alternatives that's just
me i am not a fanboy but I mean like we
know i do i do yeah I do like just
having any device that's portable and
has Wi-Fi that's all I care cool that
seemed to help all right sure yeah
thanks thanks Krista kind of a jerk
today I'm just saying just saying you've
got new move in studio jerk syndrome is
that what it is I think that's the
technical term where arrogantly mean
hello boxes I think that must be it I've
been unpacking for saturday every day
every time you get to the bottom of box
you think you'll find a small piece of
your soul secure where is it where is it
I need to recover it um I the one of the
funny thing is is that unpacking today I
could not for the life of me find
keyboard and mice you don't need those
yeah well you know control the show with
my thoughts
yes yeah yes did you hear that that
somebody broke into Steve Jobs his house
no and stole a whole bunch of stuff
really yep fruit I can't tell you got
the little girl smirk on your face I
have this what no next art you look at
me you look like a little boy no one
serious it happened and I couldn't
believe that's not what you look so
gleeful right there that was just so
you're so happy about it it's like you
think about stealing something you know
robbing a grave and here's this guy's
house that is you know it's being
remodeled and somebody broke in and
stole a ton of apple products me some
Steve Jobs's at least there Mac found
yeah they knew what was you know no I'm
not gonna steal the pc this is the same
thing but it's worth three times more
I'll take that haha no but the guy was a
bit dumb I mean obviously if you're
gonna probably have to be I think when
he got them home he put in his itunes
username and password to stay can't
track that no no totally personal anyway
so he's in jail oh good on him sixty
thousand dollars worth of equipment
revenue genk says wow yeah crazy though
now you could have used him on moving
day look how much stuff you can move you
could have moved a lot of stuff we never
would have seen it again no that's sure
so you know both cons if i don't use
itunes so we never could've caught up
yeah hmm are you ready for another
zinger of a question would love one all
right is it I yeah okay well well and
then we gotta do news oh ok well we
don't have to do the question right now
if you don't want to you don't do news
first and we'll do more questions that's
it's all it's all up to you all right
how's that sound news it news that is it
is that a thing that is now all right
oh here the top stories from the
category found out contain newsroom the
UK will have the fastest broadband of
any major European country by 2015
cultural Secretary Jeremy Hunt has done
hmm he reiterated that he wanted to
bring high-speed broadband which he
defined as greater than 24 megabits per
second to more than ninety percent of
the country Mr Hunt outlined the
ambition in a speech at Google's campus
building in East London London sorry
that's interesting but 24 megabits a
second and we're looking at with the
move and everything we're looking at all
the different providers and stuff and we
vibe coming in to Barry mm-hmm this is
the bell service that uses fiber-optic
lines they're talking to 175 megabits a
second that's a little faster ha penned
down mm-hmm it's like but 24 is still
incredible but can you imagine a
gigabyte of stuff in about 42 seconds
that's pretty great I can do that yeah
yeah no problem um his comments followed
heavy criticism last month from a Lords
committee which said plans were due were
too focused on speed on Monday Mr Hunt
defended his focus on higher speeds
which he said would be needed in order
for the UK's network to remain
competitive with others in Europe we
simply will not have a competitive
broadband network unless we recognize
the massive growth in demand for higher
and higher speeds Mr Hunt said today's
super fast is tomorrow super slow just
as the last government was wrong to hang
its hat on two megabytes per second
speeds megabytes would be megabits sorry
super super fast we must never fall into
the trap of saying any speed is enough
mm-hmm they've made that mistake before
the US Air Force has set an attempt to
fly at hypersonic jet Waverider at Mach
6 which is 3,600 miles per hour five
thousand seven or nine to five
kilometers per hour failed the unmanned
aircraft has been designed to fly at six
times the speed of sound after being
dropped by a b-52 bomber but officials
said that a faulty control fin prevented
it from starting at supersonic
combustion ramjet engine that sounds
like
the craft was lost oh oh seriously
mm-hmm ouch it marks the second time in
a row that the Air Force has been unable
to test the technology as planned well
you can use my supersonic combustion
ramjet engine in my car any time I
actually have one of those on my bike
with you in a handy yeah so like you
just going up for a bike ride and your
back like see like hmm hmm where'd you
go around the world super fast yeah
super super fast super sonic ultrasonic
oh oh hang on to your hats people stompy
I giant six-legged robot suitable for
both fun rides and youths in disaster
zones this is great I didn't create this
because I can't draw oh well you might
have a little drawable friends my
drafting program all afternoon cheese Oh
looks set to be built after its
excessively successfully hit its target
on crowdfunding site Kickstarter the
robot is the brainchild of a group of
hackers and hobbyists based in
somerville massachusetts wow they needed
sixty five thousand dollars to make it
happen and as of this morning that they
have raised 80 1823 dollars with 11 days
left for fundraising if $300,000 is
raised the team say they will build azuz
worth a rideable robots do to me what's
funny about this is at some point these
guys were sitting around you know like
you and I are right now industry what
could we do if we do a giant we might
need to create a Kickstarter somehow how
about what if it's rideable a rideable
giant robot spider mm-hmm with two
bright red seats hmm I can't picture it
can you drop it you know what the thing
is it doesn't even have eight legs like
if you're gonna make something
ridiculous like but make it
appropriately ridiculous
it is kind of like a tick you have a
rideable tick it's a funny thing is is
you're riding this thing okay so look at
it again okay it's got six legs mm-hmm
because you're maybe it's got great
shocks incredible shocks Wow
Kickstarter's doing some oh absolutely
now for serious time for more there is
more is now the most valuable company of
all time with a market value of
approximately 623 billion dollars or 397
billion pounds rapper has now surpassed
microsoft record of 620 point 5 8
billion set in 1999 however that figure
is not adjusted for inflation the news
comes ahead of the anticipated launch of
the iphone 5 and possibly a smaller and
cheaper ipad get the full stories at
category five TVs flash Newser category
five TV news room is research by roy W&amp;H
with contributions frey by our community
of viewers if you have a news story that
you think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email us at news room at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Krista wells Krista I thank you tonight
show is brought to you in part by
quarter eee electric they are the ones
who power this very studio they were
here today doing a great job for us it's
quarter eee electric com for all their
contact information or what's up there
on the screen also do check out netflix
cat5 TV / netflix you'll get a free one
month trial and and that is a service
that allows you to watch TV like stuff
on any device I've got it on my we
thought the techie way to sit yeah you
know it's Netflix you know what it is
you can put it on your on your tablet on
your computer and your eyes it's not
just computer anymore that's the thing
it used to be netflix on your computer
all I don't want to sit at the computer
and watch movies yeah who said that
their computer for more than six hours a
day yeah exactly so you know
maybe put it on your ps3 or on a set-top
box yeah or one of those iOS devices
that we were looking at yeah a few weeks
ago with Erica when I was in haliburton
Ontario and then pop some popcorn pops
and recline and watch her yeah it's fun
favorite is TV show or movie and find
new new old ones or new ones that you
never saw before that are fantastic it
was cat5 TV / netflix for the free one
month trial it was like eight bucks a
month after that right it was funny
because during the move of course first
thing I did was try to get the hot tub
up and run and that was priority and
second thing getting that flicks on yeah
those it I mean we're sitting on boxes
but we can watch sliders and then
Robbie's done and becca's still running
frantically around the house unpacking
boxes are a breeze Gordon my god I did
it and I studio works nice guy sure oh
not like you're such a boy oh my
feelings so they hurt no I worked really
really hard through this whole thing not
as hard as you did but Deacon it was
crazy anyway mm-hmm what do we owe you
got more question actually may I back
cycle like backpack pedal just a second
um back to the news story that said that
Apple wants to come up with a possibly
smaller iPad I heard you kind of snicker
there so they're gonna be like here's
our iPhone yes and her iPad and her ipod
they're all but they're not the same
interesting fine I'm sorry Mac I love
your guts but that is kind of silly
though isn't it but you know what it is
a line that's heavy I mean we have an
ipad 1st gen mm-hmm i know that they've
gotten a little bit better yes but it is
heavy and clunky and it's great but you
don't want to hold it up because your
arms get tired arms get tired you set it
down and then your neck gets like this
and you got like I I
had I predict really the chiropractor
can't even fix that is that the
technical thing you go in and they're
like oh you are messed up you have ipad
hunchback the guy with it you see it on
our logo right that's the guy that was
that was not brought up yeah i mean
sasha is starting next week and she was
here over the weekend and we got to know
her and she's wonderful girl you guys
are gonna love her but she's actually
gonna be on the air next Saturday and
she works it turns out for a
chiropractics office so of course she
pointed that oh no this guy's got really
bad posture and I said look he's a
hacker he's probably hacking the
mainframe maybe he's on Kickstarter
creating a giant robot they are pride
alone robot Rida bladder but it's very
possible but he has ipad neck so he's
actually huh he's actually typing on an
iPad you can tell yeah that's what that
green glow is its iPad glow that's just
that's it yes oh so now to more
important things maybe could there be
anything more important always been just
always witty banter yeah we have a great
question here from to redline ah it says
I donated a PC install and installed
chemo chemo tweeting Kim Oh Kim oh it's
actually has no you cute it's spelt qim
oh uh huh but it's actually
traumatically incorrect and it's
spelling wise it's well here's the thing
is short for Eskimo but spelling wise
because it starts with a Q it kind of
throws you and it makes you think that
it should go qua is everything that
starts I'm sorry was missing that so I
said yeah chemo but then I don't think
that was right yeah no it's Kim oh
you've ever seen I think it was car it
was called Eskimo and then the whole
thing came up where you know Eskimos no
longer politically correct to say Eskimo
I'm sorry if you are of Inuit back
and i'm not sure what it's called camo
anyway there you go so yeah what's
what's the deal what a good life lesson
all right no one so um installed kimmo
for my son's daycare I removed all the
menu bars time etc from the desktop how
do i restore them when i need to install
new software for ha well i mean it when
you need to install new software you
don't necessarily need the panel right
because you're using synaptic package
manager i would assume so all you would
have to do is hit alt f2 at which
unfortunately my system because i'm
using synergy it doesn't do it but when
you hit alt f2 it brings up a run dialog
and then you can just type that a
synaptic I think let's try it yeah so GK
sudo synaptic will load that so if you
type gk sudo synaptic by pressing alt f2
it'll ask your password and then you can
run it ok so that's that's how you can
do that but to answer your question
directly there is a folder in your
system that is hidden dot g conned up go
to your home folder and type ctrl L and
then go to /g comp in your home folder
ok then go into apps oh and again
because you say that you've deleted the
panel you may not know how to get into
your my computer home folder so again
alt f2 and again I'm just bringing up
terminal so I can do something similar
because i don't have alt f2 capabilities
on my particular system that i'm using
for the demo what your type is nautilus
ok like that so in alt f2 type in the
word nautilus when you run that it
brings up your computer stuff ok then
ctrl L slash dot G conf
go into apps and you'll see a folder
should see call the other it is panel
okay so that is all the settings for
your panels so what you can do then is
rename that folder because we like to
keep a backup rather than deleting it I
usually usually would just put it Tilda
at the end okay like that and then hit
alt f2 again and you're going to run
this command kill if I can type kill all
dash nine we're going to force it to die
this is a gnome dash panel okay so when
I run that command there goes is dead
it's gone see if it comes back on its
own it did you'll see that it actually
came back with the with the panel at the
top let's see now it looks like G conf
is has stored the settings in memory so
in my case see these things should have
disappeared and that's one of the things
that that tells me that it didn't
actually create a new a new panel
configuration which is exactly what we
wanted to do so I need to kill the G
comp let's see here I just give me one
second and all I'll find it what ok I've
complete faith in you don't have faith
in me yeah tell the people what they can
what they can do what they can do yeah
like if they want it sent an email how
not to send email
like a viewer question looking like such
a boy oh boy send emails to is live at
category 5 TV right correct gold star I
just want to find out okay he's so close
people and I'm just trying to remember
the command to that that's a running
resident the daemon let's see G conf
tool dash 2 or few shirts Oh me that
Krista oh I feel very sheepish I know
okay what did I say G uh-huh sure what
did I say Ida wasn't listening they're
not stir all words I don't understand
you are not serious oh my goodness I
tell you these things cuz you're there
no more there's no more a gold star for
Krista gold star taken away hmm I
thought you're just talking to yourself
I didn't realize you're like remember
this I'm gonna copy it will need you're
gonna copy this to my clipboard it's
probably more reliable it's probably
good chica tool dash two that's my dash
dash shutdown done
okay now i'm going to refresh here make
sure that it didn't create a panel okay
now I'm gonna restart my panel again by
going kill all dash nine home panel yes
it worked there ya go buddy see that all
my stuff is gone because what happened
it actually created a new panel
configuration and what that means is in
your case because you renamed the panel
folder in home slash your name / dot G
comp / apps we rename the panel folder
do that what I showed you there so first
thing that I would do is G comp tool
dash to all one word okay space dash
dash shut down so that would be the
first thing to do then rename your
folder something like that then kill all
dash nine gnome panel because then what
happens is the system recognizes that
gnome panel is crashed because you've
crashed it manually and then it opens it
and when it opens it now it's not in
memory it's not in your kontakion folder
so what does it do it creates a new
configuration folder in G calm and that
new folder will always have the default
settings so therefore you had deleted it
now it's gone and now it's going to be
back okay so in my system you'll see now
there is of course a panel folder and
there's my backup so now here's the
great thing when the kids when you're
done installing and the kids are going
to go back on the computer you right
click on that new one the panel one and
go move to trash and then you right
click on yours the back up one rename it
back to panel okay now go back and you
don't have to you shouldn't have to kill
shut down g comp tool dash two because
it's already shut down unless has
restarted i'm going to kill that again
and when it comes back no ok so g comp
tool did reload in my case let's try
again so i had to kill g comp tool to
and now I've got my panels back so in
your case it would probably be no panels
because you've set your panel 22
hidden so cool I hope that makes sense i
will include the the step-by-step
bullets in in the show notes because i
know i kind of had to figure it out for
you at the same time but in the show
notes for episode number 257 i'm happy
to include that information for you and
anyway be good to go cool good how's the
activity in the chat room hey guys gals
everybody where you from anybody new
here tonight would love to hear from you
if you are new just say yeah I knew and
we're where you are from hey Dennis
Kelly nice to see you JP yeah tick tock
joins us from Mars there is life amazing
hmm and they watched category 5
absolutely mm-hmm hey John new to this
particular episode clever clever yeah
alright well we do have an hour question
all right Oh become a viewer question
extravaganza that's amazing well I mean
why not that's the best part of the show
yes I mean besides all the other good
parts of the show here is a question
from Peter Loomis hey Peter I have been
having difficulties with the power means
where I live but we keep having brown
oats there's two reasons for this first
we live in a realistic rural I always
have trouble that word rural rural
setting in Ireland the village has one
feed from the substation and many people
a power cut in the village sometimes
some will lose power while others don't
there are some power lines that are
buried in fields which means the parkin
actually is usually good to the nearby
homes but if a tractor decides to do
some work in the field there have been a
few times where the power line was cut
and that means lights out that's no good
I thought I had it bad seriously over
the you know with all the hydro stuff
that we had to deal with but a whole
town I know Villa come harvest time
everyone's like wire it's like I picture
this
kind of extension cord running going
through someone's field through
someone's field and somebody's driving
their true and the tractors go around
there's like ten townspeople whole
enough so that the tractor can go on
just a daisy chain of dollar store
cables you know just like a little six
foot eight foot cables that are just
daisy chain across the entire village
it's kind of what I'm picturing we don't
need to make finders lovely I'm also
from a small town so I'm allowed to make
fun let's see there have been many times
after the power flashes I have to
physically reset my pogoplug since it
loses connection the other problem is
that we have a nearby garage it does
welding on the same power feed so the
main stronghold it's our nest fact that
should be illegal seriously Peter I'm
sorry small towns windmills you need to
be generating your own power that's
terrible oh my goodness I put some
filters on the lines to try to help and
even bought a thousand law ups for the
pogoplug and rotor as well as my hard
drives and networking hard hardware okay
the UPS is doing the job but can be
expensive because if I want to protect
all my equipment I've got to buy many of
them for the computers and other
equipment etc at least now with the
power flashes au piss-ups keeps the
internet up and running this happens it
at three times a week on some weeks
still I try to watch the show every week
I really like the new website so if
that's just an excuse that you're not
always watching category 50 the
Bellflower went out that's that's Peters
long-winded way of saying you know I
missed last so yeah just say was sick
couldn't watch ya know I just tracked
your leg feeling it Oh heard you guys
removing I knew it would just be a one
of those shows excuses excuses that's
wild man so that wasn't so much of a
question as a yeah kind of like a long
like a sad story of village in Ireland I
feel sad I picture them sending out like
you what is it the Victorian farm kind
of people and we'll do a documentary
about this village that has one power
cable running to baby cat five could do
it and right in the chain is this evil
genius whose welding
hahahaha maybe you can send us tickets
to your town and cat 5 will come and do
a documentary on it yeah there you go I
bet you the guy who's welding is
building an evil fortress no s the sound
what is my problem alright can't help
you right whoa haider robot you should
check on it hmm make sure you take a
look yeah he's it for destruction that's
unbelievable man I did have a chat with
with sean from quarter electric and he's
did suggest and i just said you know
what would be the best thing for this
guy and and what we have are those nice
cyberpower UPS's and krista you and I
had to look at one on the show a while
back yes I'm use our search on a search
our network feature on the website let's
go cyberpower would probably be a good
search episode 201 we reviewed the green
power-ups oh that's taking us to youtube
there it is on our website so and we we
looked at the the that particular ups
its cyberpower works really really well
for us but what's really nice about it
is that if the power drops down in your
case what happens that guy you know
fires up is TIG and he's dropping down
the the power in the neighborhood to you
know whether it be 90 or 60 or 40 volts
for that little bit of time horrible to
your equipment your computers and stuff
are very very sensitive to that kind of
stuff so something like the cyber
power-ups the we use it cents as if it
goes down below you know 1 10 100 volts
and it will actually trip over to the
battery if the power is low but still
there some ups as though will will only
turn on if the power goes out right so
what you want is easy always yeah
helpful it doesn't help because if
there's if there's 60 volts it still got
power so if that doesn't trip your ups
then you've got a problem because 60
volts is going to destroy your computer
because it's built to run on in your
case you know
240 volts in Ireland I believe so here
it's 120 you know 117 to 120 or so so I
would look into getting a couple of ups
but you said you got a thousand-watt i'm
not sure if you meant a thousand volt
ampere if you actually meant a thousand
watts which maybe that would be a
fifteen hundred volt amp or something
like that in which case this stuff that
you have running on it is very very low
power consumption so I don't know that
you need that that UPS would probably
power the devices like the pogoplug the
hard drives the router the switch for
days you know technically because
there's no draw on that what you might
want to do is plug one of your computers
into that and then see how that goes
because really you're not looking for
something's going to power you through a
24-hour brown of brown another blackout
you're looking for something that's
going to help you to protect your
equipment during those little power
fluctuations when it goes a little bit
sharper a little bit low that's what you
want so the time is not really the big
deal it's the getting your stuff
protected power conditioners and things
like that are good as well so yeah well
we've only got a couple minutes left I
wanted to talk about backing up I'm loud
based our cloud-based stuff because
actually we have about 10 minutes left I
I'm mistaken because we were at least
started and that was really just you
know we're just hanging out just have a
good time no literally we just plugged
in all the audio equipment so if you
were wondering why we were five minutes
late but I know that the chat room is
already understanding of that older they
just moved they're probably having
technical difficulties that we were
really it's because I came in the door
like it five seconds before seven
literally was and Robbie is sitting here
rocking in his chair pulling his hair oh
and I got here he's like oh I could
finish that's what I had a full head of
hair today yeah and it's really my fault
I'm sorry
really is no other that here's the thing
mm-hmm ok let's start that over cuz i
just i started an entire segment with ma
I'm always tell me oh I'm a whole stop
oh go ahead I'm always telling you to
back up your stuff it's very very
important but we're always thinking
about backups as being you know our own
computers what is going to happen if I
have a fire better yet what's going to
happen if i have a burglary I mean that
happens a lot we had a burglary
ourselves here at the studio not at the
studio but the old studio got robbed as
well we lost computers and cameras and
everything so what if I had stuff on
that hard drive and it got taken away
and I never see it again and I didn't
have a backup right and then you cry and
then you cry absolutely what if you have
a hard drive crash that's what I'm
always talking about that's what I'm
always reiterating what if your physical
devices fail but now we have this brand
new problem we've got this thing where
we have the cloud we're storing email on
the cloud we're storing our calendars on
the cloud we're doing everything on
server somewhere out there but we don't
have access to that data should let's
say somebody hacked our account what
happens if somebody gets ahold of our
password and goes in and deletes all of
our gmail email we're in big trouble
what happens if somebody goes in and
clears your calendar and you lose all
your appointments that you have
scheduled for the next six months big
problem another example would be you
know you've got your files that you've
got stored on the web your website stuff
you know but cloud specifically you know
thinking along the lines of your Twitter
accounts you're in particular when it
comes to business gmail your calendar
with google any of those kinds of things
what would happen to like maybe you know
I hear stories about people who have
wrongly been suspended from services hmm
for violations of Terms of Service or
something like that it can happen on
facebook if they think that you're under
a certain age right right so if that
happened
you lose all of your stuff then you know
what kind of situation is that leave you
in so along comes back up a thigh
literally they couldn't think of the
name and called it back up a Phi it's
actually kinda cool we're going to take
a look at this set tonight I want you to
check it out if you are at all connected
to the cloud whether you're using google
or social media let's take a look at the
free service which backs up gmail
facebook twitter zoho picasa and more it
even does our flickr account right so
the personal free plan allows you to
backup up to three accounts so that
means I might backup Twitter Flickr and
my facebook okay you might do linkedin
or something like that you get one
gigabyte storage and it backs up on a
weekly basis you get email support it's
free sign up now you can step it up for
only five bucks a month you know so try
it for free see if you need more the
best plan is 20 bucks a month 25
accounts 50 gigabytes of storage does it
back up every night and you get phone
support web support and it is pretty
awesome as far as service goes so for
twenty bucks a month that's pretty big
though alright so let's start with the
free one we're going to take a look here
first name enter it in
email okay so we're going to create our
free account read the terms &amp; privacy
policy privacy policy basically if you
if you look at it it does explain that
they are not going to access any of your
files because that would be one of our
concerns is okay well if I'm going to
back up to the service who's to say that
they're not then selling that
information or doing something like that
the privacy policy makes it very plain
that that they are basically using your
data for your backup it is your backup
and they are perhaps you know in an
instance where they need to look at the
file system they might see the file
names and the file sizes they may
transfer them to other backups and make
redundant copies but they are never
actually looking at the content of your
files they're not sharing the content of
your files if you've got a bunch of
pictures on your facebook they're not
looking through your pictures that's
that's against their privacy policy so
we don't have any fears with regards to
that so if I'm not mistaken that was all
that there was to the signup process
there it can't get any easier than that
as long as you know your name as long as
you know your name your email address
you're pretty much you are sad sack and
a password you've got to be able to make
a password which again we tend to use
safe passwd calm because it works very
very well for generating a safe password
so in this case let's see what happens
if we are going to back up our twitter
account so i'm going to add service for
twitter and then i'm going to sign in
with twitter make sure first of all that
you are the user that you want to be if
you have more than one user account
login to twitter go over to twitter com
I'm not logged in so it's perfectly fine
but if you have if you share your
computer you might want to double check
on that so I'm going to add a Twitter
service sign in with twitter I'm going
to turn off that tweet that I protected
my Twitter account with bank back
magnify
okay so category 5 TV enter our password
and now it's redirecting me back to the
application just like that so it's
already added to back up a Phi it's
already in progress of backing up my
tweets that includes tweets that I've
sent tweets that have been sent to my
attention tweaks that our DM private
messages all of that stuff is included
in that backup if within the confines of
Twitter API basically so then we can go
and we can continue adding services
because remember we can add up to three
right so we can let's say we add flickr
which is really awesome because that's
where we store our pictures and we
wouldn't want to lose that kind of thing
I mean that would be pretty devastating
if you lost your flickr account but
here's your chance to be able to back it
up so with back up a phi not only can
you see your emails and things on back
up if i restore them back let's say
you're using gmail and you want to
restore an email that you accidentally
deleted you can actually go into backup
if i highlight the email and restore it
it will then show up back in your inbox
on gmail okay in our case of course you
may also want to you may also want to
download your entire flickr account all
your picnic so it will give you a zip
file and you can download that to your
own computer for local storage and or
backup okay so here I'm going to
authorize my flickr and there it is it's
already there it's in process or in
progress now let's take a look at
Twitter see how it's doing it's still in
progress but you can see that it's
already got there's the the tweet that
went out this afternoon just before the
show started and it is continuing to
backup if i go back to let's see my
flickr account and it's just waiting to
actually begin the backup it says no
data has been collected so you see is
very automated this is going to now back
up my accounts that i have added once a
week and then
I've got control over how I want to
restore it great for business if you
have users that are using gmail on your
domain the ability to be able to go back
and restore deleted emails especially if
you're ever compromised if somebody
guesses at a business password deletes
the emails from people's inboxes and
things like that sometimes you know
malicious software is I'm going to do
that as well so you think cool what do
you think check it out its back up if I
calm just like it sounds this is
category 5 technology TV triple w
category 5 TV krista been fun having you
here well it's been good good times good
times always good times lots of fun
everybody i hope you have a great week
again sasha is going to be starting with
us next tuesday looking forward to
having her here and introducing her to
you and here we are in our new studio
we're going to be you know spiffing it
up over the next little while as we get
things unpacked and that i thought the
star trek shelf was an easy way to you
know it was easy to unpack quicken but
because you know that was the first box
he went to find was a mess when I was
the one labeled very important don't
have all your and I'll do kitchen stuff
and groceries unpacked but yeah exact
spot there's milk rotting in probably
the laundry room I don't yeah but who
cares cuz Spock Spock is on the shelf
yes all right hey have a great weeks
Chris down yeah you too and you to you
soon you have a fantastic week thanks
for joining us tonight this is weird
like a little kid is like one of those
you know that you don't need that thing
on as seen it on teen if it locks on
your wheels next time yeah that's what I
need I need those lock you in a very
happy I feel a little uncomfortable with
the rolling us all right everybody have
a great week we'll see you next week and
well yeah thanks for being here go back
Bobby
