it's Tuesday februari 24 2013 and here
are the stories were covering this week
well technology helped us escape the
commute somewhat lavone lenovo computers
came with a mean little piece of spyware
already installed search engine yen
yandex is bringing Google's competition
practices to the authorities in Russia a
new study has found that Facebook is the
biggest drain on smartphone performance
the latest Barbie doll will have an
embedded microphone and speaker and
require a Wi-Fi connection to
communicate with your kids and
forgetting all that was learned from
google glass sony is taking on smart I
glasses these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere green screen kits
are now on sale at cap 5 TV / green you
can save as much as fifty six percent
off the regular price get all that you
need to build your very own green screen
studio just like Sasha Tomatoes newsroom
and start doing special effects for
videos or still photography and get all
the gear at cat five dot TV / green I'm
talking serious in here at the top
stories from the category 5 TV and
fed up of endless traffic jams and
overcrowded trains then how about
commuting to work in your own jet pack
New Zealand firm Martin aircraft company
is building a one-person jetpack
scheduled to go on sale in 2016 and it
actually seems to work well yes although
it is probably massive that's not that
bad well it's basically a car strap here
back it's a bit hippy it's weightless oh
it was really bad although currently
slated for use by emergency services it
is only a small leap to imagine it in
the hands of commuters in five to ten
years we wouldn't be surprised to see
jet packs flying around on a daily basis
according to chief executive Peter
Cocker in some countries even being used
instead of transport which is fine as
long as they had some sort of
regulations but can you imagine road
rage in the sky I gotta say I would
definitely be surprised that's nuts all
of us hey and obviously not in Canada
cuz I'll tell ya I'm happy to be inside
my car yes this is when it's minus 20
degrees so ah the jetpack never in the
summer instead of a scooter yeah it's an
interesting I don't know it'll take over
maybe the squirrel suits the Segway of
the future lovely all right Chinese
computer maker Lenovo was offering
customers a tool to help them remove
pre-installed software that experts
warned was a security risk the superfish
adware program which as Brandon which
was branded as offering shopping tips
was shipped on some of the company's
notebook devices lenovo said on thursday
it had disabled it because of customer
complaints but later a statement said
the company was also aware of the
security risks about the software and
the
it was focused on fixing it superfish
was designed to help users find products
by visually analyzing images on the web
to find the cheapest ones users had
initially complained about intrusive
pop-up ads appearing on their browsers
computer experts later warned that the
software was potentially compromising
their security superfish appears to work
by substituting its own security key for
the friction certificates used by many
websites this would allow it or anyone
who hacked superfish to collect data
over secure web connections the company
said we apologize for causing these
concerns among our users we're learning
from this experience and will use it to
improve what we do and how we do it in
the future lenovo said it had acted
swiftly and decisively and that users
could download a patch to remove
superfish so Robbie I don't understand
actually what that means like what wow
what security I feel like that's wrong
good read security certificate thing
explain well first of all they acted
swiftly in order to remove the malware
that they pre-installed on this on the
systems not what did they install
literally every work late I'll tell you
what I after they were caught no after
they were caught yeah what are they the
NSA yeah yeah here's the thing this is
not servers this is not lenovo servers
this is not lenovo business-grade
systems these are the lenovo
consumer-grade systems these are the
ones that you go into the Super Centers
and you get a laptop for 300 bucks and
you think you're getting a good deal
well nothing's free right so what do
they do there they're in cahoots with a
company that you can put your software
on these laptops and and maybe you know
there's some cash involved and it helps
offset expenses that's kind of a sick
business practice if
I mean what can you do right so you've
got a laptop you've bought a laptop it's
got Malware pre-installed that is
intercepting your internet traffic
that's all fine and good if it was doing
some you know some kind of good it's
it's supposedly targeting you toward
products that you're interested in but
it's doing it in a way that it's
directing you to what they want to
direct you to but here's the the problem
and sashy you mentioned it in your
question what is this whole security the
ssl interception and that's the fact
that they're not just intercepting open
traffic so you know if I send a text
file over an unsecured connection it's
not just that they're also intercepting
secure connection data that's yes that's
that's so frightening so then you log in
to your online banking and you think
you're so they can read that they can
get your username and password from that
transaction so they're actually
intercepting what you think is a secure
connection and then sharing that data
with shopping companies according to
super fashion lenovo so lenovo acted
swiftly and removed it or gave the
office great Taylor Swift put in there
somewhere there always is a really great
Taylor Swift fun that it's incredibly
scary i I'm a little like I'm probably a
little bit this kind of business
practice drives me nuts so I'm a little
offended that this even happened on
behalf of the users who innocently are
running one of these computers and are
having their traffic intercepted like
yeah because it just wanted a cheap
laptop so they can you know do work or
social media or whatever else they do on
their laptop and or even like online
banking or anything because like a lot
of people companies are now going
paperless so they have to do everything
online so if you don't have like so
you're looking at Chi
computers you can do this all this
paperless stuff that you're the company
wants you to do and whatever yeah
totally totally totally Singh sash I
don't know if it's being if it was being
exploited in the wild if anyone was
actually taking advantage of the
potential vulnerability here it's just
the fact that a no vote we installed
this and it could have happened to the
users scary but they're on it now Google
faces the prospect of a fresh
competition investigation after Russia's
biggest search engine filed a complaint
with the authorities Yandex alleges that
its rival has an unfair advantage
because it insists device makers set
google as the default search engine or
as default search setting if they want
to pre-install its Play Store Google
Play is promoted as the safest and best
stock market place for apps and other
media Android devices google has yet to
respond the US company has yet to see
the complaint filed with the Russian
Federal anti-monopoly service or FAS
however Google may try to defend itself
by noting that manufacturers are free to
install rival services if they choose
not to preload its other software it is
also likely to argue that customers can
carry out searches via other software
including y and X is search app after
buying an Android handset or tablet so
there you go Yandex and Russia is trying
to chip away at the whole google block
so we'll see I the Russian authorities I
wonder what they'll deal with google it
seems it seems to be never-ending these
kinds of these kinds of controversies
but and I'm not I'm a little I'm
thinking about it in terms of analogy
and thinking k if a car manufacturer you
know if I bought a mazda car and I as a
consumer received that car and it had a
Mazda stereo system I could always take
that out and replace it just yeah I
could change to Bing
okay i know i'll be here all night uh
but I could make that selection but what
is what's different here is that uh you
know the manufacturer is being told that
they can't install anything other than a
Mazda stereo or something like that it's
a little bit different so like you're
saying i think i understand Google's
perspective for sure I use our stuff
you're gonna use our stuff well your
option is you can use the stuff that
seems to be the most widely stocked and
most available right the google play
store yes I or you can choose Yandex
whatever it's up to you right but
everybody's gonna pick google play cuz
um Google it's true people don't know
people don't like Bing people like
Google how did this how did this entire
conversation all right onto facebook it
seems the more socially connected you
are the more likely your smartphone's
battery is running almost on empty and
not because those consumers are always
updating their status sharing images are
waiting for the latest viral video
different apps put a strain on a
smartphone as in on smartphones in
different ways and according to online
security company avg technologies social
media apps have the biggest impact
followed by games and shopping apps
that's the only three categories of apps
I think yeah what else yeah there's up
games shopping what was the other one
social media social media and angry
birds games that's no angry birds game
literally it's a tired yes it has its
own category Sasha yeah AVG's data comes
via its own app currently installed on
over 1 million Android devices it
measures how installed apps dent
smartphone performance and results are
collected and presented every quarter at
the top of the list is facebook which
thanks to the app always being running
in the background monitoring activity on
the network and sending notifications
has the biggest overall drain you Val
bent in Zac chief technology officer at
avg technologies
said what surprised them was that some
of these tools and security updates
aimed at improving your phone experience
we're in fact impacting it quite heavily
the hope of the study is that people
will better understand the resource
usage on their device helping them
manage which apps are allowed to run so
if you want to know which apps are best
for your phone download their app seems
to be probably available in the Google
Play Store I I can see that yeah I can
see that like i'll have like if i'm like
like some days like I got the HTC One
mate it's got wonderful battery life I
love it so much but I noticed that if
I'm on it for an extended period of time
especially on facebook or other social
media it's like my battery goes from
like 52 or like 70 to 72 30 or 72 50th
like just like that that it was like
gone I think it would be wise to maybe
there is a setting i haven't ever looked
for it but is there a way to just set it
to only run when i click on well yes
that would yes no way you would do it is
you turn off your push notification so
i've done that with all of my
application other hand i use password
box another way i've done it ah is I
actually go into my data settings and I
and I go into each individual thing and
I select get rid of the background data
so it's not running oh that's not
actually breaking it in or out data yeah
I i discovered that because my dad was
going over every month they just all it
was Oh God all your friends just it was
all back on I don't know mad so a lot of
it is a little and only works like the
background better when i'm on Wi-Fi
which is a thing a little bit better
than just regular data ok but i still be
running your battery would still be
running where batter that but not as
badly as it was before and um yeah I've
noticed a difference cuz like last even
last month I was like over my bed
saddest I my dad before like the
fifteenth of January I was like
so bad this is important news this is
breaking news barbie is having a digital
makeover with the release of an
internet-connected version of the iconic
doll toy bakermat al is partnering with
us startup toy talk to develop hello
Barbie which will have two-way
conversations with children the Barbie
will use a speech recognition platform
developed by toy talk a prototype of the
doll was at the new york toy fair on the
fourteenth of februari where many up and
coming smart toys were on display the
hollow barb you will be able to play
interactive games and tell stories and
jokes it will also listen to the child's
conversation and adapt over time so for
instance if a child mentions that they
like to dance the doll may refer to this
in a future chat the doll requires a
Wi-Fi connection and can provide an
hour's worth of play time when fully
charged questions comments thoughts
concerns were okay did anyone else watch
person of interest this password no okay
did you watch person of interest this
past weekend it's it's surprisingly
relevant because what they had was an
app that was kind of like Siri kind of
thing you just ask it a question but it
went to some server somewhere and some
real person was entering the questions
and providing answers and then their
system would eventually you know
intelligently create those answers this
links to a couple of other recent news
stories the Samsung Smart TV was talking
about how it would hear what you were
saying when you were pressing the
microphone button and it goes to a third
party company when they can't quite
understand your audio they translate it
and then they communicate back so as
barbie listening older would be probably
happening with barbie right she might
not be listening all the time but
definitely there's got to be a third
party company that's deciphering what
this child says especially child talk
which is kind of garbled really well i
don't like to i don't like to create
conspiracy theories but can i give you
mine yeah i have kids yeah I have a
four-year-old
a seven year old and a nine year old and
I know my four-year-old he's a boy is
probably not gonna rush out and buy a
hello Barbie but uh daughter might my
daughter is nine she's maybe beyond the
age but if if you had a young daughter
who had this Barbie just thinking of the
way that my boy plays with toys and
stuff he's gonna leave it on all the
time yeah it's gonna be on all the time
the kid if there is a button that has to
be pushed in order to feedback the audio
he's gonna be holding it in twenty-four
seven yeah or she ever you know though
what I just thought of what's probably
gonna end up having is not quite so
scary as for security risks now that I'm
thinking about it's probably just gonna
turn into a big commercial where Barbies
just gonna tell these kids you like to
dance well by my friend right oh my
goodness yes well and there's a scary
thing and and I was I brought up person
of interest and you know not to plug
awesome amazing shows or anything but
the fear that they had proposed is that
ok well what happens when somebody gets
in there and somebody in this particular
case it was can at where can I get help
a suicide prevention line and they drove
them to the opposite of that something
that would drive them to depression and
so and it was targeted to try to force
them over the edge whoa if a kid was
talking into this Barbie in
communicating with it I don't know who's
on the other end it sounds controlling
the responses superfish and I hope not
interesting well maybe Barbie will buy a
new pair of smart glasses a developer
edition of Sony's augmented reality
smart glasses will go on sale in 10
countries next month pre-orders for the
smart I glass costing eight hundred and
forty dollars or 620 pounds are now
being taken in the UK and Germany with
Japan in the US to follow shortly the
black framed glasses are compatible with
recent android-powered smartphones
Sony's initial model will come with a
software development kit to encourage
people to design apps for it the glasses
contain an accelerometer gyroscope
compass image and brightness sensors
three megapixel camera and a Microsoft
microphone they come with a controller
designed to be attached to clothing
which contains a speaker touch sensor
and the device's battery Texas is
displayed in the front of the we're in
monochrome green so let's see if that's
any better than Google glass will see
for all your tech news with a slight
linux bias visit the category 5 TV news
room at newsroom category 5 TV for the
category five BB newsroom I'm Sasha
dramatic
