here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
botnet of unknown intent has been
discovered and is spreading at a
frightening rate Google's Project loon
has brought Internet and cellular
service to hurricane devastated Puerto
Rico Samsung hopes to succeed where
other vendors have failed they want to
bring the full desktop Linux experience
to smartphones and do you have Ultima
player or foal X on your Mac you might
need to wipe everything and reinstall
Mac OS because of a nasty bit of malware
that came with their popular software
and it's giving hackers full access to
absolutely everything including your
iCloud account these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat5 dot TV
slash Lynda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning we'll give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat 5 dot TV slash Lynda this
is the category five dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias I'm Sacha
Rickman and here are the top stories
were following this week as we speak
miscreants are assembling a massive army
of hacked Internet of Things devices and
at a much faster rate than previous
botnets this new cyber militia of
compromised gadgets dubbed IOT
underscore Reaper or reaper by experts
at qihoo 360 net lab can be instructed
by its masters to attack websites and
kik services offline the botnets foot
soldiers mainly press-ganged Internet
connected cameras home routers and
similar gear are located in more than a
million organizations globally claimed
security biz checkpoints on Thursday at
first it was assumed the malware the
malware that was infected gizmo that in
fact
gizmo's to form this latest army was a
variant of the mirai botnet that took
over hundreds of thousands of
internet-connected equipment in 2016
however security researchers now think
it's actually another family of
malicious software there's no word yet
on what exactly the botnet will be used
for either the reaper malware is
spreading globally by exploiting various
vulnerabilities and embedded devices
such as CVE - 2017 - 80 - 25 to steal
and use the use and use the usernames
and passwords of the gadgets web-based
control panels ultimately to commandeer
them for example one of the botnets
drones a hacked camera running a go
ahead embedded web server on TCP port 81
had a system dot ini file that had
changed to include a nut cat command
that opened a reverse shell a backdoor
in other words this gave the Reaper
masters the command line to the device
once the botnets malware was on the
computer it then attempted to infect
other equipment on the Internet and he
subsequently hacked device would also
cruise up and down the information
superhighway in search of a more of more
vulnerable gizmos to hijack right now
check to make sure you're not exposing a
vulnerable device to the Internet apply
patches if you can look out for
suspicious behavior on your network and
take a gadget offline if it's infected
Wow okay so my thought is okay what's
the endgame in this is this like leading
to something where everything will be in
line and then we'll see a major attack
once everything is kind of are you
asking me to create a conspiracy theory
right or like or is it just like an
experiment where like perhaps it's very
benign maybe it's just like let's see
what we can do we've spoken on the show
previously about malicious software as a
form of warfare and we tend to we tend
to not quite grasp that
right as warfare to us is war right so
to think that there would be cyber
warfare it's it's really really hard to
get our head or heads around so when you
talk about an infection of this scale so
these are these are Internet connected
devices so home routers and cameras and
things like that that have internet
connectivity everything you know does
yeah the Internet if the devices are
exploited now you've got thousands
potentially millions of devices that
create you've heard the term botnet okay
so let's you know when we hear botnet we
think okay well it's some kind of virus
or some kind of malware well it's not
exactly like that think about a
supercomputer so what is a supercomputer
it's basically thousands of individual
computers connected together and created
to be one supercomputer so there's the
power of thousands of other computers
all connected together to give the power
of one supercomputer okay
so with the internet of things being
compromised in this particular manner
now all of these modems and all of these
cameras and all of these devices that
are Internet connected we've heard about
in the news previously even pop machines
and colleges are internet connected so
that they can update things and change
things right remotely and they were
compromised as well in a in a different
attack so now they become part of the
botnet part of the supercomputer so why
does a malicious person or group of
people create a supercomputer it's to be
able to process astronomical amounts of
data at unfathomable rates right so in
legitimate business that's done by
creating supercomputers creating
in-house botnets in a manner of speaking
and creating legitimate supercomputers
that's what Google has that's what
Amazon has that's what Facebook has
they've got supercomputers so this is
not a legitimate means of
yet this is a malicious way of somebody
who knows who creating a supercomputer
is it to find a cure for cancer probably
not it's not like a college experiment
perhaps not likely oh I mean it could be
but that particular college student when
they hand in their thesis is going to
jail so it's not a wise thing right
heard of stories like that where someone
thinks they're gonna figure out
something in security and they end up
going to jail so that's that is pretty
unlikely so the only way to protect
yourself is to take your devices off
line and keep them offline not
necessarily now these particular kinds
of exploits happen because of backdoors
in the systems in particular things like
leaving the password default like one
one one one like every password is well
when your internet service provider
shows up and installs your internet at
your new house they give you a modem and
they say here's the password for the
Wi-Fi and you put it in your phone now
you've got Internet and it works so
you're happy well what you're not
realizing is that that device you you're
using the default password mm-hmm the
service provider has that password
other people have that password and that
password is quite easily compromised as
well so that's one particular instance
of a device that has a default password
now you think about the Internet of
Things you've got a toaster that is
internet connected for some crazy reason
right because this exists yes a fridge
makes sense I mean you can put your
shopping list on the fridge and you can
and it's internet connected my
toothbrush talks to my phone there you
go yeah so these Internet connected
devices do you ever think to change the
password on your fridge thinking
someone's going to compromise it right
we don't really clue into that until now
somebody through the internet has gotten
in through the default passwords and
things like that right sometimes changes
the password so you no longer have
access and then then you're you're part
of this botnet which is quite
potentially to be used for cyber warfare
which is a bad thing
Wow yeah thank you change your password
change your past always change your
passwords and if you if you think you've
been compromised you may have to wipe
the device and start over with a fresh
firmware that's that's just the nature
of it mm-hmm Wow
thank you all right mobile phone data
services have been boosted in blacked
out areas of hurricane hit Puerto Rico
by balloons that were provided by
Google's parent company alphabet Project
loon devices beam signals between each
other and two users on the ground this
extends communication networks in places
where infrastructure is scarce or has
been damaged the balloons will allow
residents with LTE phones to send and
receive text messages and access the web
however much of the country is still
without electricity and more than a
quarter of the population lacks safe
drinking water Allister Westgarth head
of Project loon said this is the first
time we've used our new machine learning
powered algorithms to keep balloons
clustered over Puerto Rico so we're
still learning how to best do this as we
get more familiar with the constantly
shifting winds in this region we hope to
keep the balloons over areas where
connectivity is needed for as long as
possible so these balloons are powered
by a AI right a manner of speaking yeah
so you think about a hot air balloon it
can only go up or down but you go up or
down in order to control its horizontal
movement as well because you can follow
wind drifts and things like that so by
monitoring the air flow by monitoring
conditions the artificial intelligence
if you will it's machine learning is
essentially what it is okay it's it's
pretty simple as far as the algorithms
themselves go but it learns from its own
mistakes so if it goes up when it should
have gone down it's gonna go oh maybe
next time I'll go down when I think I
should go up and and so it learns and it
evolves and it becomes smarter in a
great waves pretty cool stuff so to have
stayed over now their first test flight
at alphabet or
X was a little while ago and stayed up
for three months a little over three
months Wow without man controlling it
right without a person controlling it so
that's pretty cool nice now what's what
does the LTE mean like if your phone
didn't have LTE it's just the grade of
the services okay fast internet is LTE
on your phone okay so if you if you have
anything less so basically in a in a
war-torn place or in a devastated by
hurricane place like Purdue were to reco
you'd be looking at high-speed internet
on your phone like we're talking 25
megabits per second on your phone in a
place like that provided by a balloon
that's perfect you can let people know
where you are and that you're safe very
cool my wife made an interesting point
if I may yes because I always thought oh
well that's great they can let people
overseas know if they've got family and
stuff and that guy made the comment that
I never really clicked for me but they
can now communicate with one another
well the infrastructure is there now to
communicate with people in the same town
and be able to each out and say you know
how you doing or you know do you need me
to bring you anything whatever else I
mean phones are the main way to
communicate so well then you've got now
you've got email texting phone
everything on LTE very cool speaking of
phones Samsung wants to bring the full
power of Desktop Linux to its
smartphones yeah the mobile giant
announced this week that the Linux on
Galaxy project will give smartphones the
capability to run Linux based
distributions on mobile devices so if
you dream of using the smart phone in
your pocket as a desktop Linux PC you'll
be pleased to know that Samsung clearly
shares the same dream Linux on Galaxy
will based on the information currently
available be distributed as an app it
will be able to run multiple operating
systems likely including a boon to Linux
distros run on the exact same Linux
kernel that Android uses and with no
virtualization or emulation involved
performance theoretically should be
excellent but the true power
we'll be unlocked when used with the
Samsung Dex desktop dock accessory this
allows compatible phones to connect to
an external display a mouse and keyboard
and other peripherals the Samsung Galaxy
s8 phone already allows users to use
Android apps with a larger screen with a
desktop style Android UI when docks
docked with the de X but while Android
is is great as a smartphone and tablet
OS it's not so hot as a desktop one
Samsung Samsung says its users want the
convenience of their mobile devices but
also sometimes need the tried-and-true
desktop computing environment especially
when it comes to interacting with
productivity tools and entertainment
contents that are best viewed on a
larger monitor Linux on galaxy is still
in the early stages of development
there's no word on which devices the
initiative plans to support so I
wouldn't suggest rushing out to buy
something Samsung branded just yet
Motorola Microsoft and canonical all
tried and failed to bring convergence to
the masses can the smartphone giant
Samsung succeed where others have failed
let us know what you think in the
comments Wow now why is convergence
failed if it's failed with all of the
other platforms why would Samsung go
ahead and pick it up yeah why would they
start making something that has already
failed by everyone else so you know I
don't have an exact answer to that I can
speculate a little bit you think about
iPhones right and you think about
Android and Google and these are all
familiar household names okay
there's a couple of different things
about them first of all they've got an
app store that is billed chock full of
stuff so you're not going to just switch
phone providers to switch phone os's
to a phone that doesn't have all the
apps that you usually use mm-hm a Kenny
sense to you I know with me when I got
blackberry it didn't make any sense
because they had disconnected the
Facebook app there was no Skype it just
was useless to me right so so that's
kind of the same kind of scenario I
would expect the app store would be a
big thing but all
so iPhone Android Google Samsung LG
these are all names that when you hear
them you think they're good phones right
I know these names even if you don't
really know these names you know these
names so if boon to canonical comes out
with Ubuntu phone and it's some obscure
manufacturer that nobody has ever heard
of right we're not really gonna jump on
the bandwagon and it's so is such a
shame because they may be fantastic
phones who knows but they need the name
named Samsung on the other hand is one
of those names that may be able to pull
this off just based on their name alone
right and maybe enough to dig them out
of the dirt yeah they've had a rough
time of late so this would be a really
good way for them to get it they can do
it without blowing up your docking
station so to be clear they imagine just
quickly because we're we're running low
on time take your phone plug it into the
monitor now your monitor lights up with
the phone display and you've got your
keyboard and mouse and it becomes a
computer but it's got Linux on it so
it's not a phone os so you're not
feeling like you know that the ones you
know where you've got to swipe like a
tablet connected to a screen it just
doesn't make any sense
yeah it turns into a desktop operating
system sort of reminds me of like that
Nintendo switch ideology a little bit
right it switches to the big screen and
then it yeah seamlessly mm-hmm Wow
all right so it's going to be an
unpleasant week for some Mac users who
are facing a complete system wipe and
reinstall after hackers stashed malware
in legitimate applications altima
software which makes the popular L media
player and download manager has
confessed the latest version of these
two apps came with an unwelcome extra
the rather horrid OS X dot proton
malware the botnet which was injected
into downloads of the applications was
spotted by security shop ESET which
alerted L media a subsequent
investigation revealed miscreants had
got into the developer servers implanted
the malware into the download files and
then let the company infect its users as
they fetched the software
proton is a remote-control Trojan
designed specifically for Mac systems it
opens a back door granting route level
command line access to commandeer the
computer and conceal passwords
encryption and VPN Keys as well as
crypto currencies from infected systems
that's Bitcoin it can even gain access
to victims iCloud account regardless of
whether two-factor authentication is
used or not ISA warns that a total
system OS reinstall is the only
guaranteed way to totally rid your
system of this malware Wow
so how would you know if you've been
infected that's a good question now
there is a lot of information out there
for Mac users so you know there are
particular files that this Trojan leaves
behind on your hard drive so it makes it
fairly obvious that you're infected by
finding these files okay off the top of
my head I don't know what those files
are but you'll find those if you go to
any Security Bulletin about this
malwarebytes is a fantastic source and
in fact malwarebytes for Mac will not
only detect but remove residual residue
of this Trojan oh I think he said is
right though that because this thing has
root level access that means it is the
super user on your Mac even malwarebytes
can't guarantee that it has removed
everything that's happened because it's
a backdoor so the hackers may have
already remoted into your computer and
done other things that malwarebytes
would have no way to know whether or not
it so you would be best just to assume
that you're infected no no find out if
you are by checking for those files or
okay easy peasy way of install
malwarebytes for mac and run a scan okay
if it detects the malware then we know
that hey we've got a probably just to be
safe you can remove it but because of
the nature of this one you have no way
to know whether
not they've put other things in there
right that's the tough thing here so
that's why you said says a system wipe
is the only way to know that you are
clean from this one that's brutal that
is horrible Mac users tend to think that
they're safe of course they do yes oh
well big thanks this week to roy w nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman
[Music]
you
