hi everyone and welcome back to new
everyday my name is caring and my name
is Jen and on spatial we're going to ask
the question so who's your boss
[Music]
hello and thanks for tuning in to
another episode of new everyday we will
get a nice it sounds and we invite you
to grab a cup of coffee cup of tea
whatever you want pull up a chair and
just open the Bible with us and start to
read and learn alongside with us we've
we've been doing this for quite a while
now and we're so grateful for the people
all over the world who tune in regularly
thank you so much and we even run into
some people out on the street who have
you know made comments from past shows
and just said that you know they've
appreciated working with us and I'm so
grateful and we are jumping back into
the book of Acts and we were in chapter
5 Jen yes and so we we talked about a
few shows ago we talked about Ananias
inspired tell a lie and you'll die and
it ended off that chapter that portion
that said the whole church at audios who
heard these things were filled with fear
and then it goes on to say that the
Apostles continued to teach right
because there's the sense of I want to
say assisting of who was hanging out
like the true believers I want to say
realized or people who wanted to who
were thinking about this whole christian
thing we're realizing oh this isn't
about being fake because if you're fake
you're going back I'm going to die like
and so we go from that into the apostles
who are at a solvent portraitures last
week they were where they were supposed
to be they were doing what they were
supposed to be doing and they got in
trouble for it got put in prison got put
in prison with an angel my father's
gonna out and then they went right back
to teaching in Solomon's porch because
the angel told them to yeah and so it
and it says that that their numbers
continue to grow because i want to say
the proof was in the pudding which is a
baking term but basically says when the
pudding turns out you're going to see
that it was the proof is there like
all the right ingredients went into
making the pudding and you'll be able to
tell the proof is by the fact that its
fairness it's you can eat it and taste
right I've ever thought about that
colloquialism before yeah so and person
for the proofing running you'll be able
to tell by their fruit and the fruit in
people are being healed numbers are
growing like cool things are happening
like and so people are like whoa like
there's something to this so as a result
set the the high priests and the
Sadducees were not very happy and so
we're going to pick it up again this is
the end of verse 21 and it goes like
this when the high priest and his
friends arrived they called so this is
new century version they called a
meeting of the Jewish leaders and all
the important older Jewish men they sent
some meant to jail to bring me Apophis
because they didn't know where the
apostles were they thought they were
still jail and now they got busted out
buddy told them to imagine what you say
flat the chiller I wanted to join over
yet let's see Nigella knows but upon
arriving the officers could not find the
Apostle so they went back and reported
the Jewish leaders they said Jill was
closed and locked and the guards are
standing at the doors so I work on there
were guards we had this conversation
last week do you think we would have
read ahead but when we opened the door
the jail was empty aren't you wondering
I'm Nadia hearing this the captain of
the temple guards in the leading priests
were confused and wondered what was
happening but confused that's an
understatement hey why fake oh all right
then someone came and told him listen
you really should have this much fun
reading Scripture sometimes the men you
put in jail are standing in the temple
teaching the people and the captain and
his men went out and brought the Apostle
back when the soldiers didn't but the
soldiers did not use for us because they
were afraid that people would stone them
to death the soldiers brought the
apostles to the meeting and made them
stand before the Jewish leaders the high
priest question them saying we gave you
strict orders not to continue teaching
in that name but look you have filled
Jerusalem with your teaching and are
trying to make us responsible for this
man's death Peter and the other apostles
answered we must obey God not human
authority you killed Jesus by hanging
him on a cross but God the god of our
ancestors race Jesus up from the dead
Jesus is the one whom God raised to be
on his right side as leader and Savior
through him all Jewish people could
change their hearts in lives and have
their sins forgiven we saw all these
things happen the Holy Spirit whom God
has given to all who obey Him also
proves these things are true when the
Jewish leaders heard this they became
angry and wanted to kill them but a
Pharisee named Gamaliel stood up in the
meeting he was a teacher of the law and
all the people respected him he ordered
the apostles to lead the meeting for a
little while then he said people of
Israel be careful what you're planning
to do these men Remer when sadis
appeared he said he was a great man and
about 400 men joined him but he was
killed and all his followers were
scattered they were able to do nothing
later a man named Judas came from
Galilee at the time of the registration
he also led a group of followers and was
scattered and so now I tell you stay
away from these men and leaving
alone if their plans if their plan comes
from human authority it will fail but if
it is from God you will not be able to
stop them you might even be fighting
against God himself the Jewish leaders
agreed with what Gamaliel said they call
three apostles in beat them and told
them not to speak in the name of Jesus
again when they let them go free the
Apostles left the meeting full of joy
because they were given the honor of
suffering disgrace for Jesus every day
in the temple and in people's homes they
continue teaching the people and telling
the good news that Jesus is the Christ a
couple things stand out to me jen is
when they were brought before the
council they said we told you not to
preach in this name not hey how to get
out of prison you're right right who was
an accomplice and letting you out not
did God Almighty save you and like
meeting with Gamaliel who is like this
might be God actually working here so
just kind of let them alone and see what
happens because if you're fighting
against God and keep putting them in
prison he can keep busting them out but
is very interesting Athena they don't
ask us questions not if you lose your
sounding board it right but it is
interesting because we talked about and
I'm not sure if I said it on the show
before I remember sitting in seminary
class and we were talking about the
deserts all that did the Desert Fathers
and how amazing things would happen in
their life like just like wow and we
would sit there and talk about whether
or not that was real versus how do we
get that but I want to know how like how
do I get so close to Jesus that
wrestling's with demons happen physical
wrestling's like or like closing of
Lyons Matt like just amazing like
Daniels and we are tangible miracles and
we were asking the questions
could they actually happen and I'm like
are we not missing the boat here is the
nature of a miracle is that it doesn't
it doesn't make sense with physics and
our understanding of science but I know
you the way the world should work
otherwise it wouldn't be considered a
miracle like and so I struggled in that
class and follow I said should we not be
saying how do we get to be like those
men not did these miracles happen and so
what was the result well Providence a
very much because you wanted to talk
about whether or not they are real and
I'm like I feel like that's what's
happening in this passage yeah it's like
when we sing the boat yes how did you
get out tell us about that no it's just
like did we not tell you not to preach
in that name like you said I thought
you're not following the rules like are
you like are you not blown away they're
missing the miracle like and who are
they that's an even better question who
are they that an angel of the Lord would
come and bust them out how like who do
you have to know yeah I get an angel
sent through through like I just I think
you brought up a good point length what
kind of relationship do you have to have
with God what mission and how do you
even get on those missions that you know
you're so like what in who named the God
that he's like oh I guess I better send
my angel like yeah how and yet I think I
don't think this is just like a cop-out
but I know there have been times in my
life were like wow I should have gotten
that Carson they didn't yes thank you
God like yeah I think a few rescues us
and we don't even know it hi hi I
totally agree I totally agree these
things are happening and we don't know
because we can't see in a spirit realm
with our own eyes but this was like an
angel showed up and busted damn house
yes and so are we even going to ask
those questions and I'd like to say how
how does it happen when into it anyways
go ahead
I think we should can you talk about the
thrill it kinda like I actually get
excited about that well it's what what
the Pharisees are asking or the fantasy
is the important people here they said
and look you feel the filters on which
our doctrine and intend to bring this
man's blood on us yeah the reason for
bringing them forward was not a
fact-finding mission it is like I need
to defend myself and that and the
through with the pride there you're
filling Jerusalem taking people away and
you're trying to achieve this of murder
so it's like self-defense right mmm
what's going on here and pride always
will keep us from learning something new
or experiencing something new with God
pride will always keep us from learning
something new and I read this morning
that it is selfishness that leads to
violence same deal right it's it's pride
focuses on us selfishness focus on us
and what was happening like violence is
whenever there's you're at ah you're
like you're willing to cause trouble
between two people there's going to be
some hurt and it always comes from pride
or selfishness yeah so as we go to the
break I want you to think about that for
a minute when has your pride or your
selfishness led to violence or from you
missing out on something from God so
question we back after this Jeff Weston
Gemma you're building a brand new
beautiful website what
are you all right you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
oh I don't know where Arctic you're
supposed to act okay are you building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
account how many domains can point to it
well we've got an amazing deal for you
for a very limited time cat five dot TV
/ dreamhost for just five dollars and a
bit of change per month you are going to
get unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cap five gb flash
dreamhost don't forget about papers on
it just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folk fest deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost hello
everyone welcome back we are jumping
right back in to act chapter five Jen
you asked the question before went to
commercial break what was that I said
have you ever it has there ever been a
time of your life where selfishness or
pride has led to violence or you missing
out on something from God and or wanting
to defend yourself are wanting to defend
yourself because that's what's happening
here like these people are missing the
point because because of their own
selfishness like they've missed out on
the fact that an angel busted them out
but greater than that they're missing
out on this new life concept because
they're like you said they are the
people are starting to follow them and
you know they're just afraid of all of
this stuff happening at ya so it's like
their selfishness their pride is
actually keeping them
from experiencing the new life in Christ
yeah but it's in the name of religion
right yes and but here Peters rebuttal
is also in the name of what can be
perceived as religion but actually what
relationship a new life with Christ when
they say did we not strictly command you
not to teach in this name and look you
feel Jerusalem with your doctrine and
intend to bring this man's blood on a
Peter and the other apostles answered
and said we ought to obey God rather
than men the god of our fathers raised
up Jesus whom you murdered by hanging on
a tree him God has exalted to his right
hand to be Prince and Savior to give
repentance to Israel and forgive him
suspend that this is it here's your part
of Israel this repentance and
forgiveness is for you new and we are
his witnesses to these things and so
also is the Holy Spirit whom God has
given to those who obey Him and their
response when they heard that they were
furious and plotted to kill them because
a they are saying that you kill Jesus
but God raised him from the dead and the
Holy Spirit now is inside of us yes
those those key things that they were in
opposition to and when they said we
ought to obey God rather than men that
made them even more angry but it's
they're saying like no our boss is
actually god I've never had trouble with
a Boston oh oh yeah I don't handle I I
met with a friend last night whom I work
with his who has some trouble with one
of our bosses and was kind of like
lamenting to me and cheering you know
what do you say cannibalism you know you
know some of it I sighs what was witness
to and I agreed with it it wasn't right
and yet I felt like I can't speak badly
about this person but you know what they
did say this one time and I kind of felt
like oh they're my manager and then you
can respect them but even though some
stuff that they do is right how is I
felt a lot of tension there but
ultimately like I know that God is my
boss and you need to honor him and
sometimes that means respecting my boss
and even when they do things that we
don't like and and that's the hard part
is respecting those in authority above
us even when they do things that we
don't like and whether they're a boss or
a pastor or prime minister or President
like often like we we put people on a
pest petev cylinder and leadership
thinking while they're in leadership so
they can do anything wrong they can make
bad choices and then when they do
because of our culture we actually start
ripping them apart and it's Christian to
recall to be anti culture and like rise
up and say you know what I might not
agree with what they're doing but I will
not slam them I will not tarnish them I
like unless you're telling me to break
the law of God that I'm going I will
honor them I will respect my will not be
cruel to them I will not make them the
butter of my jokes I will not talk
behind their back and that's a hard
thing but the hard thing when you're in
a situation when it that's what
everybody else is doing but then there's
sometimes I in throughout history Janet
where the leaders have been making like
moral yeah voices that are absolutely
wrong like a new shared one with me
earlier so this is a Richard one brand i
think i hope i'm pronouncing his name
yeah fidgeted in his chair as he
listened to George George today I'm not
really sure how to pronounce it the
Communist Party boss deliver his speech
George promised the post-world war two
clergy of Romania that his government
would pay the clergy from tax revenues
if communism and Christianity would work
together most of the audience cheered
and a leader promise and the leader
promised that the clergy would cooperate
with the state but Richard didn't share
he had already been in prison and beaten
several times for his face he knew
speaking out could again cost them to
freedom Richard's wife Sabrina is sat
beside him go and wash the shame from
the face of Christ she demanded Richard
pleaded that he would probably be taken
away
he spoke out against the communists I
don't need a coward Sabrina replied
gathering his courage Richard asked
permission to speak and was welcomed
forward by the organizers who apparently
anticipated a unity speech instead
Richard began by saying it was the duty
of pastors to glorify God not earthly
powers he encouraged the clergy to
support the eternal kingdom of God not
the fleeting powers of Romania as he
remained as he continued someone
suddenly began to clap and another
person also collapse soon the clapping
erupted into waves of applause stop your
right to speak has been withdrawn or the
minister of cults cults included
religious bodies of all kinds in Romania
my right to speak comes from God Richard
declared he kept he kept speaking until
his microphone was disconnected Wow soon
after Richard was imprisoned the
Romanian Communist instituted their
state religion and the Ministry of
Culture and the church like Richard the
Apostles recognize the priority of
obeying God and speaking out for him
yeah Richard warmer and I believe he was
instrumental in starting a ministry to
the persecuted Church yes yeah so yeah
and it's interesting in this is a Bible
that way i was given upon graduating
high school tell you what the place was
posted to casually mono and and it says
consider making a poster of Acts 529
which says but Peter and the other
apostles answered and said we ought to
obey God rather than men yes and writing
around the border five priorities you
believe God wants you to follow then
make a weekly schedule that reflects
those priorities selecting what do you
think would be a priority for you like
it if God is asking you to obey hands
and not men and this is a citizen
supporting dissension no this is saying
like at what I interpret this sounds
like you think this is ain't free dis
book too
God's not only rule book but but
instructions to live this new life of
freedom love and grace that's for
everyone yeah and then if something
comes up from a ruler manager or
whatever that is not in keeping with
this then you need to actually teach me
about it like maybe one of the
priorities is I will not deny Christ
okay and so that when people you know
ask you something or ask you to do
something that's against the word of god
you're like no a priority of my life as
I will not deny Christ and that's a
priority or maybe another priority is
I'm going to read the Word of God every
day because I want to know more about
who God is I want to become like these
apostles I want to tire on the Holy
Spirit and I as I read this word i'm
going to learn more about God and so
maybe that becomes a priority that goes
on that and so it's like what are those
priorities that God is saying our
priority because it's like Peter and the
other apostles answered we must obey God
and so maybe that's a priority obey God
so when the Holy Spirit taps me even
though I might all right I'll go do it
okay rightfully you share something
today where you felt that you should say
something what was the situation when I
was i I was getting my piece done today
and I'm going on a missions trip to
Ghana and the lady is talking to me to
said oh yeah what are you going to Ghana
for and I was like no way I'm going on a
mission trip with my church oh really
and like the fear right the fear awesome
stops us from moving forward so maybe
that becomes a priority which is also a
command to not be afraid and so but you
know and out of that came other
questions and so we need to be mindful
of what you know we must obey God not
human authority the angel told them to
go back and they went back yeah the
Jewish leader said we told you not to
and their life is and you did and so
they're saying I'm sorry like we we
actually became they didn't say we're
sorry because there was nothing to be
sorry about now they just simply said we
must obey God we have to obey what God
has said and we are under his authority
so we encourage you to do that this week
right out yeah i think i was in 29 529
and five priorities that are around it
and then start praying lord help me
follow these through and you'll be very
surprised at what god does tree because
he has never seen the righteous forsaken
or his children begging for bread why
don't we pray done okay father thank you
so much for your word and thank you for
the example through history of people
who have put their faith in you and
chosen to do what you have said even if
it was in opposition to common opinion
or ruling authority and yet God your
word goes forth I thank you Lord for the
church and for all the people who have
given their lives and realized that they
are they're keeping their eyes fixed on
Jesus and the end the prize for which he
is called them heavenward and and we
know that we are living for you here and
that this is not it thank you for the
heavenly perspective that the Apostle
pad so this is not it and the most
important thing is knowing you and
sharing you with other people or would
you fill our heart with love for other
people that we would be inspired to
share the words of this new life thank
you for everyone watching and listening
we pray your blessing on them and that
you help each of us to make the steps
that we need to
to know you better in Jesus and then
thanks so much and let us know is we
want to give us some feedback send us
the messages go to our website you
everyday TV and let us know how this
talent went for you again I am going to
do it you now go sounds good we'll see
you next week see you next week bye bye
you
