here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room more
than 150,000 web-connected printers were
owned by a self-proclaimed novice coder
over the weekend a hack attack against
the dark web shut down a huge number of
sites for containing child pornography
AI has beat the most skilled poker
players in the world google superbowl
ads set off a bunch of Google hone
devices and more than 1,000 government
computers in a u.s. County have been
infected by ransomware these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere now
here's another great way you can support
the shows you love for the category 5 TV
network by shopping gearbest that's
right Jeff cap 5 TV / gearbest it's an
online store for the geek streak in here
or the loved ones well of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat5 TV / gearbest quite frankly has all
of the greatest tech gifts that you
could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices because that cell phones you bet
ya cat5 TV / gear bats has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets global confuse
consumer electronics those like a
cricket absolutely from high-tech
watches to action cameras headphones
even virtual reality headsets cat5 TV /
gearbest have you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronics Stephanie what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom SuperDuper prices
how to like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than thirty dollars plus free
shipping a camp five dot TV splash
gearbest yeah all right you kinda got me
there Wow any other questions for me
jack now that winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals and
say you to look up this old mine
goodness well check this out dude they
have everything check out over 500
various drums and not only that they're
available mark down by about thirty two
up to sixty-three percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're going to find
gearbest on our partners pages for any
of your favorite category five TV shows
like new every day category five
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit
cat5 TV / gear back so that's using
catch five dot TV flashing your back
that's right happy shopping I'm statue
tomatoes in here the top stories for the
week of februari eight 2017 a hacker is
briefly hijacked more than 150,000
printers the attacker made the devices
print a warning urging their owners to
cut off remote access large printers and
offices domestic devices and tiny
receipt printers and restaurants were
all caught up in the hack over the
weekend a hacker using the alias back
overflow and ran an automated program
that scoured the internet for printers
that did not have basic security
controls switched on once it discovered
a vulnerable device the program made
them print the page and now Singh the
invasion in telling the owner to close
the port use to hijack it the message
read in part for the
love of God please close this port skid
so script kiddie I novice coder earlier
version early versions of the program
also added ascii art depicting different
robots or a computer also included where
an email address and a twitter handle
for stack overflow and many people
posted pictures of the printed messages
to social media and asked questions
about what was happening on technical
support forums and social networks such
as reddit printer is made by HP brother
epson canon lexmark minolta and many
others were hit by Stack Overflow ins
program the hacker said he did not
intend to abuse the access he had gained
to the printers he said I'm about
helping people to fix their problem but
having a bit of fun at the same time
everyone's been cool about it and
thanked me to be honest you know what
stack overflow and thanks you because
you're at one of the good ones I really
hope that anybody who was hacked and did
get this actually did close that port so
all right around twenty percent of all
websites on the dark web were taken
offline in a hack with those responsible
publishing details of the web site
administrators freedom hosting to a site
with 10,000 poor based web pages was
hacked after a hacker said child
pornography was being hosted on the
website on Friday visitors to any of the
websites hosted by the firm saw the
message hello freedom hosting to you
have been hacked the statement explained
that when de hacker was searching
through freedom hosting tues database
they found fifty percent of the websites
for child porn dark web and privacy
researcher Sarah jamie lewis conducted a
review of freedom hosting two in october
2016 and she said she believed there
were 1500 to 2000 active sites being
hosted sh2 made it easy for people to
start playing with anonymous publishing
and in doing so created a huge
vulnerability lewis pleaded i have never
been a fan of dark web hosting providers
the threat model therefore everyone is
ridiculously hard to secure
Troy hunt from have I been own said the
details which were leaked following the
attack on the freedom hosting two are
likely to have been collected by police
and intelligence agencies he says law
enforcement will absolutely have this
data it's very public and also obviously
has many real email addresses in it
thank goodness there are people out
there that are that are fighting against
the evils in this world thank goodness
for them see what shocked me about this
story though is how much of it was
hosted child pornography is there not
regulations for some of these servers
this is the dark web was the whole idea
that is to be private and secret and
hidden from authorities I get that but
you'd still think that at some point
somewhere they would have to go through
an internet service provider that would
catch this stuff it's encrypted it's
anonymous so anything and it's sad it is
heartbreaking 50 cent and that's what so
we're we want more privacy we want the
ability to have private network online
and yet this is what it's being used for
and is that because the the bad guys are
the only ones using it so fifty percent
is not to show that fifty percent of
society will do this but fifty percent
of those who are capable of using this
type of service well and I don't even
think it'd be even fifty percent of the
users they're probably very small pocket
of users but or just a large quantity of
data it just so heartbreaking it just
goes to show that maybe we don't deserve
to have that privacy we obviously have
to be transparent just for our own yeah
first well maybe maybe just for our
safety right we either some truth in
that I mean I understand the need for
private services but there is some truth
there was a story this week that said
that an unbelievable number of spouses
spy on their spouses Facebook accounts I
know people who have done it and it this
is in the news
and so to me I immediately thought you
know I'm glad that I'm transparent
enough that I wouldn't mind if my wife
right was to do that and I'm not up to
anything that great she would find
offensive so great but it's the same
with us we don't hide anything from each
other Dave and I like we going to ISIL
from that we ha so we we could easily we
choose not to go on each other's
facebook or like I can go on to his
computer no problem I choose not to
because I trust him yeah right but he
trusts me also to have the access to it
right sure and my wife the same thing I
wouldn't mind if she went on my facebook
that's okay yeah but is it is that
because she's my wife I love her
probably and you don't know you going to
be able to trust me there would you I
think I got it yeah I'd be afraid of
probably as Robbie burger oh that's all
I love max no okay moving a lot man all
right live iratus and artificial
intelligence just beat the world's top
poker players by a margin of 1.7 million
dollars what not real well sadly for I
just behind the AI oh I had thought we
had a 50-50 shot but I but to have such
a huge victory I would have never
guessed said Thomas can't stand home the
professor at Carnegie Mellon behind
Liberata we have proven that the best AI
is better than the best humans he said
this is the second time system from his
lab has won a poker world championship
and the first time in the most difficult
heads-up no-limit version of the
imperfect information game labrada is a
system of systems designed to work with
imperfect information and three steps
step one is learning the game gnome
Brown a PhD grad student and researcher
on the Liberata steam says we give the
AI a description of the game we don't
tell it how to play as labrada computed
game after game against itself in
training the program rien
earth patterns that led to successful
outcomes in addition to its pattern
recognition the Carnegie Mellon team
built a second system that focuses on
the current game and rent the potential
end game scenarios finally once a day
the third system reviews the day's play
for predictable patterns san home
explains based on what holes the
opponent found in our strategy the AI
will automatically see which of those
holes have been the biggest and the most
frequently exploited and then overnight
a supercomputer supercomputer as a super
computer it will compute packages to
those pieces of the strategy and they're
automatically glued into the main
strategy he predicts future AI will be
business centric these are really for a
host of applications really any
situation that can be modeled
theoretically as a game now that we've
shown that the best ai's ability to do
strategic reasoning and an imperfect
information setting has surpassed that
of the best humans there's really a
strong reason for companies to start
using this kind of AI yep this is what I
thought computers are also see the
problem I have with this there's a
problem with this well is it it's not
that it's learning it's just simply
putting in moves that has been exploited
and it's just closing those holes so our
humans so predictable that that's good
enough maybe are there patterns in do
you think about person of interest and
how there are patterns of the machine is
able to find in human behavior that say
oh this person is about to attack yeah
okay oh you know sort of like
anthropomorphised athanasia learning
right it's not a human it's not learning
exactly but it's predicting very well
machine learning see I'd be interested
to see how it plays up with somebody
where there's facial recognition so it's
reading like Bluffs and all that kind of
stuff I would like to see that that
would be truly incredible because right
now it's just about any break break for
absolutely it's just simply odds but
it's fun as you're reading the story I'm
having a flashback of an episode where
data was playing chess or something and
he lost and there was something wrong
with his programming on star traveler
must event I'm remembering this I'm
thinking oh man they're making data
right well i'm thinking more what could
you ever play the stock market without
oh no I married all right like you
wouldn't need it I like once is this
technology but it takes over hours dark
right exactly yeah most theoretically
you could but there's a ton of variables
in that I mean you can't even factor it
I suppose you could factor in the human
emotion of it I mean look at what people
expected the stock market to do over the
last couple of weeks in the US and it's
defying that so you know could it have
predicted that I'd be interesting to see
but I mean fact is AI is advancing so
quickly five years from now we're gonna
be like remember that time when we read
that really older cake story about a I
winning poker now it's that's what's
interesting to me and making O'Neill's
in the kitchen it's not actually about
poker it's not actually about poker
that's where using that as a learning
mechanism to prove concepts and to show
that this thing can learn and adapt and
predict so i i'm expecting by the time
my kids get to high school it's not
gonna be the dog ate my homework it's
the AI crashed my homework something
like that right sure all right remember
superval last week one super bowl ad
found its way into some viewers homes
during sunday night's big game during
the Superbowl on Sunday Google heir to
one minute ad promoting its google home
smart home appliance the ad shows people
using the device to turn on lights check
the weather translate phrases into
Spanish and more according to several
Google home users who took to Twitter
during the game it also activated google
home devices sitting in rooms where
people were watching the ad google home
was released last year as a competitor
to the Amazon echo
and like the echo it's designed to be
activated with a simple vocal command ok
Google the ad on Sunday showed several
people saying okay Google to issue their
commands according to affected Google
home users the statements in the
commercial caused their devices to
activate the google home ad is the
latest to trigger smart home devices
accidentally Google should have seen it
coming since Amazon's echo device has
been experiencing a similar issue
ordering products mentioned on TV this
story happens week after week with us
it's kind of becoming a thing and that's
why I wonder like should they not have
figured this out but you I'm picturing
this is a new type of advertising
absolutely we've used it on the show
Jeff you've been away but we've been
spending basically the first 15 minutes
of each sho thang Alexa by the Star Trek
communicator from shop category 5 TV
really pretty much don't know if it work
but they're selling out real fast and
suddenly you're going to go to the
bathroom to your out yeah who's at fault
in me did you imagine I like you're
sitting at home and you know you're
watching some something on netflix and
in the middle of this netflix purdue
show you know you got we have the new
form of advertising yeah exactly
sometimes like all right ok Google tell
me but and they build it into the script
Nelson your phone's going little bit
it's like oh come on uh-huh that's
that's the problem and see that's what's
happened and I'm picturing this I'm
going ok what if you say it it takes you
to some sort of device that then or a
website that say look so your internet
history your leg and all the donkeys and
stuff yeah exactly text a number that
you you know they like a premium number
you talked last week about ok Google
transfer a hundred dollars to Sasha
germain it right do that I think I
didn't do it yeah I think I did okay
yeah wow I forgot you have to say yes
because it's probably to you it says are
you sure yes SI engine eagles not right
into the show that's it oh man you've
got more I have
oh I have this one's a crazy one oh dear
I heard about that yeah a county in Ohio
us has has had to shut down its entire
IT infrastructure due to a ransomware
infection entire system licking county
has turned off all phones and computers
on its government network in order to
solve the spread of malware that had
been locking down infected pcs and
demanding payments licking county
commissioner Tim Bob would not disclose
the amount of the ransom demand nor
would he nor if it would be paid he said
that there they are taking the advice of
cybersecurity experts and law
enforcement the move was made Tuesday
evening when officials found that more
than 1,000 County pcs had already been
infected with the ransomware all county
offices remain open for people walking
in and doing business the old-fashioned
way using a pen and paper forms and the
911 call center and dispatch continues
to operate in manual mode the campus
treasurer's office is unable to process
checks but is still accepting payment
for property taxes Sean Grady director
of the Licking County Emergency
Management Agency and regional 911
center did not expect an immediate
resolution of the problem he said it's
lower than we'd like it takes us back 25
years and how we dispatch we ask more
detailed questions see I which is
expected to continue through the week is
county staff work to scrub the malware
from infected machines the FBI has also
been called in to assist it scary when
when something like this can bring down
an entire county and just supposed to
show you how fast it can it happen yeah
you know this is not a new thing how is
it like I can understand Joe Blow at
home with his rinky-dink computer
doesn't understand cybersecurity getting
you know ransomware going aa shoot but a
county we really got on the show and and
it happens because of social engineering
attacks phishing scams if you
will and but I have protections built in
if you're running a county protect
yourself man yeah you would hope so you
would hope so this that's not what
happened in future now especially with
the FBI's assistance i'm sure that
looking campaign will be very thank you
yeah yeah like this story is making me
think what is the worst-case scenario of
this making like AI Sasha no but what
I'm thinking is I mean it's not uncommon
in the US for people to get sued for
whatever sure I mean it's easier there
with their legal systems so house is
broken into somebody calls 911 it's now
a slower dispatch because some of the
ransomware lutely somebody gets robbed
to get you know God forbid shot or
something yeah and also they go hey this
is your fault you didn't protect the
county computers you would have had
service to me in time to protect me like
where does this go to your you're saying
this is for one thing this is not a
targeted attack this is something that
gets into one writer because one is
bread after members you've got a
thousand people working for company
which is government-run that hasn't got
the budget to replace all their
computers and put in an endpoint
protection like system to work as a DLP
or something like that so someone brings
in an infected phone or an infected
flash drive plugs it into one computer
and boom the whole network is down so
who do you blame it happens fast and
sometimes it's not detected for a while
like good music a bill to us yeah eight
years worth of evidence was was lost
write it and there is you know there is
some Fault in the IT department
absolutely I hope that they had good
backups that would be the worst case
scenario which is what happened in Texas
no backups and you know fact is the real
fault lies in the fact that we're at
this transitional phase when it comes to
technology because these are new threats
that government offices plain and simply
Jeff are not ready for I and I and I
can't be ready for it because they don't
have the budgets for it yeah but see
that's where I think there needs to be a
concerted effort for everybody that like
all the counties whatever to stand up
and take it we need more funding in this
area yes
like this is a big problem sure and go
back on our show category 5 TV do a
quick search on our website and type in
fishing ph i SH ing because maybe that's
what you need to do it's free and that
will educate you because we've done
episodes and we most recently did an
episode where we specifically got into a
Jeff I think it's going what a hard it
because our most like repeated topic for
the show and it's something that's been
evolving yeah and that's you know that's
not like free education is here because
it really is its social engineering
tactics it takes education to defeat
this and to protect your company plain
and simple I feel like every time I hear
none of these stories I just want to
face palm absolutely it's just so
unnecessary and if you have to say oh
absolutely re this happened to you sure
absolutely but it's like really another
one when you know better you do better
so everybody tell 10 friends to watch
category 5 that's it sure you learn I
mean you that that's I think and it's
not really about category 5 is about
like educating yeah yourself and
companies and the most assam some of
your linux user groups have sat down and
watched that video and sat down and
talked about it afterwards and learn
from it and so something that's really
really important the technique of art
let me just breaks every time i hear
stories all right thanks for watching
the category 5 TV news room don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha tomatoes
[Music]
