the following program is made possible
by the friends and partners of
qwest ministries
is evolution probable or is it
problematic that's what we're talking
about on the creation today's show from
the CTN studio in Pensacola Florida I'm
one of your host Eric koban and i'm
joined of course my ball taylor and on
today show we've got the creation
speaker JC cut in the studio i will be
talking to him about his creation talks
and in particular about a new talk that
he's done on the subject of DNA remember
we believe the Bible is literally true
and scientifically accurate in every
single detail you can always ask us
questions by emailing us at questions at
creation today dot o RG can also get us
on Twitter right that Twitter would be
asked creation today and Facebook is
facebook.com forward slash creation
today
Oh
we're really excited here in season two
to have Jay Seger joining us for the
creation today show but before we
introduce him we've got a couple
announcements don't we pop we have
indeed don't forget that the proof of
God conference is coming up in October
2012 that's correct top and the 13th
Friday and Saturday two days that will
radically change your life I guarantee
meet us down there in Orlando you're
gonna be there I shall be that I'm going
to be there and you're going to be that
and also don't forget that site and
brooding Kate will be there his website
is proof that God exists dot-com that
org prove the got existed or 0 yet Mark
Smith's from where the master is going
to be there he's the what is he he's the
something of the bull school of biblical
evangelism the Dean of Students there
were your students of the school of
biblical evangelism and then your good
friend my good friend Kyle Kirby from
the reasons reasons for Hope ministry is
also going to be there as well and we
are really really excited about that hey
also over the next couple of months we
got a lot of speaking engagements around
America and so check out creation today
o RG going to the live events and find
out if paul and i are going to be in
your area we'd love to get a chance to
actually meet you and have some
fellowship with you and don't forget if
you want to take the risk of inviting
what it's what a massive come and speak
at your church we don't make too much
mess but you can get in touch with us
through the website pastors are used to
cleaning up messes anyway that's no big
deal they can handle that well we are
excited about the guests that we have
today today joining us on the show from
Wisconsin he runs the Center for edge
Center the creation education center
there we go the creation education
center easy for you to say that's right
jcj welcome to the show what's an honor
to be here with you guys today well
thank you so much man I we've been
having some funny got in yesterday and
really enjoyed our relat the fellowship
that we've got to have together so we
really appreciate that tell us how long
you've been speaking on creation and why
you think it's so important turtle I've
been speaking for about 26 years my
background in a nutshell is that I was
raised in a Christian home believe the
Bible from cover to cover accepted
Christ as my savior when I was in early
grade school years and went to public
schools all the way through high school
and when I graduated and
to a christian college to study
mechanical engineering and partway
through I became more interested in
physics but the college didn't have a
physics degree so I ended up
transferring their went back to
Wisconsin to a state university to
pursue a degree in physics and that's
when my world changed quite a bit going
from a small Christian college where my
engineering professors open up in prayer
to a very large State University where
my physics professors did not open up in
prayer and they were all evolutionist
somewhere atheists and they were telling
me at us and said everything I believe
was wrong and that made me very
uncomfortable to be surrounded by these
PhD scientists who I assumed had a lot
of evidence for what they believed but I
realized probably for the first time in
my life that although I knew what I
believe and I really didn't know why so
you really got dropped in the frying pan
it was just kind of a sudden whoa this
is I'm really under attack here too big
time so God put on my heart to start
looking into these things how do I know
that God exists how do I know the Bible
is inspired Word of God how do I know
the creation account is scientifically
valid how do I know that there was a
flood how I know Jesus was the son of
God so i started doing all my research
about 26 years ago started doing some
speaking and now i've been speaking for
26 years in about five years ago i
founded the creation education center so
i've been in full-time ministry the past
five years Wow oh praise God I know you
stay extremely busy traveling and
speaking all over by the way you can go
to his website which is CEC wis wis see
wicked wis see for wisconsin just
because that's where he's located in the
CEC was already taken can you believe
that anyway go to cec wis si.com dot-com
and schedule you to come speak does a
phenomenal job we've actually got a
couple of your DVDs that you can get off
your website I you know we we really
like to talk about how some people are
good at speaking on creation other ones
know the material but they're not really
good at communicating it i'm telling you
i love the way jay communicates this
it's a blessing his book let there be
light is an excellent overview of the
creation versus evolution topic and
that's what we're here to talk about so
i'm really really excited about some of
the stuff that you've got going on we
can we just jump right into some of the
stuff we were talking about before the
show because i should i really want them
to get some of this hi first of all
evolution
all we talk about evolution a lot and
the problems with it yeah and of course
one of the things that that you were
talking about in the chat we're having
is the fact that is a difficulty and the
way that people use the term evolution
and so you think it's very important to
make sure that there's a definition of
evolution what is your your definition
of evolution or the various definitions
of people use sure it's very important
to talk about defining because sometimes
you get into a conversation with someone
you can be talking about something
completely different and it causes a lot
of problems so if we take a look and
what I'm not referring do by evolution
it's not simply change a lot of people
think we'll change is evolution so if we
as Christians say well we don't believe
in evolution or thinking we're crazy we
don't believe in change well we see
change all the time so evolution
certainly involves change but it's not
just any kind of change is a very
specific type of change it's really not
the type to change that we see and we
see change all the time I mean we see
different dogs and cats and horses and
we do see different beaks on finches at
Darwin got very excited about these are
actually facts of science and we see
them all the time creationists don't
deny change so this is not what we're
talking about what we are talking about
are this these kind of changes that
supposedly there was a single-celled
organism that existed maybe 3.8 billion
years ago that slowly evolved in heavy
other life form on this planet over
millions and millions and millions of
years all by accident that's the kind of
change that we're talking about that's
really what I mean when I'm talking
about evolution sometimes we call it
molecules tamanna volusia the idea of
chemicals forming a single-celled
organism which then you will evolve over
millions of years into human beings so
that's what we really mean when we're
talking about evolution and this is that
where a lot of the confusion is just
over what evolution means sure because
again we see change all the time and
since many people equate evolution with
change they think well it's proof of
evolution you see different even species
occasionally we can even see a new
species and say well that's in a
demonstration of evolution right there
but again creationists aren't against
change they're not even against the idea
of occasionally a new species coming up
but we don't see those new species or
varieties due to a gain of genetic
information it's just a shuffling of
existing information or most of the time
actually destroying a lot of that
information do you think that there's
sometimes a deliberate disingenuous
pneus about the way that that
evolutionists will will phrase this when
they say here's one change happening
so therefore that proves that change
happens across different species and so
on sure I think sometimes that can
happen I think the majority of
evolutionists are pretty sincere they
really only been presented one side of
the story so they grow up believing in
that and some of them become teachers
and professors so they just continue on
the same story and they're not
necessarily trying to lie to anyone it
kind of makes sense of them but they
really haven't heard the other side and
don't know a lot of the details behind
so somebody said ah the only reason
you're a creationist right now is
because that's the way you were raised
would you say no I mean I've looked at
both sides respond to that real quick
before we take a break sure I think when
I was young that would be the case I
grew up believing in Christ believing in
the Bible and believing in creation
because that's what I've been taught was
the only thing that I was taught but as
I got older I had to look into these
things myself and it just kind of
confirmed that what I believed was
correct so I did go through some of the
struggles and looking at some of the
evidences and arguments for and against
it and I stronger Christian no fort so
you're not a creationist and a Christian
just out of ignorance no I think it's
not in spite of the facts but it goes
along with the facts wow that is awesome
well I am excited you got a new DVD
coming out called evolution probable or
problematic that's going to go into you
know let's let's really talk about this
isn't it is it a problem or is it
actually possible it could it happen and
I want to get into some of that
information in these next two segments
that we have because you are going to be
fascinated by some of this information
it really goes into the complexities the
the information that is found in jeans
and you're really going to like it so so
hang on just a second we'll be back to
talk about evolution probable or
problematic
join Eric koban and Paul tater from
creation today org along with Carl Kirby
of reason for hope ministries mark
Spence of the way of the master in
sienten brueggen Kate of proof that God
exists org for the proof of God
conference in orlando florida for more
information visit proof conference com
that's proof conference com or call toll
free 1 877 479 3466 if you enjoy the
creation today's show please thank
category 5 TV by supporting the network
for making this available on their
channel by investing with the category 5
TV network you support Christian
programming that's available
twenty-four-seven visit category 5 TV to
see how you can pitch in a little or a
lot and help keep the network going
strong thanks so much for watching
you
welcome back you're watching the
creation today show with me Paul Taylor
angry of Eric Hovind and we're having a
great time today we're talking with JC
Kurtz who's joined us in the studio
welcome back Jase good to have you with
us through to be arrogant and where we
were talking just before the break about
definition of evolution and you know
quite often I get emails as probably you
do as well sort of accusatory emails so
it's very short usually why do you
people just believe this nonsense about
creation when there's so much evidence
for evolution all over the place and you
know these these things that you get
these these brief emails and you think
what on earth do they expect to achieve
from that but why is it that evolution
has so convinced these people what is it
that they're seeing sure again usually
they've only seen one side and what we
call elephant hurling goes on where
these huge statements are thrown out
there that there's tons of evidence from
every area of science that proves
evolution and they typically only been
shown evolution the idea from a certain
angle and from a certain vantage point
it can seem kind of plausible right one
example would be if we take a look at a
transition supposedly from a lung fish
into a newt these creatures look kind of
similar to begin with and you could
envision doesn't take too much
imagination to envision the fins getting
a little bit stronger and maybe you can
learn how to crawl then it Peaks its
head out on the water it can somehow
learn how to breathe air you betcha
crawls up onto land and it turns into
something or like a nude or reptile so
we can kind of picture that happening
especially when they tell us oh there
are millions and billions of years that
have gone on so it might seem plausible
on the surface but when you peek under
the hood that's where you start to see
problems and we'll get into that a
little bit later but there's a lot of
storytelling that goes on with evolution
for example we have four pictures of
transportation here and you could
rearrange these things so that they're
in order from simple to complex we can
talk about the evolution of the
motorcycle all goes from the two small
wheels in the back of a tricycle on up
to two major wheels and into electric
motor of a scooter and then doing a gas
engine of a motorcycle and we see that
seems kind of ridiculous because we know
the complexity that has to go on and
there because that's been achieved by
simple random mutations right there no I
don't have no purpose going out of
intelligence no purpose oh no design
allowed their sexual selection alone has
created them the motorcycle from the
tricycle we see those stories and but it
gets into the textbooks to one of the
classic ones is the evolution of the
horse from eohippus all the way up to
the last horse and it's been admitted by
many evolutions okay that didn't really
happen and maybe we should get it out of
the textbook since it's not real science
but it's still there for crying out loud
come on guys up a saw we need to get the
errors out of the textbook sorry go
ahead sure well we can look to of how
evolution supposedly works we've got
stories like this where you've got
evolution in action and this is
typically how it would be presented in a
classroom setting you've got an organism
that's going to reproduce itself and so
it copies its DNA passes it on to its
children and their children come out
looking pretty much like parents and the
children have children those are the
grandchildren they look pretty much the
same as their parents and the
grandparents and then the grandchildren
have children the copy of the DNA but
oops once in a while we've got mutations
going on these are these accidental
random changes in the genes and they
tell us that some of these changes are
bad they said admit yeah most of them
are bad but once and while there are
some good ones too and then you've got
natural selection coming along that's
said to get rid of the bad ones and keep
the good ones and then the replication
continues on where you've got the new
good ones reproducing themselves and the
original ones so you can imagine this
going on for millions and millions of
years eventually you'd have a great
great variety but there are a lot of
problems when we take a look at this
when you look at the details and take a
look further at some of the mutations
what's those we are the simple
definition many people here the simple
definition and they go oh ok that sounds
possible sure not only sounds possible
but even probable and you got the
non-christian students in the classroom
saying this makes a lot of sense to me I
can see how that could be true because
you give you enough time enough time Tim
it's a magic element here and then
you've got the Christian students
sitting in the same classes saying to
themselves you know what this makes
sense to me too maybe God used evolution
maybe that's what happened because it
seems so plausible at that point so what
are the problems with it how do where do
we get into the
you tell us what what do you see as okay
here's the problems sure well the
problem has to do with these mutations
that are going on well you ventually get
into some of that but let's take a
closer look at these mutations and in
order to do that we'll probably first
take a look at what's going on with DNA
itself which is really interesting if
you had even a teaspoon amount of your
own DNA and wanted to back up that much
data let's say onto CDs CDs can store a
lot of information so yeah just a
teaspoon amount of your own DNA you want
to back that up we back up our computers
all the time case they crash so if we
wanted to back up that much information
onto CDs nobody CDs would we need well
sometimes I say we would need a hundred
CDs just for a non spoon about our own
DNA that's a lot of information and it
would be nice if that was right but if
that's actually a lot we'd actually need
a thousand CDs madam it's just a
teaspoon and even that's a lie we'd
actually need 1 million CDs to back up
the amount of information in just a
teaspoon amount of our DNA dude that's
the one last I allows the last time I'm
gonna lie yeah I'll leave you real we
would actually need 1 million CDs given
to us every minute for nine and a half
years then you'd have enough CDs to back
up the amount of information in just a
teaspoon amount of our own DNA it's
phenomenal Wow whoa we are complex my
goodness ok how many see how many CDs is
that I don't want to do the map I've
trillion 55 trillium five trillion CDs
worth of data helps you appreciate the
national debt to them yeah in one
teaspoon of DNA yes a lot of information
but again they're teaching us that it's
just all by an accident so accidental
processes over here has produced all
that information so do mutations produce
the evolution is that what we see
happening that's what they tell us we
don't actually see that happening and
when we talk about mutations even
evolutions to get admit that the vast
majority of mutations are deleterious or
bad but they say once in a while we've
got some good ones and there's a lot of
problems with that concept even we've
shown today that most of the mutations
are actually have such a small
detrimental effect that natural
selection doesn't he really see them
so they don't get weeded out they stay
in there in fact one evolutionist said
it's amazing that we're not dead a
hundred times over because of the
apparent accumulation of all these small
mutations over millions and millions of
years it's kind of like rust appearing
on your car an individual rough spot
isn't going to do anything but if it
keeps rusting and they'll add up and
eventually the car will fall apart
that's what's happening with mutations
most of them are pretty small too small
for natural selection to catch so they
accumulate and it's if evolution were
true we probably shouldn't even be alive
today Wow so the whole idea of mutations
producing something new and natural
selection causing it to evolve the exact
opposite of what they're saying is true
sure mutations are typically taking us
down hill and any time we see a supposed
benefits sometimes it might be a benefit
to that organism but it's at the result
typically of loss of information when
bacteria become resistant to antibiotics
that's because of a loss of information
not again it's not like they gain
something to defend those antibiotics
they actually lost information there's a
number of ways that it can happen one is
it can actually transfer one organism
can be resistant already and it can
transfer that to another organism again
there's no new information there's just
a transfer another one can be through a
loss of information a bacteria can lose
an enzyme that would help break down the
antibiotic into a poison if it loses
that it can't convert it into a poison
so it lives but it lost information in
order to do you know hundred
accomplished wonder wow wow so what do
you think I you think evolution has some
problems yet I think it has quite a lot
of problems and it's interesting of
course we've touched on the whole
subject and information we've talked
about information quite a bit but I
think you're going to be blown away by
what you're going to hear as we talk to
Jay a lot more about how that
information works in practice in our DNA
coming up now
welcome back to the creation today show
where we're talking about evolution is
it probable or problematic our special
guest is JC Gert from the creation
Education Center in Wisconsin and Jay so
glad you're here when he gets into some
more this information about DNA about
you Paul but I love this stuff I think
is fascinating we ought to have a job
that is nothing but talking about
creation versus evolution absolutely oh
we do all right Jay I let's get into
some of the information uh in DNA
because you're saying evolution is
problematic it may look like it makes
sense to some people when you look at
hey mutations yeah give it a long period
of time it could look like it produces
evolution he's saying hang on no it's
actually problematic when we get to it
explain why let's get into that sure
what we're doing is peeking under the
hood to see some of the details where
again on the surface it might seem
probable plausible but we're seeing a
lot of problems in fact virtually
insurmountable problems when we look
under the hood and just one example if
we were to take a look at DNA let's say
we're looking at a certain segment of
DNA and we were reading that segment and
we read a little stretch of it and it
said was it a rat I saw kind of a
strange statement but let's clean it up
here a little bit and look at it we in
English read from left to right so was
it a rat I saw what's interesting about
this little sentence is you can read it
backwards from right to left was it a
rat I saw so just kind of a fun little
statement can be read forwards and
backwards the same information
palindrome we taught it probably never
oh yes palindrome is a technical would
but yes was it a car or a cat's was it a
carcass it was a rat that I saw so kind
of fun can be read forwards and
backwards well that's what we're seeing
in the DNA it's called reverse
transcription except it's more complex
in our DNA this is the same information
forwards and backwards let's take a look
at this word here desserts we read that
from left to right again if we were to
reverse this and go from right to left
it spells the word stressed so this one
can be read forwards and backwards but
when we read it backwards it's a
separate piece of animation so now let's
take a look at some
mutations but just just a moment because
that when you read something for words
when you're reading about what's what
you're saying is that that is the way
that DNA is red inside of a reading
mechanism insiders will might see
different messages in different
directions across the same section of
molecule right same section of molecule
you can read it one way it's one set of
instructions we read it reverse the
other way and it's a separate set of
instructions same set of base pairs
reproducing a different message in
opposite directions which is fascinating
so five trillion CDs worth of
information out of one tablespoon and
you could take that and it has stuff
backwards and forwards and sure much of
the DNA they're discovering can be read
forwards and backwards we don't know how
much yet but probably at least half of
the DNA can be run forwards and
backwards well I'm glad we've got to the
final complex it's the other end yeah
sure those it is it we're starting to
scratch the surface of it really so how
complicated is this get so sometimes it
can mean the same thing fordham
backwards sometimes it can mean
something difference actually different
information it is differently different
so when we're looking at that
information and considering making
changes because good if you just
reproduce that DNA faithfully over and
over and over you're never going to get
something different we've got to make
changes well that's where those
mutations come in so if we make a random
change to our original message here
let's say we delete a tier we're not
only destroying the information in the
initial message desserts but you're
destroying the reverse transcribed
message hear the word stressed it
doesn't spell stressed anymore either so
you're destroying both pieces of
information and even if once in a great
while a random change to the original
message might make a slight improvement
you're still destroying the secondary
message that we read when it goes
backwards what's interesting is when we
look at the DNA we're not talking about
a single word or a short phrase that can
be read forwards and backwards we're
talking about entire chapters of
information that can read forwards and
backwards wow so you're talking about
what did you call that thing a
palindrome palindrome you talking about
making a palindrome that is a couple
chapters long a chapter at least a
single chapter and here's a simple
analogy let's say that you guys worked
in a factory and you were making smart
phones and your boss came to you one day
and said I got a project for you I need
you to write the segment in this chapter
that codes for how this smartphone is
going to download apps from the web you
say okay no problem that that's what I
do so he boss is walking away and also
he turns around comes back he says oh
wait a minute forgot to tell you one
thing when you write your chapter on
downloading apps from the web you have
to write it in such a way that when you
read it backwards it tells the phone how
to play mp3 files or videos and you'd be
looking at your boss thinking you're
joking right I mean that can't be done
and you said no I'm serious is what you
have to do well that's humanly
impossible to do you can't even program
a computer to get that out but that's
what we're seeing in the DNA there's
entire chapters that can be read
forwards and backwards one way codes for
these proteins and another way codes for
totally separate proteins all programmed
in there into that same DNA yes Wow it's
just incredible isn't it and you know
sometimes people say well the DNA is
equivalent to a computer program but
it's actually far more yes sophisticated
than that blows away anything that we
have but it actually gets worse than
that there are not many levels of
problems here we've got another issue
going on here called overlapping
instructions if we take a look at a
sentence like this which is kind of a
weird one it says I like choco later
that evening the reason it's weird is
that there are two sentence here that
overlap you've got I like chocolate it
is true and then we've got later that
evening yeah and they overlap here in
the middle overlapping instructions so
now again if we take this segment of DNA
we make a random change to it let's say
we change the e to an H it's a
substitution mutation we're destroying
actually both pieces of information here
and what's interesting is it gets more
challenging for evolution because there
are entire chapters in our DNA that
overlap not little segments of a couple
letters but entire chapter is that
overlap so imagine trying to write a
book where you're writing separate
chapters but their chapters actually
overlap and they make sentence in both
both parts of the bone I assume you and
you saying making one little small
change they say all these little changes
over a long period of time help it
you're going you make a little bit of
change and you're not just changing one
little piece of information
you're changing something that is used
over here over here this way that way
it's it's really wreaking havoc by
making one little bit of change it's
it's a domino effect when you make one
change here it's not isolated so we're
saying fine even if a random change
could theoretically make an improvement
in one area which theoretically it's
possible even if you do have one small
positive good change there because of
the domino effect you're messing up so
many other things make in fact more
messes than you're making anything
that's going to be good or useful now
this effect that you're looking at here
is not rare is AJ you know this this
sort of thing where you've got some
letters there in your same apps of
course could behold chapters worth where
is over like that's not rare this is
happening all the time in the deer sure
they're discovering more and more I mean
we don't know if we're even just
starting to scratch the surface or what
because there's so much more to learn
that's what's going on in us right now I
mean this is this is fascinating isn't
it and I think it's going to be fair to
say as well that where you're going to
tell us that that's not even the end of
it yet is it and we're going to have to
hold that thought because we're running
out of time at that point but we're
going to film the next week's episode
now as soon and we're going to talk
about more of that so you're going to
need to stay tuned to be able to find
out a great deal more about this
fascinating subject really is we get to
hear about it now you have to wait till
next week that is going to be our show
for this week this is the creation today
show where we believe the Bible is
literally true and scientifically
accurate if you got questions they can
send a man yes don't forget Twitter apps
creation today to ask me questions email
I questions at creation today dot o RG
that's right and come visit us Christian
today that or god bless thank you so
much for joining us
do you need the tools to defend your
faith visit our websites for up-to-date
content attend one of our live events
and shop online at creation store org we
are creation today
