welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 305 it's Tuesday the 23rd
of july twenty thirteen times a fine bye
great to see ya that's great to see ya
I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm crystal well I
just realized you're waiting for your
cue what for the Iran who I am I'm
Robbie I I didn't know it was anybody
okay on this show I'm nobody hello well
on here let's come coming up I do ya
thang tonight lots exciting things in
the news right so coming up in the
newsroom online porn will be blocked by
UK Internet service providers by default
mmm good millions of SIM cards are
vulnerable to a hack attack sounds
serious that does sound very serious I
have a sim card I'm not sure if that's
phlegm though like a hack attack or rude
to hopes to blast past IndieGoGo and
Kickstarter records by raising 32
million dollars to build the ubuntu edge
smartphone wow good times birmingham
birmingham university has chosen chosen
linux to power their 15 teraflops
supercomputer Wow stick around these
stars are coming up later in the show
amazing hey also took on tonight's show
we are going to be learning how to
create really attractive nice-looking
slideshows with the Ken Burns effect so
that's when the photos you know kind of
look like they're animated and move
around the screen we're gonna be
learning how to do that but here's the
kicker we're going to be doing it with
free software and the software is
available for you to download on your
windows or linux sorry Mac you seriously
such a stab that's just the fact just
cuz I'm not here like I only come in
once a month doesn't have to be rude
about it alright same okay well great
show tonight pick up the phone if you
want to give us a call to 545 cat5 TV is
one way that you can get us how else can
thanks great you guys can also join us
in the chat room that room uh-huh on its
category 5 on freenode or go to cat 5 TV
/ ask and you can send in your question
by email um don't go anywhere folks it's
going to be a great show stick around
this is category 5 technology TV at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson I'm crystal wells
awesome seen Ian nice to see so many
familiar and new faces in the chat room
thank you first and foremost before we
get into anything I just want to say
thank you very very much to all the
viewers who have shown their support of
the show through a monetary donation
this week cat five dot TV / see any
amount of donation toward the show
because we are viewer supported here at
category 5 we're volunteers you're
you're the money that you donate
basically goes toward either our
expenses or expanding the show usually I
try to use donation money to actually
grow the show that's when we're able to
you know X
BAM and get all those cool yeah get cool
things but make it look better make it
sound better whatever or whatever it
takes so we appreciate the donations
that have come in this week thank you
very much always what else we got to
cover tonight I want to say hello to new
viewers right we have uh let's see nay
Bob 052 evolved like the copy yeah
delicious hyped up on caffeine maybe
maybe we also have Sara Lee she's a fan
from the show fan of the show sorry from
Louisiana watch on youtube and it gives
a big shout out to the community awesome
hey surly thanks for watching on YouTube
nice to have you joining us who else
have we got IBM Jim thank you for
registering on our website it's free to
register and of course you get some
bonus features right there on our
website category five dot TV another
reminder for you that we have a mobile
website if you've got one of these kind
of devices all you have to scan that QR
code with a QR scanner app or of course
you can go to m dot cat5 TV you can
watch the show live you can listen live
you can watch on-demand catch up on old
shows all that kind of stuff is all
there for you and you don't want to miss
out on that absolutely and category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters awesome hey you're a web
developer web designer oh I pretend they
have you do a pretty good job for
someone who's pretending excellent gotta
say what I likes gotta say ah you use
lorem ipsum you know what I do mm-hmm
and I was thinking you know it sometimes
gets a little bit boring lorem ipsum
dolor sit amet and it just you know it's
the same old same old and we've been
using the same thing so what we're going
to do tonight is a little bit of
Robbie's favorites which we haven't done
for a little while we can do all
different fun little things for example
bacon Epsom com bacon Epsom com just for
you that sounds delicious how many
paragraphs of baking up some would you
like Oh
at least four okay let's do four and
what type of meat would you like all
meat or maybe meat and some filler I'm
feeling a little filler all right and
start with bacon if some dollar sit amet
of course that sounds good it's more
recognizable give me the bacon and there
we go we got some filler tax what lorem
ipsum is is filler text that you can
throw into site designs or if you're
doing a mock up for a customer or
anything like that you can copy lorem
ipsum text and it's just gibberish
really but made to look like lat and
then it gives the feel that there is
some peril paragraphs there's actual
content on the site or whatever it is it
may be a magazine or whatever so here
we've got bacon ipsum fantastic maybe
bacon isn't your thing maybe you're a
vegetarian or maybe you're just a movie
fan so what we'll do is we'll head on
over to pick some if some co uk spelt
just like that and pick some Epsom is
going to give us something a whole lot
different by allowing us to generate
ipsum text based on famous celebrities
such as Michael Caine Jim Carrey Clint
Eastwood looks epic it is definitely
epic Jim Carrey how many paragraphs
would you like 40 no just three just
three okay alrighty then there you go
some pick some Epsom mm-hmm ala Pixum
Epsom dot co uk those are Robbie's
favorites for this week for lorem ipsum
replacements for well that's boring
certainly if you have I like a customer
who has a little bit of a sense of humor
say you have to pick the right iety like
what is this what are you doing
absolutely i will post the links for you
in the show notes for episode number 305
go to category five dot TV to be able to
click those hot links and get straight
there Dave media says he used Klingon on
one website oh that's fantastic could
you translate could he use bing
translator to translate lorem ipsum in
tow oh how would you know if it was
accurate I don't know
just take this leg on dictionary and
just generate a whole bunch of random
words I guess so hmm sure give it a try
jots having trouble posting those in the
in the show notes there in the chat log
there hear that there it is there it is
thanks Jackie if I hope another chat
room alright well hmm you've got a big
special day coming up oh I don't know
what you're talking about you guys
getting excited no I gained nervous
there's still so many details well
what's left to do well like stuff no
like you know we have all the big things
done like done DJ photographer we've
done though okay they're done food okay
every good but it's all like the little
decoration stuff and like getting you
know people all congregated seating
chart okay like figure everything out
and that you must have like a huge
checklist of oh yes to do and stuff one
of the things that Abigail had her
wedding was a slide show and tonight
we're going to show you how you can
generate slideshows from all those
romantic pictures right right oh yeah
there's lots of those know lots of them
they were all staged standing in the
ravine oh you saw those itchy I did
you're awesome by the way excellent no
I'm but I am normally do we normally
stand in the river yeah and somebody
does happen to be standing there with it
okay yeah that's perfect yeah I just
happened to be dressed out though so
imagine taking those sweet romantic
pictures and putting them together in a
non slideshow slideshow but how do you
do that nicely what you want to do it
nicely obviously but you want to save
yourself a little bit of cash on
software expenses you don't want to have
to go out and spend you know a hundred
dollars on a piece of software to do it
yourself when you could just give it to
some somebody else to do it so what
we're going to do is we're gonna bring
up a website here i'm going to show you
how to get this bring up your favorite
web browser and head on over to cat five
dot TV / slideshow that's just a quick
little hot link for you to take you over
to FF diaporama i worked on that word
today cuz i've worked on it I'm a father
of three and so when I see diaporama I
immediately say diaper Rama oh geez
diaper Rama just cuz like that can't be
good no sounds pretty poopy so no it is
diaporama I think but the word diaporama
means slideshow Oh Danny wear every day
like a snobby way to say slideshow well
so how do you like my diaporama what you
are pretty know Nobby the slideshow from
the wedding leave it to Robbie I should
just start throwing that word in there
you should just in regular conversation
epsom yeah okay so we want to download
this application like I say it's
absolutely free bit up at the top here
there is the download development
version or stable version we're of
course going to go with a stable version
but what do you notice as we look here
of course ok there is FF diaporama 1.6
for windows and it works on anything
from XP all the way up to 7 so you can
grab that if you like ok and then
scrolling down there's of course version
1.6 so this is what i want you to draw
your attention to his version 1.6 you
see that they've got built packages for
pretty much any OS the reason i want you
to make note of the version is because
usually we would use something like
synaptic package manager to install our
applications because it's nice to be
able to get the most up-to-date most
current updates from synaptic as they're
released but if you do FF diaporama in
synaptic package manager on debian 7
you'll notice that it is there however
it's only version 1.3 point dash 11.3 so
it's a reasonably old version of FF
diaporama we want to have the absolute
latest version and as you saw on the
website its downloads and then stable
downloads so we know that this is indeed
a stable copy of the software so you
stable version so if you're on a boon to
if you're on any of those you can just
click on the link that is applicable to
you whether you're I 386 which is a
32-bit system or AMD 64 if you're 64 bit
system if you're on debian same kind of
thing
well that's linux mint there debian here
1.31 is in the repositories and remember
Linux or Windows users there's just a
setup EXE no problem so what I want is
the de be packaged now it's a little bit
misleading because here I am looking at
it and I'm thinking okay well where's
the Debian package they're offering
version 1.3 dash 1 through the
repositories but I don't want that i
want the newest 1.6 so when you mouse
over amd64 you notice at the bottom that
it is actually just a deb package so
this will actually work the one that's
labeled as a boon to is in fact going to
work on our debian installation as well
so what i'm going to do is just download
one of those let's just make sure that
there's not a different package yeah
that's all day let's go for it 1.64
we're saying a boon to 13 point 10 but
really it's Debbie and seven on point
linux here so I'm going to save that
file there we go takes four seconds to
download Oh too long yeah I know it's
crazy crazy going to my downloads here
there we go there's a couple different
versions I'll try the one that i just
downloaded there is an extra 10 and
dependency is not satisfiable so where
did I get that okay forgive me there
there is a Debian installer here grab
the version that is going to work with
your distribution okay why am I not
seeing it well what I'll do folks
because I don't want to take too much
time going ok well i know i downloaded
it before thankfully i did but where did
it go I can't find it here on the page
while we're live here but I do have a
copy what I'm going to do is I'm going
to find it I'm going to put a link for
you for debian users point linux for
example who want version 1.6 i'm going
to give you the direct link on the show
notes for episode number 305 ok Oh time
I know I know
just kind of speeding things along
because I it's I don't know why I don't
see it there it's cuz you're looking for
it it's because I'm looking for exactly
for some reason I'm not seeing the
Debian version 1.6 how odd is that so
what I'm going to do i'll post you the
link in episode 3 05 show notes I will
for now I'm going to use this file which
I've already downloaded okay so I
download loaded this one just this
morning so I know that it's somewhere on
the website ok so i double-click on the
file so you're going to have that file
because i'm going to post the link for
you you'll notice that it says an old
version is available in the software
channel we've already decided we're
going to use 1.6 not 1.31 so i'm going
to click install package and do note
that the ubuntu version did not work on
my architecture there we go but this one
does there's the file name for you just
in case you want to do a quick search
for it FF diaporama underscore 1.6 dot
2013 06 2 3 and so on you can see that
it's almost installed goes pretty
quickly it's done ok so now this free
tool is now installed on my system and I
can go into sound and video movie
creator FF diaporama and this is going
to take me right in there we go so the
first thing that we need to do now that
we've got the software installed and
active and ready to go we basically need
to set it up for our system so that it
works with our region and you know if we
burn a DVD the videos are going to work
and things like that so we're going to
jump into settings first and foremost
and just kind of go through each of the
settings and just make sure that you are
happy with the way that things are
working or the way that things are set
okay the language is says it's doesn't
really matter but what does matter is
your video standard which is going to be
found on the third tab which is
rendering options you'll see that by
default it's pal I'm under ntsc because
i'm in canada so canada united states
are going to be ntsc and anywhere else
probably is going to be pal otherwise
you're going to know that if you'll know
which standard you're under
but generally speaking if you're in
Canada or the United States is going to
be ntsc you'll notice that when I did
that it changed the codec up here the
frame rate so if i go back to pal you'll
see it's 25 frames per second by default
if i go back to ntsc it jumps up to
23.976 frames per second and you can go
up to 29.97 i'll just leave it as the
default cinematic 24 frames per second
basically is what that is default
rendering format you might choose
something that's a little higher
resolution something like 1080p at
23.976 frames per second for ntsc for
example ok change your audio bit rate
according to what you would like to have
as far as the quality goes this is just
like mp3 and in a way the higher the
bitrate the better the sound if you go
too low it's going to sound like it's
swampy in underwater you can probably
get away with anything 192 and up you
can go with whatever you'd like i'm
going to go with 320 just so that is
practically lossless and then we'll hit
ok so now Krista now it's a good stuff
now it's the good stuff that was all the
boring stuff trying to obtain a file
that doesn't exist on their website
which thankfully I had installing it
worked fantastic now we've set it up and
we're going to click on this button up
at the top left here which says simply
new project by clicking on that is going
to ask us a couple real quick things way
what kind of TV you using widescreen
cinema an old four by three I love that
they call it an old TV hey now those of
us who use CRTs okay so widescreen 16 /
9 is probably fine transitions constant
speed everything is probably just fine
as it is create your project and doesn't
seem to do anything but it does ok so
now click on project up at the top here
and you'll notice that you've got a
couple of buttons few buttons add title
add files and add project now we're just
doing a slideshow so I'll encourage you
to look around click on all the
different features of this easy-to-use
software but for tonight we're just
going to we're going to do a slideshow
we're going to take it a little bit more
advanced by doing the Ken Burns effect
but otherwise it's all pretty basic
stuff just to get you into a software so
we're going to add files the second
button there you'll see that I've got a
handful of buttons photos from one of
our category 5 photo shoots which I'm
going to add two to the timeline
basically the project i can highlight
one and just add it or i can browse
through the left-hand panel here or i
can just click on one and hit ctrl a to
highlight all and i can go ok and that's
going to add everything so now the first
thing that I notice is that the picture
of the group shot is at the beginning of
the slide show and I'd rather that be at
the end so I'm actually going to be able
to click and drag and I can in fact
place that look those handy little
arrows there yeah now it won't let me go
all the way to the end because I've got
up there we go if I kind of go right
there it will if you have that problem
you can always drop it there and then
you can slide over with this slider here
horizontal slider and drag and drop and
you know you'll be able to get there ok
so you'll see with pictures like this
these are vertical instead of horizontal
and so they are kind of giving you these
massive black bars on the left and right
hand sides these pictures look nicer
because they fit the 16 / 9 frame nicely
so the first thing that we're going to
do with the picture of Hillary here just
to the left of that you see a little
transition-icon that's that thing with
the the peak and Valley there and that
is basically defining the transition of
her photograph so when it first comes in
it does that it's kind of like a fold so
I'm going to double click on that icon
and I can in fact change the transition
to anything that's provided you'll see
that there's a whole ton of different
things available you can deform you can
use luma boxes Center checker all these
different kind of fancy effects
generally though for the professional
feel I'm going to want to do something
just nice and basic nice little slot
fade in there we have it so now these
are just static slides they're just
sitting there on and they're just going
to move to the next slide there's no ken
burns and there's no special effects
other than the transitions that it's
automatically put in there for you and
of course again I can change those
transitions just by double clicking the
icon and the previews you gotta hand it
to the software developer the previews
are fantastic sometimes with previews on
software like this it's it's icons or
like right you don't really know what
you're clicking on to exactly 0 7 has
that drawing of the landscape for
example is loading thumbnails and it's
really annoying this actually shows you
a real thumbnail of what it's going to
essentially look like which i think is
really really a nice nice touch okay so
I promise you a Ken Burns and the
software out of the box doesn't have you
know a magical Ken Burns button it's not
like an effect that you can just add by
just clicking to go but understanding
what the Ken Burns effect is it's taking
a photograph zooming in on a portion of
it and then actually moving around that
photograph in such a way that it really
looks like it's it's a moving image it's
pretty fantastic so how do we generate
an effect like that with something like
this so first of all okay so I've to
bring up the properties for this slide
which is Hilary I simply double click on
the picture the icon of Hillary there
and then I can click on edit block and
correct or reframe image because what
did I say we want to zoom in for that
Ken Burns effect so I can click and drag
this box that allows me to kind of zoom
in on any portion of the photograph see
so now let's say I want to go like that
and I want to start the image around
there okay now there is a snapping that
goes on here do you see that there's
about a quarter inch snapping happening
so that means when I move my mouse it's
not allowing me to move it outside of a
grid kind of pattern that you can't
actually see so it can be really
annoying if you're trying to fine-tune
something let's say I'm right here and
I'm trying to get it perfectly centered
and I can't because it's snapping so now
let go and use the cursor keys on your
keyboard and you'll be able to actually
move that around nudging it one pixel at
a time and that gives you a really
really fine ability to modify the
positioning of that so this is basically
a crop line so now I'm going to position
the crop line where I want the photo to
start
okay and then hit ok so now that is
exactly where my photograph is is going
to start now so the next step is I'm
going to add a shot up at the top left
of that particular slide and now you see
I've got an actual duplicate of the
picture of Hillary zoom to the
proportion that I want that I had set it
to so it's important now that we
remember this one step because in order
to generate this effect we need to make
sure the timing is right so that first
clip the first the first clip in our
shot or the slot in our slide is really
just a positioning thing to get the
permit Ken Burns effect to know okay
here's where we want to start the photo
and then here's where we want to move
the photo to but you don't actually want
it to pause on that version because
otherwise you're it's going to be still
and then it's going to move so you'll
notice if you look at the screen here
that the first slide here is actually
set to a shot duration of six seconds so
basically no matter what I do as far as
movement goes it's still going to pause
there for six seconds before the
movement even begins so I want to
highlight my first clip in the slide and
then click down here to the minutes or
refer to the second section just where
I've clicked and then press the down
arrow until it says 000 so that there is
going to be no time that that shot
actually displays for and then with my
second clip I can set this to something
you know more you know reasonable for
the actual animation let's say I want
this to be ten seconds long so now it's
going to start at zero and end at ten
double click on this frame and click on
edit blocks correct or reframe image and
now we're back where we were but we're
editing a different clip within the shot
within the slide so now I've
repositioned this and you'll see now if
I hit okay we've got that shot and we've
got that shot so if I hit okay now and
back up my player and press play my
preview will show you the effect moving
between slides you'll notice here that
it is a little bit jerky
you can kind of see that and that is
strictly the preview so we see as we
render this video out that that is just
the preview itself and the video itself
is going to be very very seamless okay
so now we're going to really quickly now
that we've learned our way around I'm
going to very quickly do this with all
the remaining pictures so here's Sasha
and we're going to add another shot and
notice that I didn't reposition the
original photo it doesn't really matter
in this case because she's well framed
in the shot I can move it if I want and
watch how i can even undo what i had
done by saying okay well highlight that
and let's say yeah let's change the
start position and let's move it up so
that the end of our curtain is not shown
there we go okay so we've got those two
shots and okay and the next up is
Abigail now here's where things get a
little bit interesting because as I say
there's black bars on the left and right
so again we're going to reframe that and
grab that cropping area and we're going
to set up within the actual photograph
so that it's not going to show those
black bars I'm actually going to start
it real close in to her and those here's
a good example of where the snapping is
making it so I can't actually Center her
face so I do the best I can and I'm
going to use the keyboard arrow keys to
Center that okay so there's my first
shot and then add another shot and with
this shot at a block correct a reframe
image now I'm going to actually zoom it
out so this is going to give us a
slightly different effect than the ones
where it's zooming in there we go and
then okay next shot
here we go with Erica same thing we're
gonna start the photo in nice and close
leave her a little bit offset to the
left there just to add some Flair so
that it's not the same positioning for
every single photo you can see the while
it's a manual process it's not actually
hired it's not a try and buy right now
it's really really quick really really
easy there's Krista let's again get rid
of the the edge of our curtain at the
bottom there you see where it's black
instead of brick so let's bring that in
there we are and then we'll add another
shot make sure we turn that down I don't
think I did that on the last one so we
need to make sure correct in re position
or whatever it's called reframe there we
go okay I'm happy with that I'm gonna go
real quick back over these ones just to
fix what I didn't do which was to set
the timing as I previously explained so
we'll go with the same proportion so 0
and 10 0 and 10 okay really really
quickly there's Eric that one more shot
of him get the Ken Burns effect going on
with him there he is set him to 10
seconds you can see you get into a
rhythm and while we're you know we're
live on the air and so you know I'm
explaining at the same time but
realistically as you're doing this it's
going to be really really quick for you
to do and because it's all manual in
that you can position everything
yourself as far as where the effect
takes place you have complete control
over the way that this slideshow is
going to look so you don't have to worry
about an automated slideshow creator
that is possibly going to for example
pick the wrong points to focus in on so
you've got a picture of a family
and all of a sudden it zooms in on your
uncle's knee because you know these
automated software it's it's kind of a
nice there's not precision to it really
you are actually controlling all of the
points where you're zooming into and all
that kind of stuff so to demonstrate
that i'll show you with this group shot
what we can do so I'm going to start it
with the the fully zoomed out and then
let's actually create okay let's create
one shot here and i'm going to edit that
one reframe it and we're gonna get right
over to the left-hand side here like
that okay we get in just a little bit
Krista's so tall in the background there
it's really frustrating and hard to
frame oh I'm sorry huh I'm just
complicated in general okay so what I've
done is I've made that one a fairly
short duration i'm going to add another
shot look at that I've got three shots
now and let's move this one well over to
the right-hand side there we go okay and
with this one notice that this one I the
second one I left it at three seconds
this one I'm going to set it to ten
seconds and I'll show you why that is
now we're going to hit okay let's see
what this frame actually does zooms in
on Hillary and then slowly because it's
taking ten seconds now it's going to pan
across the the image itself and there it
is so again I can go through and I can
double click on all of the effects to
change the way that things transition
I'm not going to go to all that trouble
tonight just because this is strictly a
demonstration so you can see how the
software works so save your work always
save your work so that you don't lose
anything and you can go back and make
changes if somebody requests them up at
the top now that we're done everything
with our slideshow we can go render
video and I encourage you to look back
at how I was able to do this and
remember that you can in fact create
multiple multiple points I could zoom in
on each individual face and paws and
then zoom in on the next face and paws
and its really very much what you can do
okay but for tonight I'm going to render
the video you would want to go lossless
because you're going to you know
or share it you want to put it on dvds
or blu-rays you want it to be perfect
lossless means literally that it loses
no quality it's perfect quality but it
takes a lot longer to render so tonight
because we're live on the air I'm just
going to render for a multimedia system
just so that we have a version that we
can render reasonably quickly and and
it's going to be viewable on the screen
one thing that I wanted to show you
before I do that let's add an audio
track because i just realized people are
going to say well how do we get music in
there right he's ready important music
finally so the way to do this is he
actually select which frame you'd like
the music to start on of course in our
case we're going to actually want it to
start on the first frame so we're going
to go I'm still in render mode I'm going
to go back to project I've highlighted
the first frame I go edit edit music and
then go start a new playlist from this
slide and click on the speaker icon
which adds a file to your playlist and
choose a file in our case we've got the
song Tuesday okay so now I've added that
audio file I always like to leave the
audio till the last minute like that's
the very very last thing that I want to
add a reason really is because it
affects performance when with your
preview so your preview you like it to
be rather smooth when you're doing it as
soon as you add music it's going to be a
little bit more choppy so because it's
trying to time everything so instead add
that as the last thing and then render
your video again use lossless i'm going
to go multimedia we're just going to go
OK and you'll see that that's actually
going to go through each of those slides
now this is going to take a few minutes
to to actually render that video it is
you know however many eight eight slides
and I'm rendering down at full 1080p so
what we're gonna do is we're going to
take a few moments for the news while
while that's going sound good so good
sound like a plan Stan alright time for
the noon time for
here are the top stories from the
category five DVDs room the UK Prime
Minister David Cameron has announced
that most households in the UK will have
the pornography blocked by their
internet provider unless they
specifically opt-in to receive it the
new measures will apply to both existing
and new customers in his speech Mr
Cameron said family-friendly filters
would be automatically selected for all
new customers by the end of the year
although they could choose to switch
them off and millions of existing
computer users would be contacted by
their internet providers and told they
must decide whether to use or not use
family-friendly filters to restrict
adult material ok now I know that the
backlash from this decision is immense
because people feel it's a freedom of
speech kind of right issue where Big
Brother's coming in and I madly telling
them what they should or should not see
for one thing they're they're not
forbidding they're just by default
you're blocked you have to opt-in so I
kind of compare this to you know if you
go and purchase cable TV you don't want
to be flipping through and all of a
sudden there's something on there that
you don't want the kids to see and
they're sitting in the room with you
plain and simple for the people who do
want that they can pick up the phone
they can call their cable company and
they can order it right so similarly
what a great idea to say ok now the
internet can be monitored and regulated
in this way and if you want it it's
there you have to opt in for that hi
agree I think it's a good idea I mean
like it's not like you're blocking
something that's not already socially
acceptable to the masses like to all age
ageism and everything so I think it's
fine it's not that big of a deal to go
in and say oh hello yeah I mean for
somebody who wants it for me father of
three kids you want to know that your
kids aren't seeing what they don't need
to be yeah and it happens where you know
a google search and all of a sudden you
know safe sir oh good I'll be darned it
doesn't always work so I think it's a
good idea what do you think and and what
do you think of the approach of the
government in the UK
for how they're doing this I think it's
a good approach again the backlash is
something horrendous people thinking
that their freedom of speech and freedom
of just the right to use a free internet
is being trampled on I don't know so
much that that's the case as long as I
don't think it's that big of a deal yeah
so keep the kids safe you know that sim
card in your cell phone it it stands for
subscriber identity number and it's
there that card is there basically to
act as an identified enta fying chip for
your telephone service provider well
they also carry a little bit of data
text messages contact information for
some of the contacts in your phone they
also carry details for specific
applications and frightening ly enough
quite often it's banking applications
and financial applications that are
stored the data on this SIM card well
Carsten knoll is a security expert from
Berlin based security research lab he's
found a way to discover some sims data
simply by sending a text message to that
particular cell phone scary stop so he
warned criminals could actually
potentially use this technique to listen
in on calls or even to steal cash Wow
because remember the sim card carries
financial institution information right
just by sending a text message mr. Knoll
actually reported the the finding the
discovery directly to a relevant agency
and they confirmed and are investigating
the issue the un's telecoms agency the
International Telecommunications Union
said that it would now contact
regulators all around the world
including their governments so that
everybody knows that this is indeed a
very serious problem so who knows I
don't know if we're going to hear from
our cell phone provider and say hey by
the way your SIM card could be hacked
good what's so put interesting things on
there is what I think really enjoy like
when you're talking people just throw an
inch residents of United States for a
contact and just put in some random
number
something to listen to why not I mean if
you can't help but be hacked have an
enemy find their bank account
information put it on your SIM card hope
they're rich whoo I like this story you
got for us Krista let's see here
canonical wants to give you a taste of
the future of the phone and they are
seeking to raise 32 million dollars over
the next month to produce 40,000 ubuntu
edge smartphones a device that they
claim will be powerful enough to use as
a replacement for your desktop PC wow
they're using the crowdfunding to do it
sounds like an idea to succeed it needs
to raise several times more cash than
any other crowd finance project has done
before here's the thing though IndieGoGo
is a current funding record is just 1.6
million which was raised by a scandi
scout a scheme to build a real-life
medical tricorder Alice Star Trek nice
the one behind us is fake obviously
believe it or not really mmm Oh things
are deceiving here at cat5 even a
Kickstarter which is substantially
larger than IndieGoGo holds a record of
10.2 million raised for a project as of
this morning the ubuntu edge phone has
already attracted nearly 3.3 million
worth of pledges but the terms of the
campaign me canonical does not receive
the cash unless it hits its target if
they're unable worth are able to keep up
this level of pledges they'll actually
blast past the goal great isn't that
unreal yeah canonical has said that if
it manages to hit at school using
IndieGoGo website it plans to deliver
the phones to qualifying backers by May
2014 sounds amazing now so we're like
900 bucks to invest in this phone if you
want to receive one but you think about
the cost of an iphone or something like
that there's a video and we'll post a
link in the show notes for episode
number 305 I think it's important but
you should see this video of Mark
Shuttleworth actually explaining what's
so exciting about this project it's
literally and I've been saying that this
is going to happen and I you know we
talked to mark back in 09 and
he kind of let on that this is where
things were going and I just knew that
things were going to happen this way but
imagine your smartphone being plugged
into a monitor and all of a sudden it is
your computer because you think about
you know even iOS but certainly ubuntu
with unity it really is the same
experience between the phone and the
computer so right in this picture which
I'm not sure if it's just a mock-up or
if this is actually a real thing but you
notice what what she did in this picture
is she's connected her ubuntu phone to a
simple tethering cable to the monitor
and it simply put up ubuntu on the
screen so this phone is actually a
multi-core computer with four gigs of
ram and 128 gig hard drive wow that's
more hard drive space than I have in the
very server that we're broadcasting this
show from in that little cell phone
that's insane and then you plug it into
a monitor and that's your computer what
if you lose your phone not to how many
people whose rifles usual room 21 that's
when they start pushing lubuntu one
that's cloud storage so I'll get your
stuff into the cloud get it backed up
that's pretty important speaking of
ultra ultimate powerful computers Linux
has been chosen as the operating system
of choice for the latest super computer
facility at Birmingham University the
supercomputer is allocated to the
economics and engineering departments as
well as the institutional research
groups to enable research and for them
to be able to address different research
topics that's what they have said we
really have no idea what this thing is
doing it apparently has to do with
research blue bear to it's called it is
it has a 15 teraflop processor that's
over 800 processing cores based on the
Sandy Bridge chipset from from intel
multi quality piece of slop is good in
this in this particular ya know this
particular type of teraflop is not like
terra nova which also flopped this is a
good if they're different yes ok so
these teraflops mean really really fast
oh there's a very nice picture of the
University
Blue Bear to I it is it's a linux-based
array as we have already established but
it's going to be a part of their overall
environment for education research and
all that kind of stuff and it's actually
called Birmingham environment for
academic research and that's where they
came up with the name bear there is a
set of complimentary computers and
networking services designed to meet the
future needs of the scientific research
community Ray Brown the CTO of tender on
system says that the fact that Linux has
been chosen as the for this leading
scientific research facility is really a
seal of approval on the Linux system now
and certainly I mean that is fantastic
to to see it being chosen I mean but
makes sense would you stick windows on
your latest supercomputer I don't think
so stick windows on anything anything
bring in an educator and I'll make your
old computer look like a supercomputer
by putting linux on it that's your news
stories for tonight folks absolutely you
guys can get the full stores at category
five dot TV / newsroom we're not tearing
the studio part yet not just yet it's
just okay I'm just dramatic just be
dramatic air yeah yeah this week the
category five TV news room is research
by roy wa ash and dave may do with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new store you
think is worthy of on-air mention you
can email us at news room at category
five dot TV from the category five dot
TV news remind crystals krista didn't
know that category five is looking to
expand its sales force no I don't feel
notice we're really really how would you
say we're subtle with advertising that's
not really going to phone you have
advertising the show we have product
placement and you know some of the
things that you see around here right
just might happen to be product
placement I don't really know it could
be all around us but we also sell banner
ads and commercials time on the show we
sell for search engine optimization if a
company wants to really boost their
standings in the search engines great
way to do it is to have a powerful link
back from a website that's that has
really excellent standings in the search
engine so category five TV go on your
favorite search engine do a search for
technology TV as something
generic is that and you'll see how how
well we do so we actually sell text
links on our website that allow people
to boost their search engine standing so
we're looking to expand our sales force
all around the world so that means to
you that if you would like to sell
advertising for us all you have to do is
email us contact at category 5 TV tell
me your real name as well as where
you're from kind of you know city-state
kind of thing and we'll get in touch
with you with our rate card and
basically what it is is you can go
around and and if you have people that
you can sell advertising to you'll
simply receive a commission on that sale
so just a way for us to be able to raise
funds for our renovation project but
also for you to get some money as well
so my global project tayfun so contact
at category five dot TV alright what do
you got for us oh I have lots of
questions let's watch oh there we go
let's jump into a couple oh here's one
from an Allen and Allen West hey i'm
alan west he says hi Robbie I just want
to let you know that the Indiana Lennox
fests is coming soon the third annual
indiana linux fest july 26 to 28 2013 at
the wind ham in the Indianapolis West is
free to attend and open for any to
attend I need to attend be it at the
hobbyist to the professional nice is
this weekend yeah nice indiana linux
fest yeah and that's triple double
indiana linux org nice well thank you
visit and for those of you anyone who
wants you know if you're in the in the
area of is it Wyndham indianapolis west
make sure you check it out its indiana
linux dot org yes thanks for the check
it out here's one from old salt hey old
salt opt i installed linux mint 15
64-bit on my free agent USB Drive hooked
into my laptop i went through the
install fine but hung on the reboot
after about 15 minutes i powered down
with the power
button when i booted back up it went
directly to windows no dual boot menu I
tracked the USB Drive empty what I would
really like to try linux to see if i can
be converted hmm okay so this is a free
agent so it's like a USB external hard
drive right and you've installed to that
and it's coming up blank mm-hmm I you
know it seems like a silly question but
you're absolutely sure that you
installed it to that device a like hmm I
mean you could always it could be
anything I mean it could be something as
simple as maybe your system isn't set to
boot from USB but then it doesn't
explain why would it be blank right if
you actually did install to it or maybe
it just isn't compatible with that I
would try maybe use a flash drive
instead of one of those external hard
drives because a hard drive is a hard
drive a flash drive is a different type
of device and so may be installing to
the external maybe it's trying to do it
as a flash drive I'm drawing straws dude
but try it with a flash drive first and
then see if it boots or worst case
scenario can you burn an iso to an
actual physical DVD like a dvd-r that
that's your failsafe it always works
right you can burn the iso and you know
you if you're on windows 7 you can
double click on it and we'll just bring
up the burn utility if you're on linux
it will do the same but you're likely on
windows 7 if you're on Windows XP
however you'll need something like CD
burner XP which is a free piece of
software we can probably find it for you
but and there's our job complete I
should bring that up CD burner XP let's
see if we can find it real quick just in
case you happen to still be on that
particular operating system windows XP
simply CD burner x p dot s ii it's free
software and that will allow you to burn
isos on windows XP as well as other
stuff so because you need to be able to
burn the iso right so
use that as a fail-safe anyway cool
should we take a real quick look at the
video as its rendered because the job is
a shed and we've got some more viewer
questions but this won't take long tell
us let's see how awesome this looks
alright here we go
name is gonna be fresh you're gonna go
down double check is savior of
everything let's get high why don't we
go back that was not a ballot what with
the breath yeah and then again because
we can go back and edit any is new back
that is the pencil John you look pensive
look pensive
my favorite just because you have so
much more room to kind of Jim yeah you
want do information there it is that's
all there was to it so wow that gave us
a one minute and eight second video with
just eight clips and it seemed to flow
and had a nice flow to it so very neat
that's sad that's awkward FF diaporama
it is again available for you a cat five
dot TV / what did I make it slideshow
yes cat five dot TV / slideshow all
right back to your questions I think
we've got a couple more there that have
come in tonight sure idea ah this one
looks like a comment as well oh we've
got time for comments so as hi Robbie
good news for artists Linda calm has
open source software training videos for
example linda has gimp and blender 3d
videos nice i still think chaos and
evolutions some of the best gift
training videos and links to lynda.com
that's Linda with a why and certainly if
you you know if you don't mind paying
for the support that you get on a site
like Linda calm they're very very good
plain and simple but it costs money it's
like I don't know if it's like 20 or 25
bucks a month or something if you want
to have a lynda.com account so let's
take a look here I've brought up one of
the links that have been provided to us
so this is fantastic I mean GIMP
essential training and it's basically
you know you can work through and it's
so well organized and so well broken
down they've obviously taken the time to
edit everything down into little clips
which I can attest to it it's a lot of
work because you know we do a one hour
show and we try to give you clips and
all that kind of stuff and we make it as
easy for you as possible to find the
content but right to have all these
little five minute clips is fantastic so
so by registering their sure you can
gain access to all of these kinds of
Clips like linking layers together
changing the stacking order exploring
blend modes and certainly we try to
cover some of those topics here on the
show as well yes
but thank you for the tip that's Linda
calm with a y él y ND a calm neat what
else we got oh here's a question from
all this is gonna get me keck keck keck
that gets us every time hi Robbie and
Krista her diction on that was perfect
was it keck keck keck hope I can't even
help my face didn't look like that I
tried to look not that supposed to baste
it look like your face I was just
commenting on how I hope I didn't
magically turn into here right cuz that
would be awkward yeah mm-hmm okay back
carry on checa Keck aha Hey hi Robbie
and Krista hello I've been tried to run
clonezilla in virtualbox but I can't get
it to run I see the boot menu and select
the first item but there's only a blank
screen after that the host system is a
boon to 12.04 with virtualbox 4.1 point
12 I'd like to try out clonezilla before
using it on a real system I'm using the
latest stable is 0 Oakland Zilla live
2.12 and so on dash i686 dash pa e dot I
so yes okay i also tried the iso with
both ide and SATA controllers in
virtualbox but neither worked any ideas
okay yeah let's take a here I'm going to
bring up your email on my screen just so
that folks at home can see that file
there it is ok so it's clonezilla live
dash whatever version okay so here's the
breakdown so this is the program is
clonezilla live the version is two point
one point two dash 20 is the build I 686
means that it's a 32-bit modern
processor and here's the kicker p IE
means that it has physical address
extensions which quite possibly now your
physical computer may have pae but it's
part of me mmm that was them but it's
possible that your virtual machine maybe
your your processor might not support
the ability to add pae to your virtual
machine that said you can simply verify
that okay
the reason is is because you've got a
pae I so so your processor has to
support pae in order to use it so let me
just I'm going to bring up the settings
for oh that's starting I didn't want to
do that I'll bring up the settings for
one of my virtual machines and you'll
see under system processor enable pae
see that by default is turned off so
because you've got the pae I so you
absolutely have to turn that on because
it's a paei so that said I'm going to
probably recommend that you just stick
with a really simple I 386 I so because
the fact is is that it's clonezilla it's
not an operating system that you're
going to be running it's strictly for
cloning you want it to work on every
system that you use it for so I would go
over to clonezilla org I would click on
download okay live CD / USB is the one
that you were looking at I would
probably just go downloads and I would
go alternative stable releases and I
would choose my architecture as not
amd64 even though that's what it is i
would actually choose i386 because i'm
going to be running this on a virtual
machine and I don't it don't have to
have amd64 okay even though my processor
supports 64 bit I don't have to run
64-bit software I can run the 32 bit and
the nice thing about downloading the 32
bit is that you rule out any and
compatibility because yes your processor
may support amd64 but maybe it will not
virtualize amd64 there's a difference
because you have to be able to also
support 64-bit virtual machines not just
physical machines so then select file
type I so so the defaults are perfect I
386 iso download that file and you're
going to rule out any of those issues
with pae or 64-bit architecture any of
those kinds of things are no longer
going to matter so I would give that a
try all right but that Dae enable pae in
your processor settings in the virtual
machine that's probably why it's not
booting but if you can't check that it
means your processor simply doesn't
support it so you can't run that
particular I so just get the i386 I so
hmm simple as that simple is the towel
um thanks cash a check he also says he
loves the show there's always so much
good information and to keep it up it's
really appreciated I usually can't watch
a show live but always see it via the
RSS feed awesome good stuff how you
liking the new RSS feed servers we've
got everything migrated over to those
new servers I started talking about it a
few weeks ago everything's faster the
naming algorithms are fantastic it's so
much easier to see from the file names
what it is you're looking at there's a
nice description in each file name think
you should really like that so hopefully
that's working well for you kick high
kick it's just an amusing name I know
we've been through a like you like it um
that's all I've got that's it that's all
I'm kind questions in the chat room it's
perfect because I mean we literally have
a minute and a half left so let's bantha
and talk amongst ourselves how you've
been oh geez I hope you guys have sought
the interesting interesting to say I
don't much want to talk to this guy
we'll just sit here silently for a min
and a half that's fine or will unbox
something da da da is there time to
unbox the rikomagic mk802 what do you
think about that this is the brand-new
MK 602 from Rico magic dot-com that's
rik oh this is a dual core system it has
full I don't know if you can see that
full HD 1080p video here's the skype
logo it's got to be good thats not the
quality test no it has escaped no she's
she's especially now okay it's got an
eight gig it's got eight gigs of storage
it's got one gig of ddr3 RAM it's got
support for up to 32 gigs with a microSD
card 802 11 b/g/n it's got built in
bluetooth built-in microphone a built-in
camera all this stuff how do we get into
this and it's got a nice paper stock and
it's Android I think
point was jelly bean anyways okay take a
look it smells new I know you guys can't
go that cat smelled i am the smell that
new okay classic a device itself and
that here's all the cables connectors
all that kind of stuff we've got power
and hdmi full-size HDMI alright so what
do we got Wow okay this actually sits on
top of your TV yep it has a full like
camera microphone set up so that you can
do skype video it has everything that
you need look at this oh this is the
first time rikomagic has included full
ethernet so we've got an actual
hardwired connection you don't have to
go Wi-Fi if you don't want to it's got
an actual physical toggle power switch 2
USBS an hdmi video output audio video
output if you want to plug it into a
surround sound system for greater audio
that kind of stuff but look at that
above your TV with full webcam support
you can do skype video with your family
or friends sit in the comfort of your
own coach why would you ever have to get
up now rikomagic will serve you beer
it's fantastic we're gonna actually be
reviewing this on an upcoming show check
out the the calendar at cat category 5
TV because it's all going to be there
we're telling you when we're gonna be
actually taking that hooking it up
showing you how it works and showing you
what it does great very excited about
that that's the MK 60 to check it out of
rikomagic calm so that's all the time
we've got folks thanks Krista well
thanks for having me next week what's
happening next week oh let's see here
sasha sasha is here she joins us a look
at a two-hundred-dollar jib that'll make
your video production look like a
million bucks nice literally a million
also featuring oh and the great who will
be performing live illusions and
discussing what it's like to be one of
Canada's youngest magicians nice cool
bath how come you never have me on the
show
live people here would generally anytime
we have chocolate or magicians I'm not
here we don't invite you she was busy
that night put your protest senses all
have a great week thanks Krista yes yeah
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
