all right it's Tuesday September 13th
2016 and hear the stories were covering
this week the operators of the video s d
das for hire service have been arrested
google is offering uber competitor
pricing on maps the samsung galaxy note
7 has been recalled because it might
catch on fire a robot has been used to
operate in a man's eye with perfect
results and weaponized drones are now
legal in North Dakota these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere Jeff
Weston Yemen you're building a brand new
beautiful website what are you but
you're terrible actor what this we're
acting comes into play I don't know
where I think you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
let's sure how much hard drive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put out of the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV / dreamhost i'm
jeff weston and hear the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room one of
the more popular cyberattack peddlers
just came crashing down
Israeli law enforcement has arrested yar
diba Danny and hit a hurry as part of an
FBI investigation into their alleged
control of videos one of the most
popular paid attack platforms according
to information unearthed by security
guru Brian Krebs from a third-party hack
targeting vetoes the teens two teens
raked in nearly six or at least six
hundred eighteen thousand dollars
launching a majority of the distributed
denial-of-service campaigns that you've
been hearing about recent years the
platform itself is also offline although
that's due to one of the video is
victim's back connect security using a
bogus internet address claim to stem the
flood of traffic hitting its servers
badani and hurry weren't exactly careful
though about covering their tracks creb
says the pair hosted videos on a server
connected to hurry and it's email and
SMS notifications pointed to the two
they even wrote a technical paper on the
DDoS attacks while bananas old facebook
page references the Apple Jacks Outen is
a pseudonym that's Apple J for ck he
used to conduct vidos business and if
that weren't enough vitas refused to
target any israeli site since its owners
since it was the owners home country
both suspects are out on bail although
they won't have much freedom officials
have placed them under house arrest for
ten days confiscated their passports and
bar them from using any telecom devices
for 30 days it's unclear if they face
extradition to the US now the bust isn't
going to stop paid denial of service
attacks hesby danny and hurry
demonstrated it doesn't take much more
than a botnet and some basic business
savvy to get started however it may put
a temporary dent in the volume of those
attacks and it'll certainly spook videos
competitors who have been careless about
hiding their activities Wow yeah you
know I the question sometimes comes up
Jeff why do hackers do this why do
hackers attack website six hundred and
eighteen thousand plus dollars as well
as well
that's why they do it can you imagine
being a teenager and splitting that two
ways that would buy you a few boxes of
kraft dinner maybe driving a nice little
sports car I'll tell you that much yep
that's why yep that's why Wow all right
google has announced Thursday that it's
adding a new ride hailing partners to
maps uber was already integrated into
Maps now users will also be able to see
price estimates for lift and some more
region specific options such as get in
New York City all without leaving the
Maps app basically Google just created
the first-ever ride-hailing price
comparison tool now ubers partnership
with Google is different from their API
which has seen sites like Harvard
startup urban hail blocked for offering
competitive pricing now with Google
however it is a direct integration and
doesn't use ubers API so it's not a
violation of the terms of use google has
partnered with other ride-hailing
services through maps before Loula in
India and 99 taxis in Brazil among
others this is the first time it's
adding direct competitors to uber in the
US though so why uber was willing to
work with Google to build a price
comparison tool while simultaneously
blocking startups like urban hail well
the most likely reason is because uber
needs Google Google Maps has hundreds of
millions of users so that means more
exposure and more riders for uber now
the price comparison aspect is just an
unfortunate side effect that uber is
really going to have to accept or risk
losing that exposure I've never used
uber but for anybody who does they
either love it or they hate it and every
time I turn on the news there seems to
be some sort of competition or anti boob
or something sure yeah why not taking a
bit of a beating as far as having a
corner on the market but that's tech now
adays everything moves so fast good
though the Google is able to get around
the API Absalom
terms of use because of the fact that
the otherwise you end up falling into
this monopolist situation yep really
that's what it comes down to makes you
wonder though if as these things happen
people are going to get smarter with
their contracts to try and block this
kind of stuff so that like Google
couldn't do that but like you said
though would you would you discard
Google's Google's promoting your service
yeah it come on like when you go on to
google to search for cab and you click
on it and boom you just pull the first
one at the best price don't you want to
be that absolutely yeah yeah I wouldn't
want to throw it away do definitely not
all right airline passengers have been
warned by us authorities not to switch
on or charge the Samsung Galaxy Note
seven phones went on board a plane now
the Federal Aviation Administration also
advised against packing the phones into
any checked in luggage Samsung recalled
the phone last week after reports
emerged of the device exploding during
or after charging Qantas Virgin
Australia have also told customers not
to charge or use the phone during
flights samsung said that it would speed
up shipments of replacement Galaxy Note
seven phones to ease safety concerns
Samsung has said that battery problems
were behind the phones that caught on
fire but that it was difficult to work
out which phones were affected among
those that were sold now the phone was
launched just last month and has been
otherwise generally well received by
consumers and critics some 2.5 million
notes Evans have been shipped globally
that's a lot Samsung has said customers
have already who have already bought the
phone will be able to swap it for a new
one and that it would take about two
weeks to prepare replacement devices wow
that's a whole lot of devices that have
to go under recall jebden you just get a
new Samsung I did but it wasn't a note 7
okay what is it was just an s7 s
okay have an edge cuz you as you're
saying that it wasn't yours a77 yes but
not the note everything seven now iphone
7 what is Samsung s7 it's the gemstone
note 7 it's because it's the 7th
generation it's it's just like Windows
10 it was the 10th operating system so
but nobody fault oh I guess OS 10 oh is
that how it works that's how it works
this is how they compete we have numbers
it's true yeah Wow so why are yours have
not been recalled this is specifically
just the note 7 at this point mine has
not been recalled White has not blown up
on me good it does not overheat when
it's charging we had this discussion
about the the speed charging features
and yes that would be my fear is like
you're pumping so much juice into this
thing yeah I will say my charger gets
hot yeah what when I when I speed
charged the little end of the cable that
connects to my phone that does heat up
let me just remind you but yeah I know
but it doesn't heat up so that it's hot
it's just there's like a warmth to it
okay and that's the cable itself it's
not the phone but it only does that when
its speed charging so obviously there is
some element of heat involved hmm but
not enough to cause things to don't put
it under your pillow while you're
charging it ooh do people still do that
um I think maybe not me I've heard some
stories of some teens that have had this
happen to them yes wow so you know what
I think it is as you put on you put on
some music or whatever else you put it
under your pillow and then you lay your
head on the pillow so that you can hear
it without disturbing other people so
yeah I just use headphone use ear buds
yeah yeah that's what I do but I think
that's why it happens I think that's why
they end up putting it under their
pillow I think it's cuz to try to sneak
around at night so parents don't see
it's like you cut them all in it too
right under the pillow yep yep where's
your phone oh no I lost it that's right
the pillows smoking
one of our sons when he was uh when he
got his phone I should clarify when our
phones expire on her contract yet a new
one yeah we just give them the old phone
okay without a plan on it so they could
use a wife I'd home and play minecraft
or whatever all right but one of them he
was getting up in the middle night
grabbing his phone starting to play like
three o'clock in the morning oh but he
got sneaky because once we caught him
under the pillow he started putting it
between the pillow and the pillow cover
Oh we'd lift up the pillow and is not
there and it's not there but I happen to
pick up the pillow and I'm like ooh this
is heavier oh whoa he has a phone shape
in the case so danger he's getting
sneaky about 45 years again if I'm Jeff
let's get it from definitely not me no
no yeah what's next surgeons have used a
robot to operate inside the eye and
restore sight in an absolute world first
a team at Oxford's john radcliffe
hospital used the device controlled via
joystick to remove a membrane one
hundredth of a millimeter thick that's
small now surgeons hope that the
procedure will pave the way for more
complex aye sir how is that not complex
as it is we're just getting started Wow
so anyway from work of legs I surgery
that is currently possible with the
human hand now the patient dr. bill
beaver is a 70 year old from Oxford and
he says he's delighted to be the first
person to undergo the robot I procedure
the surgery was successful dr. beaver
central vision in his right eye has been
restored good job he said the
degeneration of my vision was very scary
and I was fearful I would lose my sight
entirely so for this intervention to
take place so effortlessly is a real God
set I love this story totally cool i
love it when technology is used to
better the life of absolutely i I think
it's great I love this kind of stuff
when you can when you can get so precise
with something like that unreal it's
great they can work it like nano
levels yeah one one thousandth of a
millimeter was a millimeter some year I
think was millimeter you said son
hundred millimeter but to think that
that it is of itself was causing his
central vision loss yeah so here you go
let's just put a robot in your eye and
fix that for you okay yeah but that's a
small robot know it's a big robot but a
very precise robot it's actually like a
like an arm so he's laying on the bed
and and this arm is coming down right
but to imagine this thing coming at you
but I mean the parts to get on it be
like needle yeah yeah like that was
there on this apparatus yes yeah yeah
but still I mean the fact that you can
get that small just like yeah very
precise I it's totally cool don't hook
it don't accidentally kick it while
you're walking by don't sneeze while
you're having that surgery yeah will not
bring loop to them okay now this next
news story I have to say this one is for
you see see see 128 DC 128 d this this
one's for you uh-oh what do we got armed
drones could be used by police in the US
state of North Dakota after local
lawmakers legalized their use Oh while
they will be limited to less than lethal
weapons teargas tasers rubber bullets
and pepper spray could be used in theory
by remote controlled flying machines in
a classic case of unintended
consequences the original sponsor
Republican state representative Rick
Becker said he was unhappy with the way
that the legislation turned out his
original intention was to prevent law
enforcement officials from using the
unmanned aerial vehicles from conducting
surveillance on private property without
a warrant wow talk about a change he
says in my opinion there should be a
nice red line drones should not be
weaponized he said the original draft of
the House bill 1328 said a state agency
may not authorize the use of including
granting a permit
permit to use an unmanned aircraft armed
with any lethal or non-lethal weapons
including firearms pepper spray beanbag
guns maize and sound based weapons
however the state's police union amended
the bill limiting the band to only
lethal weapons meaning that sounds can
sound cannons rubber bullets could be
used on police drones it's unclear
whether local police departments will
use weaponized drones even though
they're technically legal Wow so for the
last couple of weeks you can half of
this discussion back and forth with c128
d about i think it's an argument but i
think he just won yeah at this point
North Dakota just sealed the deal on oh
my gosh how does this happen isn't this
bureaucracy at its best we're okay here
here we go I'm gonna say drones cannot
be used by police to have weapons and
blah blah blah and then they all sit
around the table say oh that's a great
idea let's do that yeah let's put
weapons on drones so I think it's like
all this red tape gets all mixed up and
I just come on now you know okay so
there's a meme that I've used a couple
times it's a Picard and Riker doing the
double facepalm is classic mean with
this story I feel like one facepalm
doesn't cut it you need a double
facepalm c128 d just won the Internet
big thanks this week to write a few Nash
in our community viewers for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you'd like to send email into newsroom a
category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit category
five dot TV news room at newsroom
category five TV for the category five
TV news room i'm jeff
worcester
