for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other
open-source technologies this is
category 5 technology TVs
welcome to episode number 295 hi honey
I'm home of category five technology TV
great to see ya it's Tuesday the 14th of
May 2013 295 episodes in Wow
you're old were five weeks away from the
300 votes happy birthday we mentioned it
on the air I know you were sitting at
home watch and probably had a popcorn
actually sorry kids but I wasn't oh yeah
you weren't my daughter no I was
expecting when she said dad my boyfriend
and I are gonna make dinner for you yeah
so I was all that Robbie already for
Crafton and hot dogs sweet wit chicken
cordon bleu with audibles pasta and they
made a cake
wow it was freaking her in the president
you were spoiled buddy I was here this
forum let's fix that you mention that
all they can hear is your beer well well
it's a good beer I had a good birthday
while you're thinking of you Safin I
thought it would be guys too yeah geez I
could have been there instead of having
this chicken cordon bleu and I know that
was really sweet
sorry speaking of birthdays next week is
Mauro Mauro
we're hanging around til midnight and
we're gonna we're gonna celebrate
Rachel shoot big birthday tonight at
midnight
yeah so happy birthday to our good
friend Rachel Shue
so send in all the gifts and presents
yards address them to me any checks made
payable to earth yeah well what do you
think it's birthday season what do you
got coming up did I tell them what's
coming up and you love to know love to
know well coming up in the newsroom
YouTube has launched a trial scheme for
paid channels on its website the
International Space Station is
jettisoning windows in favor of linen
hmm IBM has opened a new center in China
built exclusively to code applications
for Linux and 25 of Scotland's busiest
railway stations will soon offer free
Wi-Fi access courtesy of the Scottish
Government okay cool
stick around these stories are coming up
later in the show it is retro gaming
month here at category-five TV if you
haven't done it already get over to our
website category 5 press up left right
down and ya down here you go I'm
literally I'm this little flying thing
because it is
well that's me that's me adding the
sound effects but you know that as you
do this you will be you'll be doing the
same you'll be going the kids will be
lady what are you doing the wife is what
is what's come on I'm just having some
retro gaming action fun here my love
that's what we do a category 5 TV now
this is pretty much your last chance
because retro gaming month is actually
almost over if you can believe it
I do retro gaming all the time I play ya
know 3 pitch softball pretty old clock
and skates and realize yeah you get hurt
and I haven't break-in I recall the
story we'll leave that alone
yeah so that's that's what we're doing
on our website for retro gaming month
we've had a lot of fun stuff going on
here on the show you remember if you if
you didn't catch it in you're into retro
gaming check out episode number 292
where we're Erica and myself actually
sat down with a colecovision tonight
straight out of 1982 that was awesome
but also to celebrate retro gaming month
we're gonna go over to google.com CA
last week we were showing you how to use
Google Image Search and all this kind of
stuff so we're gonna show you a little
easter egg here tonight on Google's
website so we're
go Tuesday yeah let's go to the image
search and in keeping with our theme of
retro gaming we're gonna do a quick
search on images ok so we're on Google
Images for Atari breakout there we go
there's our image search
go for it everybody head on over to
Google Images and do a search for Atari
breakout for a little more nostalgic
gaming action oh my I also got a great
email from Al Peck one of our wonderful
viewers who directed us also over to the
Atari site I can actually I'm gonna
punch this into my browser I've written
it down here so ww8 re comm slash arcade
slash I love how it's still going
no slash actually after arcade
crunchbang so that's the hash
explanation mark ok slash arcade slash
Atari
- promo and if I did that right there we
go we're actually going to be able to
load up the Atari arcade and get some
more yes some more retro gaming action
and like Missile Command
well pong super breakout yars revenge
asteroids asteroids centipede don't
worry folks you don't have to remember
that verbatim I will actually I'm gonna
copy and paste that in the chat room
right now pardon me and that's done and
I'm also going to post a link for you in
the show notes of episode number 295 or
such a good guy
we love our retro gaming what can I say
so tonight we're actually gonna be
looking at Apache web server logs and
how we can actually monitor our web
server we're gonna have a little fun
with it though not only are we gonna
show you some productive ways to do it
but we're gonna actually convert your
Apache logs into a game of classic pong
so you'll be able to actually see those
pings happening back and forth in a game
of pong so stick around don't go
anywhere
this is category five technology TV and
yeah gonna be a fun show
I've got your viewer questions and I'm
already having fun you already whoa
tonight's show as you know is brought to
you in part by ads irk ads are calm is
the next generation my eyes are open
ad-serving yep
I don't look at my abs er come on okay
come on people
all right with ads er calm if we got a
website you can actually monetize it by
generating the world's fastest
asynchronous JavaScript ad serving code
go over to ads err calm to find out more
get your free account and sign up today
also our mobile site is up and run and
go to m dot cat v dot TV there you go
Eric's got his Blackberry you always
tell me to turn my wireless off I know I
didn't before we sat down does that
thing work with anything other than
Wireless these days oh yeah right lots
going on at though in the world of
blackberry isn't there there's lots
going on yeah yeah how's that working
it's been great yeah yeah good that's
good I still love my Canadian product
Aeolus pronounces Archie oldest given
blackberry old call me love yeah well he
had a blackberry for two months in a
proq hey they're not submergible they
you know they're not good in toilets
apparently either my friend drop one in
there and not some you're not
submergible it doesn't matter but the
lady not swim well I'm gonna give you a
copy of that oh great because we're we
need to I want to know what we're
brought to you there Eric yeah okay ring
I do not see where it says there right
there there yeah mobile site M account
five dot TV Robbie right oh there's this
home there graph right here Eric hey
category five dot TV
a member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasts thanks Eric
Eric welcome back to the show welcome
back to earth
hey buddy Chris Hatfield is back on I
saw he landed safely fantastic indeed
and you know he's probably the most
exciting astronaut they think that's
ever been up there definitely the most
tech-savvy and and musical and now you
know I yeah I had had a great jam
session with he and his brother and
about 20 other people and I devote
several years ago and and he's actually
quite a good musician it was fun it was
fun and he I think he kind of had fun
the fact that people were asking him how
a song went instead of can you tell me
about the Space Shuttle yeah right we
had a great night it was we are great
they call yeah that's gonna happen back
here on e pluribus unum I want to say
welcome to our new registered viewers on
our website this month or this week I
should say pardon me we've got I'm gonna
give it my best folks
that's their name nice to see ya thanks
for being here is that like a like a one
of those laughs like there it is welcome
so that's exactly it
can L can Klingon Lemuria no Lemuria
nizam you know welcome to the show and
Gible Dean Ferrara welcome so much to
the show nice to have you here you're so
much welcome Eric touched on a very
important note tonight it was a nice
something that we we want to thank Roga
harvey on that on twitter at Roga harvey
for for pointing us in this direction
Bing had a big announcement this week
today
yeah Bing a big you ready big bean baby
now Z are you ready for this now you
touched on this a little bit earlier and
so I just want to kind of okay segue
into this okay so we're gonna translate
from
auto-detect but we're gonna translate to
okay we're looking at bing.com slash
translator this is the Bing Translator
and we know that okay google translate
we're not so keen on right now because
they decided they're gonna charge us $40
every time we want to use it I mean here
we are translating or putting books into
their reCAPTCHA system for them and and
this is how they thank us well so that
defines us over on bing.com slash
translate whore not translate this is
the Bing translate or okay it's an
important step in the right direction
for technology because for the first
time ever on bing.com slash translate or
we can translate to Klingon this is this
is new today folks so okay let's let's
give it a go
WW category-five TV let's translate that
to Klingon
oh we're live oh that is scary
Vlad Chuck left iPhone Cub and iPod
users hot users guys congratulations
Russian to go along with the Condor yeah
it's kind of appropriate under test new
platforms shock and just in case you're
wondering II young or you dong Vlad ja
papa pug kill you on email or email em
all who really knows I love that the
menu is even tray translated I mean if
you want to you can interact
very impressed with Microsoft for the
first time ever
that's a bit harsh you know they finally
have built a technology I know you're a
bill basher but they have finally the
technology that
we we okay we owe you I appreciate and
can utilize and it's gonna make
everybody want to install the Bing
Translator app in their mobile device so
that when you go to the convention you
know it's easy enough to to punch it in
like where d NL s went to translate but
that's exactly how you set it by them
alright okay all right guys we've got to
take a real quick break on that note we
will be right back don't go anywhere
at eco alkaline z' we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkaline
zuv the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium Eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkaline
difference Eco alkaline calm
this is category 5 technology TV I'm
your host Rob a Ferguson and I am
co-host well you read the most hi I'm
Erik kid with no small Nick Nick that
means welcome back I'm impressed with
you yes you know very good I am a geek
some way back yeah all right or to quote
young Rachel nerdling nerdling I can I
can believe that I can believe that
yes all right so Erik you you've had
experience running Apache lamp stacks
and running server Eisen one of the
things that can be difficult or
challenging is trying to track down if
you know if you're getting a whole lot
of traffic and you're wondering what's
actually going on maybe you're under
some form of a dass attack or somebody's
you know running a script that's
accessing your site over and over and
over again something along those lines
so your server logs all of a sudden
become really really helpful but also
server logs are kind of fun to watch
because it helps you to understand how
people are using your website for me
helps me to see if maybe I've got some
dead links throughout the site maybe I'm
still linking to some old content we've
been around for you know we're in our
sixth year here and so it's very
possible after 295 episodes that we've
had some files and and pages on our
website that have fallen by the wayside
and then sometimes I forget so then all
of a sudden I look at the server logs
and I see oh here's all my 404s and I
know that those files need to be either
redirected with htaccess or whatever I
need to do or maybe lose the link or
delete the link all together or purge it
from Google or whatever I need to do so
tonight we're gonna look at three
different tools one of them is not so
useful but a lot of fun one of them is
going to be a really helpful way for you
to be able to look at your existing
Apache logs and the third is actually
going to allow us to monitor our server
in real time which is exceptional for
you know if you're under a DDoS attack
or something like that somebody's
hacking away at your server and you want
to figure out hey what's actually going
on here why if I got such a high CPU
usage on my Apache processes so
everything that we want to look at is
available directly through apt-get so
it's a part of debian so if you're on a
debian based system via to boon to
server boon to desktop or debian itself
I'm on point Linux for example which is
Debian 7 so any of those you'll be able
to install these directly from packages
but you can also do that with whatever
distribution that you're using so let's
take a quick look all right I'm gonna
jump into my terminal and you'll see
that what I've actually done what have
you done Lottie well let's see okay so
I've got two files there Apache one dot
log and Apache two log I knew that we
were gonna be doing this presentation so
I actually created a couple of really
quick fake Apache logs oh so these just
give us some some logs to work with so
if I actually open this and please
you can see that I've generated random
fake IP addresses and made it look like
an Apache log and it is in every essence
in Apache log but it's just fake
generated information so that we're not
revealing anyone's private info here on
the show so the first tool that we want
to look at because again it's nostalgic
gaming month so here at category five TV
you know it's our first priority to make
sure that you find interesting nostalgic
gaming ways to interact with your server
logs and speaking of nostalgia the
application that we're gonna look at
tonight first and foremost is called log
stal juh so all we need to do to get
that I'll just because I'm in a pseudo
based system that's not as easy at all
apt-get install and we're gonna go log
stal Gaea just like that and then enter
your password and you'll see that I've
already got the latest version installed
but that's going to just install blog
stal juh so now with my Apache log I've
got Apache dot one dot log for example
I'll use that one so we're gonna do a
couple of things first of all now that
that's installed log stal Gaea - - help
is gonna give you a bunch of information
about what we can do you see that it is
you know it's pretty verbose you can set
the window size and go fullscreen if you
want and all the different settings so
real quick what I'm gonna do with this
log stal Gaea and a couple things that I
want to do is I want to change the glow
intensity what do you see a dr.
Beaudette yeah I'm gonna make it a
little bit brighter all right we're
gonna go glow duration and we're gonna
set that to say one second so that it
lasts a little see where I'm getting
this information okay see this is from
the dash - help so he's only using the
bottom two or three because he can't see
up higher yeah I can I can scroll up
though focus I can scroll up
okay so glow duration one and we're
gonna go grow multiplier see that grow
- multiplier and we're gonna set that to
something high like three all right yot
thinks you should be brighter for longer
than one second you think you can manage
that for a while
well this is a pretty active server log
right so you know I want you to be
brighter you can play along play around
with these settings notice - s4 now
obviously I know that setting that's
just the speed the default is one which
is gonna be and I don't see it there
it's up here somewhere oh there it is
speed
okay so default is one I'm gonna set it
to four just so that things move a
little bit faster because we're talking
a game of pong here it's got to be
interesting it's got to be fun and now
we need to tell it okay where is our log
so I'm gonna type Apache dot one dot log
or you can you know if you're on your
server you've got access to it by SSH
you can go VAR log Apache to access dot
for example okay in my case I've just
got this thing on my desktop that we're
using for the sake of the demonstration
and so what we're doing is we're gonna
actually take that Apache log and we're
gonna turn it into a very useful display
are you ready for this this is fun hit
enter
Oh what did I do wrong option unknown
grow multiplier Oh grow its glow sorry
folks
yeah glow multiplier and check to grow
your intelligence there we go there's my
server log and so what's happening on
the left is these are the IP addresses
and they are hitting the server at these
files and the paddle is moving back and
forth just like a game of pong or no can
you move the pillars it doing enough no
it's too it's it's reading the log and
it's simply saying okay this person is
loading episode 292 ping and it's going
back and forth and it's showing the file
being sent the request being sent to the
server and the file being sent back to
the user right how cool is that so it's
just it's just like that break out Atari
breakout application we're looking at on
go that's very cool whatever then it's
true this is the most useless
application ever but why is it that I
love it you my nerdling friend
speak Klingon qapla and that's been
useful for you too hasn't it it doesn't
have to be useful if you like it come on
chocolatey mmm yeah what he said
there you go did he swear up it's
happened so that's a visualization of my
log files like I said it's absolutely
useless as far as anything other than
just it looks pretty it looks at all
looks pretty behind me so the desert
cool glow yeah well that's why I set up
the the grow the girl oh that was never
mind no there you go yes okay so then we
need to okay obviously that's that's not
a use useful tool it's just kind of fun
we want to actually be able to monitor
all right and look at our server logs
and figure out okay what's actually
happening on our server so let's close
that down and don't only go play my
blaze of glory just like that okay
so next tool that I might want to look
at is really really helpful it's called
go access and again it's available in
your app get repositories app get go
install go access like that okay not
necessarily all typed in in that order
but mine set already the newest version
well you saw what I typed oh yeah I know
apt-get install go access and if you're
on Debian pure Debian you would instead
go s you enter enter your root password
so that you're a super user and then
just type apt-get install go access no
need for the sudo right because you're
then su din okay so with go access this
is a different can of worms altogether
it's not for fun this is for
functionality so but a can of worms
could be fun okay there you go
go access dash F is the command but
again you can go - - help oh no I guess
you can't just type go access and there
you go you do receive some help you'll
see that this one is not as verbose but
it does prompt you for the file and a
couple other little things but so in our
case we're just going to go access
- f and then Apache dot-to-dot log I'm
just gonna use that one because I have
some referrers and things that I've
added to that to that one solution yeah
so then when I run that now you notice
that it's running in a terminal window
okay so that's this one's text-based so
this one works really really great on
say a server excellent way to be able to
check out your Apache logs because it's
unusually so when I push - - F of course
you might again take that and say var
log Apache to access dot log all right
could be that in our case we're just
gonna access this one okay and let's on
your desktop that one's just on my
desktop yeah and I have C to the to the
desktop okay so I can use my cursors I
like my up and down arrows to move
around and you'll see a couple of things
here unique visitors per day one is
number one okay requested files is
number two requested static files is
number three so just to give you a real
quick tutorial on how to use this I'm
defaulted to number one so if I press o
it's gonna open number one and then I
press Q - to close that so see it's the
same as what's up there in the top under
number one it's the same kind of
information but it's gonna give me
everything instead of just the top what
is that five or six service so the
number two is the requested file so all
I have to do is press - and then the
letter O so - oh and it's opened
requested files and now I can actually
scroll through here and I can find out
more information about what files are
being requested how much bandwidth those
are consuming and things like that
helpful helpful helpful right sorry hope
it shows me all the links on the website
and and how people are navigating the
site or what files they're opening so I
can continue to scroll down and I can
look at okay what files are being
requested that are you know static files
so I press 300 and it gives me a list of
all the static files that are being
opened and this can be helpful too to be
able to find out you know if
being exploited because sometimes one of
the ways that you'll be you know someone
will attempt to exploit your server is
to try to open files on your server that
don't exist they might be looking for
files and so you might see them in there
or you might see them in if we scroll
down to number five you'll see 404
responses which is not found so you see
that okay I do have some that are
missing but you notice here that here
are some images that it's looking for
but I don't have those images nor have I
ever had those images and yet they're
giving a 404 so it tells me that
somebody is actually testing my server
to see if those files are there why
would someone do that why would somebody
do this because they know say Joomla or
WordPress or whatever they know the file
structure the of the the application so
if somebody has WordPress installed you
pretty much know that there's gonna be a
wp-content folder so you can kind of try
that folder to find out if this person
is running WordPress or in Joomla it
might be you know a certain file within
Joomla or whatever application it is
because they know how those you know the
file structure so whatever ad underscore
gray underscore pins ping is that file
is a part of something that they're
testing for and the reason they would
test for that is they might know that
okay well this particular application
has an exploit that would allow me to
exploit this server so that now point me
to okay well maybe now I need to grep
through my log for ad underscore gray
underscore pins find the IP address of
who it is that's trying to access this
file that doesn't exist because they're
obviously trying to do something and
then block that IP with IP tables for
example right so that's that's a couple
of the options that we can use that for
so you can scroll around through here up
and down it gives you everything from IP
addresses that are accessing the server
status codes on your server and again
you just press the number that is
associated with it so if I just press
nine oh it's going to give me all the
status codes for example and then we
press Q and that closes
the window that's open because it's all
done within the the terminal right one
little thing that might be a problem for
you is because let's say you know for
example I'm running this through a
terminal and terminal emulator on a GUI
so I'm not actually really at the
terminal I'm running it through this
right main terminal so if I want to
press f1 for example it doesn't do
anything but you see that f1 is supposed
to be help
so that and okay now it's brought up
mate terminal health well that's no good
to me but that's how that's what's gonna
happen right because you see f1 is
actually allocated to contents for mate
terminal so what we'll actually do is
we're gonna push that super user button
which is the the window key I don't know
if you can see that Heather but the it
usually looks like a window key on your
keyboard so if we hold that button in
within the terminal and then we press
the f1 key now you'll see what's gonna
happen is a lot different it actually
brings up the terminal based help so now
I've got a way to actually send the
keystrokes
even though typically I wouldn't be able
to do that so that can be very very
helpful just to know that little tidbit
because maybe you want to get access to
the help maybe you want to be able to
that sometimes I found there was another
reason that I had to press during the
setup I had to press like f10 something
like that which brings up the file menu
and in the application I think so that
just makes it a lot easier so that is go
access pretty cool QQ to quit and then
the final tool that I want to look at
tonight you're gonna love this one
modularly love this one you're gonna
love this one is the ability to actually
monitor your server in real time this is
where it gets fun so get ready to bring
up our site get ready just have a sip of
my coffee there okay the next tool I
want to look at is called Apache top now
you've all heard of top and H top and
all those kind of tools
well Apache top is kind of a similar
tool for monitoring your Apache logs so
sudo apt-get install Apache top
enter you'll see I've already installed
it I've got the newest version oh no I
haven't installed it falling bug we
removed yeah yeah yeah watch your wallet
can do what is it gonna remove well I
don't know I'm gonna say no to zero I
know why that is because I'm running
this on my local computer I don't have a
patchy install on my on my computer here
so instead what I'm gonna do is I'm
actually gonna I'm gonna remote into my
server and we're not gonna mention any
of this stuff on there how I'm accessing
the server or anything deal I didn't see
you you didn't see me we didn't see a
thing
all right let's get access here okay
there okay so on my server what we're
gonna do is okay like I was showing you
and this is a Debian server so I'm
actually I su to get here so I don't
need to do sudo so apt-get install and
we're gonna go Apache top and here
you'll notice that yes I already do have
in fact have the newest version so now
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go Apache
top - Q and actually let's again start
with - - help so you know what I'm
actually doing so hello mean right
okay so there's how you get your help so
- Q is gonna keep query strings just so
that they stay up on the screen and so
we're gonna go Apache top - Q - T and
it's an uppercase T for the time that
you want to hold things I'll just put in
3600 not sure if that's yeah seconds so
it just gives us a little extra time so
they don't fly off the screen and then -
F and then your file location so that
might be for your bar hundreds log yeah
what's that like 10 minutes or yeah so
VAR log Apache - whatever I'm actually
gonna point this to my live server log
so again we're not going to show that on
the screen just for
confidential confidentiality reasons
there we go okay so with that now it's
loaded up what looks like a top it's a
bit like a top kind of layout we can see
how many requests there are and what's
going on how much bandwidth we're using
so everybody go hit our website category
five dot TV and what we're gonna
actually start to see here if you want
to bring that up and post a job if you
can post a link in the show notes or in
the chat log chat room there people can
click on it you'll see there are three
people there just hit the upper you know
the slash so the first page and all that
you know so there's some more people
somebody logging in so I can actually
monitor this in real time and I'm seeing
ok how many processes what's going on
we've got 29 requests going on right now
it shows us how much you know how many
resources were using how much memory how
much bandwidth per second and there are
the files that are actually open hello
Ravi f would have given a 404 but hello
everybody's hitting on some some weird
files deserve yeah over here yeah what's
that so you'll see now if I actually
bring up our website I'm gonna I'm gonna
actually participate in this and if you
watch those logs I'm gonna go to
interact ask a question and if we watch
over here you're gonna instantly see
somebody's clicked on ask a question
there at the bottom so how many does
that so anywhere that you click it's
actually going to log that on my screen
so it's a real-time way to be able to
monitor it and I was mentioning at the
top of the show that this is a great way
to be able to figure out what's going on
if you're under attack and the reason
for that is you can start to see that
what's happening you'll see here that
right now somebody is opening several
files here's one for example
let's see here if I I do that sometimes
I hit control-c which closes where I
tweeted that you don't want to hear
you'll see yeah it's over the clown the
deserted the who is it and that's why I
and I keep doing that okay let's so now
let's actually go to I want to see if
this actually exists and you'll see that
there's somebody is hitting this page
over and over again postcard map and
it's not found that doesn't exist on my
server and there's other stuff that you
know sometimes you'll see that people
are trying to hit files and so you
wonder okay well what's going on there
and then you can dig a little deeper and
in fact on the weekend I had some really
really weird things happening because I
saw that in my logs people were actually
loading other websites so I started
seeing outside websites coming up in my
server log and okay well that's not
possible because everything's relative
right so you see as people are opening
files I've got slash ask a question
slash articles list for example so for
me to suddenly start seeing HTTP colon
slash slash in that website and some
kind of weird code there I realize okay
somebody's trying to do something here
on my server so I looked a little bit
deeper and I realized oh they're
actually using a backdoor and Apache
which is allowing them to proxy their
way through my server and be able to
make requests so instantly lock that
down and got that fixed because you know
you don't want that coffee is cold is
that Eric yeah so that's that's a you
know really cool tool I'm loving being
able to use Apache top it's a really
cool way to just add a glance leave your
server log up and running and you want
to set up permissions on your Apache
access log and be able to be able to
access it without being super user for
example but you are a super user yeah
and there's wood wood chuck chuck is
woodchuck could chuck wood
so that's that that's Apache top and as
I mentioned we've looked at go access
and log stal juh I hope that those are
able to help you when you're
administering your server looking at
your Apache logs trying to figure things
out and you know you watch those locks
I'm gonna notice over the next couple
days now and I know that you are gonna
see some weird stuff maybe some really
weird stuff secret codes embedded
through 404 links there you have it and
let's see if this works
be up to now I don't know that didn't
work okay alright happy birthday Rachel
how sweet okay alright thanks everybody
are we having fun yet are you ready for
the news I am ready are you ready oh
he's ready alright well here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV newsroom
awesome YouTube has launched the trial
scheme for paid channels on its website
under the pilot program a small number
of content makers will offer the
channels for subscriptions starting
around 99 cents a month these channel
will offer a free 14-day trial and many
will have discounted annual rates
although the initial 53 channel lineup
is fairly niche one expert suggested the
move might ultimately squeeze some
smaller rivals out of the market YouTube
which is owned by Google said the launch
was part of an effort to enable content
creators to earn revenue for their
creativity which we can respect but what
do you think would you pay ninety nine
cents a month to watch category 5 TV
share your thoughts by emailing live at
category five TV it's an interesting
thought because yeah I think everybody's
gotten used to YouTube being free you
just go and you find what you want you
watch it and it's always been free but
what what happens if I mean for us I
mean to give you the opposite
perspective I think you know to think
that you got to pay for YouTube is
you know people are getting a little bit
you know upset about that they haven't
forced it on us or anything like that
it's but it's it's becoming available so
if let's say you were to pay us a dollar
a month so 25 cents an episode right
think about what a difference that would
make to the quality of the show being
able to upgrade cameras being able to
purchase what we need to make the show
as good as it can possibly be we've got
a you know we'll probably get a
coffeemaker that can go right next to
your nice one of those ones that you
just like yeah cop in and they're just
and it's done then they can't complain
about it what's more than that he's like
no I'll find something else to all find
something to whine about yeah well back
to Chris actually we're not talking
about Chris here both the International
Space Station is switching from Windows
to Linux for functions which require
increased in-house control makes sense
the decision was made by Keith chavala
of United Space Alliance a Nassau
contractor oversees the writing and
integration of software for the space
stations laptop network the network is
used by astronauts on a daily basis for
location information inventory control
and multimedia web streaming their
little space concerts exactly mmm
ground control to Major Tom the network
is used by astronauts oh no Harry said
that tonight mr. Zavala says we migrated
key functions from Windows to Linux
because we needed an operating system
that was stable and reliable one that
would give us in host control so if we
needed to patch adjust or adapt we could
as well as laptops the humanoid robot
called a Robonaut is that like rubbing
on Robonaut right will also be running
Linux will be taking over some of the
human astronauts responsibilities both
dangerous and mundane and can be
controlled from aboard the station can I
look at that quote again I really like
that he this guy is the professional for
NASA contracted he says we migrated key
functions from Windows to Linux
that was stable and reliable that's a
bit harsh that's a little bit daring to
say something like that publicly and
when you're in that kind of a plea and
then we can say it we repeat we can say
I'm gonna claim that for my own we
switch to Linux from Windows because we
wanted stability and no viruses and what
else
I mean awesomeness is that is it a
feature if you read the box of Linux
with awesomeness actually be the feature
I don't know I think so
some of the books IBM hmm International
Business Machines know IBM opened the
center today for computing systems in
Beijing to help customers and outside
software engineers develop business
applications for the open source Linux
operating system nice the facility will
aid creation of programs for Big Data
cloud mobile and social business
computing and represents a sizeable
investment Colin Paris general manager
of IBM Power Systems said in an
interview he declined to say how much
the company spent or how many workers
were employed IBM chief executive
officer Ginni Rometty is focusing on
profitable businesses including data
analysis and cloud computing to maintain
growth
she said services that help customers
mind troves of information to make
better decisions are the company's
biggest priority the Beijing Center is
the company's first to focus on Linux
applications for IBM's Power Systems
brand servers the center will
collaborate with Linux distributors
distributors Red Hat and su se
I always find it awesome when and sorry
for having a logo more awesome I find it
more often when a commercial like a big
company backs Linux with a commercial
stance you know
canonical did it so now to here iBM is
doing software for business for Linux
that's a big step I mean that's a good
push for people who who think Linux is
just for hobbyists well no it's not I
don't people will say that because they
don't know
any better so very cool all right free
Wi-Fi access is to be introduced at
twenty five of Scotland's busiest
railway stations by the middle of next
year the move is the latest stage in the
Scottish Government's plan to ensure
travellers have free wireless internet
across the rail network by 2019 Scott
Reil began introducing free access on
its flight ship Edinburgh to Glasgow
route last year and is now being rolled
out across express trains the Scottish
Government has provided 250 thousand
pounds to fit Wi-Fi at the stations
that's some really heavy cabling that is
in the phone stores a category-5 dot TV
newsroom slash newsroom the category 5
dot TV newsroom was researched by Roy W
Nash and Heather Bailey Brown with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 dot TV news from American
thanks Eric
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by net talk find out more about them at
camp 5 dot TV slash phone you can
eliminate the need for a wireless
wireless text plan from your cell phone
provider you can upgrade your net talk
duo account with the net talk text plan
for unlimited text messaging to USA and
Canada check out cap v dot TV slash
phone and start saving money today also
we still got Netflix as a sponsor here
at category 5 get it while it's hot you
get a free month at cap v dot TV slash
Netflix and every time something
registers every time somebody registers
for that free account at Netflix they do
support and they love category 5
technology TV what's not to love I know
I know
and what's the 3-month the Netflix there
you go yeah free unlimited movies and
shows it's a no brainer all good cool
all right uh I would like to point us to
we've got very little time for questions
tonight so we'll grab you know we'll
start with that question there okay well
in fact
here is a question from Henry hey hey
hey guys hey I have finally decided to
pursue my goal and become a famous
youtuber my main ranks of famous
youtubers uber isn't that like a potato
sorry
they're my main content is going to be
tutorials okay for many different media
programs little animated and real-time
short films and of course gaming for the
gaming side it was wondering if you
could recommend the best way you would
record off ps3 Wii and/or other console
systems okay I have fraps for my PC and
it works beautifully okay do I need to
buy an HD PVR or can I just somehow hook
them up to my PC thanks guys PS my mom
has a Bailey Brown hey good to see ya
okay I'm just checking real quick what
we've got here at cat5 TV /bh because
it's the best place to shop
okay so fraps is a great software tool
to be able to capture DirectX enhanced
3d gaming in Windows well it looks like
we phone oh that's not what we want so
it's it's really cool because it allows
you to capture those windows games but
what do you do when you got the ps3 you
can get something like a Blackmagic
intensity Pro but it's probably not
ideal for you because it's designed for
basically TV broadcasting so if the
devices that you're plugging into it are
not too perfect spec you know like
perfect HD for form-fitting video right
it's just gonna be a black screen that
makes sense so if the resolution is off
a little bit or whatever I have found
the card okay so what you need
what you need is the avermedia Zed aver
aver media I don't know avermedia it
doesn't matter how I say it because let
me read this whatever let me read the
description from the back of the box and
you'll realize it doesn't matter how we
pronounce things stream now it's your
Showtime
make yourself celebrity of the world
that matters that matter stream your
gameplay and let the world see what you
can do join thousands of your kind and
top the ranked avermedia Apple media
blah blah blah doesn't really matter
that you are working on I can I can now
is it on the box the reason that you
want to go with this one is because it's
it's dirt cheap and it's gonna get you
compressed input from HDMI or component
from your ps3 or whatever other device
and if the resolution sent to this is a
little bit off doesn't matter it will
still broadcast the video and just might
have a black bar on the side or
something like that so it works better
for that kind of stuff check out the
minimum specs it's compatible with
Windows 7 probably eight I don't know
and I found it here and if you go to cat
five dot TV /bh and I'm gonna give you
the code for it let's see if this works
a VM T V GB cast I think that's the one
let's give it a try so I go to cap 5 TB
/ ph super circle battles Ovaltine and
there we go yeah alright so click on it
and it's only 114 bucks
alright and B&amp;H is great so what's great
about this it's compressed video so your
computer doesn't have to be as killer in
order to capture video that's important
because with the Blackmagic intensity
Pro you're looking at uncompressed 1080p
video so what you're getting
is this stream of video that you have to
have such a powerful computer in order
to encode and so it you know it's you've
you've gotta upgrade everyday average
bear yeah this one here has an onboard
chip that compresses the video on its
way into the computer so that what
you're receiving in the computer is is
still 1080p but it's compressed so it's
much less data you don't have to process
it on the CPU it's already processed in
the capture card so check that one out
I'll also see about posting a link in
the show notes for episode number 295 so
watch for that actual link and I will go
directly to that product alright thank
you the question we got time for a
couple of questions all right
did you want to direct me in a certain
direction no no I wanted to you know
that's that's silly but one of our
volunteers so well here is one from meow
hey me huh hello Robbie hey I have a
problem with my computer I user and six
I cannot use mobile Internet Oh
meaning USB flash for permanent root
password and when I type my own and that
the internet gives the wrong root
password oh dear where did I go wrong
this is a tough thing because I don't I
don't use Wi-Fi on I haven't used it is
it Zorin or is it Luzerne 6 hmm hmm I
would suggest I'm going to have to
suggest that you get into their forums
and see if anyone there has had bad
experience with it and can help you the
only thing you could try that I could
suggest with any application in Linux is
run the tool from your terminal so that
you can see what errors are being
generated so for example I don't know
how to really demonstrate this because I
don't use wireless cards right so but if
I have a tool that is you know say that
it's my configuration editor right so if
you're using gnome I can right click and
edit menus and we're just using
configuration editor as an example but
under system tools you see configuration
editor right click on it and hold in
right click and let go on properties and
I can see that the tool is called mate
conf - editor in this example so
go into terminal and I'm gonna type in
mate that conf - editor and that's going
to open that tool but now if anything
goes bad
with this tool or there's an error it's
actually gonna spew out the error in my
terminal so let's make it lay bare yeah
I wish I knew how with a mate competitor
but that might point in a direction
because then you're gonna have some kind
of output from the application itself so
you just have to find out what the
executive will is to run sorry I can't
be more help there but hopefully the
forums for for Zorin OS will be of help
to you I need to give up but I don't
know much about me I don't use it here
but Robert from Melbourne Australia is
here and another question here all right
hi Robbie and Eric I have just switched
over to point Linux and have had a few
issues which most of them I have managed
to sort out great the one that I have
been unable to fix is how to get steam
working I have tried a few different
methods that I have found on some
websites without any luck any
suggestions or any viewers got steam
working under point Linux thanks hmm I
haven't tried it yet do they make let me
just quickly
I'm guessing that you're on 64-bit
Robert is that the case are you on
64-bit point Linux I'm not getting
anything in the chat room from Robert
let us know hey are you out there
the architecture of Debian has changed
quite a bit in Debian 7 and that's part
of how we you know that's what point
Linux is so and I'm I'm honestly still
kind of learning my way around how that
all works but maybe this would be a good
question maybe I could bring it up again
next week when I have a bit of time to
prepare an answer because I have run
into it as well so can you let us know
are you running the 64-bit is that what
the problem is I think that would be the
the first thing that I would check and
just watch out that you don't don't go
through old tutorials that are for
Debian 6 right the command that we need
to do is dpkg space - - ad -
architecture space i386 and then do an
apt-get update I can post information
about that in the in the show notes for
episode number 295 basically command
looks like this and all it does is it
adds the ability to to run those 32-bit
binaries because remember and this is
why I think that your on 64-bit is that
steam is not available for 64-bit yet so
you've got to install the 32-bit version
so that can be a little bit of a problem
because we're switching over see before
we used to install the ia32 libs right
to be able to get 32-bit access now we
don't do it that way because it's an
newer way of doing things the
architecture has changed so I would try
that and then go through the regular
steps of installing the 32-bit program
and it should work just fine
how new is steam steam is pretty new I
mean we were looking at on the show just
you know a month or so ago so it is it
available for previous yes oh yeah but
Debian 7 and point Linux just came out
dead on 7 was stable on Saturdays
of Saturday of last week so so very very
knows a little own sample I know you
know what can you do what can you do
do we have that all right a short one
thanks for the question Robert and if
that helped if that just was the answer
then let us know but that's what I'm
thinking anyway all right well let's see
what do we have here
I don't know what do this is a question
the fur off air oh no that doesn't
matter it doesn't matter thanks Robbie
good stuff he's not suppose that this
here's his IP address and here's his
email address so what else know what was
Danny saying you said it doesn't matter
yeah no it doesn't matter that it says
it is for off air oh it doesn't know I
think it does she sent him here now okay
thanks Robbie I got handbrake loaded and
it is working how much do I owe you
I'm so glad he ruined the joke anyways
he's cool
last week we were talking about
handbrake on the air and our good friend
Danny had sent in the question when one
man and we were able to nail it and
unfortunately I had some mic issues
there at the end of the show glad you
were able to make it out glad that it
was that it worked for you and if you'd
like to donate his camp 5 TV slash see
that was not a part of my script by no
cat5 TV slash see if you want to throw
the the other error is spelled with the
C yeah don't don't put it with a K cuz
it'll go to the wrong person
oh my well then that's all the time that
we have I think I am keep reading
questions yeah yep
all right mics are gonna all of a sudden
stop work and so they cut us off at 8
o'clock I mean YouTube is just like
that's it shut it down that's it yeah
fun you like that actually YouTube said
stick around I just got a message from
YouTube YouTube just said stick around
we're gonna actually have
hang out after the show hang out hang
out so if you've got your webcam handy
stick around say hi we're gonna get Eric
another coffee
last week was this birthday so this time
around it's gonna be a very special
coffee first we're gonna hang out in the
chat room and and in the Google Plus
hangout which you can find at cat5 dot
TV / g + g PL us g+ and that's cat5 TV /
g plus category thank you
hope you had fun just send us your
questions live at category-five dot TV
is where you want to email us through
the week and get your questions in and
we appreciate that
don't forget chris is coming in next
week awesome that I always point out
she's she's way more charming and
better-looking you like absolutely I
have to agree yeah see you have a great
week bye bye bye
we hope you enjoyed the show category
five TV broadcasts live from Barrie
Ontario Canada every Tuesday at 7:00
p.m. Eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at at
aghori five TV and find out when
community chat where
poverty digital solutions and his
lessons
solution 2.5
thanks between them
