hello everyone and welcome to new every
day my name is Kari and my name is Jen
and on Stacia were in part two of wow I
don't need that coming back right after
this
Oh
turn
[Music]
hi everyone thank you so much for tuning
in again to another episode of new
everyday Jen for an axe or an X chapter
9 and give us a little recap what
happened and so last week we talked
about how Saul had risen up now and was
vemma I never have said it William ently
thank you you're welcome
vehemently we we create again we play
phonics games and she's quite good so
what was Saul doing can you explain to
them what Saul was vehemently opposing
the Christian Church that's exactly what
he was doing and so to the point of and
he did everything the right way because
he went to the high priests and he asked
for papers and permission saying yes
please let me go be bed please let me go
and persecute these Christians because
they are destroying their faith and then
rising up against God saying that we
should be worshipping Jesus so we talked
a lot about spiritual blindness last
week and personal where where believers
might actually have some spiritual
blindness or how non-believers people
who haven't quite accepted Christ yet
might be spiritually blind so that's
where we're at last week which is a good
segue into today's segment of wow I
didn't see that coming
all right because literally he did not
see this next part coming because I
couldn't because we went flying so here
we go we're going to start off in verse
3 because he's on his way to Jerusalem
it says so this is chapter 9 verse 33 as
he neared but here we go
as he neared Damascus on his journey
suddenly a light from heaven flashed
around him and he fell to the ground and
heard a voice say to him so full why do
you persecute me who are you lord now
does your version have a capital L there
no little o come back so I'll ask I am
Jesus whom you are persecuting he
replied now now get up and go into the
city and you'll be told what you must do
the men traveling with Saul stood there
speechless
they heard the sound but did not see
anyone
so I got up from the ground and then but
when he opened his eyes he could see
nothing so they led him by hand into
Damascus for three days he was blind and
did not eat or drink anything No and so
literally he went from being spiritually
blind to physically truly blind
physically blind and what's interesting
he didn't even know his line
what well because it says when he opened
his eyes he couldn't see so he don't he
didn't really know when the blindness
happened because his eyes were he was
like right oh yeah okay imagine my eyes
are like this and I see nothing and then
I open them in your blind and see
nothing
faint see that Colin he didn't see that
coming right he literally did not see
that coming and I have heard tell of
people when they're sick they can wake
up and they can't see anything which
must be the strangest feeling because
you're like my eyes are open now we have
retinal detachment and you can't be part
of your field of vision is just
completely gone
and and here so here Saul has been
totally literally blind sided half by
the light and what when the reason I
asked Carrie why she had an L in hers
mine is a capital L because the
commentators are asking a question here
I think are you the Lord well it's not
all it says who are you who are you lord
yeah so they're thinking that he knew it
was a great person but he didn't
necessarily know it was Jesus none why
he's asking okay and so that's why yours
has a little L and in my Bible they're
making the assumption that solved knew
exactly who was talking to him okay
because it says Saul Saul why do you
persecute me and so Saul is just
thinking well this is a in one person on
commentary it could just be well this is
a powerful man right I don't know how a
powerful man
like it's not that they had electricity
and knowing lots of flashlights that
could just yep so so that if you're
reading along in your Bible and you're
like oh I have a little owl or I have a
Big L Big L always refers to Jesus on
the beginning of a sentence or if it's a
little L if the Lord as in someone who
is greater in all types of authority
okay so they're not really sure if Paul
r saw knew who was asking him the
question before if he didn't know right
but still he fell to the ground and
heard a voice say to him Saul Saul why
do you persecute me and he says who are
you and then Jesus says I am Jesus who
you're persecuting this is an
interesting that he says you're not
you're proceeding like Church you're
hurting my kids yeah it's like you're
persecuting me
you know similarly to when Jesus said
whatever you do for the least of these
you've done to me yes if someone was
hungry and you gave him something to eat
you gave me something to eat
yeah don't was thirsty you gave him
something to drink you gave me something
to drink
yes and the flip side to that is true
when if I was to hurt carry or if I was
to sin against carry that I'm actually
sinning against the Lord so if I was to
lie to carry or if I was to steal
something from her I'm actually sinning
against the Lord which is very
interesting that that Jesus is you know
because obviously Jesus is an in bodily
form at this point and so yet he said
but you're persecuting me great and he
and then what's interesting is he goes
on to give them a command now get up and
go into the city and you will be told
what you must do and so he got up from
the ground and notice he was mine but he
just gets up and goes like there's no
well who are you going to believe at
that point it's Discoverer and then is
an animal that I ever thought about that
what we get it was weird that if he just
got up and wet there's no pause there
was no like the only guy log that Luke
record yes is that why do you persecute
me who are
you I am Jesus now get up and go that's
it there's nothing else there's no like
oh I'm not persecuting you it's almost
like they don't know or what's also like
dumbfounded that he's like look so
overwhelmed that all he could really do
is get up and go because he didn't know
what else to do right because he was
blind yeah but I wonder like those three
days of blindness like what does the
Lord speak to him wow that's a good wish
let's just take a break and think on
that they'll be back right after this
Jeff Weston gentlemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
alright
you're terrible actor what that's where
acting comes into play I don't know
where I think you're supposed to act
okay fair enough
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rule your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cap 5 GB flash dream
host still competitive papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash dream host and
welcome back to new every day we are so
glad that you stayed tuned so we're
jumping back into the story of Saul and
he's just had this Damascus Road
experience and that's what you hear
talked about all the time and people
actually say see did you have you had
Damascus Road experience is that how you
came to know Jesus and I'm like no yeah
and when we were looking at this passage
I was like Jamie no wet but this is a
really profound conversion like dude was
knocked over by the light blinded yes
another dude comes and he's healed and
scales fall from his eyes and then he's
like the dawn fire person I know and the
nature of conversion anecdotally and
from what I see in Scripture - yeah it's
not always the case for every person who
comes to Christ that there's this crazy
experience no I know for you like what
was it like for you it was a lady at the
front of camp at Vacation Bible School
and she said if you want to give your
heart to Lord raise your hand so how old
are you eight
ten as I get farther away from that time
I forget exactly where that was between
eight and ten so she was like - the camp
leader and said if you want to know
Jesus as the Vacation Bible School
director at our church okay and I
remember getting a Bible because I
accepted Christ and it even said that in
the front of it on the day I use
accepted Christ as your Savior so you
just did that
yeah I just did the yep that's me yes
that's it that's all it takes that's all
it takes
well but I also had grown up knowing the
Lord so I think it was like oh yeah I
want to follow Jesus like that does make
sense it's just for us yeah and I know
that's not always the case
yeah there's lots of people who do have
like Damascus Road experiences where the
Lord just gets a hold of their life and
they find themselves at a prayer rail
just bawling their eyes out and they get
up a change purse a changed person yeah
yeah I know yours wasn't the same as
mine because you weren't coming from a
Christian home so it's not as if you
were going to church every Sunday and
hearing the message you actually felt
God drawing you yes yeah I know and I
think I've shared bits and pieces on the
show before but yeah we were just I was
probably about 10 or 11
eleven and was driving in the car with
my mom when we passed by this church and
there was a sign outside of the church
that had like a cool thing on it and I
was like hey mom like should we go to
church and she was like okay I think my
kids s can go to church I guess we'll go
and we started going there my mom
attended the Alpha program I attended
like a Vacation Bible School where I
heard songs about Jesus and I saw the
kindness of the people and I heard my
mom talking about God more and more and
it kind of made it made sense to me that
there was someone in charge and someone
who made me because I've always had this
like weird understanding what the
complexity of life like a factor and
thinking that like personal agency and I
didn't know the term for it at that time
because I was young but personal agency
is like such an amazing thing like
you're you and I'm me like we're
separate people I don't know like in my
ten-year-old mind it was like really
profound and like God must have made
this so as my mom shared about Christ
with me that made sense and eventually
my mom explained how you come how you
give your life to Christ and she like
read a prayer that was on the back of a
piece of paper to me and I was like okay
yeah pretty bad prayed it in my bed one
night and I guess that was the point
that I was saved because I confessed my
sin but it wasn't till over time like
through my teen years that I was
attending youth group and church and
heard the gospel and started to read the
Bible and started to engage with other
women and other like other younger women
who knew Jesus and I saw the difference
that he made in their life right like
they literally trusted him and talked
with him like he was real and I was like
that can be real to me too and so I I
started to get to know Jesus that way
and it was a slow process and I think
when I was 18 is when I really had kind
of a more profound conversion experience
where I understood the nature of sin in
my own
hmm so it's very different
even between the two of us and I love
that about God because he knows every
word that's on your tongue Bumbry is
speaking he said that he fashioned you
in your mother's womb he knows you
completely and wholly and and he knows
the way that you need to hear about him
and maybe is right now and right here
and maybe it's me speaking to you about
this and how God loves and cares for you
and has a plan for your life and that
sounds so cliche but when I look back on
my life I could say you have you know
what that was God that God was showing
himself to me through the Bible I had
these points in my life letting me
understand him and and he knows how each
conversion experience needs to happen
that person will turn and follow him and
yet it's also a choice yes it's like
this this wonderful balance of God
knowing and drawing and I saying yes yes
and that's exactly what happened with
Saul was this amazing experience
happened to him on the road to Damascus
and Jesus says now get up and go into
the city and you will be told what you
must do and it says in the men traveling
with Paul were speechless they heard the
sound but did not see anyone and Saul
got up from the ground but when he
opened his eyes he could see nothing so
they led him by hand into Damascus and
for three days he was blind and did not
eat or drink anything imagine what his
friends thought like it says they heard
the sound but they didn't see anything
they didn't see anyone they heard the
sound of someone's voice but they did
they see something the Lord and did they
see the light I don't know and did Paul
then share with them like were they the
first convert I don't know I don't know
but what were they part of remember that
obviously we didn't need to know yeah
and I'm learning more and more that's
the mystery of God he literally only
writes down what it is that we need to
know and and there it says it and
actually he's humbled right because he
they let him by the hand
yeah here was this guy you know full
speed ahead going to arrest people and
now he's humble he fell to the ground
and my person says Saul picked himself
up off the ground like he was flattened
yes and God gave him a new life yeah
and so where for three days he was blind
and did not eat or drink anything and
during the break the question that we
asked each other was we went on in those
three days and what we're going on in
his head like what was he thinking about
what was God saying to him yeah but we
know that well it says and you will be
told what to do right so was was that
part of the instruction during those
three days was it during those three
days he didn't hear anything and he
literally just sought the Lord like
we're not told and sometimes and I've
shared this with Kerry before I think
sometimes God share stuff with us that
is just us for personal use only and
it's not for us to share and obviously
if if Paul had wanted to us to know then
he would have written it down like it
would have been in some letter and if
Jesus wanted it to be in the Bible it
would have been in the Bible but it's
not and so that tells me that was
something very personal happened between
he and God and maybe it was him
repenting
just so broken and what had taken place
in his own life towards the believers
and and or maybe it was this grand no
unveiling of what the gospel was and how
all the Scriptures fit together and were
told that where Jesus says and and he
spoke to them about scriptures he he
said you study these scriptures because
he thinks by them you have eternal life
but these are the scriptures that
testify about me right and he was
referring to the Old Testament we had
which saw at that time would have
committed authority of it to memory
right so was he was Jesus speaking to
his spirit and just sort of pulling up
first afterward we don't know but we do
know that he was blind for three days
and did not eat or drink anything yeah
so we're going to we're going to pause
it right there and we want to think
about what we want you to think about
what your conversion spirit experience
was like and to actually give thanks for
it
because your conversion experience no
matter if it was like Souls like a
my parents if it was more like wine like
you were the kid at BBS who just was
like yeah ESS yeah yeah that is a
miracle of God yeah and you give thanks
for it never ever be ashamed that your
story is different than somebody else's
because your story is what God is going
to use to reach someone else and your
story is your story because that's how
God chose to meet with you that's how he
chose to get your attention and a friend
of mine once said to me and she had a
very interesting testimony and she
looked at me once and she's like I would
give anything to have your story because
the life that she went through and I
experienced a lot of heartache yeah and
so we give thanks
like give thanks for whatever it is your
story is and if you don't have a story
yet of how you came to Jesus then today
is the day today is the day to carry
said if you're watching this right now
and you've never chosen to follow Jesus
Jesus is literally calling to you and
saying stop persecuting me stop pushing
me out of your life I'm calling to just
calm and you're like I don't know how to
comment so this is a doodler Jesus I
don't know how to come to you but I
believe you're calling me Lord would you
help me would you would you help me to
follow you would you help me to learn
about you would you help me to love you
and Jesus will because out of a genuine
prayer he has said that he will meet
with us so we encouraged you today if
you haven't decided to follow Jesus then
to pray whatever it is the words that
come to your heart and pray no odds are
you know someone who knows Jesus and if
you don't find a Bible believing Church
or go to the Billy Graham evangelical
website and they have a phone number
there call it up somebody will pray with
you go to focus on the family call it up
said just watch this show and they said
I needed to pray to accept Christ and
they said your number your name pray
with me and they will pray that and so
we encourage you
ah if you decide to follow Christ today
tell some hmm share your story and you
will never be the same and that's what
we have looked at next week
2nd Corinthians 5 verse 20 says so we
are Christ's ambassadors and God is
making his appeal through us we speak
for Christ when we plead come back to
God for God made Christ who never send
to be auctioned for our sins that we
could be made right with God
through sight you can use that to guide
your prayer this week you'll get a good
week and we'll see you at the same time
