what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 155
of category 5 technology TV it is great
to have you here nice to see so many
people joining us in the chat room i'm
joined by my good friend Eric Kidd
tonight hey good to see you buddy how
are you exceptional how's everybody
doing you had a great week I'd love to
hear from you in a chat room say hey I
see a couple of wonderful familiar faces
at joining us tonight we've got Hillary
joining us in the chat room christie
joining us in the chat room these are
co-hosted but have left us it's nothing
I said that was it nothing you said
there's nothing you said I don't know
what I did we'll see after tonight if
Eric ever comes back and then we'll see
what happens there yeah hey everybody
hey Christy hey Hillary hey John raptor
222 just watching the chat room if
you're not joining us in the chat room
category five dot TV is the place to be
love to have you there you know your way
around tonight I found a laptop
somewhere I found like glasses in case
things get handed again in trouble and
I've got a glass of some kind of
beverage mystery beverage surrendering
motor yeah
little spring water so do you got for us
well do you want to hear what's coming
up in the newsroom sure do okay well
coming up in the newsroom the ati vs
nvidia debate will soon be sung to a
different tune as AMD announced its
intent to phase out the ati brand
category 5 technology TV begins testing
QR code integration for smartphone users
who want to watch the show and toshiba
has recalled about 41,000 modern laptops
worldwide due to a potential burn hazard
in ubuntu 10.10 is of who I can you can
say ubuntu that long circuit is
available for preliminary beta testing
stick around for the latest news from
the category 5 TV news room hmm
brilliant yeah ubuntu it caught me by
surprise I I still get I still honestly
get emails to this day the videos that
were published by category five three
three and a half years ago and you know
and I get messages saying that you
pronounced lubuntu run because they just
say real did you I used to do yeah sure
I used to say you bun to if anyone's
been around for that long you remember
that but canonical made a smart move and
when when they release one of their
later versions of Ubuntu they actually
on the website put right on the front
page as you're about to download it
lubuntu 00 be 00 n t 00 right up there
so that's kind of how you figured it out
but well now you know okay well you're
not talking about pronunciations Robbie
yeah yeah um there's a fella shawl I'm
not even gonna try to pronounce his last
name he um but he's off totally the
email is correct pronunciation he says
hi Robbie and Hillary hi Hillary I
noticed that you have struggles with
word pronunciation in the last show
Hillary mispronounced a diaspora did I
say that correctly absolutely no good as
I learned from the from the number of
email that I got so I decided to send
you a few links that might help you with
future present of hard words and
non-english names what is it about us
k'nex it says connects right diasporic
so I looked it up thanks to uh well not
just shawls email but about three
dollars less about about 30 other emails
that came in saying hey its diaspora
diaspora and you hung me out to dry you
could have told me that I wanted to hear
you try and get it wrong and then I
don't feel so bad in it so so so I've
got links here for a free online talking
dictionary of english pronunciation
online database of names the dictionary
of name pronunciation &amp; provo the
pronunciation guide anyway there are a
lot of those out there and i'll post
those links for you in the show notes of
episode number 155 but it's actually
pretty handy you type in a word and then
audibly a little more accurately than
the then what was it the you know that
o.o the we're reminiscing here
everyone's very we came across that you
know where you have to type in a word
before you can actually proceed with one
of those little oh you're submitting a
form online forms yeah well then they
had an audible enunciation i click here
to hear it right he says just basically
i think it said just randomly hit keys
because i couldn't understand a word
they said you should actually get that
link sometime we should try to find that
so the story as we're sitting there at
the computer and he's working away
working away goes to submit a form and
it said that what you type is incorrect
so ok click on that little speaker and
it will play what it is and seriously it
just was like where the rivers are up
yeah and we said what so anyways so we
started mashing the keys and we actually
got it right so very good but i'll post
the links for those because it is pretty
cool that you can just type in a word
and i think it was fro bow let's take a
quick look because i am interested in
the sake of accuracy well you're looking
for that i will just point out the last
line here's keep up the good work and
good luck to Hillary for being accepted
to school and that's from shawn he's a
third year at geography at ben-gurion
university i probably pronounce that
incorrectly to
it's good i like to find out which is oh
yes it is for volcom and on for volcom
you type in a word like diaspora right
and interestingly enough now it has
these are actually used user-submitted
pronunciations of the word and you can
actually hear the differences in dialect
based on where the person is situated so
in North America you can push play and
hear what that word sounds like based on
the two people who have posted from
North America but then you get over here
and suddenly not only has the accent
changed but the pronunciation itself has
changed as well the only thing you might
get quite a disparity between
pronunciations from the east coast to
the west coast dad North America but I
think that one of us has actually got to
get on there and post diaspora as a and
then as a premium part of the little bit
people start saying all that this Robbie
Ferguson from category 5 it's got its
got a loser gotta be true so I saw it on
category five day TV how many poor
people started out using you bun to
raise your hands really ah let's check
out the chat room we're gonna try to
keep up tonight eric has expressed
something quite interesting Oh in that
you've never used a chat room no I'm
kind of a chat room noob yeah everybody
flood freaking out so LOL is is laugh
out loud I'll get to start oh I got that
okay i'm gonna leave some of the other
ones i know out have you used icq ever
mind is wandering no i said i know uh
AOL instant messenger yahoo any of these
eric is indeed busted no there you have
it so if questions are screws streaming
by in the chat room forgive us say
robbie f or eric kid and hopefully one
of us will catch you what's the
commander slabs
throat okay gadget wisdom guru I was
like how do you know what about that
that is an old IRC if you ever hear
somebody slaps somebody with a trail
that was mirc it's a brilliant
application back in the early days of
IRC goodness but you can actually right
click on a name I don't slap with a
trout I wasn't too scared until you
started throwing fish around that's it
that's it he's lost in the chat its wine
bar terrified sound good good yeah
jamison mentioning that sound is kind of
iffy tonight is anyone else having
problems we'd love to know somebody
saying that sound is indeed cutting in
and out check check we'll do what we can
we'll do what we can port robe okay is
it is it just a buffer on the feed your
cell phones off yeah good excellent my
cell phone is indeed off I left the
blackberry in the other room good good
okay well we'll try to we'll see if if
things kind of come back around so you
have some email there or something you
can look at I'm going to just I'm gonna
kill some services on one of my servers
here just to be clear
well you don't want me to ask you any
really tough questions here for a second
dear well you can get hmmm run them by
me and see how I do well okay we have
one here from Jim Kerwin hey Jim um he
calls you Oh co-host lyst one but you
didn't know I was here good enough um
thanks for all you do for the category
five community specifically and for the
Ubuntu Linux world generally and many
thanks the long-suffering Becca who
shares you with us for so many hours
each week accounting research prepped
and post-production in addition to the
actual broadcast time okay let's go down
to the questions he has his trio of
questions he's running we went to a
10.04 dot one sixty four-bit on a two
year old dual core HP pavilion laptop
question one scanner problem I've had
two windows free weeks without missing
anything until today he tried running
xane with his epson perfection 3590
photo scanner and he gets the following
error error failed to open device snaps
can Li be USB colon 002 it's after
anyway it says it's an invalid argument
okay it's a similar failure using ubuntu
9.10 32 a bit on an order compaq
presario laptop various visits to the
Google into forum and the same site are
not encouraging I came close to a
solution by visiting the epson support
pages which sent me TV this big long URL
there for a Linux driver but a the
driver download is dot RPM not Deb and B
I can't get to alien to trans ma well
that's quite a word as modify the RPM
into a dot Deb without throwing
dependency errors so what's the savings
we throw transmogrify what else do you
run the on for Bo we probably should I'm
just doing a quick scan here and it's an
older scanner a because some of the
posts go back as far as 2005 as far as
people saying on getting this going on
on ubuntu so you're right that's not
encouraging and I'm never of the mindset
really that you've got to go out and
upgrade or anything like that but I know
that scanners are so dirt cheap these
days that sometimes that's reasonable to
think about but let's see if I can find
anything I'm sure you've done some
searching but let's see if we can get a
little further into ubuntu forums and
just see what we can come up with I do
have a post from februari 14th of 2010
let's see
hmm apparently the photo version 1 users
saying that the photo version is
actually different than than just the
standard 3490 and does have some issues
with with Linux support let's see
I'm going to get onto epson supports
website and see what we can find here
for you you've provided a link to
something that's third party so I'm
going to take a look at that because
you're asking about converting from an
RPM to a Deb and I'm fortunately the
link that you provided is taking me to
something that is not not very helpful
so back to looking at the loon to forums
what I would suggest doing I'm sure like
I say I'm sure you've probably tried
that it if you get over to a boon to
forums dot org and do a search for your
scanner that's three scanner a oh it was
3590 had just to double-check just gonna
it was a 3590 photo scanner a 35 mining
okay
I've never had any trouble getting my
scanner to work either on on a boon to
you've never experienced any problems
without it yeah it was plugged into my
computer and we can't use it on your
machine took me a second
so I'm just I'm just doing a search here
just so that so you know what's
happening here in Eric will attest that
I'm actually actively click click click
move around me around so this looks like
the product discontinued product let's
see what we can find oh boy technical
support let's hope that we can find
something to do with Linux here drivers
and download it for downloads for
Windows Mac other here's hoping that
other will take us somewhere nothing at
all oh wait
ok this is encouraging Linux drivers for
epson products provided by and that's
the name of the company that you were
trying to send a link to but that link
didn't work so let's take a quick boo
small here in the chat room says his
wife says that all the time invalid
argument oh yeah
I am so sorry my friend I'm coming up
against roadblocks here which I don't
like to see see what happened here I got
to this I got this far and then suddenly
neither epson nor aivas's provides
support for linux drivers to see if you
have drivers for your model I've clicked
on Epson scanners and I'm just
okay so let's follow through and see
what happens this is going to take me to
Avis if Ava sis JP now are you joining
us in the chat room because I'd love to
know when you say that you were unable
to get alien to get it working I'm
curious if if it was just a dependency
issue if we can resolve those dependency
issues or if if you're actually unable
to convert the file because we can get
at least that far without the scanner
it's hard to to know if it's if it's
going to work or not but we can work
through each of the dependencies that
are required for your scanner so I'm
going to choose the scanner here holy
cow this puts you through a wringer to
get the drivers and this is unfortunate
and it should be understood that this is
not the regular case for getting a
scanner to work on linux and that's why
one of the reasons i'm kind of like it's
an old scanner how good is the quality
on that scanner because i'd be I don't
know regifting that too maybe somebody
who uses windows and receive a boat you
have a boat it's a valid question let me
tell you you want to use Linux and
they're they're putting us through the
wringer here to get the drivers if you
get the drivers and you're able to
convert them and then they're having
dependency issues it looks like because
this this scanner was so old it's maybe
there are drivers that were for an older
version of Linux but it doesn't look
like there's anything current so getting
it to go might be you you're running
into the exact problem so but there are
some good Canon scanners that are going
to work perfectly under linux just plug
and plug it in and it works that are
gonna go for under 40 bucks goodness I'd
even you know if your local i'll send
you one or whatever like they're they're
just they're very readily available
because nobody really it's the
all-in-one is really kind of taken over
that's what everybody's using right so
sorry not very helpful on that 1i not
very health i mean we're working on how
do I look looking through but didn't get
us very far
but a couple of questions in the chat
room yeah want to know what your shirt
says so maybe you can just that's John's
a responsibility right there yeah it's
just it's it basically summarizes that
entire segment on that I was in the
cameras right there in D does it have a
pool except i only got i think about
this far did it stop flashing and
certain i stopped question yeah it kind
of crashed it turned to a blue shirt at
that moment can you do what can you do
well we've got a couple of minutes
before the news so and i really am sorry
that I don't always have the answers for
stuff especially when it's hard hardware
related because with a hardware device
it's really something like that it's
gonna be real trial and error but i do
want i do want to stress that for those
of you who are who are hearing that and
and saying oh well is it going to be
hard to get my scanner working in linux
it's not necessarily the case and in
fact this is the first i've never had a
problem with any of my scanners even
some of the older ones yeah i had an old
HP scanner that was that was a dinosaur
i was huge it was like it was thick and
it was a flatbed plugged it in and
worked the cannons the scanner that i
use now is it works perfectly so never
had that problem so it might just be
time to move forward with your device
sorry but that's that's
last-ditch-resort keep trying anything
and then give up it's no great some girl
no yeah
ok
hey reckon kubuntu good guy hey Jameson
nice to see us right anything else
coming in at the moment or will that
will get started on our feature then
we're all set to go so tonight I wanted
to take a look at creating panoramic
imaging using free software so you've
seen panoramic images where you know
that's it's like this really wide photo
you get a really wide look at at any you
know whether it be landscapes landscapes
are beautiful done panoramic lee because
you don't need the height you need the
width as well as it can be used for
doing things like virtual tours if
you're planning to sell your house or
something creating panoramics are a
great way to show showcase that smaller
bathroom for example or the living room
get a real panoramic shot of the living
room so that people can really get a
sense for what what the room looks like
so so I I skipped over to the berry
waterfront this evening and I just have
what we want to do tonight is learn how
to create a panorama with just a
standard digital camera now my cameras a
little bit alike s you know it was a
step up for me it's a little bit nicer
then then then you know just a straight
entry-level it's an env 7 from Samsung
which now these days is probably you
know it's pretty dated at seven
megapixels but it still takes a pretty
good shot for what it is but it doesn't
have panoramic mode and it doesn't have
the ability to take panoramic shot so if
your camera is the same you've got just
a standard digital camera something that
you keep in your in your pocket or
whatever just you know one of those
standard digital cameras you're able to
actually create panoramic imaging by
seamlessly
tiling or seamlessly stitching together
multiple photos so i skipped down to the
waterfront and and start snapping some
pictures this evening just before the
show and this is this is the i don't
know if it's so the the spirit catcher
is the spirit catcher down by bareeze
waterfront i guess it has some kind of
significance the birds love it but you
can see that each individual shot is not
going to give me that full view of what
the what the area looks like so by
creating a panorama by snapping those
multiple shots i'm going to be able to
actually create a view across the entire
width of the of the waterfront so we're
going to take a look at that in a few
moments we should hop over to the news
and find out what's going there and and
then we'll hop right back to that and
learn about panoramic imaging using a
standard digital camera and all free
software okay well runner dapi brandt
AMD have announced their intent to phase
out that grant from this line graphic
arts beginning with the next line of
products and the bold and possibly
risking it AMD believes they're great
mountain fire programs is strong enough
to stand by themselves with it with the
ati brand AMD plans to release two new
branding options one which features the
AMD logo displayed below the name of the
cards chipset for example radeon but the
second option entirely omitting the AMD
name allowing computer manufacturers to
labour label their intel based computers
as radeon not confusing the processor
brands by including the AMD mark
existing products including the radeon
HD 5000 series will not be renamed AMD
says the first products to carry the AMD
radeon label will be introduced later
this year over the past few weeks
category 5 technology TV has been
testing QR code integration with the
show bring easy access to iPhone Android
and BlackBerry users who can simply scan
the code using a QR reader app installed
on your device to our codes may be read
by installing a QR code reader apps such
as k wah reader for smartphones for
motorola nokia samsung or sony ericsson
today devices up code for blackberry and
a number of other devices for any one of
the numerous QR reader apps available in
the App Store for iPhone in the
successful tests which have been
performed thus far smartphone users may
simply scan the code from their screen
to automatically begin watching the
latest episode of the category 5
technology TV directly on their device
in fact if you have your smart phone
handy scan the QR codes shown to see how
last week's episode of the category 5
technology TV looks on your phone now
you actually tried that ain't you've got
a blackberry and I tried that what app
do you use do you remember um actually I
was using my blackberry messenger and I
can scan a group barcode um which again
oh I've used messengers there yeah
you're great okay okay canon comes da
that's cool so yeah um toshiba is a
voluntary we're calling the satellite
I'm Sheila head I didn't look at me look
at that I'm toshiba
but anyway sorry it's a good luck to I
not invite news goes well with your
shoes a shirt sorry where was I
Toshiba's voluntary recalling this shirt
the satellite t135 135 be and satellite
pro t 1 30 models as they're charging
mechanism could be faulty causing the
laptop to become extremely hot possibly
melting the plastic and burning the user
the recall affects roughly forty one
thousand users the defective laptops are
less than a year old in some cases check
your toshiba notebook if your laptop's
part number on the bottom of the laptop
starts with PST 3au PST 3bu or PST 3lu
your laptop is affected by the flaw and
has been recalled if that's you call one
eight hundred four five seven seven
seven seven seven two talked it to
schubas support or visit laptops toshiba
calm and click on support okay you boo
boom to announce on friday the immediate
availability of the beta release of the
newest version of ubuntu Lintott Linux I
can't save goodness you bun to latex
which is set for final release in
October I can hardly wait the release
code named maverick meerkat is
officially called ubuntu 10.10 and
promises some excellent advancements in
desktop linux such as known 2.31
improved integration of the ubuntu one
cloud storage system and it hugely
improved ubuntu software center which
makes software installation a breeze in
ubuntu and now features previously
unavailable options such as installation
of mp3 file format support without the
need of a third-party installer or
advanced linux knowledge we went to 10
point 10 i'm going to say
time promises to be a great step in
making Linux usable for all those who
feel adventurous may try the beta
software for free by downloading it from
ubuntu com however you should expect
bugs and some issues so if you're not ok
with that please wait until October's
full release there's some other stories
in the category 5 TV news room this week
include Google hopes to pay 8.5 million
to settle the class-action lawsuit filed
over the google buzz social networking
service and sony has blocked PS
jailbreak and psgroove with a firmware
update to the PlayStation 3 console if
the false stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by Roy w Nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
Becca Ferguson and our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email newsroom at category 5 TV thanks
Eric you are so welcome so using our
standard camera and an application
called Hugin don't get me on the
pronunciation of that should look it up
with h ug IM basically when you're
taking a panoramic image the trick is to
avoid any kind of issues with depth
perception the way that we do that is
your lens now on my camera it's a little
more pronounced because we've got this
depth to the lens so about mid point in
the lens if you look inside you can see
where the where the kind of the eye of
the lens is which is about halfway
through the lens so when I'm turning my
camera I want to try to turn it on that
axis and overlap the images so that the
first image far right is the first image
and then the second image is actually
going to have between 30 and 50 percent
of the same content so that it has
something to stitch together and and the
software is able to detect okay well
this photo is actually to be joined to
this photo kind of thing with you and
it's it's pretty amazing because unlike
traditional panoramic imaging you don't
need a special tripod you don't have to
be so precise that you're actually you
know balanced on your
ends in your and you're turning it right
on the lens you saw in the video there
that I was kind of just holding out my
camera and turning it like this and just
being careful to try not to move my
camera to the right or or look up or
look down because then we're going to
have some weird distortions on on the
actual panorama so just by pointing to
the first image turning a little bit
snap a picture turning a little bit snap
a picture turning a little bit and snap
a picture as many pictures as he liked
usually works best if you're going to do
a straight image that you not go you
know beyond the you know straight line
so far right too far left basically
because if you start to go beyond that
then you've got that kind of a panoramic
distortion because you're seeing stuff
that's actually literally behind you but
that can be used as well with fisheye
effect and do some some neat effects but
it takes some experimenting so simply by
creating images like that now I've taken
these photos down at the waterfront as
you saw and so there's my first image
and then as I scroll now you see that
there are some people there but they're
right on the edge of the photo and
that's something that you need to be
mindful of is that if there's a person
that's standing right in the middle here
now I can't do anything with the birds
other than I could remove those using
the GIMP and that's fine but would you
call me GNU image manipulation program
you know all about that I do so you just
want to make sure that there's not a lot
of stuff that is in motion if you're
doing a panorama of for example a car
driving down the road you're going to
run into problems because it's moving
you're moving you're snapping multiple
shots so it turns out like that's
multiple cars so that can be a problem
so in this case it was pretty good
because it was everything was fairly
stationary I did have to deal with
people walking and stuff we just you
know this is fine and I was able to snap
the pictures in such a way for the most
part there were no people in any of the
shots even though you can't see but
there were actually quite a few people
that were walking by at the time so so
that works out fine
so I'm going to use an application
called Hugin and it is of course in
harmony with with this series on basic
photo manipulation this is part 7 we are
using free software in this application
is available from Huguenot
sourceforge.net as far as availability
and compatibility goes certainly it is
available for Linux it's also available
for OS 10 and and windows as well it
comes precompiled for Ubuntu Fedora and
gen 2 as well as the source tar balls
are available as well so users of
Windows users of mac or users of Linux
are going to have no trouble getting
hugin on their on their desktop in my
case now you could go to the website you
could compile it from sore so you could
download the Debian packages for Ubuntu
or however you want to do it in my case
what I want to do is I actually want to
use synaptic package manager which is a
great way to install applications on my
ubuntu system so i'm going to go system
administration and synaptic package
manager and once that's once i got
answer my super user password there once
that's up i'm going to simply type in in
the search up at the top Hugin an h u GI
n it's common you can see the indicator
down at the bottom right
this is where Hillary we miss your theme
music oh does Hillary senior yeah i'd
probably be singing or humming or
something i had several beans once
you haven't no scary you have now okay
Hugh again there we go so that brings up
Hugin and anything with the name Hugin
in the in the title so I've single
clicked on the checkbox and gone install
and it's telling me that I also need to
install now that list could be populated
with a bunch of things different
applications that the Linux is telling
you you need to actually install on your
computer in order for human to work
that's what we're talking about a little
bit earlier but dependencies
dependencies mean these are these
applications here are also required in
order to use hugin and that's one of the
things that makes a boon to or Linux in
general really great for installing
applications is with dependencies you
can install applications and it
automatically installs anything that's
required in order to operate those
applications so as simple as that
through the internet with no CD no no
discs of any sort I'm just going to go
apply and that's the apply to sign up at
the top there is he doing okay over
there we're okay here all right yeah you
have a microphone so i don't i don't
know that covering your mouth i don't
know if it helps you know that's right
probably drink your water Cheers that's
so that's installed i'm allowed to give
him a hard time my beer is empty oh dear
here comes
so hugin is installing on my system and
as you can see this is not going to take
a long time I'm going to have enough
time to just take a sip of my water and
there comes getting it right off the
internet and hugin is also available
through perfect boom too if you've used
perfect 12 category 5 TV hugin along
with some of the plugins gets installed
with that if you request that so changes
are applied that's ready to go so now
i'm going to close out a synaptic
package manager and under applications
graphics I'm going to see that there is
now hugin panoramic panorama creator
just zoom in a little bit there so that
you can see that better graphics you can
pan around a creator and again if you're
on Windows or Mac the interface to to
get there is going to be a little bit
different but but it won't be a problem
this is the here comes here
splash there we go the did you know tips
of the day are quite good so I'd
recommend that you you know take a look
at at least a few of them each time you
load the application I'm just going to
close that and what we want to do is we
want to first of all load our images so
we're going to just click on the load
images button and that's going to
obviously bring up a dialog so that we
can browse to our photos so on my
desktop I've got that folder that I
created very spirit capture spirit
capture pan around I've clicked on the
first image I'm going to hold my left
shift key and click on the last image
that highlights all and then I can go
open so now those images are there now
there's two things with hugin and one is
that you can use the built in software
which is a game brought in by
dependencies that's going to
automatically detect control points and
try to align those images as best it can
but there are variables for me such as
lighting such as if you weren't holding
the cameras quite straight different
things can cause or even motion motion
is a big one those kinds of things can
cause issues with with your alignment if
you use the automated system but I
always tend to try the automated system
first see how it does see if it works
because on some images it works
perfectly and it saves you a lot of time
otherwise we may have to create control
points ourselves so the first time
through I'm just going to click on a
line here now i'm i'm using normal
rectilinear lens type that's just your
standard in lens for a standard camera
that's probably what you're going to be
using because you most likely don't have
a different lens on a standard camera
you've got the normal or a rectilinear
lens so i'm going to click on a line and
that's going to just go through the
process of going through each of those
images and it's going to detect control
points like i like i mentioned earlier
about overlapping those images it's
going to see okay well here's the image
overlapping and it's going to detect
points within that that are going to
straighten that image if there's a lot
of clouds on a cloudy day and the clouds
are moving that can also cause some
control points issues with the automated
control points
so depending on how this comes out we
may or may not have to create our own
control points but we will anyways just
for the for the reference so that you
know how to do that so something like a
static city skyline might be it would
really really tap at the avenues
absolutely rooms buildings are great
because they're there are those unlike a
horizon where you don't necessarily have
those straight edges and squares and
things like that I put a lot he gave not
so much definitely are okay everybody
stand very still but we're gonna do a
panoramic shot might not work so well
okay so this is just and this is not to
time time-consuming of a process but a
little bit for you know for for filling
time maybe we could do a song and dance
or something but this is in real time
actually for actually creating those
control points by detecting those within
the image once that's done we'll be able
to see what that's going to look like as
a panoramic image based on those digital
or those automatically created control
points move it along moving along how
far in are we I wonder if we can tell
well we'll let that go any comments or
anything in the chat room we'd love to
hear from you category five dot TV and
just post us a message in the chat room
and let us know if you have a question
with regards to panoramic imaging
anything along those lines would be
great here goes we're starting to stitch
now
so it's detected the control points and
we're at about twelve percent 13 14
nothing going on in the chat room at
this but people are talking people
somebody keep trying to get rubber you
do a song-and-dance he isn't so far
we're at forty-five percent of everyone
so I open my deterrence in my latest
country time to be right you said you my
scares what do you live with that
country music I don't know hey come on
better be careful haha don't we don't
want to find a grace is rated G next
time ya know okay we've had experiences
with sticks on the show hi Chrissy
John's over there laughing actually um
Raptor 222 says you can do a panorama of
a hockey game just need an array of half
a dozen cameras shooting at the same oh
absolutely if they were done at the same
time or if you have like what the Google
car has a camera that takes all angles
at once but what we're doing is we're
not using a twenty-thousand-dollar
camera we're not using twenty one
thousand dollar cameras we are using no
a 100-dollar counter okay kind of idea
right that's the idea so let's let's see
what we're what we're getting here for
from hugin so let's see
so we can see there's our first image
see how that skyline is done actually
pretty good digitally like just with the
automated system the people are in the
image which I don't like so what I'm
going to try is I can try turning off
whichever image that is just go through
these images up at the top so let's
image 1 so if I turn that image off now
those people have disappeared because
they're no longer attached they're no
longer a part of the the panorama so now
what I want to do is we're going to
click on photo metrics I'm not sure how
well this this particular computer is
going to perform because I'm just using
it yes it'll probably have some issues
but when you click on photo metrics it's
going to actually render the image
correcting some of the lighting doing a
better job of actually creating that
panorama what are you laughing about
over there oh just country songs getting
played backwards I'm gonna in a droid
gettin runned over by a pickup truck but
other than that it was my country music
reference hugin apparently does not play
too well with with broadcasting live I
want to show you this because this kind
of it's funny but it's sad at the same
time because I'm trying to do a
demonstration for you nope it's
literally crashed my my 3d subsystem on
the graphic card you know I'm actually a
news girl pointed this out I was going
to point it out to but I don't remember
the year but says boo the evil spirit
catcher but those nice things actually
did when it was first installed the wind
came up and a few of them kind of came
down precariously I oh dear nobody got
hit but they had to sort of reinforce
something the original or almost a good
approach as the demonstration I'm taking
it's apropos that the spirit catcher
image crashed your graphic yeah
um yeah well I that kind of puts a
damper on that doesn't it you can you
can zoom out now John but little rub
Union were you yeah I that's there's the
first time for everything when i when i
click on on photometrics it is rendered
great image is not a outstanding that is
that will make the blooper reel and for
those of you who are watching for the
first time tonight i am terribly
terribly sorry for those who've you who
are regulars you understand that this is
not a regular happenstance and that's
all good so Eric I take it away with a
question we'll we'll come back to
panoramic imaging certainly another time
well well we have one here from Andrew
Jameson hey Ravi and Hillary I am not
really Hillary but I'll try cool beans
um I'm thinking about putting windows on
a smaller SSD and then load programs and
games onto a separate HDD what I want to
know is what size SSD should i get for
windows 7 to be installed on i need at
least 20 gigabytes for it to installed
according to what i read but no SSDI c
is less than 30 gigabytes and not sure
if i should allow extra space also since
windows unlike linux does not follow
drives to be mapped to directories
during installation so the program's
file folder and windows is predestined
to be on the SSD as well is there an
environmental variable i can change so
that when programs look for the default
installation path they are pointed to a
folder other than program files yeah
sure yes okay there you ever the case I
confused you here it is broken down yeah
well certainly with windows 7 and SSD
you're gonna get a much better
experience because and I don't have
access to my computer right now and I'm
sorry for that let's just come and back
up I'm just going to do the the quick
reboot with an SSD drive in windows 7
they've basically redone the way that
Windows works with SSD Drive
so you're gonna you're going to get much
better performance than you would with
previous versions of Windows because
stuff like defragging stuff like precash
Aang applications preload kind of idea
that kind of stuff doesn't happen with
windows 7 anymore it automatically turns
that off if an SSD Drive is in use
because it's no longer necessary because
that that are those kinds of things
defragging and and pre cashing your your
data your applications those were all
things that were implemented in order to
circumvent the the downfalls of those
old you know that's the standard
spinning hard drive but now that you've
got a completely different mechanism for
storing the data that's no longer
necessary so so the performance on
Windows 7 is going to work really really
well and I'll ask you to actually leave
that email up on the screen for me just
because I don't have access and it's
coming up I'm almost there so what size
how much space do you need on your on
your SST that would depend on the the
default install of Windows i believe it
was 30 gigs is the requirement anything
below that you won't be able to install
it I believe is the requirement without
having access to check people can
correct me in the chat room if that's in
fact but you always want to make sure
that you've got more space than what is
required by your operating system
windows essentially if you're going to
go that route of SSD as your primary
hard drive keep in mind that you need a
lot of RAM because you don't want to
have a swamp file that's swapping to
your hard drive all the time but you
could always you know with that
secondary SATA Drive you could use that
as your swap but again then you're kind
of circumventing the speed benefits of
having an SSD so the more RAM you have
at least eight gigs you're going to have
that really good performance boost if
you've got less than that or certainly
if you're below four gigs things are
going to be swapping to your hard drive
regularly if you're using any kind of
graphic editing software if you're doing
anything that's even slightly heavy as
far as memory goes so
that said make sure you've got not just
the space on your SST but also a lot of
RAM in the computer to get that
performance boost and make it worthwhile
because they're expensive right they're
more expensive than the traditional
drive as far as capacity that goes kick
a bite two gigabyte for sure it does
wisdom gurus plenty of you neckla find
SSD smaller than that anyway yeah
absolutely but you are but you you may
not but they are they even get an eight
gig SSD you can get a 20 gig SSD but
yeah whatever what you see in retailers
may not be they may be pushing the
larger sizes for sure but certainly any
anything under 30 gigs I'm I'm sure
would be would be an issue as in its not
going to not going to go for you as far
as moving things on to your other hard
drive it sounds like you're looking for
some links or junctions in Windows 7
which was introduced in I believe with
the NTFS file system so do a search for
junctions on windows 7 trying to
remember the command is MK link space /j
to create a junction so you would you
would create on your like let's say your
second hard drive is your e drive for
example on Windows so you've got an SATA
drive that you want to put your program
files on and say it's map to e so you
would go to your c drive while you first
create a program files folder on your
drive and then you would go into the
command prompt basically like a DA style
prompt on windows 7 and and create a
junction between the original program
files and the e drive program files
moving all those files over to your e
dry so then your system should be able
to think that any time it saves to
program files it thinks it's saving to c
colon slash program files if that's the
location for example but it's actually
saving to your e drive and it's very
similar to symlinks or mount point
in Linux as far as how that works so MK
link space / J just do a quick search on
the web and you'll probably find
instructions on how to do that even
append to that move program files and
I'm sure you'll get you'll get some help
so I am coming back online but I dare
not even try because that obviously
requires a bit of 3d acceleration in
order to get that far you probably won't
have that problem it has something to do
with the broadcast in the way that
everything's wired in but what I'll try
to do is we'll recreate that
demonstration in such a way that the
whole I'll kind of record what's
happening off air and then be able to
play it back so but but for those of you
who are interested in panoramic imaging
you saw that it was starting to stitch
together and it is starting to come
together once you are happy with the
alignment then you can export that and
and you'll have a good looking panoramic
image so but I will definitely come back
to that in a future week and I apologize
for the technical difficulties tonight I
guess it's bound to happen we're
fortunate that it doesn't happen too
often Eric I think I've never seen it up
you've never seen it happen that's never
happened with you on the show never has
maybe it's my fault nah couldn't be that
couldn't be that this is category 5
technology TV you'll find us online
triple w category five dot TV i'm your
host Robbie ferguson and eric is joining
me here tonight hi you know what we
should say hi to a couple of new viewers
indeed we haves andale Zandt did I say
that pronunciation agains and all 3t3
from Fort Lewis and we're wondering
maybe that's Washington and DJ taro from
Bucharest mm-hmm that's probably Romania
and I have a request from news girl to
see cool beans in a really big smile so
Coleen's
oh my there any questions in the chat
room while we got a couple of minutes
left to the show or if you have a
question that's that's coming then maybe
I've missed while I was somebody wanted
to know if I wanted to sing as a country
song for him to do with it I think the
something to do was then Andrew I don't
think that happened it's like when
Christie would say oh somebody would
like to talk about the weather it just
hey he struck me well I of it just I
bring it up cuz I know she's watching he
you saw that he struck me yeah violence
on the show I'm gonna have to change the
rating of tonight's show notice i am
going back to that request it was gadget
wisdom guru looking for someone to
contribute under a Creative Commons
Attribution license a country song about
an android phone over there you my
android deemed podcast do you want to
write us on for gadget wisdom guru I
would love to well there you have it um
oh my talents not important yes anyone's
an improvement over me singing or gadget
wisdom guru singing would I be
interested boy would I you put it
together and we'll play it on the show
okay oh oh my now I'm not only a bit of
anything about me we're we're watching
the chat room here for those of you who
are not joining us in the chat room make
sure you get in there category five dot
TV lots of stuff going on just a ride in
the chat room good to see everybody
who's there what was suggested I strike
back don't you struck me mmm but this is
not hockey so no we're not doing that
thing
brilliant
okay any other questions that have come
in
how are you John kick him while everyone
here John there he's not miked but
sometimes we can pick him up so we we
got a couch this week so we're able to
welcome a couple of people to join us in
the in the studio here during a live
broadcast so pretty excited about that
those of you who are watching a
backstage pass you're able to see that
kind of cool this pretty wasn't there
before you you wouldn't know I'm gonna
go sit on yeah definitely sir Eric biol
they want to hear they want to find out
about who you are and stuff will write a
bio snap your picture and I'm learning
how to say cool beans people want to
know who you are what you do you got a
background in television I've done all
kinds of things you I'm not gonna tell
you everything who he is or I I has sure
enough I have worked on TV but as an IT
guy yeah okay um been a musician most of
my adult life hmm I stopped playing
hockey when I was 11 but started when it
was much older and I still stick handle
like an eleven-year-old but I have a lot
of fun um typically don't get too
injured up there crashing to the odd
person once in a while did the odd thing
on a computer here and there mm-hmm um I
haven't written an Android country theme
song though but not yet that's cuz it'll
come we're gonna turn this into a
country music / not before I don't think
that's happened yeah I've got a question
from kubuntu who's just asking about a
raid one set up just wondering if they
should be concerned with with the
inclusion or not or lack thereof
time limited error recovery on the
western digital drives or if you want to
just use the consumer level entry you
know the green drives or whatever they
are I would say it depends on what
you're what you're using the drives for
there are multiple different levels of
hard drive certainly in a production
environment where your servers are
running all the time it's better to have
those high-end hard drives with the
error-correction just like your your ECC
ram same sort of idea in a server
environment now if you're working with
just backups at home and needing to have
some redundancy you can get away with
those cheaper derives my server that I
use to store our files and stuff it
spins down the drives i'm using unraid
and it does a great job of you know
shuts off the drives when they're not in
use and I just use those you know I use
that primarily I'm a fan of seagate so
I've got some 7200 RPM drives that just
spin up when they're in use and spin
down when they're done and that works
really well for me but when you're in a
redundant situation the idea is is that
well you hope that that if a drive fails
that the other one doesn't fail that's
the ideal situation with a raid one
you've got two drives one can one can
fail the other one needs to hold your
data if both fail then you'll lose your
data and you got a data recovery
situation where you've got to figure out
how to recover that data so it really
depends on the situation a backup server
cooper kubuntu is saying so in that case
if it's if it's pretty low yield and
you're just backing up your data that
extra bit of redundancy I'm talking
about you know you buy those external
hard drives at the the local
supercenters or retailers that just have
a single drive and they say that they're
a terabyte or two two terabytes or
whatever they happen to be even 500
megabytes and you backup your data to
them and then the hard drive crashes and
where's your data it's all on that
single drive so you're in a really bad
situation with a raid one however be an
internal or external the the idea is
that if one of the drives fails the
other drive is still carrying your data
so then you replace the failed drive and
back up and running with that redundancy
so so in a home environment or in a
small business or not such a heavy usage
environment as like a server room or
something like that you can get away
with the cheaper drives absolutely and
then it comes down you know whether
you're using hardware RAID versus
software raid as well that makes a
difference but I think in your in your
situation if it's if it's literally just
just to be able to just back up your
files and have that extra assurance of
having a second drive with some
redundancy then I would just you know i
would get some some decent entry level
you know consumer grade hard drives
would be just fine but keep an eye on
them make sure that you keep them make
sure they don't both fail basically so
well we're just about at a time glad to
get a reasonable question just right
there at the end I hope that that helps
you out but this is a category 5
technology TV episode number 155 check
out our website category 5 TV for the
show notes from the episode which you
know what do you do what do you do I
have technical blips at least the
broadcast kept going I saw Bill Gates
any crash the system it was great that
was good yeah just whatever you do don't
Joe don't close the chat room cuz that's
our only copy of the chat logs now I'm
not closing anything that you that never
happens hey it's been nice having
everybody here thank you so much for
joining us here at category 5 technology
TV air kiss one could have any thanks
for having do you have fun I had fun
loads of fun good good thanks for being
harassed in the chat room yeah right no
that's good that's good there they want
you to write that song so get to it he's
gonna go home we have to play something
out my guitars over there if you want to
pick it up you know just in the end and
could have it perfect really well
everybody have a fantastic week and
we'll see you well I'll see you next
tuesday night at seven o'clock take care
see you
