welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson long to the show this is
category 5 technology TV episode number
2 29 229 glad to be your happy july
we're here how's Robbie today fantastic
how about you no no I got the impression
you got one of those colds and I don't
want you to yeah but here I am anyway
it's Tuesday februari the 7 2012 gonna
be an early spring what does that even
mean when we haven't had any of it there
it's like yeah yeah it's been sad really
because yeah at this time of year you
get a lot of fundraisers that go on and
and a lot of stuff has been canceled I
know there's a little bit berry Winter
Carnival actually got through but I was
surprised like you will do I still be
able to do it yeah it's kind of pretty
tight used to be done but things I
thought I was a kid when I was a kid it
was all done owed on the bay and I think
there's like a boot yeah but that was
during the Ice Ages hey easy no hizo
everything was frozen back then I
remember I was gonna speak skating
competition than my mom came you know
beat skating copped it and I was still
short but it wasn't flat back then and I
just been trying to picture their kid on
the speeds and it isn't poor mom got a
little close to the
mum went for a swim yeah well how's that
how's everything for you nice to have
you here but he just said when I was a
kid Hendrix was alive and you know what
it's true it's true it is it screw
people yeah i mean you try to make a
funny and it's absolutely true looking
around the globe tonight we've got
viewers from all over this beautiful
world this is that this is people who
are tuned into the show right now looks
like we've got some people over in
kazakhstan 01 just north there's one in
the new breakfast an a you Becca Stan
you're close austria and i was talking
to one of our viewers from austria this
week looks like they're tuned in very
good UK we've got lots of viewers over
there nice to see you belgium and of
course over here on our continent is
there anybody from barry in there well
you know they probably are mmm oh
there's one you see us oh there we are
there's somebody down a new tech or is
almost a new new to come Seth SR is the
lower level at new tech come on is that
what they call it is what they call it
you can get this map from map dot cat
five dot TV very cool interactive map I
don't probably suggest that you do it
right now during the live show that was
brave of me but you know because all of
our servers are kind of combined right
now we are working on setting up a
content distribution network which I'm
very excited about that's going to
alleviate some of the the weight on our
server during a live show but go find
yourself there on the map during the
during the week and be friends we have
no electricity here right we sure do I
almost tripped over the new blue cable
yeah we're going to talk about it out in
a minute I'll get you to tell us what's
coming up in the news and then we're
going to talk a little bit about the
electrical issues that we've had over
the past a little while and how we've
been able to alleviate that you can just
feel the ambience of clean power tonight
that's why I'm here I'm just soaking up
the ambience the joys Eve is that what
it is there's a yes there's something in
the air choix de vivre
okay you know what's coming up into the
newsroom tonight secure smartphones
powered by Android are making their way
to us officials and nikon has announced
the d800 a 36 megapixel camera 36 36 of
them that's older than me ouch you were
not alive one hendrick who was around
okay Facebook and Google have removed
content to avoid getting blocked in
India an apple has had the pole iPad and
iPhone devices in Germany so stick
around these stories and others are
coming up later in the newsroom well
they are just kind of like yeah all
right I got me a rough time for making
me know digiti well I went to grab my
favorite that I want those nanodots so
that I got to play yeah that was kind of
fun actually that there is a place that
was way cool the crank flashlight I love
that notice that I didn't let him try
the hat that controls this computer cuz
i can just see him Stevie Wonder you
know absolutely it oh my what we got
through the news I know that was just
the TV news is yet to come alright the
news is yet to come hey I want you to
send us a postcard you can send it to
category 5 technology TV postal box 29
00 09 Barrie Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 and
you saw some picture you saw our map
about where the viewers are we'd like to
be able to associate a postcard with
that with many of those areas of the
world so send your Zen and were those
o's are zeros in that 29 09 but I mean
who's gonna care it more office okay
sorry i'll leave that alone mmm we also
have a mobile site that is up tonight
and working great mobile doc cat5 TV you
can scan that QR code maybe well device
and that QR code you go right ahead do
that later I'll do that later folks
he'll do that later later when is Eric
know I've been known to to put something
off so we had some pretty serious hydro
issues here over the past
a long time and adapt our yeah hydro is
a finicky thing and it's you know for
the rest of the world because when
you're doing to even just open border
and stays in you say hydrolyzes what
their power lines electricity for hydro
comes from hydroelectric power which is
how we used to generate a lot of our
power but we still call it hydro here to
electricity but it hydro you know water
hydrophobia no rabies we talked about
the more useless knowledge that we can
get into your head tonight the better
off you are yes so so we are having
electrical issues or we have had to look
we have had right we're seemingly not
the way I'm company called yeah okay
kariong quarter electric is the official
electrical company of category five
technology TV and they came in there's
their contact information I'd encourage
you to contact them is certainly if
you're in the berry area anywhere within
say a hundred kilometers of very great
opportunity for you to find some honest
electricians and people that know what
they're talking about we had a couple of
companies in quarter e being you know
our best choice and came in here and i
think really got things figured out so
i'd like to have richard from quarter
electric on on the show because he knows
a lot of stuff that i don't understand
well i guess i understand the theories
behind like sine wave electricity and
how sine waves work but i wouldn't be
able to articulate that information to
you effectively but what's interesting
is because of the way that you know an
old house gets built you know 20 25
years ago and maybe you've had some
hydro issues or electrical issues that
you're trying to trying to nail down
we've got UPS is on everything so why
computers are still getting baked why
we're getting surges and why we're
getting light bulbs just blowing out
randomly and none of the neighbors are
it was it was confusing and strange
turns out when they wired the place they
wired everything on like each floor on
its own circuit so the studio the whole
studio i'm talking the basement is on
one circuit you're talking the freezer
which has got a compressor
right 11 circuit so you go one way sir
for the whole basement essentially yeah
I think that's kind of how it work mmm
the double breaker okay but ya know is
it's it's like it's it's an old old the
way that they used to do it I guess so
anyway so we're pulling everything from
one side of the sine wave and it's
totally messing up the power in the
house we've got a lot of fluorescent
lights and and the inverters and the
ups's and things can cause some real
wacky stuff to go on so yeah well yeah
you want your freezer in your washing
yeah whatever else might be on on a
different circuit from your gear so
quarter electric a man they put in a
couple of new and new circuits
specifically for the studio and we're
now on both sides of the sine wave so
all of our servers are balanced kind of
between the two sides of the sign so
really you know already where is seeing
the difference in in power like you fire
something up and the lights don't
flicker well that's new yeah yeah it's
always a bad sign when the dishwasher
goes on in your computer yeah and it's
the computer goes wrong mm well what
would happen is I would turn on the
system and the UPS would beep a couple
times click and come and everything
would come on no no problem the lights
would flicker so there's obviously there
was something going on now that it has
not happened now the new circuits are in
so thank you again to a quarter electric
and of course you know again if you're
within about a hundred kilometers of
Barry check them out and they do also
provide services for for business
outside of that area as well so we'll be
talking more with them in the future I'm
sure so no doubt mm-hmm well you see
people are already asking power problem
power questions in the chat room that's
what I talking about sighs we'll get
them turned about low tide and high tide
you know what have ya you know is that
how ya see actually the Niagara River
was one of her create huge hydroelectric
yeah dams so build up the damn turns the
turbines generate some electricity we
hired as it we distribute it through the
power grid but now of course we have
clear and coal-fired plants and all
kinds of stuff so it's not just hydro
but we still call the company
hydroelectric see actually there's a
real politic some of your knowledge
actually dates back to Hendrix so here's
the history of how hydro came to be uh
garbey Niagara Falls is still a power
plant they still generate electricity no
me yeah sure I wouldn't see why not it's
a lot of free powdered egg damn big dam
that is oh sorry all right we're gonna
be we're going to be right back after
this we're gonna talk about what's
coming up in the show but stick around
we'll be right back they're hitting the
road or the dusty trails liquid image
Canada captures the action with a true
point of view HD video camera directly
into a high-quality MX goggle it records
every bit of the excitement exactly how
you see it if my octane isn't your thing
take a relaxing underwater adventure and
capture it forever in high definition
video with a high quality underwater
camera mask from liquid image Canada
perfect for the enthusiast snorkeler or
the deep sea diver check out the entire
line of camera masks for every sport
liquid image canada.com this is category
5 technology TV and you will find us
online at triple w dot category five dot
TV i was hinting a little earlier we are
upgrading our site to support content
distribution network and very very
excited about that what that means is
that we've got servers that are point of
that are basically located all over the
world so that if you are for example
going to our website from the UK you're
going to get a server that's central
that's local to the UK rather than going
overseas to our servers down in
California so it's going to make a big
difference it's not in place just yet
we're building it the new website is in
the works it's called v3 and code name
and you can find out more on our wiki
it's wikidot category five dot TV you
can go up to recent additions and you'll
see my post there about the new the new
website what are you giggling about
sorry this is somebody was you know you
were mentioning how old I wasn't how
young you
with them how do we have a friend
somewhere in the Netherlands a yacht who
wanted out that I'm still young because
i still have here unlike am I hoster
would oh now we're gonna just start
throwing things at each other well look
I I actually go to my friend yacht hey
hey John I I think you know I I I think
I treat you guys pretty good here at the
studio you treat Krista will she gets
pizza crystal Al's Krista wells well she
gives doughnuts I know that take she's
you just had that ready to go didn't you
well these guys are I mean I said he's
these guys that the co-hosts here are
very extremely jealous of krista because
any time she's here yes like how does
this go down then I said well you guys
got to be more you're wondering why
Christian and got into radio I didn't
give her enough goodies no goodies oh
dear hardly ever see Hillary Rachel I I
know from the chat like people love you
Eric and we don't send me some food no
well I we don't want to lose you so we
got it we gotta we gotta tread carefully
I did not get to keep the magnets he
took them back garbey so before we move
on with the show I've got you a cherry
pie and I hope that you're hungry
because we're just gonna we're just
gonna enjoy you're gonna enjoy that so
dig in dig in hurry up come on you're
holding a glass of milk please hurry up
come on you're gonna ask me to do the
news this is an awfully big pie it's an
awfully big pie so particular little
girl right from the middle yeah I'm not
sure I trust this yet oh you're making a
mess tea you got to see me in a
restaurant nothing hidden in the middle
it looks all safe
that looks like a good pie mmm fresh
baked today he's like savoring it it's
like hurry up we're gonna wait until
you're done I think you'd better and
he's just mm you know that I'm a-okay
I've been waiting for this moment take
that all your other co-host I got my
very own pie last no tricks oh dear
should I carry on her did you want to
join you in the show here you know it's
all good maybe if you need a tissue here
we go this is one of those things that
my wife saw that i bought this and she
said I saw that in the store and I
thought what kind of weirdo would buy
that and then then comes her husband
with one well I saw it in the washroom
and I thought what kind of weirdo would
put that in the water like a little man
you it's it's an oversized ipod we're
gonna be looking for really I vote
tonight tonight we're going to be
learning how we can actually control our
computer with our device whether it be
I'm going to be looking at I devices
because i'm using the ipod tonight now i
see you're on a device yeah you've
brought something interesting for us to
look at it pi coder no oh I smell an
unboxing video well you know it's a
samsung galaxy tab 10.1
product placement we're the other
dentists a Missouri
does it turn on
oh wow
you saw that I'm just no sorry let's get
out of this I'm not gonna so hey I want
to you know if we set this up with your
Wi-Fi yeah um we could watch you be
headed where thought TV on your life so
show us your way around now you just got
like yeah I really haven't even played
with yet now I don't have I only have it
hooked up with Wi-Fi in my house I did
that who's the other night so I'm not
hooked up here so I don't think we'll
actually get online here that's very
cool so this is an Android device it is
samsung galaxy tab 10.1 it looks very
cool looks very nice cool well congrats
on yeah I don't know I'd like to see our
app you don't bring it up yeah next time
you're well let's hook extendo cos up
yeah Wi-Fi next time I'm in yeah and
we'll play some more but yeah so I don't
play with that in the next little while
but what set now with the tablet what is
what's kind of your plan as far as
usability what are you going to be using
well you can also set up a remote
desktop on it so I can access files up
in my other computer and I do guitar
lessons not sort of thing i'm thinking i
can access some write some stuff can
actually get music stand you can
download music that allow you to put
your tablet on your music stand and put
your sheet music you know nothing's
they've habs it you know music readers
for years the church how to put on a
stand but a buddy of mine really good
good buddy a good musician a jury
marklin has an ipad mmm and you know
he's you know he's not 20 either so he's
got a nice write-up and clothes for you
can sure and he uses it on stage he's
got all kinds of all his tunes in there
and it's a yeah he loves it very cool
plus it can I can I have a you may I
haven't seen this yet so okay so it's
got a docking port on the bottom yeah it
has a headphone jack on the top there's
no camera or got a flash got a camera on
the front and the back you can switch it
yeah its head of flight it's got a
little application reasons going to make
great Greek stereo speakers at that
very nice so oh and it has the oh that's
for a sim so this is this yes will allow
you to connect um but yeah I just didn't
buy another data package no sir IAM and
and teams it on Wi-Fi is fantastic and
then you can use it for free yeah and
you can just like you say bring up
category five bring up your computer
desktop things like that but we're gonna
be looking at how we can control our
desktop in just a few minutes time so
but in the meantime we should jump into
some viewer question oh i thought we're
gonna have more pie there you go ahead
no it's okay it's hard you don't go to
the river whose cushion all right well
here's one from i guess this is from the
website and this is from robert
gorsinski korchinsky hey robert is from
robert gorsinski yes he helped us with
pronunciation okay and he's running
ubuntu 11.10 hey robbie i have a netgear
readynas envy plus nast device with four
times two terabyte hard drives installed
giving me a total of five point four
terabytes of storage back once more my
question is that i want to be able to
back up this Nass i know that i could
buy another Nass to back it up to which
would be the simplest solution but not
cheap at around eight hundred plus
dollars hmm i could build a freenas box
but don't really want another pc and i
don't really have the room I thought
about using a cloud service but this
isn't viable due to the large amount of
data i will need to move to the cloud
hmm ideally I want something that is
small and compact so that I can store it
off-site and which isn't too expensive
any ideas by the way in a great show and
keep up the great work thanks here's
Robert Burzynski Melbourne Australia did
I might oops sorry the first thing that
came to mind was whether or not unraid
would be an option but you say you don't
want another pc but we're looking for
the economical way to do it here's the
problem you got five point four
terabytes of data potentially that's how
much storage you have on that nast
network attached storage is what NASA is
the problem is is if you want to back it
all up to one device it's going to have
to be a raid 0
or some kind of raid because there is no
six terabyte hard drive that's available
in on the consumer market so you would
have to have something that it's along
those lines so so unraid comes to mind
let's see what we could do let's say if
we had a couple of two terabyte drives
so i'm going to i'm going to say 246
right so if i had three hard drives
here's the great thing okay with
redundancy that's only going to give me
three point six three terabytes because
that's going to use one of those drives
as the parity drive okay if you use done
raid without a parody drive keeping in
mind now here's the catch you're going
to lose any amount of redundancy so if
one hard drive crashes the entire
arrayed technically can't be rebuilt or
you lose everything on the one disc
what's unique about unraid is unlike
your like a raid raid 10 or a raid 0 for
exact example of rage I've effectively
ruined this pie for everyone else
because it's only one pie but if we had
a bunch of it's just for you but you
know i'll change the camera so that they
don't see me you dig in eat so here's
the thing with unraid is that unlike a
raid 0 which if you crash one hard drive
you lose all the data on all the hard
drives with unraid if you crash one hard
drive you only lose the data on that
hard drive unless you have parity then
you can install a new hard drive and you
and you gain your dad it back so without
a parity drive if you have three drives
in one crashes you lose all the data off
that one drive okay but in your case
here's my thinking robert is in your
case this is a backup of your existing
system so as a backup the only way they
see that then becomes redundancy so even
if you lost the data off of one of the
drives that data on that one drive is in
fact a copy of data on your nass so it
you already have redundancy there so you
can get away with it he was mentioning
wanting this off site though
yeah that's well you you can't start it
without off-site just like we were
saying about using the cloud right it's
so much data that you're not going to be
able to do it so you build the system
locally you back everything up to it
first and then you can do off-site are
sinking or something like that or our
diff is going to be the way to go but so
with unraid 3 2 terabyte drives here's
what I'm thinking that the first thing
you said is I want a cheap solution
three two terabyte drives are going to
be you know green drives they're fairly
cheap you might want to wait till the
price comes down you know because of the
flooding in in Asia but with that you
can get a free copy of unraid because
the free version will support up to
three drives so it's free software to
you so check out our unraid capacity
calculator at unraid unraid dot category
five dot TV okay Robert that would be my
first suggestion other than that because
you have five point four terabytes
you're going to need six terabytes
basically of storage space you could do
individual drives you could get like a
docking bay from thermaltake pop in a
two terabyte drive back up two terabytes
of your data move it off-site put in
another one back up another two
terabytes of different data but then it
gets a little bit hard to manage okay
well did I back up the stuff from these
folders or did I back up the stuff from
these folders it's a lot more ideal to
create a volume and be able to back up
everything to one volume so let me know
if that helps okay Robert unraid is
again available for you free because
it's three drives that gives you six
terabytes if you go without parity with
parody the same amount of drives will
give you three point six what's a two
terabyte drive going for these days I
don't know yeah yeah but the prices you
know gone way up because of you know
Western Digital the manufacturers in
Thailand were completely submerged in
water for several months and you know
that I guess has receded but there's
what do you do with a machine that has
been submerged you know the the
specialized manufacturing machines that
create the devices the hard drives are
so specialized I mean these things were
built 20 years ago and in
lot of cases and they just keep building
and building more hard drives those
things were submerged so they need to
build more but yeah it's not something
that you can order overnight right so
even these companies are getting hit
hard and no i mean the devastation over
there is just it's affected or anything
from auto manufacturing to even trying
to get guitar parts you notes and the
computer i am yes that's why hard drive
pricing is going up so i was saying to
somebody just the other day who was
looking for a backup drive she says well
I saw a hard drive external hard drive
for 70 bucks or something at the store I
was like will buy it because that's
that's old stock yeah that's tough the
day bot before the flooding because now
I'll guarantee it's double that least
close you know so and hard drives you
know our way through the roof and
increasingly so they're becoming hard to
get hard for stores to get so with the
big box stores who have warehouses that
had 33 thousand drives in stock they can
order them from their warehouse right
they're not ordering you're probably
still getting them at costco however but
they don't know what i mean like they
have a warehouse yeah with thousands of
drives that they have already purchased
so when they get more drives you see you
know the big box stores getting more
drives well that's because they've got
warehousing to have their own but then
as soon as those run out there's more
demand than there is supply so we're
going to see price and go way up and it
already has so that's that's the issue
there you go yeah all right we have a
question here from Nathan me Nathan and
it's running linux mint and XP so i
bought a video card to be able to record
shows off of TV so i have taped one of
my shows and now i want to compress them
so they are not so big I've seen people
online compressed TV shows to around 300
meg and still look good but everything I
try either does not compress the video
or it looks like crap I would also like
to rip my favorite DVDs to small files
as well how can I do this in Linux
Thanks okay analyst from Nathan right so
in Linux Nate
I think of what what it boils down to is
it sounds to me like you're you're not
too familiar with things like codex and
and how that works because really what
it boils down to is you know the people
who can really super compress without
losing quality those are the people who
really understand how those codex work
in a lot of cases in your case it might
be better to use a piece of software
where you don't really need to know how
a codec works you can just use a like a
preset or something like that so of
course if you if you understand what
codecs are and how they work and how you
can use compression loss in a semi
losslessly anyways at least visually you
wouldn't know then i would go with
something like like ffmpeg m encoder and
being able to use a vitamix with those
tools installed on your linux system but
if you if you don't understand that kind
of stuff then use something like DVD
which is for ripping dvds and converting
them but you can also convert your files
and things like that that's spelled de
pardon me de ve de and that's available
in your repositories um it is thanks
very mobile yeah so that's that's on the
Linux side of things there's a lot of
different ones evermind also suggesting
dvdrip which actually has a colon in the
middle so it says DVD colon rip but if
you search for DVD space rip and
repositories you probably find it that's
one I like to use when ripping dvds for
backups and things like that certainly
even home movies that have been burnt on
DVD it's a good way to get them back off
the DVD acid rip for ripping as well
ever mind is mentioning the one that I
really like on Windows is called
xilisoft video converter ultimate
edition that's a commercial piece of
software's like it's cheap but it does a
really really good job the reason that I
do like xilisoft is that it has all
those presets it's really really simple
for a novice user to be able to create
videos let's see if I can find it here
you in the search for xilisoft comes up
to video converter zilly soft com okay
this is like I say commercial piece of
software for Windows but it its ultimate
edition gives you literally just point
and click I wish that they had better
screenshots on here it has conversion
but it uses yeah see there's not very
good screenshot sorry about that now
okay here we go so yeah you highlight
your video okay then you choose your
format of output you'll see over here
there's video size video quality audio
quality etc that's basic settings now
this is just a screenshot if I were to
click for Advanced Settings I would
actually be able to select a lot more
there's also profiles this is what I'm
talking about for somebody who doesn't
know their way around codex you can just
change your profile for the specific
platform and here's the kicker it shows
you what the size of the deal is going
to be when its output in that case is 30
30 point nine megabytes so that gives
you a way to you can actually adjust it
do a little bit of tweaking change the
bitrate a little bit get it to that
three hundred megabyte mark so that it
can be small and work for you that's
called xilisoft video converter ultimate
edition 60 bucks for the ultimate cool
so but that one's windows right there's
lots of free ones and we already named a
bunch DVD is the first one that I would
try on on linux any of the suggestions
pass them along in the chat room we've
got a head right over to the newsroom
which is kind of right next to me
technically just gonna say so no more
questions right this minute nope wow it
is time my friends time okay well
here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room some US
officials this year are expected to get
smart phones capable of handling
classified government documents over
cellular networks according to people
involved in the project the phones will
run a modified version of Google's
Android software which is being
developed as part of an initiative that
spans multiple federal agencies and
government contractors these people said
currently the United States doesn't
allow government workers or soldiers to
use smartphones for sending classified
messages because the devices have not
met security certifications but with a
secure smartphone a soldier could see a
fellow infantry could see fellow
infantry on a digital map or an official
could send an important dispatch from
Washington's metro subway without fear
of security breaches the government
specifically chose android-powered
devices over Apple devices saying
security as everybody's concerned
alright nikon has announced their
highest resolution DSLR camera the d800
the 36 megapixel camera produces images
that in tiff format or around 212
megabytes compared with around three
megabytes for a typical mobile phone
photograph the camera can also film full
HD 1080p video and and includes the
advanced recognition system used in
icons top of the range d for its weather
resistant to and has a 3.2 inch LCD
screen that adjusts its brightness using
an ambient light sensor the d800 which
will be released in Britain by the end
of March is aimed at high-end
enthusiasts and professional
photographers and will cost more than
2,000 pounds it doesn't weigh that in
just ok Facebook and Google say they
have compiled complied with an Indian
Court directive and removed
objectionable material they are among 21
web firms including yahoo and
or kute facing a civil suit in Delhi
accusing them of hosting material that
may cause communal on rest hmm a
criminal case of similar allegations is
due to be heard next month here's the
kicker judges have threatened to block
sites that fail to crack down on
offensive content but many firms say it
is impossible to pre filter material
google india for example is argued that
is not feasible to pre monitor material
posted by billions of people across the
globe facebook however expresses that
they have policies in place which
enabled people to report abusive content
and Apple has pulled several ipad and
iphone models from his german online
store after motorola mobility and forced
a patent injunction against them the
move follows the December ruling that
Apple had failed to license one of
motorola's wireless intellectual
properties iphone users in Germany may
also face the loss of their push email
iCloud service after a separate patent
victory by motorola Apple has said it
will appeal so you can get the rest of
these stories and the full story is a
category 5 TV / newsroom the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy wa ash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Eric Kidd
thank you Eric this episode of category
5 technology TV is brought to you in
part by garden gate farms com for
certified organic broccoli sprout and
wheatgrass juice visit them at garden
gate farms com also pogoplug get your
free 5 gigabyte personal cloud at camp
five dot TV / pogoplug and also i
encourage you to check out their device
i love it with my ipod touch oh it is
fantastic
and it works with those it works with
anything I haven't tried it yet yeah
that's it you're gonna hell are you back
up got so we gotta go go plug so there
you go oh go plumb yeah that's exciting
yeah at the Android device I've got the
blackberry you're like you're you're
like giggling up no and then the
blackberry is kind of like yeah I still
love my blackberry yeah well you know
what yeah you know believe it at that
all right leave it at that okay I heard
some bad news about blackberry today but
that's all right Oh what was that for
well like big companies are dropping
them and going to iPhones and when that
happens I mean they're their shares are
kind of finicky anyways but I didn't
promise your Harper really wants a room
to thrive in Canada I don't know what
he's proposing out but it's beyond
company right so it really is and and a
big one at that and their landmark you
know what they've done what they've
created is monumental but then you
retire you know going through some yeah
rough patches right now one of the big
things about blackberry though is the
security that was that was the key thing
about blackberry enterprise server and
things like that so but now with the
military saying that they're going to be
using Android devices and making them
secure I wonder if that's gonna be that
nail in the coffin or what what that's
going to lead to might be an interesting
too oh I don't know I do not know I
don't think it's good by security Garvey
but I think maybe just transition to
like it like Eric was saying the
government is working on solidifying the
security on Android devices so are we
going to see that that that's the way
that things start going android is open
so you know they can create as kind of
style services I'm sure through their
open platforms so so where did it all go
rolling
well let's time yeah I only have a glass
of water I can't engage in this no well
well have time for one more viewer
question one in that request yeah and
then we're going to talk about
controlling our computers with it that
with this guy okay actually I've got to
hear if I'm really quick no real quick
okay well we've got one from the chat
room here from mark you know what yeah
it's like 22 okay so we'll hurry yeah
this is from mark em Robbie if you have
time for viewer q do you have any ideas
regarding opening a CMYK file in Linux
files that receive are done PSD CMYK
print ready 300dpi and I haven't found
any Linux software that can open these
files any help appreciated that's good a
gin good question because in 10 GIMP is
RGB oh right right but there is a
plug-in that you can get CMYK for the
GIMP it's called CMYK separation support
for the GIMP Oh do a search for that
i'll post links in the show notes for
episode number 2 29 ok so there's what
can I do it can convert to CMYK layers
it can save to CMYK you can do all this
stuff I'm sure it will open it what if
you want canta 200 into individual
layers yeah you're not going to get the
same kind of support for CMYK as you
would with Photoshop that's the problem
is that they're Photoshop files right in
CMYK or whatever else but there are
tools for for the GIMP and there are
other pieces of software out there but
Google is our friend so Miss yeah just
do some searching around CMYK for gimp
CMYK for linux pretty pretty easy to
find some of the options there I don't
have a solution for you because I work
strictly an RGB I'm a web guy right
sorry because CMYK CMYK is your you're
very like strict print
i and and what looks great on your your
screen may not by the time it yeah but
then you get stuff like cafepress that's
all rgb2 and so it becomes like where
where is the lines i sell some stuff to
a printer it was all RGB and Yap came
out looking kind of flat oh yeah and
mm-hmm so you want to give them
Pantone's or something yeah I needed
something okay we're gonna plow through
another quick questions you are you okay
and this is also from Robert Kazinsky
run on ubuntu 11.10 hi Robbie this is in
regards to a question you answer the
episode 221 regarding accessing an ass I
have followed your instructions and have
had the following error come up see
attached image I don't see the image
here you got the image there I know that
the IP address is correct as the nass
has a display that shows its IP address
and i can access it through samba also
the password i entered is also correct
what could be the problem thanks Robert
it has Melbourne Australia ok so we're
going to see if we can get this up
around
okay there you go so created a folder
called Nass did an LS to see what was in
it which would be nothing spelled pseudo
wrong but you notice that so did it
again pseudo mount / / 192 dot one sixty
eight dot one dot three so we have to
assume like like you're saying Robert
that that's the right IP address that
that's the right it's a shares V and
with a capital V it has to be capital V
on the share so it is case-sensitive
remember that yes and it says that
there's no such device or address so
here's what i would do robert i would go
into nautilus okay so you're you're my
computer kind of thing in Linux so in in
my system here it's places home folder
desktop whatever click on one of those
hit ctrl L and type smv colon slash
slash 192 dot 168 dot one dot three
that's the server so that's going to
connect to it via your Samba right so
when you're there you're going to see a
list of all the shares one of them's
hopefully going to be videos with a
capital V and if that's the case then
you've got it right in which case you
may need to specify if there's a
username and password but the error
message you're getting is that it it
says no such device or address so we're
running with uppercase sure noon yeah do
like I say it is case sensitive right so
make absolutely certain that it's the
right case you can do that by going to
the actual your actual IP address
proceeded with SMB colon slash slash so
in my case for example right here's the
category five share with a capital C so
if i put in a lowercase C it's not going
to work right same with audio is a
capital A right so you can see what I'm
unknowns ill is a lowercase C so if it's
if it's all if it's with a capital V
just double check it that way
we'll show you all right I don't think
it's probably a password thing but you
could try specifying the password right
there on your mount line that was all
aligned in my in my video tutorial as
well so just double check on pardon me
sorry mmm double check on that all right
let some pie no thanks okay all right
we're at a time for viewer questions
tonight thank you for setting your
viewer questions in you can email us
live at category 5 TV we'd love to
receive them we'd love to hear from you
and be able to answer your questions as
best as we can and certainly you know if
you're if you're stumped with anything
to do with linux windows even a little
bit of mac or anything like that send it
our way even if it's just product
specific as far as you know what printer
should i buy what do i need to look out
for when i'm looking for a backup those
kinds of things are you know good you
know good food for thought so tonight
I'm looking at I devices and and this is
just because then yeah this is what this
is what I've got is the ipod touch 4
which is fantastic i mean it's a nice
little screen and yeah and touchscreen
multi-touch so and I mean it's got yeah
it's got Wi-Fi right so in your case
yeah definitely the tablet is great for
doing remote desktop and things like
that but what we're going to learn to do
tonight is we're going to control the
computer with this little device and
there are many different applications
where that is very very useful i'm going
to try to touch on a couple of those
tonight so first thing I want to do on
my linux computer well first of all
there's something called VNC which is
free for anyone on any platform comes
with linux and most distributions they
usually call it remote desktop and stuff
like that but it is VNC there's a driver
server software that you can run that is
available for you to download for your
Windows computer at tight VNC org you
can get that if you're using Windows and
that will allow you to connect devices
to your Windows computer very handy you
remember when I was when Hillary had an
interview here at category 5
with I am a smart kid I was actually
controlling the cameras through this
which is why I hit the wrong one a
couple times because it is a small
screen you should see some of the emails
I get from him yet I don't spell check
is fantastic too okay okay so on my
computer first thing we need to do is
activate this again tight VNC dot-org if
you're using windows on linux it's
already installed in most cases i'm
going to go to system preferences and
find what they call remote desktop first
thing I'm going to do is allow other
users to view my desktop allow users to
control my desktop and leave it so that
I must confirm each access now the
reason that you'd want to turn that off
is if you ever want to access your
computer from outside of your network or
from upstairs and you don't want to have
to go downstairs and authorize yourself
you can turn that off but turn on
password protection make it a strong
password I'm behind a firewall so I'm
not too concerned with security okay so
now I can start accepting connections
instantly brilliant how's the pie okay
so first things first here we go i'm
going to give you a little view of my my
ipod here i've got a couple of different
apps that are really quite good and i
find that this is this is handy if i'm
doing server administration i'm using
VNC so i'm going to show you the
difference here VNC connect i need to
create a new connection okay IP address
I know on my screen it is 1000 dot 70 of
course you know how to get an IP address
if you if you need it just type ifconfig
on linux 0w light pink loans in ipconfig
on windows okay it's IP Internet
Protocol on Windows its interface on
linux okay there's no password there's
nothing else so I'm going to hit done
okay back now I see 10 dot 0 dot 0
that's 70 I'm going to push it asking me
for a password which i had said I don't
want one let's be sure
okay so VNC is not letting me connect
just now 1000 that's 70 I'm gonna try
using the host name instead demo you
need to close that or save it no the
remote desktop references before they
take effect no no but it is prompting me
for a password most likely a previous
configuration something along those
lines so i'll enter 1234 there let's try
connecting now but i've specified a
password 1234 here's hoping there we go
for some reason it wanted to force a
password so you'll see that this is
actually in fact my screen ok user on
the computer Ravi's i bug local notice I
disabled the need to authorize it right
so I'm actually controlling my computer
so if I double tap on that image for
example I'm actually doing that up here
say ok well so this is an actual VNC
connection where this is different is I
actually see a copy of my screen on my
device which is very cool this will
allow me to you know I can move around
the screen I can zoom with multi-touch
right
this is right on my ipod touch it's
called VNC but there's something new as
far as you know somebody has been a
little bit more innovative and said okay
well there's more that you can do with
VNC you don't have to necessarily remote
in with the whole desktop and you know
the whole scenario where you're
controlling the desktop which is how I
was able to control the cameras there's
another way and that's to basically use
your device as if it was a touchpad as
if it was a mess right whereas okay
here's where things are different let's
take another look at my device here get
another one here this is okay so the
first one was called mocha VNC and that
app is available for you in the iTunes
Store hippo light okay hippo remote is
what it's called there is a commercial
version of it this is the free version
as soon as I fired up it automatically
detected all VNC connections that are
available on my network there's demo
which I just activated I'm going to
click on it it'll ask me for a password
because I entered one one two three four
of course you're going to use something
more secure than that done connecting to
my desktop now what's different about
this connection with hippo is that it's
literally a remote control you'll see
that again another user is using my
computer but where this is different is
that this is like a touch pad for your
laptop well so you're not actually
seeing it on the device now it on the
screen you know you're not seeing the
the mouse so I'm going to do that see
what I'm doing I double tap so I can
move that you don't see my cursor so
yeah you actually are controlling your
screen as if this was a mouse okay see
that
so this now becomes a mouse now if you
needed to interact in a different way
watch this you've got a keyboard which
is now emulating the keyboard pardon me
on the computer so that you can actually
type on your computer screen so imagine
you've got a big screen TV connected to
your computer and you're able to
actually control it with this device
here so it's just like having a mouse
keyboard everything lets you know bring
up just for the sake of a demonstration
bring up a web browser window and we'll
double tap well triple tap ok bring up
the keyboard
see what it's done there this is all
done wirelessly from my device like how
cool is that right on the screen here
and it's hard for you to see but it
actually does look a little bit like a
like a trackpad you can see that yeah
and you're almost and there's actually
right click and left click buttons as
well up here okay and you can see them
on my screen here right click left click
and everything is right there so if I
wanted to rename this for example right
click rename and then bring up my
keyboard and type folder here and we're
done just like that go back to Mouse
version and everything is done right
from here from a free app the commercial
app does give you some more features as
well and allows you to in fact
pre-program hotkeys for different pieces
of software so on your screen you'll
actually be able to see buttons that the
control that software I like the fact
that this operates exactly like a mouse
just like a touchpad so if we're
watching TV upstairs I'll quite often
just remote in Quebec as computer and I
just use it as a mouse because it's up
on the TV so I can change the show I can
control it I can make it I can pause it
make it fullscreen whatever I want to do
so that one is called hippo remote and
i'm using Hippolyte which is available
again for free in the iTunes App Store
using that so I would be very keen to
know if if there are some Android
alternatives just so that we can post
them what I would encourage you to do is
go to the the show notes for episode
number 2 29 and post your comments if
you know of any I just go to the bottom
of the episode show notes like blood of
those those if you have stuff like that
for your Butler saying what's via that
blackberry might be worth is anybody out
there have a blackberry today's you know
therefore they're fading out there Wow
fizzing so VNC like the eye of the first
one I showed you mocha VNC with the
screen and everything I actually use
that to administer my server I have no
monitor on the server so anywhere in the
house actually just the NC to the server
control it do what I need to do and
close it out there was that a costly up
free free Franken and the server
software is free as well as an itunes
store so I thought maybe it was a itunes
as iTunes stores and the app stores what
I then so you go in and you download it
for free just to a search for it mocha
VNC is the one that allows you to see
your screen on your device and hippo is
the one that allows you to control it
just as if you have a touchpad you can
set it on your desk treat it just like
it was a touchpad need stuff
and I'm sure there are probably
alternatives out there for other devices
I was thinking you know I want to
install hippo on the iPad that's how it
got the name hippo it's like hippo palm
to control the computer but a stuff this
is category 5 technology TV so great to
have you here and yeah yeah nerds doing
here that's needing none of them I'm
gonna find out what's available for mine
yeah like torch let us know and try some
stuff on the samsung tablet to that
would be there I think you know tablet i
got my in my teeth to someday just it
yeah mm-hmm very little bit of cherry
topping you know all over send any
questions live a category 5 TV this week
and again don't forget to send in your
viewer post cards as well we love to to
receive those yeah send some to the
co-host too yeah that too they like to
receive that yeah we like food if
somebody's in ireland you know Stan
James sins always a nice touch um
jameson whatsapp that's an Irish whiskey
oh this okay or if you're you know the
southwest part of Scotland there's lots
and fine stuff down in Iowa smoky PD
type stuff or if you're in Kentucky
never mind we'll just all of these
things that are illegal to send across
the border zone to Eric kit oh I'll try
to behave myself in the future you try
yeah it could happen so check out our
website this week category five TV I am
very excited about the content
distribution network also you'll notice
that the speed you know we're working
very very hard to gradually increase the
speed and performance and reliability of
the website been in talks with the hosts
and we're working with that with Amazon
and getting the cloud all set up and
it's working very very well as far as
you know what what I see in the back and
I wish I could show you but that is to
come so get involved in the wiki wiki
dot cat category 5
TV and it's an opportunity for you get
your thoughts and as to how we should
proceed so okay well I'm gonna go in the
visitor a moto sometime in the oven off
season and next week I'm excited that
well Rachel shoe is going to be here and
we're going to be learning to create the
ultimate virtual box set up next week
uh-huh it's going to have it's going to
be like a headless set up with a web
front-end that you can access through
your web browser that comes complete
with console everything everything about
it is free and everything's through your
brother linux well and your browser so
yeah it's going to be a lot of fun next
week the ultimate virtual box set up so
make sure you don't miss that I'll be
watching mm-hmm even going on this week
playing a lot of hockey not a lot I mean
hockey later today hockey sunday um I
may actually make it down to mississauga
buddy mine has a son playing for the
oshawa generals and another son mind for
the Mississauga team and two sons
opposing teams he got a watch well no
really they are each other yeah so we're
I think was that a half a dozen of us
going for go for a road trip yeah yeah
like be fun I'm open yeah probably be a
fistfight between the two islands no
lights flickering this week Richard no
that's good yeah last week we had three
points where the lights flickered and
that was you know it was like huh what's
gonna happen this week we are golden
thank you so much again to quarter
electric yeah have a fantastic week
everybody and just great to have you
here and I thanks for having me yeah you
well you see I was talking to them I
know yeah it's nice to have you here too
I was a pleasure good we worse there
could be two of me here yeah good
broadband in your pie this nigga don't
bring my banjo bring your banjo yeah and
yeah swiff yeah
see everybody have a fantastic week Oh
might have a great week
