we're looking at the Raspberry Pi GPIO
so this is a way that you can program
external devices to do things
all right so Raspberry Pi we've looked
at it as a microcomputer we've looked at
it as something that we could build a
retro PI on so that you can play video
games and mine cryptocurrency on mine
cryptocurrency ha at nine hashes per
second oh sorry and you know it's it's a
fantastic piece of kit but you can take
it to the next level because there's a
40 pin GPIO on there which is a whole
bunch of pins that you can connect
cables to and program what you want
those cables to do right so we're gonna
start with the most simple example
tonight that could ever be possible
we're just gonna turn on an awful light
but along with that we're gonna kind of
learn what we need in order to get
started because as we grow as makers we
need to be able to have the kit so that
we're ready to go obviously we're gonna
need a Raspberry Pi Mike it is a
Raspberry Pi 3 I love this guy here
you've seen it on the show from cat5 TV
slash maker just because it comes with
things like bags and bags of many
different image resistors for example
like it just comes with tons and tons of
resistors you can buy all this stuff
separately but buying the kit as a
beginner maker this just gave me a whole
bunch of stuff to get started I've got
various capacitors I've got various
transistors and switches all kinds of
stuff I got a couple of relays there so
as we grow we can start using more and
more of this kit so tonight for example
I needed to pull out some resistors so I
needed a resistor I needed an LED I
needed a couple of cables and I need to
be able to program my GPIO to turn on
and off this light bulb okay over the
next little while category-five TV is
going to be looking more and more at
beginner electronics we've looked at
some in the past and we've really wanted
to get going on on some of the projects
that we can do here and
we've done some pretty cool stuff but
that's gonna grow over time and the
Raspberry Pi is an interesting one
because it's a full Linux computer right
I have a question yeah
what does GPIO stand for oh gosh
GPIO you could have googled that as well
as AI GPIO stands for general purpose
input output okay that's the pins on
right very PI for example and yes I have
that because I'm a beginner maker and
I'm okay with that right I just assume
you know everything like in the tech
world we have acronyms that you just use
or short forms and it just becomes part
of the lingo then you're like oh what
does that I know LED is light emitting
diode nicely done right nicely done so
I've got one of those so with the GPIO
these are all those pins
remember there's 40 pins on the
Raspberry Pi board right but I want my
board to be in this nice little case
it's an LED we know I love this case
it's aluminum I've got a heatsink on the
co pro and the at the CPU internally
there and it's an aluminum chassis it
keeps it nice and cool with passive
cooling so there's no fans either but if
I want to use a case well now it's
really really tough to get in to do the
GPIO putting things on the pins and
things like that so that's where GPIO
breakout cable cobbler for example would
work really well so I have this what we
call well it's it's a cobbler I'm gonna
see if I can get in here just a little
bit closer so this is a GPIO cable
coming out of the side of the case and
it's plugged into the GPIO on the
Raspberry Pi and inside it looks just
like that so it's just an extender
everything - yeah so the inside GPIO has
been basically brought along these
cables and into this what looks like an
old IDE it's a 40 pin GPIO connector so
then I have the tea cobbler + v 2.2 and
this is available at camp v dot TV slash
PI and I love this because part of you
know doing this is it's really tough to
get the right pins and you need a
diagram to figure out what pin is what
and so on and so forth right
and sometimes if you get it wrong you
can cause damage to either the
peripheral you're connecting or the pie
itself the one quick question because it
was just brought up in the chat room
that that looks like the old IDE cables
is that is it just an ID cable or is it
something totally different because I
would hate for somebody to go old
computer and then I really like when I
seem to recall that ID though had a pin
that was that was blocked out let's see
yes okay so it's not know cuz ID had a
if I'm if I'm not mistaken I wish that
that was a bigger photo no it looks
pretty similar no it's 34 pin and but
there's a 40 pin okay so I don't know
the answer to that but okay that does
look like a 40 pin cable okay so maybe
they're the same which really hey if
you're a packrat and you've got some old
18 that's funny I do have some that help
bring one in okay let's try this cable I
don't know if the pin assignments would
be exact or proper I don't I don't know
the answer to that look up but they
definitely look the same what the tea
cobbler + v 2.2 does though it's first
of all it's a prebuilt board okay so I
didn't have to assemble this cobbler and
what the cobbler does is it allows me to
connect to my breadboard for prototyping
a pencil II without having to run a
whole bunch of cables out of the
Raspberry Pi it's just one cable that I
plug in to the tea cobbler Oh perfect
okay so why the tea cobbler versus like
a standard cobbler is now a standard
cobbler is gonna just get rid of the T
part that's why this one's called a tea
cobbler right so that would be a
standard cobbler that's tea cobbler the
tea cobbler because it's got more space
because remember if you have it just a
normal cobbler the interface is in the
middle here right so there's not a lot
of writing on the board it's really
really tough to see the pins nice thing
about the tea cobbler is every single
one of these pins is labeled that's
helpful so you can see the pin number
you can see which ones are 5 volt 3 volt
ground it's labeled right on the circuit
okay so then you need a breadboard it
came with my Kit Kat 5 TV slash maker
you just simply plug the tea cobbler
into your breadboard and then plug your
IDE cable
IDE cable there I go if now you're doing
it plug your GPIO cable directly into
the tea cobbler and that's all there is
to it so it just works like that so now
my breadboard is set up to be a
Raspberry Pi GPIO beast right okay so
what I've done is I now have the ground
going to the negative on my breadboard
and I have
pin 18 I've got that going down to here
I'm just gonna move my laptop for you
and I've got a 220 ohm resistor going to
the positive and then an LED the
resistor is so that I don't cause damage
to my to my Raspberry Pi I don't want to
damage the PI if I draw too much current
from the LED and I used it to 20 because
I wanted it to be bright enough for you
to be able to see tonight if that will
just give it a little bit more
brightness than say a 370 ohm so let's
give it a go you wanna take a look yes
all right so I'm I've got everything
kind of set up there it is I've already
loaded Python as route and so I'm I'm
raring to go so now that I've got this
all set up
got my LED here I've got the pin 18 is
the one I'm using and I've got the
ground going to the negative so I'm set
now one question I have sort of before
you go to is the reason why you have
them situated on the board that way
specifically or was just for somebody
who's looking this going I don't know
how to use them no time yeah just so
that they know in case you try to
replicate this at home it's it's tough
for me to let you know what I'm gonna
make this happen I'm gonna show you what
I've done you don't have to the way a
breadboard works is and you don't have
to copy Robbie's way of doing it exactly
so on the far right here is the negative
and it's labeled as such and then right
next to that is the positive so that's
why I'm able to have the the LED just
simply plugged in to negative and
positive with the positive being the
longer leg of the LED okay then I've got
the ground from the Raspberry Pi GPIO
this is the tea cobbler and it shows me
that this is the ground so I've taken
that
and I've used a lead to take it to the
negative so my ground is now on this
entire line of the negative channel so
anything that I plug into the blue see
that blue stripe anything I plug into
that will be connected to the ground on
the Raspberry Pi once this is plugged
into the GPIO so then with the yellow
cable just up here because it's on the
same horizontal line as the ground
that's why it's plugged in there you
couldn't just throw it anywhere down the
line correct you could okay as long as
it's touching a contact because as long
as it touches a contact in the negative
line so when it's in this line it will
it will basically connect to all of the
holes that are in this line okay that
makes sense on the right-hand side and
the left-hand side where it says
positive and negative positive and
negative it's like that but this is
basically to two separate sides so I'm
working all on the right-hand side of my
board okay so if I if I take this LED
for example and I move it down to down
here that is exactly the same connection
okay it doesn't matter where it is as
long as I've got the positive and
negative connected okay
reason I put it up here is just so it's
a little more visible on the camera
because my laptop gets in the way here
on the show right the positive which is
pin 18 on the Raspberry Pi which is just
the one I'm using for the GPIO so that I
can program it that comes so pin 18
comes out and I'm using this tether here
to go down I'm just plugging it in
anywhere but on the middle channel here
it goes this way horizontal so now
anything that I so I've plugged this in
here anything that I plug in next to it
will have the positive alright I hope
that makes sense it does so this is now
connected so this resistor that's next
to the red because it's on the same line
that way so it's too low there yeah it's
really really fine but it's right next
to it the where the resistor goes in so
the positive is connected to the
resistor on this end and then the
resistor carries that current to the
positive here so then even though it's
kind of stretched out on the board
really it's just a big
circular loop you could do this in a
little tiny plant okay absolutely the
reason that I brought it down here was
because I didn't want the resistor to
accidentally come in contact with with
something else
fair enough whatever right sorry I
didn't mean to throw you off I thought
in case somebody's watching this and
they're like why isn't it working
yeah you know the pin assignment as far
as where I put this doesn't matter as
long as I wire it correctly so I could
put this up here okay
so I've now moved the red up here so now
there is nothing going to the resistor
because there's nothing in line with it
right so now I have to take this
resistor I'm going to connect the
positive terminal first and the reason
that I do that is what if I accidentally
plug it into the negative and then
short-circuit my board yeah I don't want
to don't want to do that so I've plugged
that into the positive terminal and now
I'm going to plug it in to the same line
as the red cable okay all right so it
doesn't matter where it is up and down
as long as it's in the right line up
perfect okay no that makes sense
cool all right all right so let's plug
it in
there we go so it is hot baby alright
and I'm gonna jump over to Python here
which is running as Super User the
reason that I need to do that is because
it needs access to the GPIO which only
the Super User can do so I'm going to
import the capabilities of the Raspberry
Pi GPIO GPIO so I'm gonna go import our
PI dot GPIO as GPIO so just typed
exactly as I've shown there and then we
need to set the mode of the GPIO to
Broadcom so set mode GPIO dot BCM these
are just kind of we're just setting up
our script ah let's see what I did most
recent call last STD in she I missed an
O GPIO dot set mode GPIO dot BCM that
looks a little nicer and then now I know
that I'm using pin 18 so I need to
actually set it up as an output so I
need to go GPIO which I set up in the
first in the first line dot setup and
I'm gonna use pin 18 comma and we're
gonna set that as GPIO dot out enter oh
let's see what that tells me there oh
that's so tiny what did I type wrong
GPIO dot set up 18 GPIO dot out
gpio don't set up you guys see what I've
done wrong no I don't possibly space
after 18 , where do you need that you
don't need it but it shouldn't matter
what did I type differently how did I
get a typo there I don't see it folks I
don't either
well now what I need to do is I need to
actually tell the output of pin 18 to
turn on so true or false true if I did
it right Jeff can you hit the light
switch right behind you because that's
going to allow us to kind of see it's
dimmer in here okay
I think it's on it's on okay now I'm
gonna change that to false that's yeah
you can definitely see on/off on/off and
I don't know what my typo was there I I
just I don't see it but I'll watch this
back and I'll see it so basically what
we've done is we've used that tea
cobbler plus you can hit that light
again if you like and then we've used
the Python programming language in the
terminal on a Raspberry Pi to be able to
turn on and off the light which
essentially what we're actually doing is
turning on and off pin 18 has a
different so it sends a current through
pin 18 right so that is the most basic
example of what we can do now you know
the next step is okay once you've got
all the kit then we can start doing some
really exciting stuff there's a lot of
stuff to come i know names is gonna be
using the GPIO coming up soon really so
that's going forward to that as well so
there you have it head on over to cap 5
dot TV slash PI for a Raspberry Pi and
the tea cobbler plus and if you want to
look at the maker kit and all the
accessories cat5 dot TV slash maker is
where you'd want to go and check that
out
good times awesome we had one question
in the chat room please why is it called
a breadboard why is it called a
breadboard yeah serious question once
again you could you could Google that
what
I could I don't know okay well I did
someone named it a breadboard yourself I
personally feel like it should be called
a waffle board maybe because it looks
like a like what you would cut bread on
maybe maybe because it's the best thing
since sliced bread yes you know true
fact I don't know I said it in the chat
room
waffles are just pancakes with ABS back
in the day circuits were often
constructed by wire tapping components
onto nails driven into flat pieces of
wood that resembled the old days yes
okay there's a lot of stuff is we should
head over to the newsroom I know we're
you know I'm using up all your time
tonight you know right we're having fun
right actually really love episodes like
this where I can where I can learn from
the beginning what I think that the
viewers need to know too is that I'm
learning this is like an experience for
me like you're learning as we go and as
we as we grow and and I'm learning stuff
like how to how to do this and I love it
like the soldering episode yeah and it's
so basic for somebody who knows how to
do this stuff but for somebody who's
never done electronics in their life
I've been a computer guy all my life and
now to understand it and becoming more
and more versed at it I'm excited to be
able to fix things I'm excited to be
able to service things and replace
resistors on circuit boards so that I
don't have to replace an entire circuit
board yes awesome yeah it's really cool
[Music]
