welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number five sixty nine and
it's great to have you back I'm Robbie
and tonight we have got a great show
planned for you we've received so many
of your questions comments YouTube
through our email INBOX through our
website all different means of getting a
hold of us but we are gonna see if we
can tackle both of these pages do you
think we can do it I don't know there's
a lot there's a lot we'll see if we can
get a third of the way through all of
your comments this week and we've got
we're gonna be talking about Star Trek
mm-hmm we're gonna be talking about the
X U for our vacation time retropie and
stuff like that so much to cover tonight
don't you go anywhere stick around
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings of trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category five dot
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash iai be welcome to the show
it's category 5 I'm Robbie I'm Jeff I'm
Sasha welcome back I know we were here
last week Becca and I but we weren't
actually physically here so I actually
had two weeks off yes it was nice you
two had last week off and we just kind
of took it easy you were on vacation I
was on vacation vacation update I'm back
welcome back me you were you mentioned a
couple weeks back that you were camping
yes yeah that go yeah went really a hot
muggy week it was so prior to going
camping the long-range forecasts had
said thunderstorms from the day we got
there till the day we leave oh and then
beautiful Sun on either side yeah so
leading up to camping or something going
to oh please please please please get
improve now rained for about an hour at
check-in yeah so we check in for camping
yeah cuz you checking it 2 o'clock at
the campsite yeah okay so the campground
yeah yeah I was pretty much Park so we
so check-ins at 2 and of rain from 2 to
3 so we just decided to check it a
little bit later uh-huh and then we
didn't get any rain until Wednesday
night when we were sleeping and then an
hour at suppertime on Thursday so we
just went over dinner
it was perfect the restaurant was
amazing and consequently I am a blood
donor yes mosquitoes yes there are many
happy mosquitoes up north right now it
was just not a good time of year to be
out were you eating bananas forest
that's a real thing it's because I'm a
ginger Oh apparently they like in my
blood although I have a theory it was
just brutal though I mean I was at the
cottage and you can't it looks like I've
got fun bye guys could see this it's
like
that's a some kind of disease that's at
one point we were sitting there kind of
go and we're like almost like connect
the dots but we're counting up
everybody's mosquito bites between the
family I'm pretty sure we were over a
hundred at one point Wow between the
five of us and that was halfway around
it so you had mosquitoes - oh but I went
inside and left them outside yeah yet
you weren't really camping you know I
wasn't camping I was on vacation I was
reading a book on a couch with music
playing and the cicadas through the
screen door I listened to kids screaming
yeah yeah the campsite next to us oh
okay our cottage is kind of in the
wilderness like it's it's Google Maps
doesn't know where it is but everything
is not our cottage and so it from Google
Earth it's just forest as all you see
but they've you know started over the
past like five years or so building more
cottages along the waterfront and
everything so we start to get a little
bit more noise right because it's not
quite like it was ten years ago but it's
still a nice getaway and we didn't have
to deal with the mosquitoes that is nice
and I was disconnected when I was need
when I was in Newfoundland
it was always windy because we were
right by the ocean but if we were ever
anywhere where the wind wasn't right
it's like the bugs just were waiting
around the corner for yes you know and
they just they know you're there they go
yeah it all has to do with the moisture
yeah it was it was quite interesting
because friends of ours went camping at
the same Provincial Park the week prior
and the like oh how was it I'm look oh
my god for the mosquitoes like what
mosquitos turns out this section of the
park they were in is so dry like there's
no water around that there's no
mosquitoes there's no there's no pools
of water to lay the eggs and breeding so
they're like we came ready to like get
all bugged and eat it up and nothing so
I think I'm gonna sleep in there that's
the size of the campsite next time yeah
yeah it was good yeah every time yeah I
didn't miss the show though and you were
distracted fairly disconnected like the
most part yeah to be out in now this is
like there was this like a Wilderness
Park
no that's just a provincial park-- it's
next - when you say provincial charge so
when you saw provincial park okay see I
think like Algonquin or like I'm beside
you have to like walk through the forest
for ten miles in order to get to your
campsite kind of thing it's right like a
swimming pool and no no it's a lake okay
yeah no it's but the dirt roads like
they clear notes reusing you and then
you get to the clearing and you just you
can't there that's cool yeah you have
like a service washroom sir yeah we had
to walk a bit yeah they had to walk to
the washrooms yeah nice that's as you
had washrooms right in your cottage yeah
you know I had to walk up the flight of
stairs to do it yeah that's rough
yeah it was tough yeah yeah running
water and everything else we don't have
the ranking water so we had to go to a
spring to get our water we didn't have
drink of water either so where do you
get water we have big leagues like I
just drank your we have a like a big 25
litre camping jug that we filled up at
okay yeah right and then we brought that
last you for a week pretty close we had
to go get some water on Thursday okay
yeah coz we had to hit the spring a few
times yeah yeah so but it was good but
you asked about being disconnected yeah
for the most part I was there at certain
pockets of the camp there was cell
signal which is important I guess in
today's day to be able to get access to
emergency services if something happens
but know for the most part the phones
were off and closest thing I had the
technology was an e-book cool so and so
you didn't get to play on your retropie
xu4 i did not did to play no it was a
chance to plug it in and see if things
are working now that you've plugged in
and that's as far as far as you got yeah
you so you handed it back to me yeah
after the show and then I just haven't
like that's a that week that was crazy
busy for work yeah then we're on
vacation
no excuses act 2 being busy with work I
drove gaming there's no excuses Jeff
right there is when you need a paycheck
no prioritize come on you know I'll tell
you because it's the summer right yeah
we have the retropie we have also the VR
right we also have a Nintendo switch Oh
son yet anything really
are you serious so nice the Starship
Enterprise
no we haven't turn as we promised Dave
and I promised that we would not turn it
on until you were there we are waiting
for you this is why I was like we have
to we have weed so sweetie have it
waiting for you yeah let's do this yeah
we need to find a way for me to be able
to record the experience of virtual
reality at your place yes because the
setup is like what you've got sensors
mounted on the walls and things like
that so it's not something that we can
pack up and bring to the studio it's not
like that
but similarily we can't pack up our
broadcast rig take it to your place
plug in the VR to that and record it so
we need to find the battle find a happy
medium which is a recorder right which
is yeah like a portable Atomos recorder
or something like that but they cost
anywhere from about 1100 to $1500 plus
miles yeah so it's pretty expensive but
because our broadcast server is like AOL
seriously like we had our main recording
drive crash in it one of the one of the
PCIe bridges oh my goodness like it were
completely end of life on this servers
is the sense that I'm getting from it so
so we do really need to step up our
patronage get you know if you want to
buy some shirts if you want to shop
through our site it's a way for you to
be able to help us out but that's a
really big expense so I started thinking
and the reason that I got kind of in on
this thought the need for something like
a portable recorder that we could take
to record a VR segment which would be
like an episode yeah record it at your
place that device is very portable but I
could use that plug it into our
broadcast rig which we would have to
replace as well and instead of instead
of putting a thousand dollar hard drive
into the broadcast rig which we would
need right we would just have an
external recorder which is similarly
priced but then it would be portable to
port away take it elsewhere that makes
sense yeah so you know there's all these
kinds of thoughts going through my head
and I'm looking at the price tags I'm
thinking
it's so brutal and you know we hear we
cover the bills thank you everybody for
your support you too should know and
everybody who supports category-five TV
the rent has paid this month good job
the internet installation fee which I
mentioned was fairly high it was like
upwards of almost $500 so our new
internet connectivity that's paid plus I
pay dog√≠s internet bill in advance I
asked I said to them that hey we're
going away for vacation and I really
want to cover this before I go away
otherwise it's gonna be three weeks into
the month before you get your payment so
I asked them to invoice me early and
took care of that as well so I'm trying
to be a really good steward with the
finances that we do have but it is
limited and at the same time I'm also
being very frugal with that like I'm not
spending money and I'm sitting on I
showed you my cart on Amazon there are
three different recorders yeah in my
cart yeah not because I'm buying three
different recorders but because I'm
sitting on them thinking figuring out
what's gonna work best figuring out what
is going to be the best price for us how
old my nan sit because they're sitting
in your cart if the price ever drops you
get an alert slug in a notification it's
probably not gonna happen with high ends
likely but if it does I want to be ready
for it so head on over to our patreon
page if you go to patreon.com/scishow
and you get some perks you get access to
behind-the-scenes footage you get access
to our exclusive patreon only vlog which
is all behind the scenes find out you
know what's going on in our lives day to
day and it's it's got you know a lot of
people are really enjoying that on our
patreon page as well so at least go
check it out it's a dollar a month and
and you'll be able to support category
five seed coffee it's so like anyone can
do a buck but when you think about the
power and numbers thing it's true
there's so many folks that watch our
show and if just everyone if everybody
including you so it starts with you if
you would support us in that way just
head on over to patreon comm slash
category five great way to support us
last week becca was here with me
in you know in a pre-recorded way but we
were on the air talking about nems Linux
one point four point one and so even
though a week has gone by since that
aired three weeks has gone by since we
recorded it right don't think about been
updates think about progress in that
time so you look at the change logs from
last Wednesday and you think whoa you
know how did so much happen in just one
week well really we pre-recorded that
episode three weeks ago right so just
zero mention we mentioned yeah get up
right and stop so you have your xu4 yes
I have a successful commercial of MEMS
Linux one point four point one on my xu4
it's running it's been running 24/7 for
the past couple of days and it is
unbelievable like we're talking a load
average of 0.03 we're the last
performance that we have on any nem
server at this point this is an X you
for microcomputer it's about the size of
a Raspberry Pi and it will run MEMS
Linux one point for point one so when I
saw you put that post up it was today
right yesterday yesterday okay I saw it
and I I had that moment going do I
really need retropie yeah no you just
need another I just need another
actually I know but that was my first
thought because I was so excited about
it I almost gave up retropie for names
do it I you'll love it I might you'll
love it and Sasha's going no watch back
to last if you're not familiar with
names Linux it's a really exciting
project that I've developed and it's
really been growing so xu4 support is
coming so I learned the hard way when I
released the pine 64's first build that
I need to give it more time of better
testing and everything before I release
publicly okay not because I do a lousy
job or anything like that but when I'm
testing the distro I have a very limited
use case I've got six computers that I'm
pinging and I've been testing this and
that and I've got a gmail address that I
said notifications through and and so on
and so forth so my tests are very
limited
all of a sudden I release it and I've
got a hundred people trying it and
somebody's got a different setup or
someone's using s energy in a different
way than I am and all of a sudden I'm
getting all these bug reports and it's
overwhelming and unbelievable so I'm
trying to work really diligently to make
sure that the release when it comes out
on on in the public that it's very
stable and powerful it features working
so yeah I think so and bill Bill
Marshall has been a big part of that
process and I apologize bill I sent you
like 12 different versions of the and
the images like six gigs right so he's
having to download it he's driving home
from work all excited to download it and
it doesn't boot I've got another one for
you so I'll send you that works yes but
it crashes after 12 hours some crazy
thing so the xu4 build is scheduled for
release tentatively in about two to
three weeks as I say it's running 24/7
here so I'm really really excited about
that the pine a 64 plus is already
supported and available for download on
our website names Linux calm the a 64
LTS is the next one coming plus the ROK
64 and I was just talking with pine 64
today our rep there is also working on
putting together a rock pro 64 for us
cool to port to that one as well which i
think is going to blast even further
than the xu 4 yeah it's some exciting
stuff also there is an OVA virtual
appliance I don't know if you all caught
that but you can actually run names
Linux as a virtual appliance so that it
fits in with your existing Virginia
structure yes so that is probably it's
operational and it is 100% operational
tested stable ready to deploy however it
is awaiting funding in order to release
it as it is more expensive as a virtual
appliance to for me to distribute and so
it's it's awaiting that funding which
can be done through the NEMS website
names linux comm if you want to get
involved in that excellent we do have to
take a really quick commercial break
when we come back we've got viewer
questions comments
Asha's getting exciting she loves a
viewer question extravaganzas and we've
got them here for you stick around for a
limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts welcome
back to category five technology TVs so
glad you're here hey and glad you're
here well thanks man glad you're here
thanks Jeff alright so it is viewer
questions lots and lots
how many viewer questions so many save
the trees more ePaper I know we do have
a question from no one oh yeah quotation
oh that's their name from someone named
no one that's right
so no one like no one wants to know and
this is about the boogie board sink that
we covered a month ago ish I love that
thing that's the thing that you're using
them yeah yeah yeah yeah it's like an
ePaper speaking of e paper he paper
tablet that saves via bluetooth or USB
connect yes to an app yes that's love it
yeah so the question is does the boogie
board sync app work on Raspberry Pi so
first off if you want to know what we're
talking about go to cat v dot TV / e
paper so we covered this device about a
month ago and it came as a result of you
guys looking at some a paper a couple
weeks prior yeah I use I use it to any
level
love it right but my question was does
it save it can i sync it up and here's
like oh no it's just you hit the button
that's Carl don't make such a thing Jeff
in the next week he's like I bought this
I want to buy it in a school and I need
it I think it's amazing so I've been
using this consistently away I use it
for when I'm doing negotiations I'm
using it for meetings like all the time
I'm using it I would love it just you
know not to digress or anything or
sidestep but for the kids to draw on and
do sherwin stuff like that because they
can save it wipe it wipe it yep there's
no paper they get stacks of paper mom
and dad you know what I'm talking about
and then you got to go through and
recycle it and it's heartbreaking to do
so but you've got to do it you got to do
it without the kids knowing so it's like
11 o'clock at night and yes sorry kids
so the reason I wanted was to be able to
sit like to save my notes and sync them
up and you know compile them so I'll use
like PDF and all because they're all
safe I put them all into one file
exactly yeah so it's wonderful that way
so this question relates to how it syncs
up and how you get those files and so
the question doesn't work with Raspberry
Pi the short answer is yes what it does
know so I haven't know I personally have
not synced it up to the Raspberry Pi but
on the website my boogie board comm say
for the sink nine point seven it says
which computer operating systems are
compatible with the boogie board sink
the boogie board sink is compatible with
any operating system that recognizes a
USB storage device the VVC software is
compatible with Mac OS X 10.8 and I
solve oh wait the X stands for 10 yeah
but so s X 10.8 I'm just I'm reading
over OS 10 name yes
Windows Vista 7 and 8 and then they're
saying if using Windows 10 please
contact support now it doesn't mention
Linux there but it does so it shows up
as a mass storage device when you plug
it in you have file system access to the
PDF yes that's correct
brilliant yep now the one feature that
will not work with the Raspberry Pi do
tell is remember how I showed you
there's a button on the little pen yeah
so with that button you can use your
boogie boards think to do like
live life on like a PowerPoint projector
up on a screen so that will not work
with the Raspberry Pi but as far as
being able to sync it and transfer your
files absolutely it will work so you
blew through the device you can email
them then to yourself lava or you could
just use the cable connected via USB so
there you go no one who's actually
someone it does work on the Raspberry Pi
ok and to take that one step further
there are actual projects in development
third-party projects that allow the
boogie board sync to communicate with
Linux because remember the Raspberry Pi
is Linux at it right right right so the
Raspberry Pi 3 for example has built-in
Bluetooth and it has 4 USB to ports
right so you can connect it by USB or
you can connect it by bluetooth but
because the app is not natively
supported what can you possibly do other
than as you say accessing it as an
external hard drive kind of set up right
but check this out so if you do a quick
search on Google for boogie-board sync
Linux because remember Raspberry Pi is
powered by Linux you're gonna install
like raspbian first one that comes up is
called boogie sync tablet introduction
this is an implementation of the user
space driver for using the boogie board
sync as a tablet under linux blows away
your library that some of the features
done work carrying on it says there are
two apps one is for USB input and one
for Bluetooth that's awesome it uses PI
USB Pi blues to interface with the
device and the u input system via the EU
dev for Python I love it so it generates
input signals directly over that
connection and it warns that it is still
in the early days however it is
operational and it's available that's
the first Google result for what was my
search what was your search boogie-board
sync Linux X so we know that you know
these are it's on github it's an open
source project there are other projects
as well there's one called mobile read
for boogie board there's sync for boogie
board
I'm just looking through the the results
here on the
goal whatever search engine you're using
so that's one for you anyway so good to
know that that's the nature of open
source and how things get work
there you go and it's pretty cheap on
Amazon it's a waste to end up something
I own like I I can't like I think we all
need one of it you can't stop thinking
about it
so bill said well the you're not really
replacing the paper yes we are legit you
are about it if we if all three of us
have this boogie board sink hundreds of
dollars cheaper than a tablet yes like a
say an iPad or like a Samsung Galaxy Tab
or something like that and do away with
this every week yeah well see here's
what I love about it so when I'm doing
negotiations for contracts a lot of our
proposals are back and forth digitally
so that you know when you've got an
entire page of language instead I have
it - like retype it yeah somebody can
you know you take the digital file you
make your edits and you send it back yes
so I can bargain digitally that way even
though we're in the room so with my
notes I actually don't have to have a
binder or any paper with me anymore it's
amazing and it's so much so that I've
been at the table and I've been stopped
in the middle of a presentation and so I
was going what is that yeah
and I explained it to them I show them
he show you and I go here and I draw a
smiley face I sink it I email it to them
they pull up the phone there's a PDF of
the smiley face under like I need that
but I go let me get you the link so five
dot DV / E paper right that's right yes
so people have been buying it just
simply by seeing me use it it's our best
thing I've ever seen it's really cool
it's not the best thing I've ever seen
but I do like this I do like it a lot
that's the boogie boards sink yep coming
soon to Linux this one comes from Adam
see he was viewing last week's episode
actually nevins Linux yes okay so as you
said yeah on the episode Beca it's just
a little bit of a recap because not
everybody had a chance to watch episode
number 5 5 5 68 68 568 I've lost all
track it's just a few of them
not everybody has had a chance to watch
episode 5 68 just yet so just recapping
a little bit Beck and I got talking a
compatibility between Linux alternative
software and Microsoft Windows
particularly libreoffice as a Microsoft
Word and Excel replacement for Word and
Excel and compatibility between offices
where you've gotta send it to somebody
who is limited to Windows right and this
is interesting because this is a
question that's been just like burning
inside of me that I've been really
wanting to ask so I'm happy that you
covered it I haven't watched it yet okay
what I need to because I'm hoping that
it only it only happened a week ago I'm
just I I really have this issue day to
day because some of our office mmm is
that's the other thing I think in terms
of Linux vs. Windows right right that's
the term I think of right beca's on
Linux computers that at the school are
on Windows so she's taking college she's
got to send files in Windows docx format
so those are the terms I think of there
are mixed environments where you have
all windows there but half of the
computers are using LibreOffice because
Microsoft Office costs a couple it's a
couple hundred dollars per computer
there's only one computer in my whole
office that can print the handouts I
need and it's not my computer right and
it's running office and your AR because
of this exact issue that I'm sure you
guys were talking about reading the
comments from yeah I haven't watched the
show but all right so what does that see
talk about I found a Lieber an
OpenOffice to be more compatible with
Microsoft Office than the iWork suite
from Apple I only encountered a few
issues with Word and Excel when the
document contained heavy formatting or
calculations and macros that are heavily
used and easily read by the Microsoft
software as mentioned in the video I did
encounter an issue with fonts and the
size of slides when converting and
saving something into powerpoints
looking forward to a follow up very cool
now Becca actually had that issue
because one of her school presentations
was a PowerPoint presentation she says
to me can I do this mhmmm cuz she uses
LibreOffice and so I imported it and
sure enough we had that issue fonts
because I didn't have times new roman'
on my Linux machine
and the slides were a little bit jumbled
some of the text was overlapping and
some of the pictures were in the wrong
spot so a couple of things that we
noticed one thing is that her computer
is four over three it's a laptop that's
for over three dimensions
okay the display here is night is 1920
by 1080 so 16 over 9 mm widescreen okay
so the slides are getting either
stretched or having black bars on the
side so we had to convert it to sixteen
over nine very easy to do and we had to
get the font that was required in order
to get it to work and we're gonna talk
about that because I know a lot of folks
have I mentioned the font is an issue
and I need to know the answer to this so
this is exciting well in this you know
particularly a lot of these folks are
talking from a Linux standpoint again
they're looking at it from my
perspective of I'm using Linux they're
using Windows I need to be able to use
files back and forth right so not
necessarily applicable to the
environment where you've got all Windows
computers and just Libre Office on a
couple of them right so moving on to
Blake H X's comments because Adam C just
know that Blake's
and David's comments kind of flow into
yours as well so this kind of all goes
together right so Blake HX says I've
only had minor issues with Lieber and
Open Office versus Microsoft Office some
troubles with fonts in general layout
like you mentioned the most trouble has
been on the Microsoft side a couple
times I've had to completely remove all
formatting from texts because lines or
pictures kept overlapping and running
into margins etc I've also also a few
problems with custom colors and tables
in Microsoft Word
thankfully the problems I've encountered
haven't been too difficult to fix
excellent point and that hey it's not
that hard to correct these little
anomalies yeah where it can become a
problem is if you've got somebody who's
really impatient and just wants to you
know to be able to open it and doesn't
want to mess around
yeah it doesn't know right or doesn't
understand understand it when I open
something and the boxes that are usually
boxes now have an X in them I wonder
might to myself like that seems simple
should I need to know how to properly
without you ruining the doct and that's
likely a missing fonts
so if I if if I'm that person who is
impatient and they and I have trouble
and I send a file to Jeff and it's all
garbled on his system which is not
garbled but you know the next
overlapping text fonts not working and
everything like that David Gregory says
why not export to a PDF file mm-hmm
because a PDF file no matter what if I
send it to you if it's a tagged PDF that
will display correctly right and when I
say tagged PDF when you're in
libreoffice and you go file save as and
you select the file format as PDF one of
the options is tagged PDF any guesses
what that means
no no guesses okay you don't have so you
on the receiving end don't have the
fonts that I used on your computer okay
right maybe you don't have the images on
your computer so if it was a word doc
it's gonna have problems displaying
these things right so if you tagged the
PDF file it will embed the fonts and it
will nos smart that the the layout and
the images in the file hmm so when you
send that file now they don't need those
fonts installed right so that's a good
solution if it's just a print right but
if they need to be able to edit it then
it's not a solution at all because PDF
is typically in a typical scenario
unless you've purchased Acrobat X I or
something like that for several hundred
dollars again which then why are using
LibreOffice because you obviously have
disposable income it's not a solution
for you so Greg David Gregory goes on to
say what about installing ms font
enabler and copy the fonts from Windows
10 and install it into the fonts
directory on your Linux machine or Mac
presumably / user / share / fonts now
that is an old-school way to do it and
then it will work it would work yeah
would it be complicated for me it's a
little complicated and it's a little
illegal oh not like illegal you're
taking Microsoft fonts from Windows 10
these are proprietary font files that
you have to be licensed to have I think
find them all over the internet spawn
files so when you install Linux because
Linux is a free operating system and
they are all about hey if you install
Linux you're not breaching any
copyrights everything is free it's all
open source right but by the way if you
know how to do it you can install some
of those non free things like mp3
playback like right VLC being able to
play proprietary formats or like
Microsoft core
TTFN fonts because Microsoft did in fact
release web fonts to support like Arial
and Times New Roman and Comic Sans a
mess because we all need that right but
on your Linux machine it's important for
you to be able to have those windows
fonts so that when someone when Jeff
sends me a Windows create a docx file
and has used Windows fonts because maybe
you use verdana on your Windows machine
and so it looks good on your Windows
machine but then when you open it on
Linux on LibreOffice you say oh the font
has reverted to some default right and
so you blame LibreOffice and say it's
not displaying correctly well truth be
told it's that your system doesn't have
a font installed that matches verdana so
LibreOffice says let's try to find
something that's similar based on the
type of font be it a sans serif or
something like that but it's really just
gonna default to whatever you have
installed correct so I'm gonna simply
bring up putty because I want to show
you how easy it is on a Linux machine to
install these Microsoft fonts which this
way is it's a non free fonts file and
when on Linux it's such a funny thing
right because I have to say non free and
I have to do air quotes for those of you
who are listening to the podcast
air quotes non free means it's not open
source it's not it's not free as in
you're free to do everything with it and
distribute it and sell it right Linux is
free in all essences with Microsoft
stuff it's free as in you can have it
it's yours you can use it but it's not
free as in free
but you can you can install it and you
can use it for free without having to
pay cash so different the English
language maybe needs a new word for
Libre let's let's use that ok ok
for free there needs to be two words for
free I'm gonna jump onto my server here
hi chatroom nice to see ya I'm gonna
just jump over to my computer here and
hop on to my server which i think is do
let's try 5 wouldn't it help if I knew
the IP address of my server let's ping
it I've named my server you ready for
this Wharf that's awesome lieutenant
worf is 10.00 10 there we go ok putty
10.0.0.0
okay I'm on Worf I need to become super
user on Debian it's su on Linux it's
good on Linux on boo-boom - it's gonna
be sudo su su okay so I'm gonna go
su on Debian there's just what I'm on
enter my root password
okay now apt update this is gonna
download all of the current packages
from the repositories of Debian okay
same commands on Ubuntu a little
different if you're on like open SUSE or
Red Hat or sent OS or whatever but if
you're on a Debian derivative this is
how you do it so now I'm gonna go apt
install now I say this is how you do it
on Debian you can use any package
manager so it doesn't matter if you're
using yah more synaptic or whatever
you're using what is key is knowing the
package name and that package name is
pretty easy to remember
it's simply TTFN - MS for Microsoft core
fonts - installer and when I hit enter
on that it's going to say hey this is
going to install this on your computer
it's going to use a Meg say yes let's
see what happens so this package TTFN -
MS core fonts
- installer is giving me actually let's
see my list and del mono Arial comic
sans ms courier new georgia impact
times new roman' true trebuchet have you
trebuchet rep you say and what's the
last one
oh there's two more Danna and webdings
webdings yeah that's alright whoever
uses webdings sasha does that's what
those little boxes are the with that I
use web things there you go yeah so you
need it but it comes in this package so
it's actually installing all of those
fonts that I just mentioned on my Linux
machine see it's doing Times New Roman
it downloaded an exe file that's crazy
talk but that's on Debian so that's what
I'm using now I'm doing it in a term and
all you can do this on a GUI system and
of course
those fonts don't affect my terminal
they affect my GUI right can you do this
for me at work you don't have Linux at
work Sasha what do I have at work but
you could get fine so we'll just have to
find a different way that work oh no I
don't do sports I know I don't I I don't
have I have like all done I don't have
Microsoft Office
yeah but the famous Libra yes those
fonts are still within windows so you
check in your control panel go to fonts
uh-huh and check for webdings and things
like that and if you don't have it then
you can install it we can talk about
that on Windows it's a little bit
different it's different okay but youyou
could as Jeff had mentioned you can
readily get these off of the internet
double click on it and click install and
it will install it for you but there's
probably an alternative as well like if
there's a box that has a question mark
through it you can highlight it find out
what font it was and Google for an
alternative okay I always went to when I
used to do a lot of graphics work I
would grab a lot of my fonts from what
was it at the time ten thousand fonts
calm or something oh yes the website
yeah because people would upload their
own versions of fonts you get the
coolest stuff out there it was great
really counts too it remember if you if
you do that you take that approach you
find a really cool font you install it
on your computer you use it in your
document then you send that document to
someone else they don't have that bond
so today so you're back to the problem
right but that said you can print out
some pretty stuff yeah I love Google web
fonts I use it for websites but you'll
notice that if you find a font you like
there's also a download link that allows
you to download the TTFN yes that's
right yes so that's another way to get
free fonts mm-hmm
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching all right do
we have any more questions yes that was
a joke
ok David anyone sounding hi David David
this is the David Gregory from before so
yes he also asked he's got another
question
Mike allow it yeah two questions is the
limit personal can Microsoft not
redesign their windows OS 10 by building
it upon FreeBSD so that it would be like
ghost bsd in half wine 64 included to
allow the use of legacy programs and
then you can have a script file like
apt-get update and apt-get upgrade
return yeah let's let's recommend that
to them yep hey where does go three
stuff yeah couldn't Windows do it better
and just install Linux
that's the subtext we cover that in a
news story not long ago yes yes what was
that for
it was Windows is using Linux for
something yeah there Oh what was that
cuz we freaked it out we're like this is
news from like three months ago oh wow -
three months God happens in three months
ah even Microsoft uses Linux but would
they replace their OS no but they use
the code they can use because Linux
is open-source they can use some of this
stuff like right just like you can
install LibreOffice on Windows but Linda
Windows and Linux are both built off the
basics of UNIX windows and its original
form
no original form yeah I'm pretty sure it
was based off Unix
no not Windows you can't make a
statement like positive it was
modern-day Windows aka NT is based on
os/2 which was IBM ok os/2 was intended
to be a successor to PC DOS so one could
say Windows like Linux has its roots in
a UNIX type of in a UNIX type of oh okay
but Windows is not based on UNIX just
UNIX has similar case type OS 10 Mac OS
and Linux they both stem from that UNIX
yes recode BSD Linux OS 10 Windows not
so much yeah
whew I'm so glad all right anything else
Eric 85 what's a reputable website to
download SNES and NES rooms etc I think
Oh No so you're you're gonna ask that
and make me D monetize this video as
soon as we answer this google's AI is
gonna pop on and say sorry you're not
it's not agreeable with some advertiser
they just spoiler alert but there's a
lot in the news about this too yeah okay
so before now I would have said EMU EMU
paradise mm-hmm would have been what I
would have said right no we won't but we
won't and the reason that we won't isn't
because it's not great but because
Nintendo all right here here's the
problem let's back up a little bit yes
retro gaming is twofold
is it piracy or is it preserving
a legacy piece of software that has been
abandoned aka abandoned where by the
original developers so long as nobody's
interested in it it's rhetorical yeah
question so this is my this was my
theory months ago and now he's coming to
pass yes
why is window windows why is Nintendo
bringing out SNES mini why is Atari
bringing out the Atari many devices why
is Nintendo now doing an NES mini why
are these devices coming out because
they are now as the company who owns the
intellectual property for those games
they are now reira leasing them to
establish that they are not abandoned
correct they are the intellectual
property of Nintendo or Sony or Atari
and this is what is coming to pass and
this is what I had prophesied unto you
it was recent and it's happening yes and
so emu paradise who was always dedicated
for 18 plus years to making it so that
all these old games that we grew up with
then by we I mean not necessarily you
young chaps that are watching the show
but you know me generally like 30 ish
plus 30 ish plus as of 2018 so those old
games that we used to play as kids I
mean we hear stories and and even the
developers at emu paradise have said
like we have stories of people who have
gone to war and watch their friends die
and turned to retro gaming as a means of
going back to those times 20-30 years
ago when they were sitting in the room
with those friends yeah and playing
games and and and all these wonderful
stories of camaraderie and the the
friendships that were established around
Super Mario Bros and you know right
Donkey Kong and contra and everything
else so what has happened is Nintendo
now with
the SNES mini in the NES mini has
stepped up its game and sued emu
paradise so wrong and so emu paradise
has simply said fine throw in the towel
we're just not gonna do it we're just
gonna close down everything that we've
been doing here for 18 plus years
because Nintendo is you come and add us
with all their lawyers all their write
everything else so we're just gonna shut
it down so the site is still available
you can still go on to emu paradise dot
em e and see the repository of games
that they had but if you try to download
any of them it will take you to a
document that says can't have it thank
you for your years of support and this
is what we set out to do to bring new
life into these old games that nobody
sells anymore and so they've just
abandoned and to archive like think
about an archive what's gonna happen to
these games now if Nintendo folds up or
stop selling them right and forbids
their distribution as long as there's
interest in it Nintendo will see a
dollar sign sure they will right
absolutely
but are we gonna go out and spend a
hundred this is a real catch-22 am I
gonna spend $150 on an NES mini let's
just say hypothetical I don't know what
the actual prices but say a hundred
bucks or whatever that has 30 games on
it or retropie cost me the same and has
2,000 games on it hmm
I think so
first off there's two thoughts running
through my head yeah the first one is
Internet Archive org they have kind of
similar what they're doing what exactly
but not just not just all the banne and
where games but like even old websites
all documents all the kind stuff like
they save it all so you're gonna have to
pull if they will this is all I mean
there might be something you could find
there I don't know but I'm with all of
this I'm thinking you've got things like
you know your your Google music where
you can just pay a subscription you get
access to all this music
when are we gonna see a retro gaming
subscribe coming Sony's doing it and
tendo's don't know that yeah we just for
their software don't have to have rich
and the up can buy in the but is that
just a Nintendo stop or is that
everything well I mean you can get you
can get Sonic the Hedgehog on a Nintendo
Wii but that's to say okay so the the
retro gaming roms the download that you
can put on a retro pie and install so
emu paradise is now defunct if you will
and so are there alternatives to it are
there other places that you can go that
you can trust and a go to site that
we've used in the past is called
alternative to dotnet and when you go to
that site you find alternative
applications for commercial applications
and things like that so you can do an
alternative to Adobe Photoshop and
you'll see GIMP okay things so if we go
to that site slash software / emu
paradise dot just just like that emu
paradise we'll see okay emu paradise is
discontinued find alternatives in the
links below so a caveat here is to say
do this from Linux if you can do this
from a heavily virus and malware
protection web device web content
filtering yes you said Internet Security
not an anti-virus like AVG forget about
it okay get Linux on there get Internet
Security or something like that that is
going to block sites from installing
Java backends into your system and
things like that because there is no is
there a trustworthy way to do this no I
know or Cinelli not but you can see if
you go here that there are alternatives
okay
so you've got like cool ROM and you can
scroll down this list and there are
other alternatives and I'm not going to
click on any of these because I'm on a
Windows 10 system and I'm not going to
trust these on a Windows 10 system but
if you've got Linux click on some find
your way around see what alternative to
is going to recommend mm-hmm and see how
it goes
thank you yeah
good luck and it's a gray area those of
you person it's kind of like we're not
sure yet
yes and so I hope we can still but hurry
downloads today tomorrow they'll
actually be illegal yeah yeah it's a
hard hard thing for sure okay all right
I wanted to take more questions I wanted
to take another commercial break and I
think we're out of time I I was going to
say like I'm looking at the clock and
like I think we have to start thinking
about some news anybody for more
questions next week age one I know like
halfway down page one thank you for your
questions folks thank you for your
comments and we definitely we greatly
appreciate that head on over to our
YouTube channel hey give us a thumbs up
give us a subscribe please do and let us
know that you love category-five TV you
ready to head over to hold on bow or you
go to the news room sure I think there's
an appropriate one here that we need to
read okay so Ross Schneider hey Ross
watch decisive Sasha's news room segment
from two weeks back and says I so
appreciate all your hard work you all
deserve ten times the subscribers thanks
everyone
oh thanks for us thanks for us now we
can go to them now I hope I don't mess
up the news now I'm glad that I
mentioned about subscribing on youtube
before Ross's comment because otherwise
that would have seemed plan yes it would
have yes
not at all folks it's just the magic of
television Sasha yes how are you I am
doing well wonderful
you want me to operate the news for you
oh yes all right well I can do it for
you here are the stories were covering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
and what could be called a major design
fail a proof of concept has
that a compromised charger could be used
to take control of a modern laptop a
software bug that a large US bank has
resulted in hundreds of people losing
their homes Nintendo is suing retro game
of wrong distributors and Patrick
Stewart is returning to Star Trek with a
new series focused on the next chapter
of Captain Picard's life these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what does where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap v dot TV slash
DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat5 dot TV slash
this is the category 5 TV news room
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this leak a neat
feature of many modern laptops is the
ability to power them up through the USB
port unlike the rectangular USB ports of
old the newer type USB C can carry
enough power to charge your machine
that's great news it means you don't
have to add a separate port just for
charging and when the USB port isn't
being used for power it can be used for
something useful like plugging in a hard
drive or your phone but while you and I
may look at that as an improvement
hackers see it as an opportunity to
exploit a new vulnerability one
researcher who goes by the name mg has
demonstrated how a macbook charger could
be booby-trapped modified in a way that
it would be possible for a hijack to
hijack the user's computer without them
having any idea what's happening this is
a massive concern since the abit
ubiquitous chargers for mac books are
seen in offices and coffee shops the
world over they're borrowed lost and
replaced on a regular basis mg gutted
the inside of the charger and filled it
with small components that are powered
up when the unsuspecting victim connects
it to their computer it's extremely hard
to detect especially since it's still
charged the laptop as normal the
hijacking device was able to insert a
fake login screen into a website he
could use this method to scoop up
whatever data the user had entered into
the fake site mg said in the demo we're
just capturing a username and password
but this could also inject malware root
kits and persistent types of infections
that could be malicious well early in
the testing phase he predicts the attack
would likely work on any machine that
uses USB C to get its power saying in
this case it's an apple but it works in
HP Lenovo and a lot of others yikes
right so really like common sense would
say if you know that this is happening
the power is with you now cuz knowledge
is power
you keep your charger with you all the
time you do you don't use anybody else's
right you it just it has to become a
protected piece of equipment for you now
but how many times have you gone into
places and seen like charging stations
it's like hey George
everywhere like how do you know that
what you're plugging into is actually
legit safe right so here's the thing in
my mind it's the spot that plugs into
the laptop compromised I know exactly
how it happens now I've just I had to
get on here right I'm on Apple calm okay
well that's a whole lot of white us
don't see it USB C power adapter $79
right
what yeah that's G asking them all $15
yeah that's how it happens
exactly some obscure Chinese
manufacturer on Amazon $12 free shipping
yep
and your firstborn child that's
frightening so we understand how this
works I mean a USB port is multi did you
know versal serial bus that's what it
stands for you can plug in a printer you
can plug in a camera you can plug in
your phone you can plug in your charger
and now charge your MacBook or
presumably a desktop or a laptop
computer yeah now install something in
there we've heard about devices that you
plug it into a USB port and it will fry
the whole computer yes what if they did
that yeah so you cannot ever at this
point choked on air
I know it's tragic man how can they
charge $79 for these darn things you you
cannot ever buy a cheap charger that's
it now and you have to keep yours on you
you can't use one that somebody just
gives you lends you if it comes you know
yeah but how would you know my question
really to Nestor's is can it be on the
other side right so this this here plugs
in yeah right but the other side you
know how they have the ports in like the
bus terminals and they have them it can
it be on the other side too done yeah so
in wall outlet that is USB that you can
plug your charger into so everything
there can be
where can like this is the this is
what's happening and this is the fear
because these are exploits that are in
the while now people are saying do you
know if you see a USB port in a wall at
a coffee shop do not plug into it so if
I used an external battery like one of
those but remember I have those like a
10,000 milliamp hour battery that you
charge at home and then take it with you
and charge your device I to be the
safest that yeah but who's got like long
as it's I mean it could be a device
that's easter eggs as well sure unless
you built it yourself yeah like it's
it's all because of the USB connection
next week I'll be building our own well
that's well so that's what I'm wondering
is is there a way of somebody creating a
like a little dongle for the edge of the
connector before you plug it into your
device it's like something that checks
to make sure that no feed gets through
what if we designed and we can do this
right now right here an adaptor cable
three inch little dongle yeah do you
plug your USB C or maybe you plug it
into your charger and then you plug your
USB cable into that and it only gives
you the two outer right and there's no
data transmission there's no data
something to support outer terminals on
USB is power five five volts power right
but it would have to be on the end that
goes into your device because if you go
to like a charger station you don't
necessarily see the end or where you
would plug in the US because some of
them have cables built-in so you just
stick your device there yeah so I think
it would be done Nathan Goodman we could
actually create a device that allows you
to know that you're safe
yeah right which you know maybe someone
is already doing that but we need to
patent this now well we've already
mentioned it garbage garbage mentioned
at first What did he say you can get a
USB condom and whatever you're plugging
into it filters connection to power I
can't wait I came up with the idea I
didn't think to name it a condom okay so
they have a data protector condom huh
come on now it's seven bucks plus
shipping sounds perfect seven bucks for
a data protector condom which could in
itself be an easter egg it's on eBay
ah I'm just I'm playing with you don't
do that when you do a search you also
get directs and loot so that's
interesting so the the device actually
already exists and it makes sense we
could just pull those in or right in
report but the fact that the fact is
that when you look at that device it's
still USB so it's added well that could
still very much transmit data you're
trusting the manufacturer right if you
made it yourself you know that hey
there's only two contacts 5 positive 5 -
you didn't link one that he likes oh
yeah thanks Garvey we will we'll take a
look something like this
this is judge safely ok so they've got
them here so we've got all kinds of neat
little nifty things thank you that's the
one I'm talking about right there going
into the side of the map Jeff is
pointing to this little guy over here
that's the one I was think it's
something like that there you go that is
obscene huh that's not a condom that is
like like a wall yeah that's massive
ridiculous I'm thinking more like a
little yeah that's what I have pictured
yeah but still this would be a great
gift for anybody sure would yeah and
that's a prototype we'll say yeah I'll
see them get thinner have you know so
we've had a few good ideas on the show
that people just happen to get to just
before us I know we need to really stop
talking about things and then
time-traveling I know it's true it's a
good idea I'm still convinced that that
one hack where everybody had the same
password I'm convinced we figure that
one out
all right it was like two years ago I
remember that one I don't remember
anything where everybody had the same
password like the number three password
in all the world yeah it was like oh
yeah what we can't oh yes yes yeah we
can put that's lunch that back that was
really interesting I thought I still
think yep can I interrupt you for a
second for the next news story perhaps
do you wanna do you want to actually do
the news Sasha do we need to like stay
on track here flaw in a US banks
computer software led to six hundred and
twenty five customers not receiving
government loan assistance to which they
were entitled and four hundred of those
lost their homes as a result the
government scheme was designed to help
people struggling to pay their mortgages
Wells Fargo which is the third largest
bank in the US said that there was no
clear direct cause-and-effect
relationship between the error and the
loss of homes however compensation is
being offered negating that claim the
bank has set aside eight million dollars
to compensate those affected by the
software error which existed between
April 2010 and October 2015 Wells Fargo
revealed the information in its latest
quarterly financial report and said that
there were continuing efforts to
identify other customers who might also
have been affected in April 2018 it was
fined 1 billion dollars by two US
regulators to resolve investigations
into car insurance and mortgage lending
breaches ok that is bad what is it eight
million dollars gonna cover it no but
let me get this straight let's just back
up just for one second we didn't do this
thing
but here's 8 million dollars to sweep it
under the rug
and we're also investigating to see who
else is affected yep exactly as a
banking charitable efforts to help
things if they apologized and they're
accepting responsibility if they accept
responsibly apologizes an hour so just
throw money out there and put a gag
Clause on it I don't understand how a
bug like this like how this happened
when people should be late I am a
programmer for a living and I do not
want to be that programmer right I have
made mistakes that have resulted in you
know minor issues and maybe a site going
down or something that I can fix within
a day and nothing like four hundred
people losing their homes but here's
this poor guy has turned to the bottle
but
400 people and they're putting up 8
million dollars yeah but they don't have
it they're just if that's charity 400
people is not going to be able to take
that 8 million dollars and recover right
not gonna happen
I just my heart goes out to the people
who lost their homes yeah because of a
flaw in programming right right wait and
you say well I don't know how this
happened so thinking about the actual
happenstance yeah
government funding comes in and says you
can buy a home mm-hmm
we have the funding for you mm-hmm here
it is
right go put down your deposit go buy
your home yeah get yourself moved in and
everything will take care of the rest
then the bank after you've done all that
just oh we have no record of that we
don't don't know anything about that
uh I will say though I'm a little bit
shocked that there wasn't some sort of a
paper trail well who knows Jeff
everything's digital these days but
whether you and I go to buy a house
there's tons of paperwork I know I know
there's something that we don't know
here yeah there's a lot that we don't
know here but what responsible and I've
had things happen where you know I've
I've had like service disconnection for
example right for an invoice that I
never received right okay which is
infuriating and I'll say if you had it
just let me know right I'll pay the bill
and I'll pay the I'll even pay the
reconnection fee because I'm just I
I'm not dinking around but make sure I
have the bill and don't just cut me off
if I you know like do your due diligence
- oh you didn't hear from me or I didn't
pay like I do every single month
something obviously is up look into it
so if these people have now bought a
house and they've got their bill and
their defunct on it and they're waiting
for the check from the bank or you know
who
down but if that's the case a slight
example that has you know everything's
fine but just an example of how the
government and things can screw up
category five was audited during our tax
season this year
right during during that process they
held they withheld my personal income
tax return what
because category five was being audited
right so does that mean so do you see
what I mean okay yeah something that's
completely unrelated to my personal life
in that you know the from a financial
standpoint is now affecting my personal
life right and we're waiting on that and
we know that okay this is going toward
this but it took four months to get here
when it was supposed ace that's the kind
of scenario so now good news for those
of you who are well why did category
five get audited there was an error with
our accountant they fixed it and we
actually got a return awesome because
the government audited us and saw oh we
owe you money which yes that's I've
never yet been audited where it hasn't
turned out that the government owes me
money
that's fantastic really yeah audit me
every year got like I've I'm gonna say
I've locked out because I think I've got
really good records but yeah that's just
my my little scenario of how my personal
life can be affected by right government
screw-up right and that ended in a
positive note and put four hundred
people it did not yes because I I wasn't
relying on that tax return to pay my
bills right I have income yes where now
these are low income housing right so
these are people who don't necessarily
have a lot of money to like needing this
this is I need this money to pay for
this house that I just got the part that
breaks my heart about it is that yeah
they're people with stories and now
they're without a home like who knows
what situation they're in now and my
mind goes to these crazy places and
here's Wells Fargo saying like hey it
wasn't us here I have some money
yeah a little bit late cuz these people
are probably homeless could be in a
lawsuit filed in late July by Nintendo
of America against two ROM distributing
websites the company states that the
sites are built almost entirely on the
brazen and masculine Freidman of
Nintendo's intellectual property rights
those who run the sites they'll have a
different story by law Nintendo is well
within their rights to defend their
property when someone else is
distributing it without permission what
the lawsuit doesn't touch on however
according to those who will run the
sites is that the value that they have
when it comes to the preservation of
older video games a ROM is essentially a
copy of the video game software that can
run on a computer with the help of an
emulation program emulators like those
provided in retropie are legal as long
as they don't actually offer the games
themselves just a way to play them
people can also legally dump their games
in order to play them on the emulator as
long as they own a physical a physical
copy distributing those dumped roms
however is the illegal part the lawsuit
which asks for one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars for each game the ROM
each game ROM that was hosted on the
site and two million dollars for
infringing on the trademark has caused
other sites to disable access to their
ROM library one such site is a new
paradise founded in 2000 the site's goal
according to the founder has been the
preservation of old games to give people
the opportunity to enjoy the favorites
of their youths
the site's founder who goes by the
username of mass J says the consequences
now far outweigh the benefits when it
comes to hosting roms video game that
preservation has always been a tough
beast in the 9th early 1980s there were
more video games than people playing
them causing a crash in the market a
large portion of the games released at
that time were lost as companies folded
and their archives were deleted now when
a copy of an old game is found people
upload the game data to sites like emu
Paradise to order in order to preserve
the games on them
video game companies have begun to copy
the Netflix formula for retro game
preservation though it's a slow process
for example PlayStation has begun to
make older games available through their
PlayStation now streaming service and
Nintendo will soon to be implementing
Nintendo switch online which will open
up a library of retro games to stream to
the switch console sad day it's a bad
sad moment so we you know if you watch
episode number 569 of category 5
technology TV we talked a little bit
about the whole scenario with retro
gaming and the problem that this raises
but when you have a preservation that is
being attacked by the copyright holders
of something that's that old like 30
years and plus right it's like nobody's
gonna wanna play Snooki oh my have with
this is it's not the idea that you know
Nintendo saying hey you can't do this
it's the fact that the numbers are so
outrageous the fact that they're saying
150,000 per wrong like I'm sorry there's
no way you can say you've lost out in a
hundred and fifty thousand dollars in
revenue in that one game when you
haven't made it in 30 freakin years
right like there's no way they could
justify I mean Greta I don't get into
this realm but there's no way they could
justify loss of revenue don't get us
wrong we are all for protecting
copyright oh yeah intellectual property
and you know I understand that but these
are things that are considered by
society as yeah this is it's like I
think about music from hundreds of years
ago and you know like happy birthday was
ridiculous that people were getting sued
for singing happy birthday like and
that's no longer a thing but doesn't
that just make you go crazy yes I can't
help but wonder though if the only
reason they've done this is to get the
site's the the site that's to our UK
viewers sorry I will get the site's
shut down simply because they've
released these games on their on their
units if they hadn't have released those
units say like three four years ago they
didn't care sure they weren't looking at
it this is why they did it this is why
they brought it exactly yeah NES minis
so then what it should be is a cease and
desist order not a lawsuit last yeah
yeah like you want to protect your stuff
find go for it you're totally entitled
to that but go about it in a way that
doesn't make you look like the big bully
on the block
that's my issue that's my biggest issue
with this it's not like Nintendo some
little floundering company that's just
trying to just make its way in the world
you have enough money right you don't
need more your you're gonna be a
one selling console you're gonna be okay
I have a switch I like it but I also
have a retro of high and I love that
don't take that away from me
let's see how like what happens to EMU
paradise they shut down yep
the site is still up but you can't
download any roms what if Nintendo is
taking an approach of let's play the
brute force come in with ridiculous
lawsuits right to because they know
maybe this is just a theory but what if
they know that emu paradise would just
stop operations and then it would
trickle down and other sites would go oh
no I don't want this to happen to me
well because then I'm gonna get hit with
this billion-dollar lawsuit case in
point Napster
gonna say yeah the same impact happened
with Napster yeah
Napster got sued by the music industry's
and a lot of those sharing sites gone
yeah and then suddenly you've got the
rise in like Apple music and all that so
in it from that o news story it appears
to be the case so Nintendo if you're
watching I want to see like the app
stores
$0.99 roms sure I want to see a
repository that has a thousands of them
you just make them available and where
you haven't you don't care about them
yeah come on
give them out for ridiculously cheap and
they will sell absolutely totally buy
Rob's at 99 cents each absolutely yeah
don't be a jerk don't be a jerk Nintendo
we love you and please release Dark
Souls come on
personal request from Sasha Sir Patrick
Stewart will reprise his iconic role as
Captain jean-luc Picard in a new Star
Wars Star Trek series show's over folks
just say the Gandalf is coming back to
Star Wars category I would like to
apologize to all viewers everywhere to
Patrick himself sir
we apologize record I love Star Trek you
don't even you just had a Freudian slip
of Star Wars
I only saw Sara should be crying I only
said it's fresher for me so I was true
that was a travesty buggy now listen
Star Wars is fresher for me except when
you just watched it last year all right
listen up kids
I think the point she's trying to make
is if you're familiar with Star Wars and
you like Star Wars you will love Star
Trek that's right
cuz it's better go ahead can you rewind
a little bit
Oh back okay I just want to say okay
okay you owe the viewers an apology
Little Miss I am sorry I am sorry
they're both good but but Star Trek is
better you don't say I'm sorry but I'm
sorry and I'm a plug in my mic I'm Don
Patrick Stewart is reprising his role
his iconic role as Captain jean-luc
Picard in a new Star Trek series yes
CBS all access Stuart may be announced
at a Star Trek convention in a Las Vegas
Stewart noted that when he films sir
Trek nemesis in 2002 he felt that his
time with Star Trek had run its natural
course in a follow-up statement he said
it is therefore an unexpected but the
lightful surprised to find myself
excited and invigorated to be returning
to John the Picard and to explore new
dimensions within him Stewart first took
on the role of the iconic Star Trek
captain captain in 1987 and remained on
the show over the duration of its
seven-year run through 1994 and starred
in the four films that followed it Star
Trek generations Star Trek first contact
Star Trek insurrection and Star Trek
nemesis Star Trek The Next Generation
was the long-awaited follow-up to the
original Star Trek series of the 1960s
and set in 2364 99 years after the
adventures of captain james t kirk and
the crew of the enterprise this new show
will be a reboot but an exploration of
the next chapter for cards life at the
convention Stewart indicated that none
of the scripts for the show have been
written yet and that it will be
something very different but it will
come to you with the same passion
Kurtzman will oversee the show and will
be assisted by Star Trek discovery
executive producer James tough former
discovery executive producer Akiva
Goldsman writer Michael sha'ban and
discovery writer Kirsten Bayer no word
yet on when the new series will begin
make it so number one yes this is
unexpected and wonderful and wonderful
and every Trekkie in the world and maybe
it's new to you you need to learn who
this character John Luke Picard is yes
and so the what has been blowing up on
Amazon and Barnes and Noble and
everywhere else and maybe the timing is
wonderful but they've brought out the
autobiography of jean-luc Picard
so not a Patrick Stewart no now so this
is written first like as an
autobiography by the character
he's lovely so they've you know we're
talking 300 pages nearly 270 some odd
pages in an autobiography format you can
get it at cat 5 dot TV slash Picard I'm
just going to start this it just arrived
and this will get you up to speed on
kind of what has been going on for the
past 20 years with the cards life
okay so we're having a bit of it like
while you're doing the news we're having
a bit of a debate in the chat room yes
what do we think his role is gonna be
I'm saying he's gonna be an admiral an
admiral I don't think they're gonna make
him a captain he oh please give me an
admiral an admiral is very much a desk
job though and so I picture him as more
of a like he is a first contact kind of
guy he is why not a diplomatic Admiral /
like on a sure on a ship a diplomat who
is yeah like not a desk diplomat right
somebody who is like yeah it wouldn't it
be neat if he was on a ship I would love
to see him sitting down at Starfleet
headquarters exactly being and and
having the like that internal debate
between she's got to be the Admiral and
so it's not his ship but he wants to
call the shots
mmm like what if it's Beverly's ship oh
yeah cuz they got married hmm oh this is
gonna be who knows theories comment
below it's gonna be the best Star Trek
hey well that's gonna be amazing
big thanks to Roy W Nash Orangemen and
our community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with ass white Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha I'm Robbie
Ferguson I'm Jeff Weston it has been a
pleasure having you here with us this
week we're gonna brush Sasha up on her
Star Trek knowledge
and we will again be back next week and
looking forward to seeing you here
take care
