here are the stories are covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room
police want Amazon to give off the data
captured by echo another line of
customer routers from netgear are
dangerously vulnerable to hack your
takeover and Microsoft has contracted
nearly a billion dollars from the
Department of Defense these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere Jeff
Weston Yemen you're building a brand new
beautiful website what are you all right
you're a terrible actor what does we're
acting comes into play oh I don't know
where I think you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
let's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the rules are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put out of the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cat five dot TV / dreamhost i'm sascha
through madison here are the top stories
for the week of december twenty 8 2016
u.s. police investigating a murder have
topped tousled with amazon over access
to data gathered by one of its echo
speakers the voice control device was
found near to a hot tub where the victim
was found dead amid signs of a struggle
according to court filings amazon was
issued with two search warrants but
refused to share information sent by the
smart device to its servers however the
police said a detective found a way to
extract data from the device itself the
accused killer has yet to be put on
trial and it is not clear whether the
information ultimately proved useful to
the investigation I would say that this
news story is super important and
relevant due to the fact especially that
they refused um and I think that that's
actually a safe card to play even though
it is a murder investigation I think
that you you don't want to give give up
too much information to easily and start
a slippery slope situation so do you
think Sasha that this is a like we're
protecting the integrity of our system
and of the data of our customers or do
you think it's more of a marketing
decision I think it's a marketing
decision do you think so absolutely I
think that they will happily if
compelled by the law share like if they
went to court for it but I think that
they want to look as though they are
protecting the privacy of people
especially when they want more and more
products in your home like they don't
just want what is the name of the echo
what is her name it's a I cantrell exes
and like yeah to looks at or something
oh yeah they want these products
everywhere yeah and so they don't want
you to think that they're going to just
give you not that everybody's a criminal
but that they're give you up write it so
the Internet of Things it turns out is a
scary thing can be can be I think with
this one the interesting thing about
this case is that there we want to think
that this is a good reason to give up
that data right anytime they're like
this is a criminal investigation they
may have evidence
that you know of who it is that's
responsible for a murder and there's an
echo right there that they know is
recording all the things that are being
said right and saving them somewhere
right but if a police officer is a to
just using the device get the
information that's fine right right yeah
because then your talk that's not
compromising the echo service that's the
built-in hard drive of the device itself
right right at that point I if it's just
the singular device not the you know the
Weber that yeah there's the cloud
services echo itself is I'd rather just
be the thing itself that's like a
personal hard drive or yeah right I'm in
somebody if if I got killed by all means
yeah take the recording device they'll
sitting on my desk yeah open it up copy
the files you're out who did this to me
sure it'd be told that's probably in the
next agreement like terms and conditions
you're probably going to have an upgrade
that you check off saying that now
you're okay with if it's a criminal
investigation sharing your information
but that probably wasn't already rolled
yeah but see the it's such a tough thing
because we have you're talking about
this show dark mirror and how it makes
you think about the dark side of
technology being used to track things
and information and so if I sign this
document that yeah if I got murdered I
want you to be able to fight I want you
to be able to listen to the data the the
content but where's the legal line where
okay well I haven't been murdered no I'm
suspected in something that I didn't do
but it's still illegal investigation and
I signed off on the fact that okay they
can now violate my privacy and listen to
my family right you know where where is
that I don't I mean I know that they
probably do have access to absolutely
everything that's going on if you have
an Alexa device in your home they can
probably really tap into anything at any
time the fact that they are protecting
that or it's perceived protection at
this point protecting it from other
people looking at it is a good thing
right they don't want i guess amazon
doesn't want people to know
that really the information is there to
be hat yeah sure and rightly so right
rightly so good job high five except
that in a criminal investigation I'm
happy that the the person was caught
without the need of the information
being here that's true okay next netgear
has downplayed the significance of newly
discovered flaws in it W and our two
thousand line of consumer routers I'm
pretty sure that's the router that I
have that is pretty sure II tell us
about this yeah the vulnerabilities
could hypothetically allow a remote
attack to execute code and take over the
device without authentication claims
pedro ribeiro the security researcher
who discovered the bugs come on now now
it was truly it's a land-based attack
but it can also be used over the
Internet if remote administration is
enabled in the router which is scary and
this is what Rivero told el reg rivera
went public on the flaws earlier this
week with an advisory after claiming
he'd not received an adequate response
from netgear Rivero meant maintains that
the flaw is more serious than neck yours
response implies vulnerable devices are
easy to find using an IOT search engine
he claims right also the exploit by its
very nature can be used to grant a
hacker access to the users internal
network placing personal fire files and
even devices like web cams at risk scary
stuff netgear plans to release firmware
updates that fix the remote access and
command execution vulnerability for all
affected products in the meantime it is
advised to completely disable remote
management on your device so Robbie have
you done that you know what Sasha as
you're as I'm looking at this router and
thinking about the story and what's
going on I'm thinking who buys a netgear
router and doesn't immediately install
dd-wrt or tomahto right like replace
that firmware all together problem
solved because these routers are
fantastic
or running third party open-source
firmwares right dd-wrt on that router is
a dream and that's what I run so I'm not
susceptible to this because it's not a
hardware flaw it's a software flaw in
the stock netgear firmware so you got a
look at what are you using I suppose a
consumer like if you were to go out and
buy a router would you think to change
the software that it's running late no
never I wouldn't even think of it not in
a million saying it is a thing
absolutely well because you can buy a
cheap router like this guy like 115
bucks or whatever Canadian and then
download a firmware like a dd-wrt is a
perfect example that you can install on
that device and now just like
reformatting your computer and
installing linux versus the windows that
comes with it you can put dd-wrt on
there and you get the features of a
ten-thousand-dollar router oh wow but
it's only a hundred fifteen bucks huh
because it's an open source firmware so
and it's not susceptible to this
particular hack and you would expect
that yeah okay it could happen dd-wrt
could be compromised but they would you
know it's open source so I would expect
that they'd be pretty quick to fix it so
I'm sure like this might be a whole
other show topic but like how would you
disable remote access well generally I
mean a router you need to be able to log
into it through your web browser in
order to change settings like this is a
router it's not a modem so you need to
be able to set up pppoe so if you've got
a dsl connection for example or fibre to
the node that you need to be able to
authenticate with a username and
password all those gibberish words are
just to say if you need to be able to
put in a password you need to be able to
log into it to tell it what your
username and password is so that remote
login capability is what's giving
hackers the access that they need in
order to compromise those devices I'm
not too sure of the nature they're not
really saying much about this are they
Sasha about the nature of the hack
that's part of the complaint that
they're really downplaying this
sure at all making it seem as
significant as it is yeah and and I so I
don't know is it that people are leaving
the routers with the default username
and password so people can just find
these routers online and login to them
or they actually compromise the software
because it's a firmware update that's
required I think that there's a back
door into the router that's giving them
access it could be something we've seen
it before where some of these back doors
and you see it in like in military
defense installations of stuff the IT
companies sometimes deploy a back door
into the system to give them the ability
to support it no matter what the user
sets their username and password to so
if somebody ever determined Batman's
password because I think that's what it
was they can get into that system
regardless of whether they know the
actual system username and password so
could it be an exploit like that we
don't know mm-hmm that's what because
they're not telling us but if you have
that device you need to you need to fix
that up for sure so to answer your
question really just need to turn off
the remote access capabilities so that
it cannot be accessed through the
internet okay pretty much just every
single time I buy anything I'm like
Robbie I bought this can you set this up
yeah like sweet that's a good little
dd-wrt router right there bro that
firmware on there tomato tomahto
whatever throw it on me all right
Microsoft just scored a big win with a
927 million or almost 1 billion dollar
contract to provide technical support
and consulting for the United States
Department of Defense reports router
Reuters I knew I was going to do it we
just did the story on motors we just did
a story on routers and now we're doing a
story that has Reuters oh sorry to do
that to you yeah the hike in February
2016 Microsoft secured a huge deal with
the Department of Defense to bring the
windows 10 operating system to all four
million of its employees within 12
months at the time microsoft said it was
the largest enterprise deal for wind
10 ever to make sense windows 10 is
actually knew as that 12 month window
nears its close it seems that the
Department of Defense has gone back to
Microsoft for the services and tech
support necessary to keep everything
running smoothly admitted mid the
transition so that's a huge big win for
them I like the money yeah well they do
because they need their remoulding their
companies like many companies these days
are realizing there isn't money in
Hardware there isn't money in software
the money is in support that's where you
make your income and so like so many
other things they have to change that
model and it has to become a support
model otherwise they're gonna fool and
they're you know they're pre-empting
that and saying okay good here's a great
contract sweet blackberry making the
opposite descends and blackberry now
getting you know it oh well maybe we
should get into software and support
that would be smart now that we're
almost bankrupt yes blackberry looking
at rearview mirror and thanks all the
things I should have done well we should
have done this 10 years ago yeah the
money is not in hardware rooms gdzies
thanks for watching the category 5 TV
news room don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
Sasha dramatis
[Music]
