Peter are the stories that recovering in
the category 5 dot TV news ribbon more
excitement and the technological
advancement in the fight against cancer
as scientists in Texas reveal a penlight
device that can find cancerous cells in
just 10 seconds a potentially dangerous
overlay exploit has been found in all
versions of Android before Oreo a
massive data breach has happened at
credit reporting giant Equifax raising
serious concern over mass identity theft
if you've been trying to find a reason
to replace Microsoft Windows with Linux
I've got one for you a design flaw
discovered in the Windows kernel allows
malicious programs to mask themselves
from anti-virus programs and Microsoft
says they are not going to fix it
Facebook claims that its ads have the
potential to reach more people than
recent US census data shows exist and
that's troublesome for one analyst who
thinks third-party measurement services
stand to benefit in a WordPress plug-in
installed on around 200,000 websites has
a backdoor that lets the code authors do
pretty much anything that they want with
your content these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
aren't you but you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
just don't put that of a paper sorry
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dream host I'm Robbie
Ferguson filling in for Sascha Rickman
tonight and here are the top stories
that were covering for the week of
September 13th of 2017 a handheld device
can identify cancerous tissue in just 10
seconds according to scientists at the
University of Texas they say that it
could make surgery to remove a tumor
quicker safer and more precise they hope
to avoid the heartbreak of that leaving
some of the cancer behind can cause
tests published in Science Translational
Medicine suggests that the technology is
accurate up to 96% of the time the mass
spec pen takes advantage of the unique
metabolism of cancer cells they're
furious drive to grow and spread means
that their internal chemistry is very
different to that of healthy tissue so
the pen is touched on a suspected cancer
and releases a tiny droplet of water
chemicals then inside of the living
cells move into the droplet which is
then sack
sucked back into the pen for analysis
the pen then is plugged into a mass
spectrometer that's a piece of kit that
can measure the mass of thousands of
chemicals every second and from there it
produces a chemical fingerprint that
tells doctors whether they are looking
at healthy tissue or cancer any
unpatched Android device running a
version older than Oreo is going to need
to be patched fairly soon with
researchers turning up a class of
vulnerability that lets malware draw
fake dialogues so that users okay their
own ownage the risk according to Palo
Alto Networks researchers come from what
is known as an overlay attack it's a
straightforward way to trick users draw
a bogus screen for users to click for
example to install an app or accept a
set of permissions but they're hiding
what's actually happening in the backend
the vulnerability turned up by palo
Altos unit 42 threat research team and
it bypasses these requirements by
exploiting a notification type called
toast and Android documentation
describes that as a view containing a
quick little message for the user use of
the exploit the paper explains allows an
attacker to both modify what the user
sees and inject fake input all while
maintaining the expected user experience
and remaining stealthy such an attack
could occur by simply installing an
affected app after 143 million US
customers of credit report giant Equifax
have had their information compromised
in the cyber security breach the company
says that cyber criminals accessed data
such as social security numbers birth
dates and addresses during the incident
now some UK and Canadian customers are
apparently also affected the firm's core
consumer and commercial credit databases
were not accessed Equifax said that
hackers access the information between
mid May and the end of July when the
company discovered the breach hackers
won access to its systems by exploiting
a website application vulnerability it
said but provided no further details now
we've
learned that an Apache struts to app was
used in the attack with a newfound code
execution vulnerability that allows
hackers to push malicious code into
servers and run them within corporate
networks now Apache was quick to patch
the software but too little too late
following the Equifax attack the hackers
accessed credit card numbers for about
two hundred and nine thousand consumers
among other information
Equifax holds data on more than eight
hundred and twenty million consumers as
well as information on 91 million
businesses Equifax has set up a website
at Equifax security 2017 dot-com and
that allows consumers to determine if
their information was potentially
compromised click on the tab labeled
potential impact in the center of the
webpage and then you'll need to enter
your name and the last six digits of
your social security number in order to
find out if you are at risk now the
dangers here with a compromising of this
scale and of course this is data that
probably none of us have opted into
Equifax storing on our behalf this is
like if you apply for a mortgage and
your bank needs to find out your credit
score they reach out to a company like
Equifax and find out whether you've been
paying your bills on time things like
that so there's a lot of data there a
lot of potential for identity theft and
we're gonna see over the next little
while what what comes of it now a design
flaw within the Windows kernel that
could stop antivirus programs from
recognizing malware isn't going to be
fixed now the issue spotted this week by
NC low security researchers Omri Misgav
it lies within the system call and it's
this big long thing PS set load image
notify routine which has been part of
Microsoft's operating system since way
back in the days of Windows 2000 and is
still active in the latest built now
antivirus tools use this routine to
check if malicious code has been loaded
into memory but Misgav found that a
cunning attacker could use poor coding
behind the API to smuggle malware past
scanners mister Mozgov said in a blog
post during research into the Windows
kernel we came across an interesting
issue with this routine which
as its name implies notifies of module
loading now the thing is after
registering a notification routine for
loading PE images within the kernel the
callback may receive invalid image names
essentially malware can use the above a
API to trick the OS into giving malware
scanners other files such as benign
executables to inspect rather than their
own malicious code
this would allow software nasties to
evade anti-virus packages we're just not
safe anymore Microsoft's response well
they say and I quote our engineers
reviewed the information and determined
that this does not pose a security
threat and we do not plan to address it
with a security update I've got a
security update for you Lubuntu comm
recently pivotal research group analyst
Brian Weiser was intrigued by a trade
publication study in Australia that said
Facebook was claiming to reach 1.7
million users more sixteen to thirty
nine year olds than actually exist
that's according to Australians
Australian census data now in
reproducing the study for the United
States Weezer said Facebook's ads
manager claimed that it can potentially
reach forty 1 million 18 to 24 year olds
60 million 25 to 34 year olds and 61
million 35 to 49 year olds now the
problem arises when Weezer pulls up the
US sensor census data from a year ago
that shows that there are thirty 1
million 18 to 24-year olds 45 million 25
to 34 year olds and 61 million 35 to 49
year olds so the question is brought
about where is Facebook getting the
extra 25 million people in just the 18
to 34 year old demographic the US census
data says they don't exist Weezer said
conversations with agency executives on
this topic indicate to us that the gap
between Facebook and census figures is
not widely known while Facebook's
measurement issues won't necessarily
deter advertisers from spending money
with Facebook they will help
TV sellers justify existing budget
shares and could restrain Facebook's
growth in video ad sales on the margins
now if you've got a plug-in called
display widgets on your wordplay
WordPress website remove it immediately
the last three releases of the plug-in
have contained code that allows the
author to publish any content to your
website it actually contains a backdoor
the authors of this plug-in have been
using the backdoor to publish spam
content to sites running their plug-in
during the past three months the plug-in
has been removed and remit readmitted to
the wordpress.org plug-in repository a
total of four times the plug-in is used
by approximately 200,000 WordPress
websites
according to WordPress repository now
here's how it happened on June 21st the
plug-in called display widgets was sold
by its original owner to a user known as
display widget on the they sold it
through the WordPress forums and now the
new owner released version 2.6 point o
of the plug-in then the very next day
David law a uk-based SEO consultant sent
an email to the wordpress.org plug-in
team letting them know that he found
display widgets plug-in was including
additional code from an external server
now the plug-in was downloading a large
Maxx mind IP geolocation database of
around thirty eight megabytes from the
author's own server now Mac's mind
itself is benign its IP geolocation
information however this is not allowed
by WordPress plugins in the repository
so the next day the plug-in team removed
display widgets from the repository
there was some discussion about this on
the wordpress.org forums now then a week
later on June 30th the developer
released version 2.6 point 1 of the
plug-in and this release contained a
file called geolocation dot PHP which no
one realized at the time contained
malicious code a back and forth then
took place of removal and then
re-edition of the the plug-in into the
repository leaving a huge number of
users vulnerable to attack and nobody
really knowing what
version they should run now the code
authors have responded by saying it was
a vulnerability however it's important
to realize that this was in fact an
intentional backdoor not a bug the code
in geolocation dot PHP allowed the
plugin author to post new content to any
website running the plugin and they can
put it on any URL within that website
that they choose they could also update
content and even remove existing content
furthermore the malicious code prevented
any logged in user from seeing the
content now get this
in other words site owners who are
usually logged into their own website
are not going to see the malicious
content considering the time span of two
and a half months between the releases
it's estimated that these coders have
access to publish anything they like on
almost 200,000 sites that have the
plug-in installed now an update on the
story from this afternoon as research
continues cyber security experts at
wordfence are warning that the
individual responsible for this attack
has in fact been buying multiple
WordPress plugins and using them to
promote various shady businesses they
report that he is also being living a
lavish lifestyle thanks to the profits
of his activities big thanks this week
to Roy Roy W Nash sparkly balls and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more content be sure to check out our
web site from the category-five dot TV
newsroom I'm Robbie Ferguson in for
Sascha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
you
