welcome back we're loving single board
computers here on category five TV and
this week we're looking at the Odroid c2
just a quick unboxing for you you can
get these at camp five dot TV slash
Odroid for well currently 46 dollars
u.s. they're not an expensive board
quickly in the box that's it a little
bit of instructions there and the single
board computer itself
they require scissors so bring your
scissors with you folks and just reach
over here thankfully I have some handy
there you are the Odroid c2 is a 1.5
gigahertz 64-bit quad-core processor
single board computer so it's it's quite
powerful quite fast especially for this
price point at 46 dollars I'm very keen
to find out what the giggle score on
this is this is powerful enough to use
as a home theater system it's got 4k 6
th DMI output you could even use it as a
general-purpose computer if you want to
use it for just like web browsing and
you know generally getting online with a
single-board computer this has
definitely got enough power for you it's
got 2 gigabytes of ddr3 RAM Gigabit
Ethernet it's got 4 USB 2.0 ports and I
did see also we've got USB OTG over here
as well we've got a GPIO 40 pin we've
got infrared this guy I mean this really
strikes me as something that I could use
for development if you want to just kind
of mess around with the GPIO with
infrared you've got a couple of
different options there if you want to
start kind of messing around with being
a maker this looks like a fantastic
board I like that it came with the
heatsink built in this is something that
I didn't have to purchase separately I
did not have to install it this came on
the on the single board computer which I
really really
we've been looking at home automation
smart home this would make a great
controller for that as well we've got a
microSD port here as well as emmc and
when I say microSD I should say that is
uhs-1 so it's going to be faster than
just a standard like a Raspberry Pi
microSD port and that's all there is to
that I mean it's pretty basic as far as
what you see is what you get
we've seen enough single board computers
to see what we're looking at here but
what can we actually put this in I'm
really really excited about a company
called K KS b k KS B cases we're gonna
have all of this stuff at cat5 dot TV
slash Odroid but check this out k KS B
has sent us a c2 case and what they're
doing is they're doing steel cases for
single board computers if I can get into
this let's get a look at this because I
really want to have nice cases for my
single board computers and that is
exactly what k KS B is doing there we
are so this is this is not plastic this
is steel I've got a couple of screws
there and the top housing as well so
presumably I'm gonna be able just to put
that right in here the c2 there we go
beautiful look at that and this now we
do have four screw holes and we would
screw those in for a permanent
installation for today I'm just kind of
showing you how this works just to line
up everything there
and there we go beautiful little case
from KSP so that is the c2 in a cake ASB
case for the c2 and that is a nice
strong steel case
now I haven't screwed down the c2 so
it's a little bit off off its axis there
but of course you're gonna screw that
into the case to install that just four
screws that are included with it but
that is absolutely gorgeous they've
noticed on the case as well to leave a
hole on opening for the infrared that's
all in there as well check it out cap v
dot t-- v /o droid that is the c2
[Music]
