okay Chris Kevin Lee sent us a message
this week first of all says hi Robbie
this tweet is actually related to
episode 490 so this is last week Chris
was watching the show says a friend's
PlayStation 3 had problems and I ran
Dede rescue this is something you
learned on the show last week episode
490 her drive has got 27 errors and he
posted this screenshot so thank you very
much for that that helps us we're gonna
refer right back to that in just a
moment's time here carrying on with your
your message there on Twitter you said I
recommended her to replace the hard
drive do you think that maybe that's the
best option Sasha what do you think I
would say yes I would say just go for it
just place the drive replace the drive
go for it go for it okay one of those
Kingston's absolutely get one of those
Kingston the kingston solid state drives
what can you say i would investigate
just a little bit further okay because
here's the thing Chris we need to
understand that errors do not
necessarily mean failure okay hard
drives over the course of their lifespan
sometimes they will encounter bad
sectors and things like that
let's refer back to your comment where
you said that your scan using DD Rescue
found 27 errors so let's think about the
process of running DD Rescue and what
that means please refer back if you're
not familiar with what I'm talking about
I know Chris says but if you're watching
this and you haven't seen it go back to
episode 490 of category 5 technology TV
it's going to teach you all about this
but DD Rescue is it's trying to do a
data recovery copy of your hard drive to
an image file or another hard drive so
if you get 27 errors in the process it's
going it basically means 27 times I was
trying to copy this block of data which
by default is very small about 500
kilobytes so unless you specify a larger
size and this is why I didn't show you
to make as larger size which would be
faster but because we're working with
drives that we assume are probably prob
problematic we're gonna work with
smaller block sizes so
as its copying it says 27 times I had
trouble copying that so there's a couple
things here first of all you you know
that there's some data loss okay we're
gonna look at how much in just a second
as it's copying okay DD rescue can try
again
but what DD Rescue does is it says oh
okay I've found a problem here this
could mean that the drive is going to
fail so let's move on let's let's really
quickly skip over this and let's move on
to the next sectors and let's keep going
because it wants to get the most amount
of data off of your hard drive as it
possibly can before that drive fails
because we're making the assumption that
we might have a bad drive so then you
can run the scan again using your log
file or you can set it up to loop back
and this is through the command line
options so do a dash dash help to find
out about those or read the man pages
and what it will do then is it will
focus in on those 27 errors so think
these are errors these are not bad
sectors okay remember the difference
there so it's not saying that these are
bad parts of the drive it's saying I
encountered an error at that point while
I was copying so by going back over it
again DD rescue may say oh okay now that
we've taken a bit more time I've been
able to get a couple more of those
blocks oh so all of a sudden you're
gonna see that the error count goes down
because again it's not referring to bad
sectors it's referring to a problem
during the rescue process right which is
going to decrease as it is able to go
back over those so let's look back at
Chris's screenshot here and Chris one of
the key things that we notice here is
the error size okay see that one just
above your errors count the error size
is very small this is a 250 gig disk you
can see that just to the left of left of
that or at least that's how much it had
rescued and we see that it's finished so
we can assume that this is probably a
250 gig disk because it's not going to
be much much different than that because
it's finished so look at the error size
124 kilobytes of 250
bytes we're talking what is that zero
point zero zero zero three percent
something like that a very very small
amount of data so chances you know it is
data loss go back let it loop over it
try to get that data and put it in your
image file so that you've got all of the
data and you don't lose any is the drive
failing is it has it failed is it is it
problematic is it something that needs
to be replaced or that you need to be
concerned with certainly the fact that
there are errors on the drive means that
it is there is something up okay if it's
is a catastrophic that's what we want to
determine so I'm gonna jump over to my
Linux system here for you and we're
gonna get into our terminal so let's do
that make sure I bring up the rights
great here we go
okay so Chris what we're gonna do and
for all of you watching what we're gonna
learn here is how to determine if your
hard drive is in fact failing if there
is something that sector-by-sector copy
can't see because those are two
different readings what we want to look
at is the smart status of our hard drive
you've probably heard the term what it
means is there's there's data that's
stored on your hard drive about your
hard drives status so every time there's
a problem with your drive it's going to
report it and the only way to see that
is to use a tool that looks at your
smart data so let's get in here and
let's try it let's I'm gonna just see if
I have it in start so smart did I say in
starred because I'm typing smart smart
and I said in I don't know what I said
we're gonna see if I have it installed
by typing smart CTL and it says
obviously I I do have it installed
because it's not giving me an error but
the program is missing now if it did
give me an error that there that the
program was missing the the package that
you want to install is so you would go
sudo apt-get update enter your password
and then once she's done sudo apt-get
install smart Mon tools that's what
you're gonna need Chris and everyone
else okay and it says smart Mon tools is
already the newest version that's what
my system tells me I've already got it
in there see that nice okay so I'm good
so smart CTL dash 8 just gonna give you
a little bit of information about how
you use it and if you're in your
terminal like this you can scroll up
cool so what we need to do is we want to
test or see the test results that are
currently on that drive smart CTL - -
all and then the drive the drive dev
assignment we already know that because
on episode 490 we used F disk - L to
determine that let's do it again really
really quickly just so that we know F
disk no I'm gonna need sudo pardon me
sudo fdisk - L and we see that I only
have s da in my system so SDA one means
partition the first partition - is the
second and the third and the fifth and
the sixth are actually the fourth and
the fifth
we know ya figure that the drive itself
is called slash dev slash SDA so I'm
going to type smart CTL - - all slash
dev slash SDA and then hit enter what
does it tell us permission denied okay
why because I forgot sudo sudo you have
to be super user there we go okay so
gave me a big report here and if I
scroll up you're gonna see a couple of
things first of all okay well no it says
pre fail pre fail pre-fill pre-fill pre
fail oh no my drive is crashing no don't
freak out don't worry you're okay you're
okay why why because the raw value is
zero zero that means it never happened
okay what is this yeah this is the type
the type of this particular error raw
read error rate
is prevail so okay so you're just
looking in the wrong spot hmm so if my
raw value for this particular line in
the table happens to be greater than
zero then we know that we have a pre
fail error on our drive that means it's
about to crash you're about to lose all
your data it might be a year from now it
might be a day from now but you need to
replace this drive if you see any
reasonable number of pre fail errors
happening on that road anything greater
than zero
realistically guy I mean if you've got a
pre fail error you know that your drive
is failing and we need to replace it you
know you need to get rockin on on that
if there's one or two or 50 or 50 yeah I
mean if that's the case then you know
you'd probably don't need to freak out
right now don't like it's failing okay
don't get me wrong don't get me wrong I
want you to replace it but where you
really like I mean you could still be
running your computer and have 50,000
pre fail errors right and you'll be why
is my computer so darn slow right
because you're hard driving you've seen
this where your hard drive gets really
really like choked up and all of a
sudden yeah and then your computer just
seems to freeze up yeah and then all of
a sudden it starts working again and
something you think okay I must have
just been doing something no that's your
hard drive pre failing that's the
internal storage getting ready to crash
and that's called a pre fail problems so
it's having trouble reading sectors of
the drive and that's that's critical
really scary yeah so as that starts
happening now remember that Chris has
followed the instructions on episode 490
made an image of his friend's hard drive
so now on Chris's laptop there is a full
image a copy of this hard drive so you
can go out and buy a new hard drive and
then image that back and she's lost no
data that's cool well 120 some odd
kilobytes of data nothing significant
but maybe if you loop over a couple more
times it'll it'll get rid of it so look
at this list okay and you see how some
of them say old age look at this oh my
goodness uh 649
oh it's only old age it's not prevail
what it's saying is that yeah this is
normal for a drive that's been in
operation for some time okay so this is
not something that you necessarily have
to be concerned with that particular
thing is telling me that it has been
that my hard drive has been powered on
for a total of six hundred forty nine
hours okay so mine is obviously a fairly
new drive right so the fact that it says
old age is not saying I have an old aged
hard drive so when you say when you see
pre fail it's not saying your drive is
pre failing no it's saying this
particular line in this table is about
old age it's reporting on old age mm-hmm
well it's this is the it's reporting on
the number of hours that's been online
so when you see 649 I offer of old age
right now if I saw something there that
said 10 million then yeah my drive is
pretty old yes so you see how so the pre
fail stuff we're not really we you know
that's more critical right and those are
real those are real oh yeah
like if I turn off my laptop it stops
counting okay yeah that's real time
super accurate that's real time okay
that's good I do see you know some
things here that I'm not sure what they
are like here's a pre fail where I have
707 but it says unknown attribute so I'd
have to look that up which I will allow
you to Google code number ID 170 what is
it comment below okay Chris and everyone
else I hope that gives you a little bit
more insight so Chris as you look at
that report on your friend's hard drive
that's now when you can say okay well
I'd yeah okay DeeDee Rescue had some
trouble copy and some some bits of data
running over it again may get that data
off of there so that I've got a full
image what I really need to see now that
I know that there are some errors with
the drive is is the drive in a pre fail
state I can tell that by looking at
those pre fail lines and seeing if the
raw value is a high number yeah that's
going to tell us that that drive is on
its way out if
not already dead all right
[Music]
