welcome back to you all to new every day
so by that you've tuned in Jen and I
just got back from a crazy fun
adventurous vacation to the u.s.
Southern California we landed in Vegas
and we rented a camper van so frobbie
wants to put up that picture now he may
and you might think wow it looks really
cool and it was we had there was a stove
in the back and a sink and a fridge and
we literally flew in went to the store
bought all we needed and then set a
walmart run walmart run we looked at
each other went so where are we gonna go
are we gonna go so we went to the camper
place picked up while we went to a
cameraman place and we said where should
we go yeah and we were going to go to
the Grand Canyon but turns out that they
have winter there oh no if you're
watching from Nevada and Utah and all
that area you can affirm this that they
get snow and we would have had to chain
up our tires to go up the hills and
we're like no no no way man we just came
from Canada don't we don't want any more
snow so we sat down at starbucks and
were like okay so we can either go up
and around the Grand Canyon or we can go
over to death valley and down to Las
fete de los angeles and joshua tree and
Carrie had just seen a or just listened
to a podcast from Focus on the Family
yeah about the dream center in los
angeles and she said what she'd really
like to go there so that's sort of that
plus the weather in the Grand Canyon
caused us to go more Southwest rather
than north east and so we got in the van
and we headed to Red Rock Canyon and a
red rock yeah I redrock redrock canyon
and did some hiking there and and then
we found our way to death valley which
when you think of it you think what
could possibly be living in something
that is
dead and so we decided to call this
whole next series as you journey with us
on vacation life in the desert because
it was shocking to us it was shocking to
find out how how how much life happened
in the desert like animals and plants
and there really were water sources and
so we enjoy hiking and so the focus on
the strip is we want to be outside we
want to be away from the city and so we
spent all of our time hiking and so this
first episode is going to focus on our
trip to salt creek park i guess i don't
know what you call it it was part of a
like a conservation area and it was
maintained by the people who work for
the Department of Interior mm-hmm so
Rangers would take people on tours
through these areas and help maintain it
and they were involved in research it
was really amazing and salt creek it's
it's like this huge flat area i will
show pictures as we're talking here it's
this huge flat area surrounded by
mountains but its planes of like creeks
and salt yeah there's so much salt
deposition in the soil and the rate of
evaporation is so fast that the salt
actually comes up to the surface and
then kind of crystallizes on nah like
you can taste it yeah we did we did his
sultan it's very salty these crunches
under your feet it looks like snow and
in some of the pictures you'll see was
really quite incredible and one of the
cool things that carry does when she
goes on vacation is she takes video
shots of wherever we are and sends them
to her little brother so we're just
going to pause for a moment so you guys
can have a look and see at what Salt
Creek looked like so this is from Kerry
to Josh hey Josh so we are here along
the salt creek so this is in the middle
of the desert and there's this body of
water check it out
so ducks and Fox live here and all this
white stuff is salt because it comes
from underneath the ground and gets
pushed up and then it stays on top of
the ground and all of these plants and
animals that live in here have adapted
to this super salty environment it's
amazing so we're going hiking out to
that mountain out there so that's just
an example of some educational videos I
try to send to Josh but it really does
show the vastness of the landscape and
the trail that we walked on and we were
guided by a conservation ranger yes
named Mike yes my dream job explaining
the different aspects of salt creek and
the vegetation and Jen you encountered
something very interesting there a type
of plant well the it was called pickle
weed and I have everything written down
because it was really interesting it's
been about a week now since we've gotten
back and it's hard to remember
everything that we did and so pickle
weed was one of the the plants that he
talked to us about and basically it's
like the plant is made in bead shapes so
when you look at it it looks like one
bead after the next bead after the next
bead and the cool thing about it is that
it has a high capacity for salt which
makes sense as you just explained
there's so much it's called salt creek
for a reason and so as it absorbs the
water it has so much salt in it what it
does is it actually pushes the plant
itself pushes the salt to the very end
bead and once it becomes i want to say
full of salt it that part dies off and
falls so the plant can continue to live
so it doesn't get over salted and what
was interesting as as he was explaining
this when he and we did taste it and it
was it was salty uncle e i was thinking
it reminded me so much that that's what
Jesus did in Philippians 2 he gave up
himself to come to earth to die on the
cross for us that we could that we could
live so by looking at this plant and
hearing Ranger Mike explain it to us I
kept thinking about was that's what
Jesus did
like he sacrificed himself so that we
might live and be made right with with
God and so it's just really cool as I
would walk past each one of these bushes
I was continually reminded of how much
God loves us how much God loves us that
he would sacrifice himself that we could
be made right with him and I just
thought that was the coolest thing that
picture in in the desert was a
self-sacrificing plant like it
understands that it had to sacrifice
itself in order that it could live so
it's very very interesting I know we
were so full of sin that we had to get
rid of it and put it off and put that on
to Christ yeah and he literally took on
our sin for us yeah so that we could be
made right with God which is like and
you think what are you gonna learn in
the desert yeah we oh my we saw amazing
amazing amazing things another thing
that we saw were rocks all over the
place oh yeah like in random places and
then when we tried to video it for you
but it didn't work out in one image Jem
says well we know the rocks weren't born
here it's true the rocks are not born
i'm born there you know rocks are formed
when you know molten lava hardens and
there's all that pressure and blah blah
blah i'm not a geologist clearly but
yeah they'd be in random places and what
happens in the desert is that they'll
have flash floods so in the summertime
they'll get all this rain all at once
and massive amounts of water will just
flow in torrents down the down the
mountains and then when they come out to
these flats like where salt creek is
they fan out so while the debris that
they're carrying that this torrent of
water is caring then comes down the
mountain and fans out and then the water
disperses mm-hmm and all that the debris
then is deposited in a fan shape these
rocks were when you really looked at it
we're in keeping with the flow of water
during one of those flash yeah and we're
not talking about like we little like
there were we ones time went like a
boulder you were talking about boulders
like some of them were quite large i
think i have a photo of my foot beside
one of them
and and in the one a story that he told
us there was a dumpster in Jamaican
Ranger Mike told us a dumpster had been
picked up and moved like what 200 feet
yeah and a helicopter had to come in and
actually move it back to where it needed
to go like that saw DS castle how much
force that this water's coming in with
and it just you know as he's telling us
the story once again I'm just like wow I
God God's love is powerful it's like a
right it can be like a rushing flood
towards us and we can just get like
overwhelmed by God's love so that was
just so cool cuz it literally would come
out like a fan yeah shape and one of the
cool things that we saw were the flowers
yeah cuz he said he was so excited
Ranger Mike got excited about the
strangest things sometimes Michael RV
larva Marv I larva bugs yeah like he
actually said come over and look in the
water and we're looking at the water I'm
not not really sure and he's like
pointing out I'm still not sure what he
was pointing at I thought a little
larvae okay yeah I did not I was like
but he got so excited about this and one
of the things he got excited about were
the flowers he's like the flowers are
out and it was very interesting and
we're just going to put a photo up for
you to look at you'll see this yellow
flower in the middle of rocks rocks yeah
and you start to think well where did
that seed come from and you'll notice it
is a single flower like that is not a
part of a garden no no and I Ranger Mike
was saying that was the seeds keep like
the seeds keep where they can come in
with the with the rushing water and they
lie dormant their latent mm-hmm in the
dry earth yes until there's water that
touches it and then it's boom ready to
bloom yeah it was just like once again
like God's story like so often we think
is it time yet is it time yet like time
for us to do what God has called us to
her god what are you moving us onto and
so often you know he says his ways are
not our ways and his
timing you know we have no concept of
his timing but there but when the time
is right he has put everything that we
need it says my god will meet all of my
needs according to his glorious riches
in christ jesus and that is Philippians
4 21 and it just reminded me like inside
that little seed is everything it needs
when the water touches it it's good to
go it's good to go yeah that reminds me
of our first in a Bible it says he has
given us everything we need for life and
godliness yes so not only for this life
like the day-to-day things that we need
food water whatever but also for
godliness to live a life here that's for
Christ that's focused on Christ he's
already given us everything we need
Ephesian says that we have been given
every spiritual blessing in Christ yeah
so when the Holy Spirit comes and tells
us to do something we have everything we
were equipped with everything to obey
and bear fruit and a blue yeah and all
we need to do is ask we just need to say
okay Lord I'm ready and that was one
thing that we learned with Ranger Mike
is we had no idea what we're going to do
that day and Carrie looked on the on the
board and my camp at the campground and
we sort of looked down 10 eeny meeny
miny mo this is happening and this is
happening so what sort of organizer our
day around this and Ranger Mike had done
a show the pre that night on bats which
was great but then this next day was on
salt creek and what was interesting was
he was our guide and he was there and he
said you have any questions and he
showed us things that we never would
have saw like those life that's a larva
and explained the life in the desert and
it just reminded me of Jeremiah 33 3
which says call to me and I will answer
i will show you great and unsearchable
things that you did not know and Ranger
Mike was our guide in that like he
showed us all along the way what to look
for how things happened and he even said
you guys I have to head out but if you
keep walking then you know you're going
to get to the the start of the spring
and so he encouraged us to keep walking
and it was just just like the Holy
Spirit right he encourages us he guides
us he tells us what we need to know and
it was just so encouraging to me to know
that there was someone there to sort of
help us along the way to have the full
experience I really appreciate the life
that was there mmhmm yeah yeah like it
was it was just an amazing like salt
creek was amazing yeah yeah something
that can seem so desolate it helps to
have a new perspective to be able to see
the life in death valley yes even though
I walk through the valley of the shadow
of death I will fear no evil for your
rod and your staff they come for me yes
he leads us beside streams of living
water yes and I you know it's just
interesting I just came from a
conversation with a friend whose father
passed away just a couple of weeks ago
and just going through such a hard time
at such a dark dark time and without the
Lord giving us insight and a new
perspective in these dark situations and
the valleys in the desert of her life it
can just seem so dry and hopeless yeah
and where would we I wouldn't know where
to turn yeah Peter says where would we
go Lord you of the words of eternal life
you are you are the way the truth of my
life yeah now that's just how I feel
yeah and the Holy spiritual I in the
desert and that's it was so cool cos
Ranger Mike as soon as you heard the
Ducks be like look there they go yeah
like the spirit shows us the hope and
the life that's but is potential just
like Ranger Mike showed us all the
things that were alive in the desert the
Holy Spirit can give us life in the
midst of death and so we want to
encourage you today that if you're
feeling like life is salty or rocky or
just very very dry we encourage you to
look for the Holy Spirit to call on the
Holy Spirit to be your guide to show you
great none searchable things that you
don't know and that's one of the things
we're in the midst of the valley
sometimes we just
we don't know what to do we don't know
what to say we don't know where to turn
but the Bible says that God will give us
everything that we need according to his
glorious riches in christ jesus so we're
going to pray and let's pray Lord God
thank you so much that you provide for
all of our needs and so we agree with
Peter where else would we go and you
really do help us to lie down beside
still waters and even in the midst of
Death Valley at salt creek there was a
creek with life in it and so father we
ask that you would show us where the
life is where the hope is in the midst
of the darkness whatever it is that we
might be going through maybe one of our
viewers has just lost a loved one or
maybe they're going through a separation
or divorce or maybe they're struggling
with their kids are at work and it just
seems so dry and wondering where you are
Lord we ask that you would meet with
them that as they call to you that you
would come and tell them great and
unsearchable things they did not know we
pray this in the mighty name of Jesus
through the power of the Holy Spirit
amen amen thank you so much for tuning
in and we're looking forward to taking
you along this trip with us as we drove
through death valley to LA and back to
Vegas we hope that you'll tune in to the
next couple of weeks as we go through
this and we share all the things that we
learn it really was an incredible
adventure so we'll see you next week
same time same place new every day dot
TV check out our partners page scroll
through our list of partners
have a look there if you'd like to
support us by donating there's an
opportunity to do that there we just
want to thank you for tuning it again so
see you next
