hello and welcome to the third episode
of the pixel shadow where today we are
not going to be on doing anything with
this basic house you can see here it's
really great we're going to continue
working on this but today we're going to
teach you how to go on a public server
instead I also want to give a big shout
out to Dennis Kelly who is one of my
fans and enjoys my video thank you for
it to anyone else who have been watching
my videos and subscribing you can
subscribe to my channel and follow me on
twitter by using the hashtag the pixel
shadow so right now we're going to go to
Vanessa east creative building server so
press exit exit to menu and instead of
going to server which I'm on right now
you click on client it will ask you for
the address / port which is how you
connect to the server but also you can
go to the public server list to find
other servers you might enjoy so it'll
just quickly load wait for that
well its folding I'll quickly do the
address imports for Vanessa use creative
building server da concepts com is the
the port and then 3000 eight is the port
yeah port so quickly login loading
just floating here I'm almost in and
Here I am I've built a lot on the server
you can join the server to and sometimes
you could see me around so I this little
village it's just generating the world I
want to if there aren't any other people
connected I can quickly sleep so that I
can get rid of the night so that you
guys can see the screen better so I'll
quickly go into one of the houses that
have a bed here's one there I know
there's a bed in here and this server is
created which is another mode to mind
test which means that you can um build
anything you want with any blocks that
um is in the game so you so while you
can build all this just by going into
the creative inventory by pressing I you
will get this selection that you can
flip through to find these and also
there are Vanessa ed has a bunch of
different servers and you can find them
in the server list and so and the chat
is all connected so it'll say who in the
chat and saying it and what's over there
on and um so I'm gonna invite some
people to come up to the video quick so
guys I'm recording so you can head over
to this server and get in the screen
shot so if anyone can join they can see
you when they can see your creations and
this is another person's creation and
pretty much everything in this crater is
mine because I've made this is going to
be a city it's not quite completed and
this server has a mod called
the area's mod which means you can
protect your things with command see in
this corner the bottom the bottom left
corner I believe it says the area see
areas Neustadt City Hospital so I
protected that this this means no one
else can break it unless you add someone
with another command which in future
episodes possibly today i can add um
like show you how to use the commands so
in this episode I'm kind of just going
to show you around in my village so when
you guys bought in you will be put in
the sponge so I'm going to press / bond
to go to the spawn get out of 5 mode or
anything clear on my hands so that you
guys can see and I am going to walk
towards my house so that you guys know
which direction to go so this way it's
called South Street owned by Vanessa E
and you will see these buildings around
so this is how you're going to get to my
my village which is going to be a city
but it's not completed yet so let's get
fast move on so that it doesn't take
forever keep going and you can extend
your own roads to get go to your homes
which is what I've done so this is the
long long trip so where I press / spawn
where I went teleported to that's where
you guys are going to spawn when you
first do in the server so right about
where is it right here is where me and
my friends taught um no yamla and violet
and other friends on this server Barry
White have helped build this road you'll
see in the corner south street yeah my
violin mingles 70 and so I oh we've
built all this to lead to the place I
haven't quite protected at all
and so this is going to be school but
it's not completed so I won't show that
in this episode till it's completed and
elect i'm going to show you the hospital
first so over here it's the parking lot
you might have already seen when i was
on the road cities called neustadt city
so this is the emergency entrance do not
block so I'm going to just go through
the emergency up um entrance for the
front of it here's the clerk's desk but
sadly I can't spawn in any any mobs of
any sort so I can't put any mob to be
the clerk or anything and this is the
surgery room this isn't the best
hospital but yeah now let's go show some
more of these homes so this is the road
leading to my little village lot of
quite a few people have built in this
little village so it's not just me
building but mostly me but most of lots
of my friends have also build things so
sign says welcome to neustadt city world
goes down down down and it intersects
with this building which I didn't really
intend but so these lead you to the city
parking sooo not allowed to park on the
side of the road to someone else's house
these are just random chest don't know
why they're there and this is a soft
store has a bunch of saws in which you
can put this concrete you can cut it in
two different slopes and stairs things
like that so that's really handy this
can cut letters so it does it work so
you can make all kinds of letters that's
how I wrote saw store on the Florence
now let's show the ice restaurant so
this is the pot of the town ice rink and
this is the town restaurant it's just a
simple restaurant nothing too fancy a
little fireplace and some the places in
the menu and then over here you can
claim your own teleporter so you can
teleport to the village where even
though it's protected by me you can
still claim the teleporter by
right-clicking you right what's the name
of the place whole ice restaurant
probably spent restaurant wrong assigned
to network so you can create networks to
connect to each other so I'm just going
to do tests then um it's already wrote
wrote for me but usually you have to
write your name so I'm that's just test
and then I'll do the next one ice
restaurant number two sons network test
owned by mingle Fox 70 and you will be
able to connect through both of them so
now it just depends on whatever Network
you can do all kinds of different
networks it'll bring me to the net one
the other teleporter so this one keeps
bringing me back and forth so now those
two are both connected to each other
this is just a little nice place on the
side I'm looking out at the little city
or town whatever you'd like to call it
this is another entrance and also right
here
is the offices which only I can access
because I have locked doors and line
test some iron doors are owned by you so
nobody can break them or use them and
stuff like that so um but in Minecraft
you just have to place buttons and such
so gives you more privacy just up
restaurant offices don't know what
happened to the chair that was here then
there's just a series of passageways
because I was bit bored that day so I
just did random stuff this is the
restaurant offices pipe down there's no
healthier this is just a random subway
thingy that someone built one day this
is the apart no not the apartment that
error stick airplane station so right
here is the runway and then here's the
control tower let's go up on elevators
are a lot the same so just put to what
except you have to put them both on top
of each other it won't work here's the
just a airplane it's not the best
airplane but it's really nice to have
inside there's two chairs and then the
anvil which is meant to be the the
steering wheel but I'm not the best at
model things like that so I'm a good
builder but I just can't do things like
and then this is the staircase into the
reservations desk right here there's a
desk there's a nice little plants and
then there's different signs that says
see mangafox 74 resident rezar Reza's I
can't speak you guys know what that says
if you can read so oh I can say it so
says sunday you can travel to africa and
then it says cities saturday asia
tuesday USA thurs to Thursday's USA
Tuesday's UK Friday is China monday is
canada and wednesdays australia and then
there's just these waiting benches bunch
of teleporters yam let Gary white help
me build that now let's go to the
grocery store enough to work that's an
in blue ok this is a grocery store so
just bunch of item frames which you can
put items in by right-clicking blueberry
cheesecake five dollars each things like
that then there's my teleporter and yeah
so that's the grocery store now this is
the town hall and city parking
the Town Hall is just a pouring Town
Hall nobody really wants to go in and
then look at areas whoa I do not know
why I did this and this is a random
random rune there's currently there is
no mayor for my town but I would assume
it would be me and then over here is
town parking bunch of parking spots and
some model cars then over here we have a
few townhouses to really quite cozy you
can rent them this one is rented by iron
hero so yeah that's why I our hero has
this thing don't you know what that is
so you guys can come on the server and
asked me to rent one of these townhouses
there are two still in progress for
venting nobody's on them so this one
says on a side iron heroes home so you
guys can rent one to this one isn't as
great as the first one pretty similar as
the Battle Force night skip so that you
guys are having trouble seeing the
screen and the last one I did not build
someone else built because I gave them
the permission and eat that one looks
pretty similar to the others but pretty
different at the same time then go to
some more things this says town parking
and town center walk to your destination
after park to no parking at side of the
road or you will be told without notice
so over here it says stop North Street
son says Sherlock homeless for sale I
did not place that sign I don't even
know what that's supposed to mean
Sherlock Holmes then this is just a
graveyard cuz every town needs a
graveyard don't know why it has luckily
there hasn't been any death which is
good then over here is just a hole this
what's this a um then go Fox 70
okay it just says stop removing stuff
from in the house and this is another
room owned by someone one of my friends
called longest off 13 it's called would
home to which is a bit random but you'll
see why it's called would home number
two in a sec so this is called what 0 &amp;
1 this bed is owned by mingle plushie so
once longer step 13 this one's mine
mingle Fox 70 and this one is tots 1524
is bed and then you can claim
teleporters it's just like the one I
showed you a couple seconds ago with the
restaurant then you can go to my um
places so I just need to quickly this
one is on assigned to network town
buildings where you can go to the mango
girl sherry mangle airport free-for-all
ice rink I stress draw exchange soft or
exchange in cinema things like that this
is the mangle hotel where can also claim
teleporters if you want a room and then
here it says rent a room and claim 1
teleporter for quick transportation room
request but no request right now and all
the doors are open not quite sure why so
room 5 is reserved for violet room for
is reserved for yam lit room 53 is
reserved for Gary white room two is
reserved for longest f13 and room one is
reserved for pixel mingle but I've only
been able to get one one room finished
because I've got lots of other things to
build the kitchen Christmas tree which I
will take down in a sec cuz it's not
Christmas anymore set
a double bed and a flat-screen TV fancy
bathroom marble floors table hot tub and
this is the living room with the TV so
it's a really nice room since it's in
creative you can just rent it for free
so ask me and I'll get you a room room
one here's another place for um hotel
access so you can get more teleporters
there if you run out this is the public
mind which goes down deep in the ground
just like in my the episode I did before
except with a rope which i think is a
mod this is my brothers hum TV d'etat
this is my teleporter and someone just
joined not sure who you are I'll tell
I'll tell whoever it is that I'm
recording hello
be the fit so also this is the road this
is a cinema but it's not owned by me so
this is someone else's cinema my friends
longer stuff 13 this I am not sure what
this is supposed to be and pretty sure
that's most of the village up here is
some houses from other people not me so
up here to load the home and another
cinema and since we pretty much reviewed
everything can wrap up the video here if
you want if you like what you see and oh
there's this house I'll show that in the
next episode um if you like what you see
you can join this server Jordan play
with me and you can build things in this
village to do for me to view on my shelf
which would be great thank you for
watching and subscribing and thank you
to all the people who have built the
things that I've viewed today and we
will and I will be leaving and I want to
say goodbye so thank you for subscribing
it and um
yeah so really unfortunate that nobody
was able to come into the video today
but sometimes there just aren't very
many people playing so just gotta wrap
it up and say good bye bye guys
