here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
special glasses for viewing the coming
solar eclipses have been recalled by
Amazon because they might fry your
retinas a new camera and absolution
turns any dumb fridge into a smart
fridge thanks to firm thanks to a
firmware update blender an automatic
over-the-air upgrade will break front
door smart locks for at least five days
no need to worry asteroid heading toward
Earth and thought to hit us in October
we'll miss our planet by a long shot
and a teenager was just awarded ten
thousand dollars for a bug he found in
Google's back end these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you know what you're a terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play I don't know where Arctic you're
supposed to act okay fair enough
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the route put your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash
dream host still fulfill the paper
something just don't do it but hey it's
a great deal folks best deal you're
going to find five dollars and change
per month go to cap five dot TV / dream
host I'm Sasha tomatoes and here are the
top stories for the week of August 16th
2017
on Monday the United States will witness
a total solar eclipse the first for
almost 99 years and the likes of which
the world has never seen
it's a once-in-a-lifetime event and it's
unlikely that we'll ever see anything
like it again suffice to say America's
gone eclipses crazy with hotel rooms in
the best viewing locations going for
thousands of dollars a night but to
observe the spectacle without frying
your retinas you need special filter
glasses that conform to the ISO one two
three one two point two safety standards
unfortunately though some folks are
flogging ordinary shades and handheld
viewers with labels falsely stating that
they conform to the standard according
to the American Astronomical Society
these do not block enough of the sun's
ultraviolet visible and infrared
radiation to make them truly safe
predictably many of these were sold
through Amazon and SIA and the Seattle
based retail giant is taking action to
recall them KGW News and NBC affiliate
based in Portland reported receiving and
an email from Amazon explaining of the
solar filters that they purchased were
not confirmed safe for viewing we
recommend that you do not use this
product to view the Sun or the eclipse
amazon said speaking to tech blog the
register and Amazon spokesperson said
that it decided to start the recall out
of an abundance of caution the company
didn't mention the scale of the recall
whether the recall had been completed or
indeed how it makes the determination
that the glasses are unsafe I just want
to ask a quick question if I just
glanced at the Sun I'm not frying my
retinas can I just like glance at the
Eclipse and not fry my retinas I feel
like it is the Sun stronger I don't know
does the chatroom know about that I
don't know I remember I watched an
eclipse when I was really young and we
had to do it with a special sure like
thing welding helmets and stuff yeah I I
don't think you can you can't like stare
at the Sun without expecting damage
right but here's the difference is when
you look at the Sun and I'm not a
medical professional okay let's just put
that out there when you stare at the Sun
if you do which is an idiotic thing to
do Sasha let's let's stop okay let's
stop doing that Kasia your pupils will
close up right - let very little light
in when you protect us right but when
you look at a solar eclipse
that is right so that protection means
you want to stare longer which makes it
so that you may not real it's like
sunburn on the cloudy day
that you don't realize that you're
actually experiencing this until it's
too late
here's what I think it's been a very
rainy cloudy summer all summer and these
hotel rooms that are going for thousands
of dollars a night I'll tell you it's
been a really rainy cloudy summer all
summer I'm just I am going I will eat my
hat if we can actually see this thing oh
my god
that would be such a shame I know but
building great pictures of them wherever
the one place on earth can see it the
space station can get itself aligned for
like three seconds yeah I just so far
it's been so cloudy I didn't see the
meteor shower either okay the world's
first wireless fridge camera goes on
sale in the UK next month aimed at
helping households I have in their
refrigerator at any time as well as
taking selfies to be sent to the user
the smarter fridge cam and app will also
monitor use by dates and send out
automatic top up reminders to buy more
milk for example it will also encourage
people to eat what they already have
typically festering in the back of the
fridge or in the salad box by suggesting
recipes this this device joins
tech initiatives such as mobile apps and
scales that calculate the cost of food
waste which aim to transform the way
people think about what they consume the
fridge cam provides a cheaper
alternative to smart fridge brands like
Samsung and Bosch for example Samsung's
family hub refrigerator costs four
thousand four hundred and ninety nine
pounds the fridge cam however turns any
old fridge into a smart fridge for only
100 pounds well cool that's not bad at
all I think it's a great idea I like
I'll get one okay hardware company log
state has managed to bridge to brick
hundreds of internet-connected so-called
smart locks on people's front doors with
a bad firmware update the upshot is you
can't use the built-in keypad on the
devices to unlock the door lock seats
smart locks are popular among Airbnb
hosts as it allows them to give guests
an entry code to get into properties
without having to share physical keys
lock state is even a partner with Airbnb
earlier this week though new software
was automatically sent out to folks 469
dollar lock state 6000i locks one of the
upstarts top residential smart locks
which left's the keypad entirely useless
the crashed locks which connect your
home to connect to your home Wi-Fi for
remote control and monitoring as well as
firmware updates are now going to be out
of action for at least a week owners
have two choices they can either remove
the back panel of the lock and send it
to the manufacturer so the software can
be manually updated which will take
between five and seven working days
alternatively they can ask for a
replacement which will take 14 to 18
days to ship and then send back the junk
lock the physical key on the lock should
still work but that's going to be a cold
comfort for a lot of Airbnb users who
prefer to keep the physical keys to
themselves and set an access code for
each larger that stops by oh yeah that's
going to be trouble good news for those
of you who live on earth the European
Space Agency has confirmed that there is
no danger of asteroid 2012 PC for
hitting our beloved planets in October
despite what some panicky youtube videos
might tell you the rock was spotted five
years ago when a whizzed past earth
missing us by ninety four thousand eight
hundred kilometers last month NASA
reckoned the asteroid may this year come
as close as 6,800 kilometers which is
far too close for comfort in cosmic
distances however the asteroids orbit
Pass has now been firmed up and we're
going to be just fine it will skip past
our fragile planet in October missing us
by 44,000 coal
the agency said on Thursday the original
observations revealed that the asteroids
next approach to our vicinity would be
in October 2017 but its orbit meant that
it could not be tracked during the last
five years
leaving astronomers unsure on how close
it would come shortly after its 2012 fly
by astronomers lost sight of the alien
object because it was so small and dark
it was picked up again this year at the
es es Very Large Telescope Observatory
in Chile even as 2012 tc4 did hit earth
it wouldn't be an end of civilization
event by any stretch the Ralph's is only
15 to 30 meters wide and after being
worn away by air compression on its trip
through the atmosphere the final Boulder
would be about the same size as the
meteorite that hit in 2013 which hurt
1,500 folks in Russia when it's smashed
into our planet but it caused no deaths
with the asteroid which is traveling at
about 30,000 miles per hour will make
its closest approach to earth on October
12th astronomist sargi ring up for the
event and will be studying the rock
closely to work out what it's made of it
is made of rock it's made of an asteroid
it is a straight a teenager in Uruguay
has scored big after finding and
reporting a bug in Google's App Engine
to view confidential internal google
documents
while bored in july high schooler zekiel
pereira who has all the market makings
of a competent security researcher use
verbs to minister pew late the host
header and web connections to Google's
App Engine the 17-year olds target web
page is protected by MoMA Google's
employees only portal apparently named
after a Museum of Modern Art normally
connecting to a private staff only
Google service requires signing in via
MoMA however it appears not all of these
services fully checked a visit if a
visitor was authorized to view the
content by connecting to a public Google
service such as a spot comm and changing
the host header in the HTTP requests to
say yaks Googleplex comm per
era was redirected to Google's internal
project management system yaks viewing
that system should have required a
moment in but instead he was able to
view yaks pages marked as Google
confidential the student reported the
loophole to Google on July 11th and on
August 4th about a month before his 18th
birthday he was told the issue had been
fixed and that he had earned a ten
thousand dollar reward from the ad giant
bug bounty program nice that is good and
he can put it towards college big bigs
this week - Roy W Nash and our community
of viewers for submitting story stuff
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom i'm sasha Tyrannis
[Music]
