the following program is made possible
by
qwest ministries
turns out evolution is more problematic
than it is probable this is the creation
today show from the CTN studio in
Pensacola Florida I'm one of your host
Erick open and i'm joined by paul taylor
yes and on today's show it's the second
week that we've got a JC goat with us
and he's a creation speaker he's the
co-founder and principal lecture for the
creation education center and we're
absolutely thrilled that he's here if
you saw last week's show you'll know
that we're talking about DNA and
information and really getting a bit
with understanding that it is incredible
right when we're on the verge of
switching the show to the evolution
Today Show it comes all under destroys
all that well we're excited you're here
with us and you got questions you can
send them into questions at creation
today dot org enjoy the show
you are going to absolutely love today's
show I guarantee it I think that they're
well yes we're talking to JC Girt about
DNA and information but first there's a
few things we need to mention we do need
to make a comment announcements will get
these out of the way real quick go go go
go go well you have you visited the
creation story oh gee recently if the
people at work are doing their job you
got to go check it out creation story
dot org whole new site for you to enjoy
a shopping experience online so it is
very very easy to spend your wetland
dollars that on some marvels creation
material incredible creation material
and I would dare say it's some of the
best around in Pensacola I would sound
to mention it's the very best creation
material that you will get on w Street
Pensacola that's right that's right no
we love it we love producing stuff
resources that will bless you and help
you educate others on the truth of
creation and evolution not to mention we
got one more announcement and we are
thrilled about the proof of God
conference coming up in Orlando Flores
said not to mention that oh oh go on
let's mention it okay the proof of God
conference in orlando florida you gotta
check out proof conference com proof
conference com to get some more
information about that October twelfth
and thirteenth a friday and saturday in
orlando great time of year to be down in
orlando trust me been there during
October many times you'll absolutely
love it there going to be some amazing
speakers that there will be don't forget
you can see Kyle Kirby that from the
reasons for Hope Ministries mark Spence
from way the master on site and r√ºgen
kate from proof that God exists top o RG
that's correct and Paul Taylor is going
to be there that's going to make it
worth it all by itself get your plane
ticket and come on down and join us at
the proof of God conference yes that's
absolutely right it's gonna be fun we
are going to attack well we are really
excited about the guests that we have
all the way from Wisconsin he is the
president founder of the creation
education center the center of our
creation educate I keep wanting to say
the center for creation education but at
cec creation education center and that
Jay thank you so much for being out here
with
it's an honor to be back again Wow well
we I want you to just kind of give an
overview of what we talked about last
time I know I I am loving where you're
going with this because you're talking
about complicated just are what is in us
our DNA is can you give us kind of a
brief review of last week in case some
of the people didn't get to hear that
sure I'd love to we've known for a long
time that DNA is unbelievably you know
complex but we're finding more and more
layers of complexity that just makes the
idea of evolution even more and more
improbable and just to kind of highlight
where we left off last time we looked at
segments of our DNA let's say we're
looking at a little small segment and we
were reading it let's say it actually
said was it a rat I saw strange sentence
but let's clean this up a little bit
take the punctuation away and we see was
it a rat I saw no we read that in
English from left to right but with this
sentence you can actually read it
backwards you can read it from right to
left was it a rat I saw so kind of a fun
sentence we talked about that this is a
palindrome yeah forwards and backwards
same information forwards and backwards
well that's what we've discovered with
our DNA that it can be read forwards and
backwards but it's more complex than
this because it's not just the same
piece of information forwards and
backwards it's a separate set of
instructions when you read it backwards
analogy we had was the word desserts you
read it forwards it's dessert when you
read it backwards it spells stressed
which is what i get when i don't have
dessert so now we take this original
piece of information here we introduce a
random mutation we mentioned that last
time too so we just randomly delete one
of the letters in desserts it destroys
that original message it doesn't spell
desserts anymore but it also destroys
our second message of stress so these
random changes they're not only
affecting the message going one way but
they're affecting information which is
what you read when you're reading it
backwards so they're even less likely to
bring positive changes for evolution the
second thing we mentioned was we're not
talking about just little words or a
couple words together in our DNA we're
talking about entire chapters that work
forwards and backwards it's just an
immeasurably complex and then the other
thing we talked about is overlapping
instructions got a weird sentence here I
like chocolate earth at evening the
reason it's weird is we have two phrases
here that overlap we've got I like
chocolate which is true and then we've
got later that evening and they overlap
here in the middle on these four letters
so if we introduce another random
changer we make a substitution this time
we change the e into an H at no longer
spells I like chocolate and it also
doesn't spell later that evening so a
random change here is actually
destroying two meses so a third level of
complexity that just one little mutation
is going to destroy right now up to
three levels of complexity of the
insured and in reality in the DNA we're
not talking about a short little phrase
it overlaps we're talking about actually
again entire chapters of overlapping
information just boggles the mind to
think of the complexity there in the DNA
we're going to remember this is just a
simplified analogy of what DNA actually
is isn't it and in fact you know you'd
have both to get it up things forwards
backwards and overlapping and all the
complexity that that involved and we
last week you mentioned a very very
important analogy which I want you could
just briefly repeat the what happens in
this analogy was somebody at a smart
phone company technical of is being
asked to write something turn you off
that's a great analogy it helps the
audience to understand what we're really
talking about here makes it more real
well again the analogy was let's say you
worked in a smartphone factory and your
job is to write part of the instruction
manual to give it to the manufacturing
plant to make these phones and so your
boss comes to you one day and says it
got a project for you I want you to
write the chapter in this manual that
explains how these phones are going to
download apps from the web you say no
problem that's what I do sir boss is
walking away he comes back and he says
well we forgot one thing when you write
your chapter on how to download apps you
have to write it in such a way that when
you read it backwards it explains how
this phone is going to play mp3s in
videos Wow and you'd be looking at
thinking I mean you're kidding raised
and pastas like no I'm serious this is
what we have to do we only have so much
room to work with they're going to get a
lot of information crammed in there well
that's humanly impossible not only is it
humanly
we can't even program a computer to
write an entire chapter of separate sets
of instructions but that's what we're
seeing in the DNA you ready to read it
one way an entire chapter a set of
instructions to make all these proteins
and you read it backwards as totally
separate set of proteins to do something
completely different incredibly complex
and to think when I was young people
used to be worried about backward
masking on beetles I'm just revealing my
age there Wow okay so this is this is
pretty complex now you go into this and
a lot more and I'm hoping you can cover
some or but on the new DVD evolution
probably problematic sure we're going
more and more details and more and more
levels and will you want to go to next
level and start that I do want to go
under there man okay hit it real quick
we just got real quick before we need to
take a break finish it after the break
we talk about splicing where you can
take a look at the same sentence and you
can splice small sections out and you
can actually put them together to make
another set of instructions I like her
hat pick up on the rest of this after
the break so you can literally say okay
instead of just taking all the
information let's take this section this
section this section put it together and
it is its own information it's not
jumbled up it's literally its own
information their separate set of
instructions again out of the DNI what
we're emphasizing for you all out there
is that these are the sorts of things
that happen on much bigger scales really
in the information that's within da i'm
seeing a fourth level of complexity
already in one DNA code now four levels
of complexity deep and i'm wondering how
deep in this rabbit hole we're going to
go we'll find out with JC Gert our
special guest from the creation
education center in wisconsin right
after this join erik joven and Paul
tater from creation today with special
guest ken ham from Answers in Genesis
along with Carl Kirby of reasons for
hope mark Spence of living waters in
sight n brueggen kada proof that God
exists for the proof of God conference
in orlando florida october 12 through 13
for more information visit us online at
proof conference calm her call toll-free
eight seven seven four seven nine three
four six six
the creation today show would like to
thank category 5 TV for being so
generous in airing our program its
donations from people just like you then
allow category 5 to keep the data
streaming to your computer TV or tablet
if you haven't had a chance this week
pop on over to patreon com category 5
and take them out to eat so to speak it
would mean the world to them and you get
the blessing of giving in return
you
welcome back you're watching the
creation today show with me Paul Taylor
and with Eric hovind and in the studio
today we've got our very special guest
JC goods and Jay we've been talking
about DNA and information and seeing the
amazing complexity of it we've taught
about the messaging that's in DNA going
forwards and backwards and how a
mutation in there would affect the
message forwards and backwards and just
before the break you show does this
splicing effect and you just mention
again what the splicing effect is that
is showing us here what we call as
alternates placing where you take an
original message you just take segments
out you can kind of bring them down
below so to speak and have an additional
message so in our original message here
we took out a few segments and our
spelling out I like her hat and their
issue here is if we're making these
random mutations which is what evolution
is all about are those mutations going
to improve things are not well in this
example here if we introduce another
random mutation let's say we delete this
letter H here we're not only messing up
the original message but we're also
messing up this spliced message and what
we're seeing in reality in the real DNA
is we're not just taking a segment
taking a few short segments all right
there we're taking segments out from
totally different chapters or different
genes here putting them together to
build a whole other set of instructions
to build other proteins and we're not
taking off just a few letters we're
actually taking out long sentences and
short paragraphs so again humanly
speaking you try to write something so
you can take out sentences paragraphs
put them with another section of the
book and have a whole nother chapter
they're put together it's just humanly
impossible but that's what we see in our
DNA and this is what we've been asked to
believe that these sort of things slides
emissions slide additions whatever are
what give us the information that's
required what we're seeing here is how
it just completely messes things up it's
going to be going down here or not up
well I mean this has been very
accomplished it's been a huge amount
here J that must be the end of the
master surely well we have a short sure
we did
there's more it gets even worse the
challenge for evolution gets even worse
we have something called embedded
information so here's kind of a strange
sentence can you show Michaels and
checks from Oliver's labeled facts and
set it on herbs desk kind of an odd
sense here to make sense yeah but let's
circle every ninth letter so we serve on
a night letter and if we bring those
down below it actually spells out
chocolate can have a female on there
they sit on this yes some 10 PI you sing
counseling on this my wife is trying to
add none of that so we've got a message
here so again let's introduce a random
mutation to our initial message here
let's let's say delete the letter W we
get rid of that well that's going to
shift all the letters over so now the
ninth letter in each one of these is
going to be different we'll bring that
down below it doesn't make sense on your
flat so we're not only messing up the
original message we are messing up our
alternate or are embedded message below
so it's just another challenge that yeah
that's just amazing to me to think that
they think hey we just introduce
mutations on the service level you're
right oh just these small changes over a
long period of time but when you start
seeing one mutation affects this which
affects this which affects us you know
taking it down in the world like our
fifth or sixth level of complexity here
it affects at all it does and again
where it seems plausible to begin with
is you can write out a sentence and make
a random change and once in a great
while it might seem to make this
sentence better you change the number
you put an S on the end of something it
gives you a plural gives you more of
anything I could see how that would
improve things but a reality in the DNA
even if once in a great while a random
change might temporarily improve a small
segment because of the domino effect
it's making so many bad changes in many
other areas you know the popular science
programs and articles in magazines
newspapers and so on just don't get to
this level it simply says well mutations
do it the time that you've got does it
there it is amazing this whole surely
doesn't get more complex than there now
with it easy no we're going to go
another step and another step Wow we're
going to look at encrypted messages and
I actually had two interviews with the
CIA number of years ago to work in their
cryptographic analysis divisions Hydra
sell itself
worried for another time we're going to
look at data encryption here absolutely
sure so we're look at this phrase here
it doesn't seem to make any sense
whatsoever but if we had an encryption
code that might make a difference in
fact everywhere there's an H let's say
it's really an A and everywhere there's
a B it's really a C and so on for
example everywhere we see a why let's
say that's really supposed to be a tea
so if we make all these substitutions
here it changes it to this is an
encrypted message all right and this is
what we're seeing in the DNA there is
encryption codes where you change what
you're actually seeing what you're
seeing actually makes sense it's a
message at set of instructions to do
something but then when you introduce an
encryption key on there it actually
creates an additional message here
that's what we're seeing Suzanne we can
read the DNA as it is forward it has
different set of instructions backwards
or we're done like it overlaps our
entire chapters that overlap you can
take pieces and bring them down and it's
a totally new message and what we can
read is also encrypted to do something
else as well as much of it is encrypted
and if we take this little moment here
to look at an encryption system what
would be required to create an encrypted
system just again these are random
processes supposedly that are going on
that creates all this so well the first
thing you need is to develop a language
system using symbols to begin with so
let's say we had three sticks here we
say when we arrange them this way we're
going to say that's an eight and then
when we have these symbols here when we
put them together this way that's going
to be a B we need to develop an entire
alphabet again just by random processes
second thing we would need is to define
words okay when we put these four
letters together this is going to
represent this object here we have to
create an entire dictionary of words
through random processes third thing we
need to do is to be able to write
meaningful sentences and paragraphs the
only way we can do that is we have rules
of grammar so that again has to be
generated oh is that what they've
evolved by are too good
random processes again all the right
time in the right place to be able to
work together then we've got fourthly to
establish the actual encryption system
that's got to come into play somewhere
and fifthly we're going to have to
create a system to be able to code and
decode this encryption system and then
60 and finally we have to develop the
ability to read and carry out these
instructions if you can't do that the
whole system is useless and the whole
thing's going to happen by just random
chance and it's a piece of cake yes they
don't they say no one told me so in our
human experience we see this we
understand how this works but we know
there's a lot of intelligence behind
that but then when it comes to biology
they say no that can just happen on its
own with no intelligence involved giving
us magic time and it won't long ago it
does it not blow your mind that
biologists that understand and study
this can still say yep evolution happen
well it's interesting because most
biologists aren't even aware of these
things most scientists certainly aren't
there not even studying evolution
there's making rocket fuel fast
computers they're curing diseases
they're doing great things but they
don't know much about evolution they
just assume that there are PhD
scientists out there who have studied it
and proven and it's good enough for them
so they have faith in those other
scientists and even many of the
scientists who are studying evolution
haven't gotten to this level or not that
aware of these details is it just that
they're so focused on their field that
they really okay somebody else has got
that I'm I'm dealing with oil or plastic
or whatever it is sure it's not
necessarily their fault you know we
can't know everything so most scientists
are very focused and they know a lot
about one area but they don't really
know the big picture hey because it cuz
I look at this and I go come on who the
word or write mine well I guess
ultimately that's the problem the Bible
says they're not in their right mind yet
they need to repent before they can see
the truth to a spiritual issue it really
comes down to a spiritual battle Wow
okay does it go any deeper it'll get
deeper oh my goodness all right right
into this break will go a little bit
bigger deeper bigger deeper let Jacy
Gert again I want you to check out this
website has got some great
UDS on the subject and a brand new DVD
coming out called evolution probable or
problematic and we're seeing it's
problematic yes back after this
I told you it was going to be a good
show I guarantee you oh my goodness Jay
I'm really enjoying talking about this
information it ends up DNA is incredibly
complex it's fascinating evolution is
problematic when it comes to DNA when
you look at that definitely wow are you
liking this absolutely blown away
because the simple premise of the
evolutionist give is you know you've got
mutations that's where the information
comes from random mutations and side and
given enough time that sort of thing
happens we spent a whole show actually
looking under the hood as you put it and
seeing what the detail is and when you
do that you see this just does not work
it just does not make sense and you got
to the stage where we talked about
encrypted messages that you get in the
DNA and shown that with a simple key and
all of those stages you need to to
produce that and probably refer to say
that even the encrypted key was a
simplified version what you show the
actual version would be more complex
than the Enigma machine but at least
that must be the end of the complexity
Muslim so they can't be anything more
than that Jacob well we've got a few
more here no wow next segment we will
take a look at here has to do with 3d
information so we're talking about a 3d
level set of information here and this
is a little bit harder to depict but
when we look at DNA DNA produces
proteins and proteins are the engine of
our bodies to do the different functions
that we need to do in proteins aren't
just a straight ladder like we see with
DNA they get folded up in order to have
their proper function if they don't fold
just the right way they're going to be
useless or not carry out their intended
functions so if we have an analogy here
we've got let's say seven words going
straight across the screen like let's
say a ladder again we need to fold these
in a sense to give it some functionality
so if we take these words here and stack
them on top of each other we see you
stack on the right way two sets fold in
the right way you get a 3d
three-dimensional set of information you
get another word here in our example the
word success so if you introduce a
random mutation here you delete some
letters you substitute your fold at the
wrong way you're not going to see this
third
level of information here another
barrier challenge to the idea of random
mutations helping and being beneficial
to evolution oh my goodness so we got a
mutation doesn't just affect a word the
word is forward and backwards with
different meanings you've got it
overlapping you've got it sections
taking out you've got was that last one
the get embedded and prevented an
incredible and now stack 3d I'm plus
step just as all your other examples of
course you've done a word there to
simplify but again we're talking
chapters really yeah when the proteins
fold it's much more information than
just a single word but it's it's hard to
depict that visually so we're invisible
is it they it's not just the word
success but the next row to it would be
would be something I mean you would be
able to read you know consistently
pretty much everything has to be
functional because it has to fit like a
lock-and-key it's got to fit just the
right way or the the proteins are
useless and they're the cell actually go
and find those improperly folded
proteins and destroy them and recycle
their components and use them again but
given enough time it's an evolution
wonderful that's amazing amazing
actually serious but this doesn't let's
just make you stand in oh god exactly
what he has done absolutely to learn
about the fingerprint of God here and i
think it probably goes a lot deeper we
actually do have one more level that
will cover on the show today to make it
go on a little bit further we've
actually got cell wall a nucleus
interaction you most of us we picture
the cell here in the nucleus where we
have the strands of DNA we think well
that's where all the information is
hidden on the strands of DNA and there
certainly is a lot of information on the
DNA we talked about that a little bit
here but there's actually information in
other parts of the cell we've got
information in the cell wall and what
we've determined is there's actually
communication going on between the cell
wall and the DNA in the nucleus soul you
pictured this way you make random
changes to the DNA in the nucleus the
cell walls not going to know about it
the nucleus would have to tell the cell
wall hey by the way we've changed some
things in here so when you talk to so
you know keep that in mind otherwise it
messes up the communication so there's a
whole other level of complexity going on
between us all
all in the nucleus and how would that
get coordinated there'd have to be
intelligence in there to tell it about
these changes but evolution can't allow
intelligence unbelievable it's just
absolutely staggering mind-blowing it's
in me people okay how many times have we
as creation speakers heard but if God
would just make himself more obvious I
mean you're talking about a God that can
communicate on multiple levels he can
communicate 3d stacked forward-backward
I mean he's he's communicated to us very
clearly the truth of who he is we truly
are without excuse what I was just
thinking the same passage of Scripture
the invisible attributes of God that
clearly seeing sure the things that are
measure and even with all that though
people say yeah but we've got proof of
evolution even with all that complexity
and here's what they'll typically say is
that we are ninety-eight percent similar
DNA to chimpanzees and most of the
audience has probably heard something
like that at some point in time PBS had
a special where they said that this
amount so just a couple of spelling
errors what in the world does that mean
that means you take the incredibly
complex chimp genome all the information
in a chimp and you just introduce some
random spelling errors a few of them and
voila you've got a human being well
first of all we're not anywhere close to
ninety eight percent so in our DNA even
though we've heard that it's much much
less but let's just say we were let's
just humor for a second and say that we
are actually 98% similar well for ninety
eight percent similar in our DNA that
means we're two percent different right
well the human genome has about three
billion letters in the genome so a two
percent difference of that amounts to 60
million differences are 60 million
spelling errors so these 60 million
spelling errors is supposed to produce
let's say 50 new 200-page books a brand
new information to transform a
chimpanzee into a human being by
introducing random changes it's not
going to happen it's not of course you
got to take into account all the folded
messages spliced messages backwards and
forwards messages and all the other
things that would be encrypted turns
going downhill fast not on and you talk
about all this in your new DVD evolution
probable
automatic yes we'll cover that in much
more wetin whackin people find this you
can find it on our website at cec wis
seacom CCW is see calm and is your
speaking schedule up there I mean
because I know yours you do quite a bit
of speaking on the subject and people
can book you to come speak to your
church and present this information and
things like that crusher your calendars
on the website and we don't charge for
our engagements we just accept freewill
offerings or honor arms or whatever the
church school camp or conferences deems
appropriate wow that is I'm telling you
this has been fascinating I've really
enjoyed having you down and just
learning this from you I mean 26 years
of experience that we get to hear some
of the best stuff right now I tell us
about some of the other stuff you have I
mean I know your book let there be light
is a great overview is at an Operations
evolution lots of information there came
out just about a year ago so it's still
pretty fresh tons of information very
easy to read easy to understand and then
the DVD series that you got more DVD set
of 12 half-hour sessions with the free
study guide and goes to the whole
creation evolution controversy lots of
PowerPoint very dynamic easy to
understand love this uploading anything
man well guys this has been a blessing
having Jay here and Paul I love these
shows don't forget if you want to ask us
questions and you can do that
facebook.com forward slash creation
today or you can catch us on Twitter
apps creation today right this has been
a production of God quest ministries the
creation say is part of guideposts
ministries and we really are glad you
joined us if you'd like Paula I or J to
come speak let us know and I love these
shoes absolutely incredible hun to God
be all the glory for everything can be
done
do you need the tools to defend your
faith visit our websites for up-to-date
content attend one of our live events
and shop online at creation store org we
are creation today
Oh
