welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 515 for August
the second 2017 so nice to have you here
tonight we've got a jam-packed show for
you and of course these two peeps are
here with me but we have a wicked cool
itty-bitty media player that is going to
play your videos your slideshows your
pictures your music all on the big
screen with just the touch of a button
if even that stick around we're going to
show you how that works how it comes
together and you can pick those up at
cat5 TV slash AGP Tech Shenzhen is
filling in in the newsroom what do you
got for us tonight all right here's
what's coming up in the category five
dot TV newsroom the UK government is
stepping things up in the high-speed
infrastructure Department a
biodegradable car is undergoing testing
and looks like it will be Road worthy
within a few weeks molehole is having a
hard time getting their autonomous
vehicles to work in Australia because
the Kangaroos keep hopping around in
front of them and John Romero one of the
creators of doom to put his floppies up
on ebay and land in a sale of more than
three thousand dollars after promising
to sign them stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category five technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston FS category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 dusty V is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here cat 5 TV slash TPM and the
International Association of internet
broadcasters cats live TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV
our website is category 5 dot TV that's
our whole network so you'll find a great
plethora of programming there from video
gaming to face to
technology and drone flight check it out
category 5 my talent TV yeah gaming is a
kind of blankets 9 tests in there but
yeah I asked totally hear what you're
saying yeah I I realized it's not but my
tests so freaking cool I wasn't going to
get so detailed like tech oh don't
forget Linux
don't forget computers and cameras let's
see there you go they all kind of fell
in there job oh by the way I'm Robbie
Ferguson it's nice to see ya yeah I'm
Shelly de Silva and I'm Jeff Weston and
tonight we've got a great show planned
for you burst right out the gate we're
going to jump right into it we've got a
cool little device Sasha
back on Episode five ten you'll remember
was asking about what she should do for
a display at her wedding oh and my
suggestion was you know what keep it
simple she was thinking raspberry pie
all the way let's build this thing you
can you know fandangled and they'll be
it'll be steampunked out and it'll be
amazing but really when it comes to your
special day I'm like just simplify yeah
been there done that I've filmed some
weddings and one of the biggest mistakes
people can make is over complicating
things and adding a bunch of stress
padding like trinkets and technology
that could have problems and and I love
raspberry pie don't don't get me wrong
this that's nothing to do with it I like
strawberry pies ha ha
but when it comes to the technology of
just you know getting video playing on a
screen I want it to be so super dead
simple I am so sick and tired of having
to pull out a laptop computer run a big
long 50 foot oh yeah I cable to a TV up
the wall and you number some you've been
there you've done that right Church
sanctuaries and and lobbies that have
big thick HDMI cables running on all
together TVs and all that kind of stuff
running into the back of a great big
computer that's using 800 watts of
electricity you know what I'm saying I
want a device that I can just plug in
turn on and play done simple wouldn't
that be just nice and you're right you
want simple on your wedding day
absolutely and that's just a perfect
example of where the simplicity is very
very helpful plug it in turn it on
you're done go get married girl
you know but in my in my rec room I
don't want to have to pull out my laptop
every time or when the kids want to
watch a show on YouTube have to pull out
my laptop and now I can't use my laptop
because the kids are using it on the TV
yeah two devices surprise I know so I've
got a device for you tonight we're going
to be looking at this cat five dot TV
slash AGP Tech hmm this is as the box
says mini HD media player me it exists
all of our dreams have come true this is
the one
so do we do the unboxing but it only
makes sense it always starts with an
unboxing and for which I have a nice
little sj4000 over here which I'll just
fire up so that we can get right in
there on the box for you hmm
let's bring those up bring that right up
here here we go hmm that's the sound
that tells us that the sjcam is coming
on nice I like moisture camp I do too I
like SJ cams very very much see if I get
video from it the whole autumn battery
Save mode
the joys of live TV I know and the
unboxing video of actually have a lot of
cameras out on loan right now so we're
like make shifting with whatever I've
got here in the studio right let's see
what I can do
it's too bad we can't like sync up a
cellphone or something to it I could do
that what what connection do you need
like you want to try when my cell phone
work is when it will will hack this
respective black and then when we come
back we're going to we're going to have
this all working for you
boom we'll be right back up to par now
we're fancy hey shel it's like you're a
little pixelated there it's okay we're
using miracast directly to tell a stream
Wirecast a little pixelation there at 4k
that's for sure but definitely worth a
shot
Wow it'll do where's our little T do you
have a tripod sir she need me to hold
the camera I have a tripod he's got and
it's like boom there we go all right
nice oh no shot oh yeah okay here we go
our unboxing of the mini HD media player
you ready for this
all the things that we go through for us
folks okay we've got a instruction
manual there we go which we probably
won't need much of because it's simple
remember I said I must have said cheese
see that my camera takes it
automatically I say the word cheese okay
here we go oh they're gonna picture of
that ooh cheese yeah yeah nice okay so
here's the device you guys can see that
I know we're just using miracast and
this kind of you know it's not quite as
good a quality as we're used to but
we've got USB and SD carbanion like none
of that okay we've got HDMI output we've
got optical output vga output and AV
output well that means it's compatible
with old-style TVs as well and that's
all there is to it then we've got some
buttons on the top for play fast-forward
rewind all that kind of stuff
I'll get further into the box here we've
got a couple more things I do see an AV
converter cable that gives us red yellow
and white that's for our old-style TV
nice everybody have an old-style TV
anymore you know what it'll all
hell then oh yeah it'll let you plug
into anything that it works with
anything brilliant okay there's a power
adapter sweet don't need to put
batteries in this bad boy
and a remote control well and that's it
more instructions I do see more
instructions in the bottom there yeah
because there we go ir remote it is
there you can tell because it's got the
little overhead yes okay light on the
end there okay
so this device is like I say super easy
no fussing with wires obviously light on
the electricity usage and it's just a 5
volt adapter and it's just going to you
could do-- you could velcro that to the
back of your TV or whatever and it's
just hidden away so the key things here
is it like you can just get your USB
flash drive load it up with videos or
pictures or whatever else plug it in
here and assuming you know assuming
everything works we just unboxed it but
right we're going to plug it in tonight
and see how this actually works awesome
any questions thus far of operating
systems that it works with file format
doesn't need any it has no platform
dependency as far as off at all goes
because it is its own device perfect not
it's not a computer device you don't
need to it's not a peripheral for a
computer it is its own standalone device
so you so there's no internal hard drive
to load files to it it's all for the USB
all just need must be stick plug it in
or an SD card plug it in right so that
said if you take pictures on an SD or
micro sd card you can immediately take
that out of your camera plug them in
here and boom there up on the trigger to
go at a wedding another example at a
wedding it's pretty traditional to
Russia really really fast get the photos
developed on prints and then lay them
out on the table make a nice little
collage or something right
but it would be cool for the
photographer or somebody with a camera
to be able to snap a bunch of nice
pictures immediately put them on here
play them in the reception hall so that
by the time everyone gets to the
reception hall the wedding pictures are
already up on display yeah on the TV in
a slideshow models otology yeah
instantly from an SD card slot we've set
the wait hours or weeks for that sort of
serve or an hour I remember as a
photographer having to run out to
Walmart yeah the one hour hmm instant
photo and then run back and we'd have
the we'd do like photo books and stuff
like that yeah why people would take
them homeless face I did and yeah so
capabilities as far as this goes it is
1080 P you can down scale to 720p if
your TV doesn't support it multiple
different frequencies file formats meat
file formats okay so I mentioned video
it also supports audio cut and pictures
perfect okay so now I mentioned pictures
as well the formats themselves I noticed
here your shell that it's it's on the
box
oh so our MV b and RM so real media yep
I think that's a dying or dead
technology that's hey it supports it
h.263 h.264 MOV mp4 m4v MPEG 1 and 2 VOB
files mpeg-4 X bit div X Windows Media
video WMV 7v c 1 MKV avi tell us Inc TP
VOB it's in there twice because it's
awesome PMP FLV and then it says and so
on I happen to know that it had so on I
happen to know that it supports even
more modern formats than that because
I've tested Wow and read on the website
supported audio formats you know
everything that you would expect right
like mp3 WMA AFE FLAC OGG AP e AAC ac3
DTS and so on can actually far yet
actually design is like yeah we kind of
support everything here folks
yeah and then a picture format it says
JPEG Jeff yeah
app ping no Tim no on oh yeah the
catcher is in there yeah what about BMP
it's in there bitmap uh yeah yeah I'm
gonna have to make a file format and see
if it shows up in the so on that would
be kind of cool to try yeah that'd be
kind of cool okay so looking at this
from a usability standpoint weddings
reception halls in the rec room right
yeah
church lobbies great examples can you
think of anywhere else is this kind of
thing to be going to the cottage yeah
goodness yeah yeah load up the USB flash
drive yep or E or a USB external hard
drive for that man yeah plug it in it's
USB now I know a lot of businesses now
are starting to get in a TV on the wall
that has announcements about the
business that might just even like it's
some sort of a JPEG file or something
sure you could rotate through on those
that'll be cool you know can you
actually Wow well let's see that should
we find out sure okay when we come back
I'm going to plug all this in we're
going to give it a look we're going to
bring it up on your screen we're going
to show you the interface how it works
I've got my USB flash drive which has
the host of category 5 TV I've always
got videos on here stick around we're
going to show you how that looks and how
it operates in just a couple of moments
don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category 5 dot TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cap 5 dot TV
slash gearbest it's an online store for
the geek streak in you or the loved ones
of course I mean especially your loved
ones right because cat5 DV /
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices cuz that
cellphones you betcha
cap 5 DV / gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 dot TV /
gearbest have you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a super store right from the
comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb yeah I
there's no way they have it all true
it's just a bunch of random electronics
test me what about clothes yep both men
and women fashionable apparel at
rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda like
this well look at this coat what do you
think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than $30 plus free shipping at camp 5 DV
/ gearbest yeah alright you kinda got me
there Wow
any other questions for me Jeff now that
winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals and say drone
copters oh my goodness well check this
out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 TV slash gearbest
so that's easy
five dot t being slash gearbest that's
right happy shopping welcome back this
is category five technology TV and I'm
about to plug in the HDMI I've got the
power in here scale it to our AGP tech
device and you can get this at cat five
dot TV slash AGP Tech so now it's
already instantly up on my screen
oh I noticed it just came right up and
there's the interface let's grab the
remote control and what's C pointed at
that there we go so we've got from the
left files music movie photo and
settings so should I just plug in my USB
flash drive and see what happens I think
you should I think I should - alright I
feel like all of these are setup
questions like what if I didn't know
either
oh we have to play good like I like you
guys to be participating yeah fair
enough
what do you think children sounds great
dad yes let's do that
you know it's just how how we do as the
parents okay movie I've got my USB flash
drive plugged in you saw that okay so it
shows me already ready device smart card
and cd-rom I guess what could you plug
in a USB cd-rom drive I guess like
suppose that must be my disc
skuzzy disc and then these are episodes
of category 5 that have happened and so
let's go to one like 511 ok so I see
screenshots videos mp4 files and that's
really all that you're going to find
here so if I click on say Sasha's news
resume playback Oh obviously I've
already been playing it at one point
during every mix yeah oh look a nice
automatic like just like that
I love that there it asked me if I
wanted to resume yeah have you ever been
in the middle of a movie and you've
stopped it and then pass it and have to
try to find your spot but it even would
want to like that's impressive
yeah where did it tell that from it I
knew that because I actually truth be
told I have another one of these devices
I pried it just to be sure
ok that this was going to work mm-hmm
but it
smashingly well Oh who are those
charming fellow good-looking dudes right
there okay so back I push back on the
remote let's go right back I want to go
to you know instead of being in movie
mode let's just go to files so I can
just click on anything that I want and
see how it interacts with it let's go
back to that same episode and then I'll
go in here okay so I've got screenshots
this is what I wanted to see so these
are just screen grabs from the episode
so if I push okay on that there you go
just pictures from the show right but
boom look at that it actually has it
even does transitions oh my goodness
oh so it uses different transitions
sweet good job nice randomizing and that
was as simple as so I've got my USB
flash drive with some JPEG files and
I've simply clicked on one nice yeah
just randomizes the transition so even
further takes you know takes us to hey
this would be perfect as a slideshow
device so yeah sort right it just keeps
going cool okay now if we go back and go
back one more and then I've got all
these videos the Eric's now if there's
different videos like shorts a 5-second
clips will transition between each one
May or whatever sprint I would expect
the video it wouldn't do the transition
okay it would just go from one video but
yeah that's what I mean yeah yes oh yes
alright but also you can set it to loop
so it's perfect for like a lobby
displayers oh right okay yeah and you
can set it for autoplay whole settings
yeah should we take a look at that oh my
goodness
a lot of this thing yeah let's go back
here I'm going to push the Settings
button on my remote control here so
we've got language just in case English
is not your first language hey look at
this whoa
nice okay back screensaver
I guess for two minutes right that's
cool I'll turn mine off video output
mode oh I just spotted that we're in
720p mode right now so what would happen
if I change to 1080p so I'm going to go
down to HDMI 1080p 60 Hertz because I'm
here in Canada boom there we go you can
see immediately a slight resolution
increase say it's just a little bit
clearer audio output mode we've got the
optical outputs or just normal over the
HDMI or through AV autoplay what do you
want to autoplay when you plug in your
stick movies music photos and I need I'm
going to say movies because I know I've
got videos on here right but you could
say just hey autoplay all my music when
I plug in my drive auto play all my
photos perfect for slide shows or
lobby's autoplay DVD again I guess the
optical is going to be a USB device auto
detect HDMI that's awesome and we've got
restore factory defaults so let's go
back and now I'm going to just simply
unplug my drive right I'm going to plug
it back in I'm going to just switch
screen so that you can see it but I'm
going to go three two one plug and it's
in let's see what happens as I set that
setting does it also play oh there we go
oh nice
nature sounds of ontario canada i just
want to have that on there i would also
get it through our website category v
dot TV if you're into that kind of thing
no now now i'm going to unplug it and it
just goes right back you killed nature
oh how cool is that
killing nature no be able to plug in a
USB flash drive so you load it up with
anything pictures videos audio plug it
in it auto plays you're going to go plus
it's got the controls on the controller
and it has buttons on the top if you
lose your controller or it's not handy
yeah batteries or dead or whatever
that's fine you're still able to operate
it how sounds to me like sasha is going
to have a pretty simple wedding sound
easy we got that taken care of that's
right yeah your whole weddings taking
care of there you go figure it out W
just don't forget your flash drive like
Robbie West yeah I mentioned on episode
511 that I like a camera oh yeah
remember how am I gonna record that yeah
uh you know Nesby card come on I'm like
hey check this out
all you have to do is turn it on and it
just start no disk yeah oh just like I
charged the bad news for you I put it in
my hand yeah I put it on a selfie stick
for ya and then and I wiped the SD card
yeah and then didn't put it on in the
camera something might probably came up
idiot there's always that one now have
you missed ya yes oh yeah and it's
always that remember we went to Legoland
and I get the same yeah right yeah
around tryna be Kart I've got all my
camera yeah and I'm looking around for
so I found a cell phone shop to film an
SD card the frustrating thing is little
asked and I was like no that morning I
had one in my car like I'm not gonna
leave this in here chaotic Eric's into
my car oh yeah yeah oh real me goodness
me okay back to our mini HD media player
any questions Shelly you mentioned oh
yeah 128 D had 100 yes you're the one
who told what see 128 D says if that
device could play PowerPoint
presentations I could sell a lot of them
to churches for their Lobby announce in
display PowerPoint right okay that's a
whole different can of worms
mmm-hmm because PowerPoint are not
images they're not videos right their
basic e they're like Isis yeah PP yeah
but you can export each frame to an
image can't you yeah on PowerPoint boom
no transit okay though I don't care what
you're using if you're using PowerPoint
you ring up hey we've got trimming but
it's built into the machine right oh
yeah that's right my drawing transition
the transition that are built into the
player so we don't have to worry about
the magnet images do not carry the
transitions there you go let's see how
this goes okay Jeff said it we can
convert to ping or JPEG or yes on some
sort I don't care if you're using
PowerPoint I don't care if you're using
LibreOffice OpenOffice whatever I'm
going to show you on LibreOffice impress
how to convert your PowerPoint file to
images and then we're going to try this
okay image impress is part of
libreoffice it's absolutely free it
comes with Linux it's included on Debian
9 and if you're on Windows Mac Linux
whatever you can install it it's
absolutely free go to libreoffice.org
and i'll put the link below for you so
let's get on to I'm just going to bring
up Google and do a search for PowerPoint
sample and I find one here that is
sample videos calm and looks like
they've got a couple of examples here
I'm going to grab one here and open it
with LibreOffice impress why am i doing
it with impressed because again I don't
care what you're using to create your
PowerPoint LibreOffice and we talked
about this on episode number 510 when
we're talking about differences in
desktop environments LibreOffice will
open anything whether it's from
Microsoft Office or a free office suite
so it will work for everyone so and it's
absolutely free so let's just do that so
I'm going to open this PPT file notice
it is a PPT file Microsoft PowerPoint
presentation PPT and I'm going to open
it with free LibreOffice impress let's
see what happens there it is
so there demo if I hit f5 is how to use
power opponent let's scroll through
there you go
that's what it looks like first thing I
notice I've got a 16 over nine TV the
presentation is in 4 over 3 see the
black bars on the left and right yes
first thing I want to do is correct that
now you could export to images as you
say yes and then you could take them
into GIMP and go through rescaling them
and everything but that's a boatload of
work let's make it really really easy
for you so do it from the get-go so
click on the first slide if you like
click on slide and you notice ok
everything is grayed out that means
this is a read-only document so this
document is open and read-only well
there you go so click Edit document then
go slide slide properties first screen
you see is paper format why Microsoft
and LibreOffice still consider it paper
when it's a presentation like how many
of you have printed a PowerPoint
presentation I did a few weeks ago video
yeah I made my sermon note did you like
go like this for the transition no no is
my sermon note I had a PowerPoint
presentation because I was speaking a
Father's Day Church night and printed it
off and so yeah and over there there you
go everything Pastor J does it do so you
actually had her reason to print I
couldn't think of one you did yeah only
one well I was preaching well van okay
my favorite note yes all right format
you have all kinds of paper right then
screen sixteen over nine oh there we go
oh my god click it hit okay okay hit up
live now or fill a little space now
we're the boss of it there we go as long
as we're not cutting anything off we are
happy we can reposition things as we
need to oh look at those fancy
transitions that we're not going to see
but that's ok
so let's go back to LibreOffice impress
just like this we've converted to the
sixteen over nine now super super simple
file export and let's throw it on my
desktop I'm going to create a folder
called test and in that folder I'm going
to change my format to HTML document
impress and then hit save now and the
reason we're doing HTML document is
we're tricking it into saying hey we're
going to turn this into a web page I'll
take all those slides and make them into
web pages for me which is going to use
images so new design apparently the last
one was my kids playing on my computer
and they created art this literally how
it goes but I just kept any worse than
Luke's dump yes ok so just hit next a
bunch of times everything default is
fine except when we get here I want to
save it as ping is probably the best
format
high-quality give me the big ones and
everything else looks good next now I
don't care next yeah it looks good
create give it a name test okay there we
go so now if I close out of this I don't
need to say that minimize that now I've
got a folder here called test and look
at this I've got HTML files I've got
ping files I've got some nail files so
let's view this yeah
let's view this as a list let's sort by
type and let's grab all of our IMG
number files we don't want the thumbs we
just want the IMG files and create a new
folder we're going to call this photos
and then paste them and now I've got
only the ones that are IMG 0 1 2 3 and
if I click on them what do they look
like
I was so simple our slides wasn't that
easy how did I not know about this
feature before you know now like well we
have a curry 5 technology TV that's how
it goes you enter the show you go what
how did I not know that when you are
happening right now show knowing
something that you didn't know that's
our hope if you don't know now you know
it's exactly right so that's why you're
here to break it all down I'm going to
throw this on my flash drive so stick
that into my laptop here I think there's
a USB port over there somewhere here we
go ok and copy all those over that's
fine I'm going to copy that and then on
my flash drive I can push the right
buttons I'm going to create a new folder
called PPT in the PPT folder I'm going
to throw all those things so keep in
mind this is for the church lobby this
is for the business who have the
PowerPoint slideshow created but they
don't have a way to play it on the TV at
this point so they get one of these
devices and lo and behold it's going to
be amazing so those are all on that
flash drive under PPT I'm going to eject
and then I'm going to physically eject
and then simply plug in my USB
flashdrive to the micro HDMI player and
it's going to start playing videos
instantly right it is ready not only
because I've got the autoplay turned on
so I'm going to have to hit back and
then I'm going to press files I'm going
to browse to that PPT folder that I
created let's see if we can find her
here
ppt naira was okay ready for it folks
image zero let er rip look at that all
but it is centered instead of full oh
maybe that's oh you know what can I just
try an experiment yeah for how I changed
it to 1080p yes maybe we need to have it
maybe this is only outputting 720p files
so I just it's just a theory I just want
to test it let's go back to video with a
video output mode and then down to HDMI
720p 60 Hertz I just want to test that
theory folks files let's get back there
scroll everything expression up the food
go to the bottom of the list they you
could that would have been smart a
Robbie right at the bottom second give
me I'd done a little bit bigger it does
make a difference so yes what that tells
me is that it's oh and I love the
transitions are there so what that tells
me is that it does not necessarily
rescale the images okay so you would
want to create these perhaps at the
right resolution but I want to try one
more thing there's a zoom button on my
remote and there we go okay so I can
actually zoom in now on the screen so
that's the default that zoomed in and it
fits perfectly okay so I'm just going to
let that place you can see the
transitions if I've done it right maybe
when you zoom you have to play again so
let's pause oh maybe if you zoom it does
not it pauses it okay just thing so this
is why I love live unboxings it's fun
and we learn this stuff together so I
think what you would have to do is now
change the size of those files to fit
the 720p crop so how would we care about
having the little block but you probably
do you absolutely do and because we're a
full screen oh and because we're on
Linux we can we can do this let's see
okay so I'm going to plug this back into
my laptop watch this folks
here comes the magic yeah the magic
don't kill don't kill the magic
seriously don't kill it all right okay I
wanted to actually see if ma grapha is
installed not ma Gristedes von
Versailles yes it's installed if you
don't have my graph I it'll say not
installed and you can install it perfect
it's part of image magic okay so I'm
going to go to media and then there must
be a folder there Robbie 128 gigabyte
PPT now watch this this is destructive
I'm going to warn you so make sure you
have a backup of these files if they're
critical do not run this on a folder
unless it's redundant because I'm about
to change the size of all these images
in one fell swoop ma graph I - I believe
it was now I haven't done this in so
long I'm going to try it - - resize and
we're going to do 1280 by 720 star dot
ping whoo an open one and check on the
right hand side is 1024 by 576 so it's
still the old file format so what did I
so what did I do ma graph I unable to
open image oh it's looking for the image
first maybe it's just a - resize let's
try it
they're all blinking they're blinking
like they're regenerating for sure there
we go it was - resized not - - resize
okay so I know I'm doing 720p so that's
1280 by 720 1080 P is 1920 by 1080 right
keep that in mind MOG refine now Reese
cailed all these it up scaled that's
what it looks like on my computer now
eject that drive
here I thought we were doing just one
feature we're covering like three
different things it's amazing sometimes
things come up and it's like you know
what it doesn't really really need I
know but I love how it works that's like
hey we're going to do this and we're
going to teach you this and then this
okay
thanks Jeff I've modified it yeah plug
it in and have to stop the video again
gonna autoplay right she'll yep
all right and back oh you killed nature
again yeah there we go oh no it's that
that's my favorite it's one of my
episodes called green frogs on Mayor's
marsh yep and beautiful stuff if you're
in the nature sounds really relaxing
really really nice okay okay you can go
up yeah good idea
okay up there we go oh look at the highs
okay look I got the bloopers folks you
don't get to see the things that I have
oh it would have been quicker just to go
down yeah what alright PPT but at least
you know it goes up yeah oh I've got
these crazy Tilden's the backups need
okay ready
image zero perfect fit oh man and it's
playing whoo so I think we're going to
get our transmissions this time yeah
look at that folks
Wow beaut that's pro right there so
tonight we've learned about this device
we've learned how to convert a
PowerPoint slideshow into images and
then we've learned how to use MOG Rifai
in order to modify the scale of these
images so that they're going to
perfectly fit the 720p or 1080p canvas
so that they display perfectly and the
transitions are provided for you so
there you go see 128 d and I was going
to say we made c128 D heavy yeah I hope
that it makes all of your church
customers happy as well but then here is
the probably the lightest weight easier
way easier to install
I love Raspberry Pi okay don't get me
wrong but that is so easy to install and
if anything ever happens to it it's dirt
cheap to replace in there if there's no
moving parts no fans Shelley this has
been plugged in this whole episode I'm
just going to unplug everything from it
and I want you to tell me how hot that
is
very little any heat coming off that at
all not cooking an egg the Raspberry Pi
does generate some heat Oh
feels like it hasn't been on yeah yeah
it just feels like a and it's got a nice
aluminum kind of body here plastic
around here that's fantastic that's
great for people like I mean you're
talking about the Raspberry Pi is great
but if somebody doesn't know how to deal
with the coding side of Raspberry Pi
it could be daunting it's an honor into
the computer yeah this is just if a
player you want to play videos you want
play slideshows there you go done my
kids could use that absolutely and they
should so it would be very convenient
good by the market absolutely I will I
hope that are they watching now probably
not now in committed I don't have to now
the acting on watching I'll ban me from
all technology for this episode
there we go folks no this is category
five technology TV thank you so much for
joining us tonight Jeff is filling in
for Sasha remaineth tonight I am jelly
is filling in for Henry Bailey brown and
and Jeff could sometimes be over here
this is we've done the whole switcheroo
this week yeah I know so you ready to
take the news it's been a while man it
has been a long shot in here she's like
get away from my new desk uh oh and
here's Jaffe taken over yeah that's
alright hey our a thing all right take
it away hear the stories we're covering
this week in the category five TV
newsroom the UK government is stepping
things up in the high-speed
within a few weeks
Volvo is having a hard time getting
their autonomous vehicles to work in
Australia because the Kangaroos keep
hopping around in front of them and John
Romero one of the creators of doom to
put his floppies on eBay and landed a
sale of more than three thousand dollars
after promising to sign them these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston Yellin you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you know alright you're
terrible actor what this we're acting
comes into play oh I don't know what
Isaac you're supposed to act okay fair
enough I don't know really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much harddrive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cap 5 GB flash dream
host still competitive a persona just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find 5
dollars and change per month go to cap 5
dot TV slash dream host I'm Jeff Weston
and here are the top stories for the
week of August 2nd 2017 the UK
government recently launched a four
hundred million pound fund to boost
investment in full fiber broadband the
aim is to offer speeds of up to 1
gigabit per second households and
businesses now rather than relying on
copper cables to connect them to
roadside cabinets fiber-optic cables
will run directly to their properties
the plan announced by the Chancellor in
November called a drop in the ocean
compared to what will be needed to make
full fibre the norm although many
households and organizations do not
currently need one gigabit per second
speeds the idea is to provide a
future-proof solution the government is
tapping private investors to bring the
total sum to 1 billion pounds and the
money will be managed and invested by to
fund managers until now the UK
government's focus has been to deliver
superfast broadband speeds
meaning 24 megabits per second or
more it's pledged that 95 percent of UK
properties will have this by the end of
the year and 100 percent by the end of
2020 BT telecoms infrastructure division
Openreach has said it believes that two
million premises will have full fiber by
the end of 2020 that it aims to provide
speeds of up to 330 megabits per second
to a further 10 million premises via a
copper based technology known as G da
fast by the same date nice now a car
made from biodegradable natural
materials has passed road safety tests
in the Netherlands tu Iike motive a
student team from I know Haven
University of Technology unveiled Lena
earlier this year the four-seaters
lightweight structure e is made from
sugar beet and flax which takes 20% of
the energy used to produce today's
aluminum or carbon fiber based cars the
University says the concept car will
undergo a few final adaptations before
being allowed on public roads within the
next few weeks Jeff can i interject it
did you not do a story at one point
about a biodegradable vehicle pipe or
something I remember I might have I
think there was a problem with rodents
wanting to eat oh yeah for the military
vehicle I think that was sometime in
season 9 it was awhile ago any but so
I'm thinking about that and thinking
they've met do you not learn from your
mistakes so this was a story a long
while ago where they were using the
insulation in the vehicle was made out
of this yes that's right a substance and
rodents were getting in and eating it
that's right I do my husband all kinds
of trouble because the wiring goes
through all the insulation and
everything and so now they're going to
build a vehicle right out of
biodegradable or aka edible material I
wonder what they're doing to you know do
we just add some cayenne pepper and what
do we do and I and I can't help but
wonder if you live in a very moist
climate how it gets really sticky yeah
I'm just going to affect your vehicle's
oh my goodness like I don't know I think
I think there's probably going to be
some issues but I don't know maybe it's
hard-packed or they use some sort of
chemicals to bind it together in a way
doesn't break up but you know is this
one of the things like when your car
breaks down you cannot feed your family
for a month we're doing a road trip
we're at a gas we've got a car to eat so
here's how the door panel it tastes like
chicken yes it does everything does too
well speaking of cars the relentless
march of the self-driving car is in
danger of grinding to a halt in
Australia because the technology cannot
cope with the almighty kangaroo while
other large animals walk run trot
kangaroos jump you think this has proved
all too much for Volvo in fact vulval
has been trying to solve the kangaroo
problem for nearly two years having sent
experts to examine them in their natural
habitat in 2015 now there's more than
16,000 kangaroo collisions on
australia's road which cost the
insurance industry just over 44 million
pounds Wow
the company has been working on tweaking
its self braking system to deal with the
problem martin Magnussen Volvo safety
manager said kangaroos are very
unpredictable animals and difficult to
avoid but we're confident we can refine
our technology to detect them and avoid
collisions on the highway and to that
the Kangaroos said yeah Ron might
despite the company's best efforts
Volvo's large animal detection system
has yet to crack the problem
nevertheless vulval remains confident
that we'll have solved the conundrum but
by the time its self-driving cars are
available in 2020 kangaroos are kind of
a big animal they're big and they are
maniacal I know like you picture a bunny
rabbit in 2002 no these are ours but do
you not think that for the size of a
kangaroo mean like this they're tall
yeah exactly they could stand six feet
or higher you'd think it would see this
massive thing going boy morning morning
and go hey there's a large jumping
object I need to be careful mmm to me
that seems simple programming but I
don't but how in cars act course of
direction for the kangaroo that's
the thing like is it just going to pull
over and stop every time a kangaroo hops
by hey buddy funny
better safe than sorry yeah yeah just
drive into the dead space dock but we
have avoided all kangaroo collision
looks like we don't want to say how we
have done it yeah I hope I don't use one
of the beach cars yeah hole doesn't go
to beat cars because it all came down
then I could just see the kangaroos but
I'm gonna eat that yeah coming at you
like a maniac and it can't stop yeah I
don't think I don't know I've seen
kangaroos get on their back or on their
tail and kick yeah I don't think many
cars would survive that there they're
strong they are speaking of not
surviving if you want to play the
original version of doom to which I
always got slaughtered in the game will
set you back just one pound and 49 cents
during the current steam summer sale if
you want a boxed copy of the original
floppy version circa 1994 that's a trip
back in time there's a copy available on
eBay right now for 75 bucks but if you
want doom two floppy disks that were
once owned and potentially signed by
doom create co-creator John Romero
you'll need to pay over three grand John
Romero himself posted original doom 2
discs 3.5 inch floppies pc on ebay and
promoted the listing via twitter the
oxygens were 84 bids from 31 distinct
bidders over three days ending this
morning with a winning bid of three
thousand one hundred and fifty dollars I
will sign these discs if you like Romero
wrote in the eBay description wow that's
cool I I was a fan of all the doom games
oh for sure horrible Adam but I was
great at them for some Unreal Tournament
came out it was the same kind of
gameplay yes but you know in VR space 3d
space mhmmm that was fun I think just to
own the original discs I did on them so
seeing the picture there Jeff takes me
back yeah I had those that's like eight
megabytes of gaming glory
to get out of one disc got damaged oh I
was so bad
yep yep got to go out buy the whole
thing good times I always made copies of
my floppies yeah on to what pop it onto
other floppies yeah welcome jobs what I
had you not format them 1.44 meg to 2.88
meg dual-density so that we could video
spaces yeah that's called it back in
time
yeah I'll dig it into the computer copy
it over to the rll the MFM so good good
time of the days that's right alright
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Jeff Weston thanks Jeff this is category
five technology TV and our website is
category five dot TV Shelley Jeff it's
been a while my friends i dothe of you
you were here this is your first time on
the stand up yeah this is great this
weird are your set up you like it yeah
yeah there you have it Shelley loves it
so it stays he's in charge it was
because the final vote anything nickel
anything new with you guys yeah I'm
actually around yeah here yeah yeah in
way from home living out of town for
work and keep me very very busy oh wow
you know I missed my family my kids have
all grown up and gotten married a good
summer so far though - yes very hot yeah
love it yeah it has been
other than lots and lots of rain if
we're going to go there yeah but that's
been good for my lawn but you know what
really sucks I finally took time last
year went on vacation and my garden
completely dead oh that was the drought
last all right summer so this year put
in a rain barrel put in an irrigation
system and it has a hose that goes down
to my garden and it has a timer and
every five hours for 15 minutes it uses
rainwater to water all of my girls and
it hasn't stopped raining yes so my rain
barrel works it's full everyday it's
full
and I've had absolutely no use for the
stupid thing no I'm going to like it
when when drought comes yes you're hot
and it's insurance really it really is
yeah I have one outdoor summer project
that I keep putting off the grass is
this long is it yeah it is my wife and I
have an understanding I will mop and
vacuum and she will cut the grass oh
yeah it's simply self preservation
because I'm a ginger so how do I decide
Lee the Sun comes out and I turn I know
it listen third-degree burns from Sun is
just not not pleasant but I know my one
job is we've got these Cedars out front
that I need to rip out okay um and I
just I can't get to it because it's
always raining are they dead there no
they're just annoying Oh taking up too
much space
yeah yeah I got you want you can have my
there you go we've generated trees right
here on category 5 TV like that can I
have your trailer I don't want some
rhubarb sucker Barbara Bush is coming
out the wazoo
no yeah well watered evidently one thing
about the cedar trees skunks like to
hang out in them oh yeah buddy that's
one of the reasons is it come with the
skunk
yeah probably very sorry - there's like
vermin did you just drop a bomb and then
just let us spit I hope you've been
having a fantastic time so are we're
looking forward to all that's to come
and simply just half over no no no don't
say it no no I did I did say it sorry
folks we're gonna if we're gonna win it
at a high note and then Jeff is like
summers on the side yeah I don't know us
I said I can't believe it's half over
yeah yeah a castle half empty
yeah summer half an hour is great so far
I'm earnest so let's enjoy the rest of
it let's go and have fun get your drones
out dad come on TV flash fly check out
what we got there and we will see you
again next week thank you to these two
for being here thank you to you and
we'll see you next Wednesday night so
yeah good night I
you
[Music]
