like well you've brought your Raspberry
Pi yeah we have shown Raspberry Pi
builds on the show in the past okay so
so where our viewers are reasonably
familiar what can I that some of them
have even gone out and bought one we
sell them through our website cat5 TV /
pie you've got yours tell you about you
know what yes I brought my baby here
today guys and I'm really excited to
show you because it's the new Raspberry
Pi the third version else so like the
new three-point a raspberry pi 3 it's
it's my baby right now guys I got for
Christmas I came with a kit and of
course like Robbie just said you go
online to their store and you can look
at what they have online there so did
you get like this breadboard and
everything yeah you know what I I got
exactly this and it's really cool
because um obviously now it has a four
core processor yeah which is absolutely
fantastic it has Wi-Fi Bluetooth and of
course it comes with its own operating
system to like it has raspbian installed
which is kind of like a linux version
smoosh generation habian yeah okay which
is yeah and you know what I've had so
much fun and the best part is is that
it's made for everyone it doesn't matter
if you're a six-year-old just getting
into computers wanting to have fun or if
you're a Robbie who knows his way around
computers um but you know what yes i am
that i am that Robbie you what I am that
I your body however yes this to me
introduces new skills new hobbies new
experimentation and fun oh yeah I've
mentioned that on the show you know
we're trying to get more into hands-on
let's learn to do this let's actually
build this and do this exactly that's
what the pie represents to me is the
ability to very cheaply be able to start
tinkering and start learning on
electronics start learning some of these
really really neat things that you can
do exactly and the really really amazing
part about a pie is that a they're
inexpensive but as well as the more
important part you set rate their hands
on yeah you know we can actually build
things you can actually do your own
projects and there's pretty
unlimited potential like you get it you
could get like an LCD screen with it
should we get up sure you can turn it
into a little low you could do anything
with these things you know and the cool
thing is is that you can also work on
the programming side too because it
comes pre-loaded nowadays with all this
amazing free software from all skill
levels so obviously like you have Python
you have JavaScript things like that but
you also have other smaller free
programs that can start like videos like
coding languages exactly on the pie yeah
and is Linux exactly it has these what
are called gpio headers and what they do
is they allow you to connect and I see
you've got here I'll via those
connectors there it looks like an old
ide kind of thing yep what is that what
capabilities does that give us an
unlimited power no that really cool i'll
know about that it really does give us
so much potential though because well
we're able to plug in switches lights
yeah these other amazing things and with
that you can do the most simple projects
for example i made like a little
stoplight there it's not working what i
thought was right now yeah you pushing
this which okay here let me let me get
in here can you tell us a little bit
about this particular built so you're
pulling more than just power here yeah
so how it works is that generally right
now you see three LEDs so you have your
red here yellow and of course green and
then of course you haven't switch over
here okay so on it's not working quite
right now but when you push the switch
its supposed to switch in between and
why is it not is this I accidentally
forgot a resistor at home but yeah I
want to get to that point where I just
have resistors in my pocket and I can
just hand one to you you should because
that would be so much fun I'll be like a
Robbie's here to save the day this looks
like a lot of fun how much technical
knowledge like one of the things like I
don't I don't really get my I don't have
my head around resistors yet yeah I can
understand relays and I've built a nice
little relay system which we're going to
be looking at on a future episode that's
going to be fun and yeah but I resistors
and things like that like how how much
knowledge do you have to have in order
to start building they're really not at
all literally this is my first time
really building
from scratch like this and that's a
really amazing part is that there's two
categories of course the internet it's a
wonderful place a lot of free knowledge
out there watch category 5 because they
talk about pie a lot I'm Paul Morphy
blog while your dad I think no but it's
um again you can get packages online
again look through your store because
there's so many amazing resources like
for example mine came with a little book
that gave you example projects and I'm
gonna go show shows you have
step-by-step how to actually build in
and explains everything right so if we
can actually like show them the actual
like Python program that's running this
right now they would actually be able to
see the code and there's actually a
program that's running this stoplight
yeah it there's an actual code written
in Python yeah it's running that stopped
like you see how that works or yes we
can okay we actually have ready on the
pie nice um so as you can see you guys
this is the desktop of my pie which is
absolutely amazing i love it there you
go get very low resolution like it's
built for the little touch screen or
something like it see that that's that's
a cool thing goes that's still very
adaptable yeah right and the amount of
power that you have in it can be
overkill but the thing is that you can
literally do anything can make like a
little Wi-Fi router you can make a media
server off this yeah we've done a plex
media server hey there you go do a
search on our website category five TV
do a search for raspberry pi and see all
the things that we've done oh yeah but
so I see a lot of script there so this
runs that traffic light is this look at
that led on off yeah like we got the
GPIO of those pin designations yep and
then and that's a really amazing thing
about the education when it comes to pi
is that you have something that is
really simple but you have all these
amazing online projects I can it breaks
you down step by step okay right and
you're able to go through that and
there's so many great online resources
heck even on reddit you just answered
Raspberry Pi and is that it you just
kind of do a search for hey some
beginner projects for all this berry pie
or yeah exactly a killer resource that
we should be looking at
there's quite a few um so there's
obviously books check your library
things like that really they have
raspberry pi project books oh yeah a lot
a lot of libraries are keeping up at the
times are really amazing how they have
so many amazing resources for kids
nowadays um and especially for adults
you know what Kiptyn get to the hard
side us you know it's funny because some
of the things that I got for Christmas
because I'm trying to learn these kinds
of things electronics and how how it
actually works really at its core say
for ages 6 and up or ages 8 not and it's
you know that we if we don't have that
knowledge no it's for me well it's it's
crazy though because the only thing you
look at kids nowadays though and you see
a four-year-old who knows more about an
iphone so a lot of other people out
there but take it apart they don't know
necessarily what no there's having
splashy this things yeah and again
that's this is where a project like this
can come in handy right early you use
your hands right so I think it's a great
education tool and I mean like I'm so
excited for the next decade I'm sorry
yeah huge Artemis yeah and and not and
we we talk about education we're not
just talking about rules like I guess be
doing these kinds of projects with my
kids exact really see it and with the
breadboard what's cool about that too is
that you're not permanently soldering
this thing together that is something
that you know you're able to pull it
apart and build the next one exactly you
can do a project you want to try it all
over again okay it's just ripped apart
and start over and that's the cool thing
is that again you can make sure it works
before you solder everything and you
can't take it right okay and then you
give you the money a TCP so where do you
get the parts i mean you can get them
through our affiliate link our partner
link for amazon yeah exactly and Barrie
Ontario we are absolutely blessed to
have a store called say al and say al is
like the radio shack of old like you
gonna do row after row of resistors and
relays and everything else it is
paradise for a tinkerer but you know
where would you buy Part D is that what
you do here yeah yeah you know what on a
lot of local tech stores have amazing
parts yeah um I also look at like I said
before a lot of kits because
um again they might have things cater
towards so like example there might be
like seven different projects like I
heard somebody in the chat will saw a
not hurt I'm talking about like the
magic mirror idea how project yeah they
caked in here thank you very much for
mentoring that vitally on how you take a
mirror and then you make it a smart
meter so it's like the time the weather
things like that um and they're i'm
pretty sure they're should week it's out
there that can i'm surprised mr. war if
there aren't kids out there somebody
make a kit because that would sell very
fast or it might be fun to actually
that's out the head yeah head on over to
our website category five dot TV and you
can actually click on our support us and
then our partner links through our
partner links amazon is a great resource
for these kinds of poland really i think
up something diff so many and kit like
do a search for kit for raspberry pi
it's amazing but also if you want to buy
a pie if you haven't got yours yet cat5
TV / pies we've got a lot of accessories
we've got the kits themselves to get you
started and then as we evolve these
kinds of projects on the show will be
able to you'll be able to follow along
with those kits as well so it's going to
be a lot of fun thanks for bringing that
in henry and make driving it that's a
lot of fun very cool
[Music]
