it's Tuesday februari the 9th 2016 and
hear the stories that were covering this
week a GPS error caused at 12 hours of
problems for a number of companies all
of your iphones are belong to us hey if
you've had your iphone 6 serviced by a
third party you might break it if you're
trying to update a social engineering
hack on the US Department of Justice and
Department of Homeland Security is being
deployed what there's a surprise watch
where you fly your drone check this out
a man was being charged for crashing
into the Empire State Building after a
police officer told him it was okay to
fly there didn't didn't tell him that it
was okay to crash into the building
that's the key point here maybe we'll
find out more and also those new USBC
cables they could potentially fry your
device so stick around I'm going to tell
you what you need to watch out for when
choosing your cable these stories and
more coming up don't go anywhere you've
got mad skills now hone them learn new
skills or improve your existing ones
with online video tutorials and training
from Linda calm through our special link
at cat five dot TV / Linda learn
software technology creative and
business skills you can use today to
help you achieve your professional goals
join today and start learning will give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat five
dot TV / Linda I'm Robbie Ferguson and
here are the top stories from the
category five dot TV news room this week
several companies were hit by hours of
system warnings after 15 GPS satellites
broadcast the wrong time according to
time monitoring company Chronos Chronos
the company observed problems last week
after noticing some GPS time signals
were 13 microseconds out such a
discrepancy is considered severe and
several Chronos telecoms clients faced
12
of hours of system errors previously the
GPS errors had been blamed for
disturbances with BBC radio broadcasts
according to the US Air Force aka USAF
which manages the GPS satellite network
problems began when a satellite named
svn 23 was decommissioned a you a USAF
spokeswoman that's a it's not supposed
to be a tongue twister but for some
reason it feels like one a USAF
spokeswoman confirmed that the error had
been pushed out from the ground kronos
chief executive professor charles curry
said telecommunication companies relied
on the accuracy of these time
measurements to control the flow of data
through their networks the bits and
bytes of telephone calls for example
they might be synchronized based on the
time that's reported by GPS satellite
signals when the 13 micro second error
had been detected it resulted in
thousands of system warnings being
activated at some companies the USAF
says that while the software issue is
still resident on the ground systems
second space operations squadron has
implemented procedures to ensure the
issue does not recur the latest software
update for the iphone 6 handset is
rendering the devices useless if it
detects that repairs were carried out by
someone other than Apple the problem is
known as error 53 and it's appeared in
Apple products before the Guardian
reports that users phones were disabled
after the touch ID home button was
repaired by a non-apple engineer Apple
has confirmed that this error message is
a security measure taken to prevent
fraudulent transactions Apple advises
that if a customer encounters error 53
they are encouraged to contact apple
support us authorities have acknowledged
a data breach affecting the department
of justice and department of homeland
security but downplayed it severely a
hacker or perhaps a hacking group
published via twitter that they said
what they said were about 9,000 records
of Homeland Security and
according to technology news site
motherboard the hacker has said that he
will soon share the personal information
of 20,000 Department of Justice
employees including staff at the FBI the
news site sedative verified small
portions of the breach but also noted
that some of it appeared to be either
incorrect or perhaps outdated in a
statement Homeland Security told
journalists and this is a quote we take
these reports very seriously however
there is no indication at this time that
there is any breach of sensitive or
personally identifiable information back
it up a little bit their homeland
security what about the 9000 names and
numbers mmm the Department of Justice
also downplayed the breach of
significance the hacker is understood to
have used simple human engineering to
bypass one stage of the authorities
security systems could boil down to
training motherboard quoted the hacker
who explained so I called up told them I
was new and I didn't understand how to
get past the portal they asked if I had
a token code I said no they said that's
fine just use ours a man charged with
crashing a drone into the Empire State
Building claims that a policeman had
told him it was fine to fly there police
say a drone hit the New York skyscrapers
40th floor and then fell on to allege
five levels lower Sean riddle was
charged with reckless endangerment and
illegal navigation of an aircraft in and
over the city the man is also blamed or
pardon me he blames a year old news
article for it's misleading information
he said in a tweet all I wanted to do
was shoot five seconds of video to
promote a non-profit I asked a cop 20
minutes before I did it he said it was
fine aside from asking a cop I went to
this website where to fly a drone in New
York City legally however US drones are
being a US drone owners are being urged
to consult the no
for you by know before you fly website
backed by drone makers as well as the
Federal Aviation Administration which
shows the Empire State Building and much
of the rest of Manhattan has been
designated as a restricted zone because
of its heliports and helipads bad on who
right ok when you're using google
there's a tool under search options that
allows you to change to articles that
have been posted in the past hour 24
hours week you can actually set the time
so if you're doing a search like that
where it's obviously I mean the guy
knows that he might be breaking the law
let's use that tool to make sure that
we're looking at something that's a
little more current than a year old but
then again even if it was legal I don't
think it's okay to crash it into the
building maybe somebody who is not a
very good pilot shouldn't be flying in a
populated area my opinion the gadget
world is slowly adopting a new power
cord standard it's called USB type-c
they're small multi-purpose universal
reversible and they might fry your
hardware the advantage of the new
standard is that USBC isn't owned by any
one company and that means anyone can
manufacture those cables for cheap the
disadvantage because of that well they
might wreak havoc with your device's
cheap power cords or nothing new you can
go onto Amazon or even walk into a
dollar store and buy micro USB standard
cables for smartphones for example but
the new USBC cords are capable of
supplying much more power to your
devices than standard micro-usb for
example 5 volts versus you know a lot
more if you charge your smartphone by
plugging your USB Secord into your
laptop a faulty cord could actually
drain your device far more quickly draw
a lot more power from that laptop then
it was designed to supply and possibly
destroy it and your smartphone connected
to it pretty much instantly there's no
turning back the cords are supposed to
recognize what kind of device they're
sucking power from for example if a USBC
cord is plugged into
a wall socket it's going to crank up the
juice versus if you plug it into your
laptop it's going to tone it down a bit
that's not what happened to Google
engineer Benson Liang while testing a 3m
USB Secord his $1,500 laptop turned into
a very expensive piece of toast the cord
had been wired incorrectly mr. Liang has
since taken it upon himself to take the
manufacturers to task reviewing several
of the cords with the hopes of
preventing this from happening to
someone else based on his research
buying more expensive cables is
generally a good idea but an expensive
cord doesn't necessarily mean that your
gadgets are going to be safe and blindly
simply spending extra money as a way of
ensuring your device's safety that's
pretty silly that's no guarantee that
your device is going to be destroyed the
good news though is that the USBC
standards-setting group they're called
the USB implementers forum they're
issuing a seal of approval for safe USBC
devices cords especially since those
logos don't show up anywhere on Amazon's
website though your safest bet might to
be might be to actually walk into a
brick-and-mortar store where you can
physically see the logo on the box
otherwise you could ask in the product
description or the product questions
section on your favorite purchasing site
and then make sure that the present the
logo is present when the device actually
arrives big thanks this week to roy w
nash and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
news story that you'd like us to mention
make sure you email it to newsroom at
category five dot TV for all of your
tech news with a slight linux bias visit
the category 5 TV news room its newsroom
dot category five dot TV for the
category five dot TV news room I'm
Robbie Ferguson
