hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
stage show we're going to talk about
believing what God says is true and then
doing it so just do so just do it
this is the story of Operation Christmas
Child it may just be a shoebox but to
millions is the start of the greatest
journey traveling the world sent with
prayer shoebox gifts fill the hearts of
children from over 100 different
countries with hope faith and love
welcome back to you every day so glad
that you tuned in again we have been
having quite the conversation Jen and
just before we dive in want to thank you
for going on to patreon com thank you so
much for those who have already clicked
and donated and what you can do there is
actually a pledge to donate 25 cents per
episode and that allows us to keep this
going and keep meeting with all of you
every week yes we do thank you for that
very much so so today's show we're going
to talk two weeks ago we talked about
Zechariah and Mary and their response
well note two weeks ago we talked about
Zakaria and his response to the got to
the Angels last week we talked about
Mary and her response to the angel and
on today's show we're going to look at
Joseph and how he responded to God's
telling him to God telling him that he
was his fiancee was pregnant and she was
carrying the son of God hmm so reading
from Matthew 118 this is how the birth
of Jesus Christ came about his mother
Mary was engaged to bury Joseph but
before they married she learned she was
pregnant by the power of the Holy Spirit
because Mary's husband Joseph was a good
man or righteous in most translations he
did not want to disgrace her in public
so he plans to divorce her secretly
while Joseph thought about these things
an angel the Lord came to him
dream the angel said joseph's descendant
of David don't be afraid to take Mary as
your wife because the baby in her is
from the Holy Spirit she will give birth
to a son and you will name him Jesus
because he will save his people from
their sins all has happened to bring
about what the Lord said through the
Prophet the Virgin will be pregnant she
will have a son and they will name him
Emmanuel which means God is with us when
Joseph woke up he did what the Lord's
angel told him to do Joseph took Mary as
his wife but he did not have sexual
relations with her until she gave birth
to the son and Chief Joseph named him
Jesus so this is quite a different
response than what we've seen in the
previous two mind you Matthew is writing
and in the first two responses Zechariah
and marry Luke is writing and so it
could be chalked up to just a different
author was focusing on different things
but as we read this it's very clear that
the angel appeared to Joseph in a dream
told him what was going to happen and
then when Joseph it says Joseph woke up
and did what the Lord's angel told him
to do we're in the previous two Zakaria
has said proved to me like show me that
what you're going to say is true like
proof to me that you're not lying and
then Mary was like how's this going to
be like how will this happen so but both
them questions the angel whereas josephs
just woke up and did in it there's no
questioning whatsoever at least there's
none recorded um but what I'm learning
more and more is if it was important to
the story line then the Lord would have
recorded it and so I'm reading this I'm
like the important part is that when
angel told him to do no questions he
just got up and he did it he just eaten
question he didn't think about how well
we don't know what he thought about we
just
he did it mm-hmm so it doesn't actually
matter what he was thinking or if he was
perplexed or you know scared it just
simply said he did it he did it and was
obedient mm-hmm which I find very
challenging because I would tend to be
in the Zechariah Mary category to ask
how's this going to work out or yeah I
know your word says this but like I
would tend to be in the questioning
category as opposed to the oh god said
so we're going to do it yeah yes and
maybe another good person to reference
since you've been talking about him for
the last two weeks is Abraham yes so the
call of Abraham yes in Genesis 12 so
Genesis 12 at Abram God calls Abram and
says to him get out of your country from
your family and from your father's house
to a land that I will show you I will
make you a great nation I will bless you
and make your name great and you shall
be a blessing I will bless those who
bless you and I will curse him who
curses you and in you all the families
of the earth shall be blessed so Abram
departed as the Lord had spoken to him
and lot went with him and Abram was 75
years old when he departed from Haran
hmm so we got up and went and left his
country left his family left everything
mm-hmm and went because God told him to
go it's very interesting I'm trying I
know you know I often want a sign to
know or this really what you want me to
do like prove to me that this is what
you want me to do everybody asks you to
do what or what um like their specifics
oh yeah like when I you know have to
leave a job when I have to wear a job
and go to okay well change in direction
to change direction of my life but
sometimes is as simple I was driving
down the road the other night
and I just felt a little pride a like
you should stop and get gas and I was
like okay so I stopped and get get got
and I stopped and I purchased gas and I
had a nice conversation with the
gentleman who was you know taking my
money and but then it totally worked out
for the rest of the week and into the
next week because I had full tank of gas
like it's very sick like it seems so
simple that it was those that small
little prompting from the spirit like go
and get this done I was like okay like
and there's no no question to it and so
sometimes i wonder if if those are like
little testing grounds for the Lord like
okay I'm prompting you to go do
something are you going to question it
are you going to do it or are you not
going to do it so I would hope that as i
cultivate the spirit at work inside of
me giving you know obit obeying the
spirit's leading i would hope I would be
less like Zakaria prove it to me and
Mary well how exactly is this going to
be like still knowing it could happen
and just be like okay but yet I think
there's value in asking questions okay I
mean there's a verse in the Bible says
come let us reason together says the
Lord and I think that we are invited not
to I don't know not necessarily to be
full of doubt but when we ask a question
I I only ask a question of someone if I
think that they're gonna be able to give
me the answer right right I ask God
questions because I know he can give me
the answers to them even about like
weird non-spiritual things I totally
agree right so when he when Mary asked
then it afforded the angel the
opportunity to then say wow behold you
will conceive in your womb and bring
forth a son he should shall be and shall
call his name Jesus mm-hmm mary says how
can this be since I do not know man this
is luke chapter 1 verse 35 and the angel
answered and said to her the Holy Spirit
will come upon you and the power of the
highest will overshadow you therefore
also that holy one who is to be born
will be
the Son of God hmm so she got a whole
lot more information just by asking the
question right and yet Joseph had zero
information which is very interesting he
does and is that part of him being a
righteous man because he was right with
God he trusted God he had a relationship
with God and God in the past had he had
surrendered his life to god in such a
way that he just knew like well Abram
believed God and it was credited to him
as righteousness yes and we're supposed
to believe God yes and just did it right
and just like when Abram well Abraham I
believe at this point I had took was
asked to take Isaac up and and sacrifice
him and he didn't ask any questions he
didn't ask him any questions he just put
him on the altar and yet it says I I
believe further on in the New Testament
I don't have a reference Robbie boom do
your magic my be Hebrews anyways he it
says he believed in his heart that God
would provide the sacrifice and on the
way he does turn to Isaac and say no God
will provide the sacrifice but that said
that's all we know right and yet there's
Abram or Abraham just okay God asked me
to do this and so I will do it and and
but that like you said that's the act of
a righteous man yes and and Joseph
waiting and being obedient yes believing
and being obedient our acts of righteous
people even though it might not make
sense and Joseph actually it says had
every right to divorce her because she
was found to be with child out of
wedlock and it wasn't his own so she had
ever he had every right according to
mosaic law to divorce her actually to
kill her like mmm according to Levitical
law she should be stoned right and so he
had ever right to do that and yet he
chose not to so it's very interesting
when you know so often I hear people
talking about well my rights I would you
know I have the right to do that do I
not deserve this like and they get
offended
right and so yet here's Joseph who has
every right to stone Mary to divorce
Mary to ridicule her to humiliate her
and because God asks he's like okay but
is that not humility like the one who
humbles himself God will lift up in due
time and when I think of humility I see
it as like a willful withholding of
power for the good of something else for
the good of OBT obedience to God for the
good of someone else's well-being Ryan
he did that for Mary you deliver it
withholding of his own right to do that
yes musi believe that God's promise was
greater he was believing in the promise
that was inside of Mary mm-hmm who would
ultimately be the Lord to save him yes
and it's interesting because he didn't
go to the Lord say but lord I have been
right with you all my life why are you
doing this like there was no questioning
right um and so yeah he didn't even go
to the Lord say you make this right he
didn't he just was a righteous man he
with he withheld his right um to
question or two separate himself from
Mary to do what the Lord had actually
had called him to do yeah well when you
look at I'm just thinking about where
Joseph would have been coming from right
so he would have been brought up knowing
the Old Testament and knowing God's
promises to Abraham he would have known
the stories right would have known
Abraham Isaac Jacob the story of Israel
he well was a descendant of David and
it's interesting how God fulfills his
promises he says in the Old Testament
that the Messiah will be from the line
of David and Joseph was from David line
and so was Mary he had both sides
covered right very interesting but okay
we look at when Gabriel comes to marry
okay so first chapter 1 verse 33 and he
will reign over the house of Jacob
forever and his kingdom there will be no
end so we refers the reverse previous to
David and the refers to Jacob
and Joseph would have known the story of
Abraham Isaac and Jacob he would have
known the promise that was given to
Abraham that God would make his
descendants more than the number of sand
on the seashore and he probably would
have thought back to Abraham's story
when he offered up Isaac right like I
don't know if he fully comprehended that
this baby inside of his wife was
actually going to literally be the
savior of the world but if you look at
Genesis 22 verse 60 Abraham is taking
Isaac up the mountain because God has
asked him to sacrifice his son and we
know now that like this is a parallel
between representing God the Father
offering his son for us but it's just
interesting what he says chapter 6 verse
6 in chapter 22 of Genesis so Abraham
took the wood of the burnt offering and
laid it on Isaac his son and he took the
fire in his hand and and a knife and the
two of them went together but Isaac
spoke to Abraham his father said my
father and he said Here I am my son then
he said look the fire and the wood but
where is the lamb for a burnt offering
and Abraham said my son God will provide
for himself the lamb for a burnt
offering so the two of them went
together when we were talking about how
inside of Mary was the promise right
this is the promise that God will
provide for himself a lamb for the burnt
offering like was Joseph realizing this
is the fulfillment of the promise
there's a promise that's from Genesis
all the way through the Old Testament is
that what what he was realizing and that
motivated him or was it just God told me
and I'm going to obey I wonder if as it
was both maybe both and if very well you
know could have been both and because if
he was right with God he would have
known the Torah he would have known
stories who would have known about God's
faithfulness but I also think it was God
you
asked me to do this so i will do it i
think it's it's the both and it's it's
knowing the goodness and the
faithfulness of god did he put two and
two together that Mary was the
fulfillment of Isaiah verses and the
Virgin will be with child um and he
could have because he wavy if you know
if you paid attention in send a dog then
then he might have picked up on the fact
of wait a second Isaiah's prophecy was
about a virgin being pregnant mary has
never had a relationship with a man in a
sexual way and she's pregnant so maybe
he did put we don't know because all we
know is what it says is that when he
woke up he did what the Lord's angel
told him to do and he took her as his
wife and we don't we don't get to see
Joseph's life passed when Jesus was a
boy and then he was left in the he
stayed in the temple yes and then Mary
and Joseph were looking for him but
that's it that is it it's presumed that
he died mm-hmm prior to Jesus yes we
don't get to hear anything much more but
the blimps that we do have of him that
he was a righteous man because he had
faith in he obeyed mm-hmm right mm-hmm
which is very interesting like he just
he just did it he just did it he
believed he he believed in the promises
of God and trusted that the Lord would
look after him yeah and so why would he
not walk in obedience and that's exactly
what he did and maybe maybe you're
struggling with something that you've
read in Scripture that God is asking me
to be obedient to so maybe it's actually
to love and respect your husband despite
the fact that you know maybe he doesn't
believe or you know maybe he doesn't
speak that well to your family or what
have you but God asked you to love him
and what does that look like and it
doesn't make sense it's counterintuitive
to you know kind of submit yourself yeah
and love other people or maybe you got
that really hard co-worker that you're
trying to deal with but God says you
know he is faithful to his promises
if you love he'll build proof to be his
disciple and yeah he'll take care of the
rest amen shall we pray we should
Heavenly Father thank you so much that
you take care of the rest you asked us
to believe ented obey and then you take
care of the rest you work it out as we
walk in obedience so we ask in your name
that you would help us to believe and
obey you would help us in our obe in our
unbelief and you would help us to move
forward and obedience watch over and
keep safe our viewers today bless them
encourage them Lord that they would feel
your presence and experience your love
and their innermost being we thank you
for category 5 and Robbie Ferguson and
this family bless them encourage them
and we we pray this in the name of Jesus
or the power of the oyster thanks again
for tuning in and have an awesome week
we'll see you right back here next week
next week
