here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 dot TV newsroom a
side channel leak in Intel skylake and
cabi Lake chips allow attackers to
pilfer cryptokeys and the issue probably
affects AMD CPUs to Iran apparently
infiltrated the communication network of
CIA agents who allowed their secret
websites used to exchange messages with
informants to be crawled by Google
several popular verified Twitter
accounts have been hacked by scammers to
promote an ad using Tesla bossy Elon
Musk's name and likeness and one of our
favorite SVC makers is now making an
affordable Linux powered smartphone and
tablet with KDE plasma and we have the
inside scoop these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere this is the
category 5 TV news we're covering the
week's top tech stories
like Linux by us Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
are you all right you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost I'm
Sasha Rickman in here the top stories
were following this feed a side channel
leak of Intel skylake and cab you like
chips allow attackers to pilfer crypto
keys and the issue probably affects AMD
CPUs too over the past 11 months the
processor is running our computers and
in some cases phones have been have so
come to a host of attacks the exploits
threatened to siphon some of our most
sensitive secrets say passwords or
cryptographic keys out of the silicon
micro are architecture or stop by
traditional security defenses on Friday
researchers disclosed yet another leak
that has already been shown to exist on
a range of a wide range of Intel chips
and may also and also other makers to
port smash as the new attack is being
called exploits a largely overlooked
side-channel in Intel hyper-threading
technology a proprietary implementation
of simultaneous multi-threading hyper
threading reduces the amount of time
needed to carry out parallel computing
tax tasks in which a large number of
calculations our executions are carried
out simultaneously the performance boost
is the result of two logical process
processor cores sharing the hardware of
a single physical processor the added
logical cores make it easier to divide
larger tasks into smaller ones that can
be completed more quickly in a paper
scheduled for release soon researchers
documented how they were able to exploit
the
newly-discovered liek to recover an
elliptic curve private key from a server
running in an open SSL powered TLS
server the attack which was carried out
on servers running Intel skylake and
cabi Lake chips and a boon to worked by
sending a one logical core a steady
stream of instructions and carefully
measuring the time it took for them to
get executed the specific timing allowed
port smash to deduce the key being
processed in another logical core of the
same processor the researchers feel
remote login scenarios are the biggest
targeted threat in this scenario
malicious use with credentials logs in
via SSH for example then compiles the
exploit code and runs it to extract the
information from other processes running
in parallel ports mash currently poses a
threat mainly to people using computers
or services that allow untrusted people
to use the same physical processor these
users should pay close attention to the
research and carefully consider the
recommendation for the time being
the risk is for others is likely low but
that could change more with more
research ok so if you remote into my
computer am I at risk if I yeah do you
know well yes I trust you there you go
ok ok so if somebody calls me and remote
since my computer because they say I
know yeah they say your computer is at
risk then that has to do with like spear
phishing campaigns and attacks where
people trick you into giving them access
right that's a different thing because
that's something that you have fallen
for ok so if if I call you up and I
pretend I'm from Microsoft and I say I'm
already detected a virus on your
computer I can remote it and fix it for
you as not Robbie like as Robbie you
know you can trust me but if I was that
Microsoft person and I fell for it and
you gave me access you're basically done
for you've given them access it's like
people say I had an anti-virus I don't
understand how I got a virus well did
you say yes when it prompted you are you
sure you want to run that
right okay right so if you authorize
that that's a bad scenario you have
given access so this case with this case
with this particular type of exploit
what it allows to happen is that
parallelized tasks so services that are
running in parallel on a single CPU so a
single computer processor can then be
grabbed by an unauthorized task okay so
let me give you a scenario yes I have a
server this is a scenario this is not
reality I have a server and I want to
become a web host okay so I've put my
server on the Internet I've co-located
it somewhere I've got firewalls in it I
know what I'm doing I've got a patchy
installed I've got Maria DB installed
and I'm ready to rent out some space
it's got a lot of power it's got a lot
of storage space Jeff wants to build a
web site so he brings it to me and says
I want to put it on your web server and
I say ok I'll set you up an account
boom-boom-boom your software is
installed your web site is good to go
it's up right now Sascha comes to me and
you say ok I want to do a blog so ok
I've installed alright we've set up your
software now Sasha's got her blog set up
now Joe Blow user over here calls me up
and says ok I'm ready to build mice my
thing I want to install this so ok here
you go boom boom boom boom boom you're
all set up now we've got three people in
a multi-tenant environment who all have
access to the same physical hardware but
typically and traditionally and in my
secure environment you only have access
to your files and other things you only
have access to your things but what we
don't realize is the Joe Blow user over
here has written some software to allow
him to access the stuff that's going on
on yours right right so on your web site
I didn't know but you're actually
selling some software on your web site
and so you use cryptography to convert
the credit card numbers that are passing
through your site into encrypted data
right so now this Joe Blow user can grab
that deep
Oh grab that credit card information
that's passing through this is a
theoretical but it can now grab that
information that they should have no
right to access because it's running on
the same computer on the same processor
that typically each user would not have
access to each other's things that make
sense but now because they've got this
exploit they can access that data that
decryption that those those codes that
otherwise they should not have access
that can be used for man-in-the-middle
attacks that can be used for for data
theft for financial theft for
cryptocurrency theft for identity theft
did I say that yet for any number of
basically theft any any information that
passes through that server now can be
exploited that is susceptible to that
type of exploit so you would know that
you are at risk if this is where the
research has not been officially
announced in such a capacity yet where
we understand what we need to do right
ok so what we do need to do is at this
point be diligent in that I need to say
as that web host mm-hmm that Joe Blow
users doing something weird yeah CPU
usage keeps skyrocketing but it's some
process that I don't recognize and their
website is nothing so I don't understand
so it's sort of but would most hosts
watch for that good host will write okay
fair enough okay and I say that like
like I think about dream host for
example which would be a prime example
where this kind of thing could be used
to attack because users have SSH access
yeah and they have very strict
environment set up for for VPS and for
for compartmentalizing individual tasks
not only users but tasks so that their
sandboxed in enough themselves because
that's what they do that's their thing
yeah but they're not me the Joe Blow
user who I'm not the Joe Blow user don't
get me wrong
I'm the guy who has a server wants to
rent out some space right or share it
with my friends or share it with other
people and sell some space so okay very
simple scenarios to give an example that
makes sense I think yes but could be any
number of things and when there's more
research we'll know some more oh
absolutely
yes and this is a scenario where I'm
saying okay well I've granted access
keep in mind somebody could hack into
SSH yeah somebody could hack into your
SSH account if you've got a wide open
server with no firewall like CSF lfd
that's watching for failed login
attempts and then blocking IP addresses
thousands of those in the past couple of
weeks I've had thousands of those back
and away at my server five attempts
you're blocked right that's how it
should be hmm okay
I ran apparently infiltrated the
communication network of CIA agents who
allowed their secret websites used to
exchange messages with informants to be
crawled by Google the communication leak
was believed to have stemmed from a
simple Google search suspecting the u.s.
had agents and sources within its
nuclear program Iran began to hunt for
the mole after a double agent showed
Iran's government one of the sites they
were then able to use Google to identify
other sites the Intel Intel agency was
using and began to intercept the
communication essentially each of the
web sites had common elements between
them that were found using Google
searches identify one common element
identify all the sites using that
material to link them up the report from
Yahoo News states because Google is
continuously scraping the internet for
information about all the world's
websites it can function as a tremendous
investigative tool even for counter
espionage purposes once Iran was able to
track down the sites their techniques
were given to other friendly countries
who in turn used the information to weed
out the CIA's communication channels in
their own territories as well sadly this
has led to the capture and execution of
at least 30 agents
well an official quoted in the report
claims the agency had become too reliant
on the system which was originally
intended to only be a temporary
communication channel and had left the
relatively insecure site up far longer
than intended and used it to send
information that should have been
reserved for more secure channels the
official says the issue was that it was
working well for too long with too many
people a defense contractor for the CIA
claims that he warned the agency that it
was using insecure communication systems
in 2008 and again in 2010 when he
started suspecting the channels had been
cracked a year later he was sidelined
and fired by the agency I move it he
claims was retaliation for not shutting
up oh this is a really sad story because
it's impacted human lives it's such a
you know a broad way at the same time I
don't want to be careful how I say this
I feel like this has been a common news
theme where there's been some sort of a
military mess-up with technology that's
resulted in private information going
out there like it was what about a year
ago that there was cell phones for a
secret military base that was people
were using
yeah Fitbit and it was tracking where
they're running and also and you're
getting all this data and there's one
spot in the middle of the desert it's
like you would think that this kind of
stuff would be on the forefront of their
minds when it comes to security but
maybe it's so easy to overlook I'm so
comfortable is the problem I think
people are super comfortable with
technology that they use and it it's I
think the secure sites probably mirror
the insecure sites so easily that you
just imagine security in it right I
think that the communication techniques
probably and I don't know what they are
for the CIA but I think that the
communication channels that they would
use that are secure mimic the ones that
they would use that are insecure to make
people feel comfortable with the cross
right so so it gives you a false sense
of security when you're using the in
secure communication channel channels
you wouldn't know that you were putting
yourself at risk in any way it's up to
the CIA's
I think I think if you're a secret
operative you're gonna know that
whatever communication method you're
using there is whether secure or not
there's always a risk to it but I mean
like I think about back when Obama got
elected as president of the United
States he wanted his Blackberry and that
was a fight for like six months that the
Secret Service said no you not get a
blackberry because it's not secure
enough even though blackberry was crazy
secure and they ended up creating I
remember it was coined it was called the
Barack Barry because the Secret Service
made their own cell phone for Barack
Obama to use but I mean that's going
back what ten years now yeah well so was
this system well yeah the thing ten
years ago someone was saying internally
that this is not safe this is not secure
right but in any workplace including the
CIA secret services is everyone a
computer geek you know and a computer
tech no I mean unlike the movies which
will make us think that every operative
can hack every system right it's not the
case no it's not we're all individual
people with our own experiences and our
own capabilities and so to put that
expectation that the individual
operatives should know better than to
use a system that's unsecure that's not
fair to put it on them yeah what is fair
is to say well okay first of all those
operatives trust that the infrastructure
that's in place by their employer and in
this case the government is secure they
trust that that is the case and no
questions asked
yeah but it does lead to and I mean this
is like kind of going out there but the
fact that you know it's being you know
tracked by Google and that's the big
issue here and that's what led to it the
fact that we live in in this tech world
where nothing is private anymore like
everything you do on your cell phone
everything you do on your computer like
your data mind a thousand ways from
Sunday and I mean heck what is it
Facebook's got 57,000 different
categories on you just on the way that
you use it is it reasonable to expect
that there's going to be a way to
completely block off from the world any
sort of data mining
if you're a hermit disconnected hermit
that's the only but God say you'd have
to be disconnected if you're using tacky
you're somehow gonna give that
information off the problem isn't that
that there isn't privacy the problem is
that you're led to believe it's private
when it's not like I say you you're led
to feel trust for the system exactly
when you really ought to know that
anything you say or do on your computer
or phone is totally traceable totally
trackable the difference is I would
assume that with a CIA agent that they
would be given a special device and they
would have you know some level of
encryption or something but that's not
this this issue is the fact that Google
was just tracking it right
it was indexing it yeah as simple as
that that's all our asses and so this
was an online system so what should they
do intranet acceptable to that but an
intranet would be only accessible by
their people or at least a VPN something
that you know how can Google access this
to index it in the first place because
it's on a forward-facing server that's
accessible and they do that because they
want their people to be able to access
it when they're at home and when they're
in the field and when they're overseas
and you don't want to have trouble
accessing the communication system of
your course hmm but by doing that you're
opening it up to severe security
exploits now I mean not knowing how that
all that indexing works I mean Google is
just one search engine you've also got
you know no no no no Jeff there Google
is every search engine yeah you know but
you've got Bing and you've got all these
other Microsoft's thing they keep trying
to get me to use Bing it's not Chandler
but do you want to Internet Explorer or
something no but how like how could they
block all indexing service I mean
there's crawl BOTS everywhere no they
can't if it's forward-facing so if my
can if my server that runs that service
is accessible on the Internet so this is
an internet connected network
interconnected network of
Computers okay it needs to be a private
network so VPN and I say VPN that's a
private network or an intranet which is
an internal network those would not be
accessible from the outside world unless
you had the credentials in order to
access them
so my device could have VPN access to
our VPN but Google would not be able to
access it because Google does not have
access to our VM so that would then
prevent those kinds of things so more
we've got to move on I know but more
emphasis has to be put on that
individual who in in the IT and the
thing said we've got to do something
here ok we need to listen to those IT
people when I say to you that you need
to have an off-site backup solution for
your work because if you ever had a fire
and you don't have that Drive off-site
lost all your patient data yes right you
need to listen to me
that's a serious thing right you haven't
she's got a good backup it's true but
you have to listen to those folks
they're giving you those warnings
because we're not all computer nerds
outside of this room that's because I
love how your face is kind of like oh we
can't all let's reword we can't all be
computers yeah they're smart several
popular verified Twitter accounts have
been hacked by scammers to promote an ad
using Tesla Boss Elon Musk's name and
likeness British fashion retailer
Madelyn film distributor path UK and us
publisher Pitt Pantheon books were among
those whose accounts were taken over by
scam artists the scam used Promoted
Tweets where twitter is paid by
advertisers to make a tweet appear to a
wider audience scammers targeted several
verified accounts denoted with a blue
tick and changed the name and image to
that of mr. musk the tweet then urged
users to part with a small amount of
Bitcoin a digital currency - supposedly
receive more several other verified
accounts which were also taken under the
scam artist control
appeared in the tweets comments to claim
that they have received Bitcoin from mr.
musk by using accounts with Twitter's
own verification mark again a bluetick
it makes the ik at the account appear
more legitimate at first glance and thus
may fool the reader into thinking that
it's official the scam is made to seem
more trustworthy as various other
compromised accounts replied to the
tweet claiming that it works but many of
the posts still bear the hallmarks of a
classic scam included frequent spelling
errors like Bitcoin and Capote and
requests for money the account handle
itself is also incorrect a legitimate
tweet from Elon Musk would read at Elon
Musk beside the blue tick in this case
it reads at peeth UK the account
originally belonging belonging to the
film distributor pat paid the UK this
tweets have since been deleted with many
accounts recovered though some were left
blank while waiting for their owners to
re-enter their name and profile picture
mm-hmm
okay so totally off topic but on topic
Elon Musk wasn't breaking SEC rules when
he announced the deal it was a spam oh I
know really nothing about Twitter other
than some people really use it more than
I would but a blue tick is that all it
takes well the blue tick denotes that it
is an official account so when you see
Elon Musk and it has a blue tick you
think that is officially Elon Musk
because that we have been we talked
about the complacency we we start to
trust what we're used to so I just that
I see it I trust it the blue tick means
verified account but it's no different
than going fight it it's no different
than going on Facebook and finding out
that you know Robbie Ferguson has tried
to add me over five different accounts
and the one Robbie Ferguson has all male
friends the other Robbie Ferguson is all
female friends the other Robbie Ferguson
has no frame kind of trick
exactly look this is a smart
scam because that bluetick does make me
feel like that is a legitimate account
Twitter themselves have confirmed that
is indeed the Arnold Schwarzenegger
that's why the bluetick is there so in
this case what they've done so let's say
you have a blue tech because you are
absolutely I am so sure Sacha Rickman so
blue tech blue tech and it only happens
for famous people so I don't have a blue
tick but let's pretend I did Robby
Ferguson has a blue tick that's a
problem Jeff is a hacker Jeff is a
hacker who do I need to be you need to
be bald nerd you're the number one ball
so you have a blue tick of Sacha Rickman
yes I have a blue tick as Robbie
Ferguson Jeff is a hacker who wants to
trick you into thinking that Elon Musk
is saying send me your money right we'll
send you something else so you hack my
account
you've never touched Elon Musk's account
those who think that Elon Musk was
hacked are wrong right you hacked my
account I have an official tech because
I'm Robbie Ferguson but I had a stupid
password and so I was easy to count two
three four five seconds you hacked me
you've put Elon Musk's picture on my
profile and you've renamed my profile
where it used to say Robbie Ferguson it
now says Elon Musk I still have the blue
tick right so now I sent a tweet you
sent a tweet as my account with the blue
Tech and I'm Elon Musk and it looks
legitimately at first glance unless you
scrutinize it it looks like at Elon Musk
I would like to know how and why these
scam artists are so bad at grammar and
spelling because that is always here but
but who I guess trademark is it like
this is their calling card yeah like
Capote this if you want Bitcoin bit
quick yeah they won't be quick they
don't want Bitcoin Bitcoin how is it any
different I mean like was it last week
there was a massive raid in India for
all of those CRA scams you know when you
get this there's the CRA we have a
warrant for your arrest here in Canada
yeah
this is a big one going and there's
people that are calling back and go
here's my credit card and it's people
who are not savvy to this stuff but how
is it any different I mean if they scam
1000 people and they get what I got baby
cares they got a lot of Bitcoin I guess
oh I'm sure they did I people were
trusting those blue ticks and sending
their big quake everywhere so to take it
one step further just wrap up the
discussion so we understand what
happened here so he hacked my account
made it look like Elon Musk Elon Musk
now tweeted with the check and then you
also got hacked so Jeff has hacked you
and he has a blue tick as who's who's
legette bill gates so gates Bill Gates
blue tech you are now back gates with
this picture tonight Bill Gates responds
to Elon Musk's tweet and says I did it
and you can too now you on must and Bill
Gates with the blue tick on each of
their little tweet says right thumbs up
do this send Bitcoin bit quake yeah send
your bit quake today one of our favorite
SBC makers is now making an affordable
Linux powered smartphone and tablet with
KDE plasma and we have the inside scoop
following the demise of a boon to phone
pure isms Libre means like the next big
thing in the budding world of Linux
smartphones purism has already partnered
with big names like gnome and KDE and we
can expect the device to start shipping
in April 2019 that said it seems like
another hardware vendor is looking to
develop its own Linux smartphone and
it's a company we already know and love
Pyne 64 is working to create inexpensive
Linux based based smartphones and
tablets KDE neon creator jonathan
rozelle revealed this at open source
summit europe edition pine sixty-four
founder TL lim confirmed to its to its
Foss that the devices are called pine
phone and pine tap pine sixty-four
community at min-woo cos Erickson ski
tells us that early that the early pine
phone development kits have been already
sent to key developers
active development should start next
week the pine the tab is almost complete
and is awaiting relevant software
supports for the pine phone while the
details won't officially be announced
until FOSDEM in February here's what we
know
it runs Linux there will be support from
more than two different major projects
on launch it has a 1440 by 720p IPS
panel panel screen and sleek modern
design features the front and back
cameras are 5 megapixels each they're
aiming for higher-end production
materials with hopes of a Gorilla Glass
sandwich with glass on both the front
and back of the pine foam pine 64 plans
to implement a better IO into the pine
phone than is available on most
commercially available phones and the
design is modular allowing the swapping
and upgrading of components such as the
LTE capabilities the pine phone will be
priced between 115 $179 us and will be
available barring any unexpected delays
as early as late 2019 there isn't a lot
of information available about pines
have just yet is it still being
developed and the official announcement
will go out at FOSDEM next year as well
but what we do know is it has a 720p IPS
panel and is built for education and
budget use with a target price of about
$100 u.s. one cool feature we can reveal
about the pine tab is that it includes a
magnetic keyboard that connects to the
pine tab with pogo pins 2 USB and
doubles as a protective cover sweet yeah
150 bucks I can view this Isle of Pines
64 they make some really great products
we've looked at like the a 64 a 64 LTS
and the ROK pro the right 64 I mean they
make single board computers much like
the Raspberry Pi but much more powerful
right you know how that pine like the
pine kind of look for their computers is
like the two sandwich kind of glass
which is the Plex right so I'm picturing
like my my new phone this is what you're
seeing in your mind's eye right holding
an a 64 plus sandwich I'm picturing like
the phone is there and then like there's
the cases and then there's like the
little like I know that you'll make it
fancier then Oh what I'm picturing good
it's incredible because I just picture
it's like so unique the design of the
actual pine sixty-four computers I can't
wait to see what the phone looks like
see oh I like this idea what I'm
wondering though is in a in an open
market and I say that term loosely like
the United States where there's so much
ability for competition yes you don't
have that kind of market in Canada
you've got the three major cellphone
providers that basically like set their
own market ability as far as cell phones
how is this kind of phone gonna make its
way into Canada because the cellphone
compels you how sir how you're gonna see
it on category five TV we're gonna tell
you that it's unlocked
then you can use it with any of the
major phone providers okay but will you
be able to buy it in store or strictly
why would you buy no no but this is the
thing if you want to get mass-market
sale you need to get into the stores is
that true is that true in for the 19 if
for the average consumer who's gonna
walk into a cellphone store they're
gonna go oh I see my highway I got I see
my Samsung I see my Google phone I don't
see a pine 64 nope sorry
I need a pine 64 am i at the average
consumer you know because you're the
bald nerd right now are you the average
consumer are you gonna when you know
that the pine 64 pine phone is available
right like people will line up for
phones and and if I really want a pine
phone which I do I do
yes I'm going to get it I'm gonna order
it online and I'm going to insert my SIM
card and I'm gonna use it yeah and
that's gonna be and it's cheaper than me
getting on a contract well I agree I
totally agree after that as you go yeah
for that reason like I'm all over it but
I think
most people they're gonna go oh this
deals going on right now at Beck's
cellphone company they're not gonna
think that way I'd like to generalize it
Jeff and I like to I like to give the
consumers more credibility than that in
that when because we shop around now we
don't walk kiosk and say what do you
recollect the one thing you that's the
one that you recommend because I know
I'm just gonna get swindled right that's
the world that we live in sure no I do
research and I look at reviews online if
they can get these on Amazon they are
gonna get blasted with five-star reviews
that tell all about how yeah the pine
phone is a pine tab inevitably plays out
exactly like that I truly do I have very
little faith in consumers I'm sorry for
your loss I just I I think we are a
bunch of sheep generally we are sheep
and somebody says go here and that's the
pasture we go to my sheep as your
Shepherd by a pine phone when they come
out they are going to be incredible and
yes we love their company yep we want to
support openness and when I say oh yes
open platforms open software and
community developed software yes and the
ability through IO and through modular
design to be able to do stuff that the
iPhone can't do right Dilbert 10 times
the price shall be no planned
obsolescence in at the pine what planned
obsolescence one can just take out the
LTE and put in the new one okay great
okay then okay here's my argument to
seal the deal okay how are you gonna and
this is not bashing the phone but if
it's only five megapixel camera how are
you gonna get all those selfish
socialites doing their duck face on five
megapixels as opposed to the 12
megapixels they're gonna be like my duck
faces that is good if I was buying a
phone for the camera for the camera then
I might want to see some sample images
right which we will provide right which
we will provide I will be part of this
on boxing there we go
I will test
the phone oh my god a week of selfies I
will up okay firstly I didn't even know
a selfie was called a selfie for a long
time I thought it was called a face II
so fantastic I will be the one is there
gonna be a pre-buy I don't know yet
look I know after fosston I want to know
if there's a pre Becca so many people
like they want to pre-buy I would love
to buy on what we do know is that there
are some development units that have
been manufactured and shipped yeah there
will be more development units that will
be manufactured and shipped and then at
fosston we will know more right this is
in February of 2019 February so there
will be units available in the community
like community members and developers in
particulars select developers will have
access to these and will start to learn
more so after wait four months we have
to wait that's as hard as that that's
for more rent and I can't wait for more
rent payments yes we can go on and on
about pine stuff keep up the great work
plasticity fourth I'm very excited about
this big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson yet I'm
Jeff Lester
[Music]
[Applause]
