hey and welcome back to new every day
I'm Kerri and my name is Chen and on
today show we are in part 3 of life in
the desert and you know what you
shouldn't see the animals
welcome back we are doing another
episode of new every day on the road we
are currently headed we're in California
were headed to Los Angeles and we
finally left to desert we went through
the Mojave Desert we went through death
valley and we learned some interesting
things along the way we've shared some
of those things already with you and
yeah just was totally different than
anything I had expected and Jen we saw
we were traveling through stovepipe
wells yes in the desert right by all the
dunes and canyons super dry and
surprisingly there's wildlife in that
area including coyote evening rabbits
that
batting too bad and donkeys wild burros
which we did see what she's very cool
like there it is on the side of the road
a big donkey so seems so strange
well and so that night when we arrived
at Death Valley where we were staying we
went to see a bat
Batman Batman actually said me of the
real Batman and he really was a bad man
like he did research on bats and if it
was just very interesting to listen to
him and and he talked about how all the
different kinds of species and how bats
are actually created for their
environments and how Batman really
doesn't have superpowers but if Batman
must have the super powers that a bat
has then a couple of those things would
be supersonic hearing that they would be
able to hear well because he's able to
send out these so nars and pick them up
would be thermoregulation and one of the
very interesting adaptations of desert
fats is that they have like an open area
in their armpit here of fur and highly
vascularized so when they get hot they
can spread open that fur and it's just
skin with all the vasculature in your
top so they can shunt the blood flow to
the vessels that are closest
I kind of bent off the heat from their
core yeah near the superficial part of
their body and then when it gets cold
those muscles contract and the fur
covers it and helps to insulate the bat
when it gets old because as we learned
the desert can be quite cold especially
at night in winter yes so amazing
amazing things about these pads that you
would just never know that God created
them specifically for this environment
and they thrive because of great and too
and as you said the Lord has created
them for this environment he's given
them everything they need to survive
like we went and we talked and talked
about in a previous show the pupfish hue
specifically at I polish fly fly larvae
up specifically for in that environment
so as long as that flies in that
environment then that fish is going to
yeah and so it's just very interested as
we listen to the Batman talk about the
adaptations for these bats and as and
even talk about the the hairs the great
big long ears and as you look at desert
hairs or rabbits their their their ears
are so big but that's how they regulate
the radiators yeah yeah in their system
yeah and so it was very interesting just
to you think about this and to think
about the desert animals and one of our
guide said don't put your hands where
you can't be where you can't see because
that's where a snake might be Scorpio
scorpion so just be very careful where
you're putting your hands and so you
know what I just had a hot we can look
at the desert animal animals and how
they've adapted to the hot weather if
you look at the house living in Canada
in the snow
like we are so not equipped like we
don't have any fur my dad says that when
you have a beard it's a lot warmer and
so I kind of get why guys in the North
grow beards like a rat
God has equipped us actually to look
after he has equipped us for our
environment yeah yeah
forget him he's given us the ability to
make clothes he has given us praise the
Lord
yes oh yeah
so anyways thinking about the desert and
we just
okay what kind of animals are going to
be here like there aren't going to be
and how can they possibly survive and
yet God has he ripped them to survive
yet in the environment in which he's
placed them but there's an interesting
clash that happens when humans start
interacting with animals and sometimes
it's not a good thing
as one of the signs said please do not
feed the animals and we've seen this
lots of times wherever we've gone it
says
um
for the reason of and normally they show
because you're killing the animal from
up there going to eat the plastic the
food isn't good for them and they still
said makes them sick and we're like okay
I get don't be the animals because it's
not good for them but this one sign it
was so cool because I said don't feed
the animals you will make them beggars
and you are giving them a death sentence
which I was like oh well that's a
totally different perspective than we've
seen before yeah because and the whole
sign basically said when you feed the
animals and it creates them to be
beggars and they become less afraid of
people they come around more often and
then they actually wind up having to be
killed because they made that attack a
person because they've become so used to
people feeding them
a very interesting take on
that we think that we're helping the
animals by feeding them or maybe we just
think it's cool for that whole picture
it's like all I do like to feed check
months when they come to your command
for bird that's amazing it's a wonderful
feeling right there actually causing a
lot of harm to them
you know we're trying to find
correlations between the things we saw
in the desert and how
in our own lives in Mineral spiritual
lives
and jen made an interesting point that
sometimes
when we're living in community with
other people
and you want to help someone and you are
giving them a handout you can
over dependence so what were what were
your thoughts on that Jen I forget it
because I really started thinking about
it because we think that we're helping
I'm just driving over that passes i had
read two before carry from
first the slow me
the camera your password i certainly
don't want to announce it on
but basically okay hold on a second
she's going to mount me what it is so
I'm covering up the screen
ok my bathroom oh whatever I don't wanna
put these on ur up so bright
California's a beautiful state
okay so what I said to carry a few days
ago about speaking
about
came up i read the Bible every day and I
sent her a verse to think about that i
have read and and i remember reading
this verse about the importance of
actually looking after ourselves and
it kind of came across as being
self-sufficient right
now I can't find it yet but that's okay
I simply said work with your hands
don't be idle so that you can live a
productive life and not be dependent on
other people not be overly dependent
right
and from my perspective I was thinking
yes because so often people come to be
everybody has needs and we are called to
community I have no problem that in fact
I struggle with that a lot of times the
fact that the other team call this in to
community and we are to figure out how
to get along and actually have to intern
relate yeah because yesterday we were
talking about people living in the
desert like the Desert Fathers from back
in the day and how they would just live
alone spend time with God I said Jen
would you like that yes what I just I
think i would i would not survive I just
couldn't be myself and I was thinking oh
bring it on I want to raise chickens and
pigs and make not make my own carrots
but plant my own carrots and you know
sometimes i just think i was born in the
wrong in the wrong side sometimes I
think I am
anyhow and so it got me thinking as far
as what is armors oh here it is first
Thessalonians 4 11 to 12 make it your
goal to live a quiet life minding your
own business and working with your hands
just as we instruct you before that
people who are not believers will
respect the way you live and you will
not need to depend on others
being in the church setting we are often
confronted with people who are in need
we have a care program of
a benevolence program and where we help
people I believe that we are called to
hell
outside with the
had a picture will blow up on it and
said do not beat the animals because you
are giving them a death sentence
really challenged me because I thought
well how do we help people who are
struggling what is
as we watched between
equal to do not work for themselves and
not work for themselves like you or not
you are not helping them if you are
continuing to hand out that right yeah
so you can doubt after hand out after
hand Oh after he know but you're not
actually helping them to take
responsibility
so what like how then do you discern
when do you say go get a job like that
feels so weird but why does it feel
well okay like if somebody's just
sitting around on Ontario Works at home
and not working like willfully choosing
not to work even though they are able to
work or in some cases it's they I want
to say work the system oh yes I've met
these people they know I all the time so
I hello that's my struggle with it
especially when Paul says work with your
hands like you or don't sit at home and
expect the government to look after you
but this is this is written for the
church right okay what about the
difference so then as believers I'd
respect
it is a different perspective okay his
we're called to care for the other and I
feel like the love of Christ is so
transformative that as you are loving
and caring for these people
they see the love of Christ am the
opportunity to be safe to hear the
gospel your love and kindness and
helping them I
I feel like opens their ears to receive
the gospel and then pray for them that
God transforms our heart and motivates
them to be working and contributing that
I feel like it's completely different
the way that we can view the church
versus people outside the church okay I
agree and also
I feel like I've been challenged in the
past or sometimes I might not want to
give a gift if it seems that sounds fine
like if it seems like it's like on hand
and look I'm just giving something away
if I'm unsure whether that's been enable
the person or how they're going to use
the money or how they're going to use
the gift right and I felt convicted that
it's really not my job to wonder that if
God is asking me to give he loves a
cheerful Giver and I'm gonna give and
trust that he's going to do
Rick and I told you agree I totally
agree if God has called you to give the
money or to give the time or to give the
gift I have no problem with that
whatsoever I think when we choose if
someone in the church needs to get a job
because they are are well I don't I
don't need to go to get the job because
the church will be after me like Paul is
very clear about widows young widows
that he actually councils them to get
married again yeah that's true and so
there is no fee a busybody don't be a
busybody like that's too gentle he's
very clear you need to do something work
with her he has contribute something to
your care do not
the church to look after it is fish
because he says that to widows right and
he actually says to
family members he's like if your parents
are struggling that you help them yeah
don't let your your old family be
dependent on the church that's your job
to look after your family first yes and
I think that's a really common in North
America no we want to if our family has
need often ditch them to the system like
in and yes in emerg we get drop-offs all
the time of people they just are not
wanting to care for their
so they make up elaborate stories of why
they can't be cared for at home when we
clearly see that they can be
associate Christmas
anyway but it is not common whereas
other cultures like in India all the
families data so they live too
they take care of each other especially
so so for the church
in this part of the wrestle is
are the people that we
the church is helping are they able to
contribute
yeah where are they literally just
relying on the church to take care of
them rather than actually contributing
something themselves yeah as a believer
but then how do we lovingly
do that how do you lovingly motivate
someone
I think it parted back to identity
because pardon
there's like
a pinwheel of poverty and there's a
whole bunch of different spokes on the
wheel
when living in poverty whether it's
poverty
of spirit or actually physically
in poverty and I think part of that is
identity whether you don't think that
you are work
elevating yourself to to a better
position right you don't think you're
worth getting a good job you can't get
that good job so you just keep living in
the cycle of receding from other people
because that's that's just how you think
you are right whether it comes off a
little as a person rough around the
edges are a little crusty maybe
underneath that is that that
misunderstanding of who they really are
that they are worth that Fran we're
actually on our way to a church service
this morning in l.a we're going to the
dream center right downtown echo park
los angeles
and it was started by a pastor named
Matthew Barnett and we'll put a link to
the focus on the family episode where
jim daly interviews matthew and asks him
as a pastor how we got this church
started and down to
downtown LA
and essentially Matthew saw a great need
and wanted to fill that need and ask God
to help him
and his laundry is Sienese felony so to
see you need and fill it fine to hurt
and he lived and he's actually with the
church in the community purchased an old
hospital and that hospital is become
a safe haven for people in the sex trade
that place where people who are homeless
can go they be thousand 80,000 people
receive care from this church that never
sleeps every month
and it's so easy to turn our eyes away
from people who are in desperate need so
I think maybe after we move this church
service we may have a different
perspective on this conversation I agree
that we do need to work and contribute
and there's satisfaction that in joining
that when you become part of a family
another aspect of the Dream Center is
that when people come in if they've been
if they're coming from reviews or
they're coming from poverty or becoming
from
and then they come out of that they are
invited to turn their pain into service
so you actually serve
from from your past you take the hurt
and everything that's going that's and
you actually use that you're serving
other people and it's called work
therapy there and it becomes therapy
when you're able to contribute to can
you
right and
it is important to that's just it right
they are contributing they're making a
contribution
so it really is and I think you touched
on just a little bit before carry me we
are called to love others like jesus
said I was conquering you fed me I was
thirsty and you gave me something to
drink you know I was in prison and you
came I have no problem with any of that
yet so ever but I guess my perspective
is if you are able to take care of
yourself yeah and you willfully choose
not to
right and so you are expecting someone
else to take care of you it'd be like
sitting at home all the time and saying
well Carrie I'll make supper ok Carrie
go clean the house yeah Gary will show a
little walk ok Carrie's going to put gas
in my car yeah okay Carrie's going to
get the groceries carries going to make
sure the bills are paid like if I didn't
say something you as a friend it would
probably be unwise and uncaring because
I know that eventually it's not going to
be harmful it's gonna be harmful for you
cuz what if something happened to me was
the biggest jen's a good cook yeah so I
guess it's not over you the Russell
right and I think what you said because
in the long run it is it different
because what happens when you get away
or I get married way my husband would
not be very happy with all the sudden he
has to do absolutely everything and so I
guess
I think what you said is we have to
really pray and ask the Lord for
discernment to know what is a mindset
what is the mindset that they have do
they feel they have nothing to
contribute in a way that they've just
grown up that they've always had you
know someone look after them so they've
never really thought about looking after
their own needs it really is it says
like don't feed the animals because
you're giving them a dent the death
sentence how do we as believers actually
build up one another so that we are full
in the body yes
yes and yet there's been times where
i've been i've been the recipient of
people giving me things where and it
could have been something that i really
could have done by myself i really could
have worked hard and figured it out i
really could have you know hemmed my own
pants are really good of whatever you
know call the cab and gotten home
instead of asking someone for a ride you
know what my car was stuck because i had
money to pay for it instead my friend
came and picked me up and it was just
that that loving react that just built
but you want to rely on them you weren't
saying i'm going to call so and so
because they have to come and pick me up
somebody in the church has to come pick
me up oh i thought i put on facebook but
you know i need to write home but when I
could have paid for it right but it
wasn't I guess I my perspective is
the time is on all the time thing it
wasn't our line well they should be
doing this it wasn't an entitlement
thing yeah right I think that's what it
comes down to for me is I'm entitled to
receive this care
I guess that's what I struggle with is
the attitude behind it and absolutely
yeah if it's someone you know
you certainly don't do that all the time
I so it's the mindset behind that and
yeah there's people I think maybe they
do consistently need financial help but
maybe they're able to give in other ways
like they're able to give their time in
the church they're able to volunteer in
other ways I think you can look
different for different people
right and I'm not saying it doesn't look
differently i'm just saying how do we
make sure that we are doing as much as
it depends on us like John Wesley said
you work while you can so you save all
you can see you can give all you can
so that had nothing to do actually with
him himself and had everything to do
with being others focus so he could
contribute so we work so we can
contribute to the work of God not so
that we can receive yeah so and then I
feel like you know once when God has
helped us to
save more
yeah work for assay for all those kinds
of things then we can loving me help
people
get to that place where they can see it
yes oh yeah no you can give to see trust
God and you
can give and it's exciting it's laughing
it
it's a wonderful
thing to be part of the body I think it
is a loving thing to be able to to help
other people to realize that and to see
their gifts and what they can actually
get I think it's shaped by identity and
union and perspectives yeah and I'm not
disagreeing I think it's the love and
but it's also the work that sometimes
has to come to someone say you know what
you need to contribute though sometimes
it is that we're like and we are running
out of time but it was people who
actually spoke words of Correction into
my life that caused me to grow
to say Jennifer look what you're doing
is this helpful and it was that that
turned me really yes
I'm like what is a geek correction is a
form of love
he loves us so I keep it that's the part
that I'm struggling is I understand love
I understand it but where does the
correction coming because we love I
guess it's called tough love
so so you can tell that we've sort of
still Restless out and and it's time to
go so we want you to wrestle it out we
want you to think okay you know how how
how do I wrap this all together how do I
think about helping others how do I you
know love others well you know am I
contributing as I should be contribute
Emperor lying on the church as I should
rely on the church I guess this whole
wonderful package of mutation gathers
not by myself then time ago time to go
so may the Lord bless you today me you
have the mind of Christ may you learn
how to love each other well and to grow
together as the body of Christ within
your
luck
great thank you later than five lost
Wi-Fi himself left keep left keep left
Sacramento
