welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time oh
we're gonna be so late now we have to
start right away and now let's begin
here's your host Rob you Ferguson good
evening it is Tuesday October the 25th
2011 I'm nabi ferguson crystal walls
excellent mm-hmm I thought that went
well yeah that's about the first hurdle
of the show is a it's over and here we
are it's episode number 214 of category
5 technology TV well shall we have a
look and see what's going on for tonight
indeed excellent alright so in the
newsroom tonight one of the most
powerful satellites I see that none of
the most powerful satellites ever built
sorry my mic just keeps trying to jump
in my mouth told me to tape it to your
face none of my help so anyways one of
the most powerful satellites every bill
has been launched provide 140 kilobytes
per kilobyte gigabytes per second at
broadband android 4.0 ice cream sandwich
will be released as open source software
seriously this is cold nice serious I
craved an ice cream sandwich all week so
you just flipped it in there no that's
just that's what it's actually called
and that is why wow great okay so
continue right on ubuntu 12.04 will have
an extended long term support cycle new
tech uses synthetic vision to Detective
citrus fruit is good or bad protecting
workers eyes hmm now there's a program
with the programmable thermostat the
program's itself and learns from your
preferences by your hard drive now the
floods in
Thailand are floods oh sorry I just kind
of pletely messed that up but the floods
in Thailand are going to affect hard
drive prices in a matter of days stick
around these stories are coming up in
under 30 minutes jawed was asking in the
chat room what the star date is it is
negative 3 11 18 4.12 I mean yes this is
how tonight's gonna be yes I'm trying
hard not to smile it's special that's
very special speaking of special it's
good to have you here I know it feels
like it's been forever like literally
forever eons flight years I see you've
upgraded your wardrobe I have yes I'm a
eco-friendly economical yes so no no my
fire retardant no well we're working on
that you know you don't smoke right no
no perfect very well fantastic I'm not
going to be able to keep it up friends
tonight we have many viewer questions
yes that have come in through
intergalactic channels and we would love
to answer your questions live at
category 5 TV and do great else do we
have we have our mobile website if you'd
like to watch the show on your mobile
device mobile dot cat5 TV watch it on
your ipod touch your iPhone your Android
device your blackberry you're doing very
well at this
I mean that's natural for your Spock but
i need some of the tape to hold my face
down there's going to be some good shots
of a laughing Vulcan tonight friends
it's good to have you here everybody
join us in the chat room category five
dot TV we got one postcard this week
we've been asking for postcards we got a
couple while you were away I know I
actually I saw that yeah very cool I've
got one here from lisle illinois now i
would expect kc 9py d this is a I
wouldn't think that's a license I would
think that that is a ham radio call sign
that would be my guess that's is that
right Dennis this comes to us from from
Dennis I think it's Finnegan math man
yes sir there it is Dennis Finnegan on
the front I'm looking on the back of
course his name is printed on the front
Oh says happy 5th year and many more as
geeks you should really be into ham
radio we will work on that very cool
cool Austin call sign card and that
comes to us from as i said illinois USA
very cool thank you very much for
sending that in Dennis we will extend a
hundred viewer points your way that's
very generous very generous we want we
want your postcards send them in to us
our address is on the bottom of the
website category five dot TV everybody
in the chat room hello nice to see ya
math man 47 joining us actually in the
chat room cheers thanks for sending that
in hey Beck
alright well we could jump right it's a
viewer question extravaganza we really
have so we should probably just get
right into it that we're trying to say
yeah well we do kind of have to really
rock the viewer questions we'll hit one
viewer question then we're going to take
a break and then in the mac that sounds
fair so physical in Iowa we're not the
first question you know you say
questions and then I don't do questions
I was just saying hi i I don't I just I
don't understand okay well it says here
says hi Robbie I'm getting a message
when visiting the mobile site on my
archos a 70 h 7 inch tablet android that
redirect seen irani ously to the full
site cheers david okay David mobile cat
five dot TV is designed specifically for
mobile devices if your device has not
been detected as a mobile and part me a
mobile device it's going to tell you
that hey you can't go any further but
what I've added for you David if you
could see this I've added some text here
and i've added the text that hey send us
this little bit of information to let us
know what happened that text is actually
a little bit of a code that will tell me
more information about what happened on
your device as well as how your device
should be detected so that i can add it
to the mobile list and then your device
will detect correctly in which case it's
going to work for you so so go back to
mobile cap five dot TV on your device
and send me that little bit of
information and that's going to help us
greatly to to be able to not just figure
out what happened but also fix it for
you moving forward cool thanks for the
question
I've got a viewer question or a pardon
me of your photo submission that comes
to us from k gu c and says here are the
youngest category 5 TV viewers and there
they are watching Hillary and I up on
the TV although they're pretty cute
adorable I love the picture kick you see
thank you for sending that in and thank
you for raising up the next generation
of category 5 viewers mm-hmm indeed
definitely worth a hundred points hunter
of your points for 4k kusi Cheers one
more quick question that was really a
short one sure sure let's jump it to
another one so from gadwal ah hello to
Krista and to the overlord over overlord
I think that's what that supposed to be
so that's you you know I'm trying to
start making tutorials for people I will
be recording my screen and using a
microphone to walk people through
different tasks and where explain how an
OS works to them so overlord could you
please tell me whether I should save for
the black magic intensity pro card pci
based or go for a good microphone now I
think the audio is more important since
the screen capture will still be high
quality and good for online viewing
thanks gadwal that's a very interesting
question and I want to touch on that
gadwal and I will tap into my
intergalactic database of information
aboard the Enterprise we'll be right
back after this and then we're going to
answer God wills question in just a
moment
dusty trails liquid image Canada
captures the action with a true point of
view HD video camera directly into a
high-quality MX goggle it records every
bit of the excitement exactly how you
see it
if my octane isn't your thing take a
relaxing underwater adventure and
capture it forever in high definition
video with a high quality underwater
camera masked from liquid image Canada
perfect for the enthusiast snorkeler or
the deep sea diver check out the entire
line of camera masks for every sport
liquid image canada.com this is category
5 technology TV we've had a chance to
adjust our microphones and remove our
smiles to be Vulcan and the question
comes in to us from gadwal who says
should i invest in a capture card to do
my screencaps or should i invest in a
microphone and gad will I think that you
kind of hit the nail on the head with
the with kind of answering yourself in
that yes screen capture software is
going to do a fantastic job for you so
do you need capture capture card let's
let's take a look at what software is
available I'm just going to look real
quickly at gtk record my desktop for
Linux ok it's a front end for record my
desktop this software will record
natively it's available in the
repositories for your linux distribution
it will record natively in the
resolution of your display so if your
display is 1024 x 768 that's the size of
the video that you can record up to if
your display is an HD display let's say
it's you know a full 1080p you can
record a 1080p video if you were to go
out and purchase a black magic intensity
pro which is what we use here for our
cameras these are fantastic cards but
basically this isn't all that you're
going to need because you're going to
need to put this in one computer you're
going to have to put an HDMI link output
from a laptop or another computer that
you going to be doing the demonstration
on into the input on this card because
this is a capture card so you have to
connect something into this for it to
capture so that could be a video camera
in our case this camera is connected to
an intensity pro you can pick one up
from cat five dot TV / be
h do a search for intensity pro and it's
not pci at his pci express you don't to
mix those up pci is not PCI Express is
not pci-x they're very different as far
as their standards this is a PCI Express
x1 card so you're going to need more
hardware with that as I say you've got
software that's going to do a fantastic
job for you it's going to be able to
record in up to full HD if you like but
then that just gives you the video then
like you say what do you do as far as
audio goes so the next thing you have to
ask yourself ok similarly with the
capture device you're going to say ok
well I've got my microphone here's a
rode nt1 great Mike it performs really
well it sounds great it's XLR so it
requires phantom power it requires 48
volts phantom output from a mixing
console or a preamp so basically once
again you're in a scenario where you
need to have a phantom power supply for
this microphone you need to have a good
stand for it which are you know another
7,500 bucks the microphone itself is 300
so then you're in the situation again ok
now i don't even have power for you need
a preamp for another 200 you need a
mixing console the mixing console that
we have here I think was about two or
three hundred dollars i believe i'd have
to look back on that but so it can be
pricey again to go that route so we have
to look at what are our next best
options and that's where blue Mike calm
comes in blue Mike offers the Yeti and
the Yeti Pro Series microphones and gad
will I brought one of these in just to
be able to show you what this device is
like this is the Yeti mm-hmm that pardon
me the Yeti Pro this microphone GAD will
what the advantages is that you can
operate your podcast you can do your
interviews you can do your voice overs
without the need of secondary hardware
such as a preamp because not only does
it have that XLR output just like the
rode nt1 studio microphone but it also
has USB and that USB is going to power
the device as well it is going to send
the signal digitally into your computer
eliminating the need for a sound card
which means at least for the capture end
of things which means you're going to
get extremely high quality audio I'm
talking this will record a 24 bit 192
kilohertz so very very good so GAD will
I thank you because tonight you have
given us the opportunity to perform a
live unboxing
no way I know that part of an aimbot
it's so exciting yes I know gadwal what
an opportunity for us to unbox the blue
Yeti Pro maybe he could give me a hand
with this and like just get in there I
don't know if I want to bury
be a pro you're gonna keep that
authentic oh we can keep going it's
exciting i'm actually scared to move too
much miss cost you all that you are okay
Tara lengthen okay ooh God will there's
styrofoam it's a joke have you ever seen
an unboxing video like the real deal all
right look at this folks mm-hmm feel the
anticipation rising the anticipation so
I can there we go more styrofoam gadwal
they care about their products there we
go so this is the blue Yeti Pro blue
Mike calm but i will tell you you can
pick this up straight through us at cat
five dot TV / Yeti Pro ye t i pr 0 so
this is not only a professional-grade
microphone but as you can see it has XLR
outputs as well as the USB and the
headphone jack as well the XLR output is
stereo it comes with a cable that allows
it to break a breakout cable it's not a
like a full-length XLR cable you're
going to need you're going to need to
buy XLR cables just as you normally
would if you want to go that route but
it's a breakout cable so that it takes
the stereo signal and gives you left and
right so that's cool sounds pretty
heavy-duty it is heavy feels pretty
heavy weight and yeah good good quality
so that's the blue Yeti Pro again cat5
TV / Yeti Pro ye TI p ro check it out
it's only 250 bucks if you don't need
the XLR you can also go with just the
standard Yeti it has the USB output and
it is also a fantastic microphone they
have step things up a little bit as far
as the quality goes with the Yeti Pro
it's a little bit of a higher quality
build as far as i understand i'll just
tell you a little bit about why i
recommend this guide well okay
obviously the things that I've mentioned
up to now but this has four patterns as
far as the recording modes of this
microphone it has three pickups in the
mic itself so you have a stereo signal
so that you can obviously pick up a
stereo recording it recommends using
that for choirs and instruments vocals
it has a cardioid signal so this is you
know the figure out here so that if I'm
talking if this is what you're going to
be using when you're doing your podcast
you'd be talking into the microphone
like this that's the cardioid signal in
addition they've got the omnidirectional
signal which basically records from
every direction so if we wanted to talk
like this we would probably use that
omnidirectional signal so that it would
pick us both up equally and then very
cool there's the but it takes it one
step further there's a bi-directional
signal or pattern i should say which
means it's going to be recording kind of
in a cardioid pattern at the front and
again out the back so if we wanted to do
an interview with somebody on the other
side of the desk we can sit exactly
opposite each other and there are two
microphones that are in fact recording
us at the same time so very cool stuff
I'll just kind of get it looks cool yeah
it's kind of blocking you it's that it's
really that big give you an idea I don't
know what we can do to give you an idea
a Starfleet TNG phaser a Yeti Pro a rode
nt1 which did seem like a big microphone
doesn't so much seem like a big
microphone right now looks amateur now
in comparison not nearly as cool indeed
so notice again this has also got the
stand for your desk okay so that's a
bonus because you're not having to spend
the extra to buy stand you're not having
to buy the preamp but it gives you that
up expand ability to go through a preamp
if you want to do some professional
recording down the road if you want to
do some singing or whatever like that so
very cool stuff we're gonna be looking
at the blue Yeti Pro a little bit more
down the road again cat5 TV / Yeti Pro
and you'll be able to check it out
alright
awesome we got time for another question
I'm sure anything that you've got for me
oh I have one with many many words I
probably i'm going to pronounced
incorrectly okay so this one is from dan
hey Dan he says hello I have a 16 gig
micro SD with ubuntu 10-point gnome
installed I would like to run virtual
box on the card but I'm concerned about
space and I only use a handful of
programs regularly like oh that's an
office sure and FF what's FF Firefox oh
ok text editors etc I've downloaded the
minimal Ubuntu 11.32 bit and 64bit iso's
my goal is to keep the install as small
as possible so I have room for multiple
VD is could you explain what it takes to
get to a working desktop from install of
the minimal ubuntu is OS so he's wanting
to run linux off of a little flash card
i don't think i have one here microsd
that's hi jakey it's like this ok this
is what he's using that a Barbie flash
card no this is actually a large storage
device as far as capacity goes remember
back in the days when you you imagined
this kind of stuff would occur in star
trek but never in real life so he's
installing his operating system on this
but not only that but installing
virtualization on that operating system
so that that's what VD eyes are virtual
hard drives so that he can then run all
other operating systems underneath of
that operating system through
virtualization so it could be windows it
could be other Linux distributions
whatever running under that all off of
those little card so the one fear that I
have with that you want to keep a good
solid backup of that card because these
are a very unreliable medium as far as
that goes i mean i always say when
you're taking the your pictures with
these you got to always be transferring
them off never store stuff on these so
if you're using this as a production
kind of environment don't don't have
only copy on there because it is very
easy to lose that off of one of those
devices and when they stop working it's
very hard to get the data back because
data recovery will say you know what
that's a little tiny tiny chip and the
chances of getting any data out of that
chip is is pretty much moot so it could
be a bad situation so that said in order
to get your operating system from a mini
build of ubuntu linux what you would
probably want to do is you want to avoid
things like ubuntu dash desktop or
kubuntu desktop because that has all the
meta packages that's got all of the
extra stuff that you're not wanting to
use that you don't want to have filling
up your SD card your micro SD card so
instead you want to actually find the
individual packages to get right up and
going from where you're at with the
black bash login prompt log in and type
sudo space apt dash get space update
that will get you your latest
repositories and then decide which
package you want to use is your desktop
i would recommend starting with
something like LXDE so you could do just
sudo apt-get install LXDE and I think
it's three let's double check on the
name of that package
so quick it's like you've done that
before uh yeah oh it's just lxde is
going to give me a bunch of stuff but
see even that comes with some stuff that
I may not want like calculator and but
it's it's pretty lightweight comes with
a multimedia player xmms but so you're
going to get some stuff still but that
whole thing lxde is going to take 42
megabytes of my desk so 42 Meg's is not
a lot just to throw away when you've got
16 gigs that's very minimal so even
though there's a little bit of stuff
that you don't want that's Alex de you
could do xfce would be another one I
would recommend trying but these are all
lightweight desktops that are not going
to come with too much of that extra
stuff that you don't want and then from
there of course you can get installing
all your stuff so very cool and then
it'd be a neat scenario i'd love to hear
how it goes and let me know but that
gives you the desktop the desktop
environment that's where you need to be
to to get up and running with the GUI so
once that's installed you can you can
get into it if it doesn't come up right
away when you boot up type start X from
from Bosch and that'll that Yin so have
fun sounds like a cool project yeah I
think it sounds complicated it could be
and techie Star Wars okies Star Wars I
rested up a Star Trek isn't it Ravi's
gonna this is where it's no problem to
keep a straight face he is a thoroughly
impressed they're really unimpressed
that was actually an unintentional slip
up to fuck you said who are you supposed
to be Chewbacca well then keep it like
that one I thought it was that one in
the car on the way over here excellent
what else you got thrown for another
question here well we've got about about
about five minutes until you're gonna
patent things with the news here's a
here's a quick one it's not really a
question all right um it's another look
alike it's from Batman he says I was
thinking in that teasing Eric about his
yellow shirt was a little harsh after
all he's not the only famous on screen
personality that looks like a canary see
the attached image do you have this yeah
okay so you got Eric kid over there
Kevin Kline and and our good friend budu
Sandman as well watching the show I love
that it's like eight bit graphic art not
to mention to do Sandman this is this is
Abby msg file it's a it's a bitmap file
like a Windows BMP like Diddy I just
want to know did he use paint I love it
like that that I know I realized that
he's done this and that's fantastic it's
like that is art from the early 80s
right there that just takes me right
back to the LSL days will say and all
that kind of artwork that's awesome
that's awesome that's pretty cool but I
I I there is a little bit of a rink
that's the closest thing was am pretty
good that I've seen not necessarily with
that picture of Eric but but certainly
you know maybe it's just the beard maybe
it's that you only see a third of their
faces that's that's quite possible i
think that's a pretty good one pretty
good one well done boot is that man will
throw 50 points your way for that one
cool great somebody say is it shattering
news time sure why not yes why not time
for the news
we've never had the paper bag princess
to the news before I figure for a lot to
move too much because like I crinkles so
much that I don't want it to take the
news oh let's see here what we've got
from the category 5 TV news room one of
has been put in orbit by a Russian
proton rocket the this via SAT viasat-1
spacecraft will deliver broadband
services to customers in the US and
canada with a total data throughput of
140 gigabytes per second the satellite
has more capacity than all other
commercial communication satellites over
North America combined Oh Andy Rubin
Google senior VP of mobile and the man
in charge of Android development confirm
that the source code for the next major
update to Android version four point oh
will be available as open source a cup a
couple of weeks after the Galaxy Nexus
smartphone ships next month but
everyone's excited canonical has
revealed that Ubuntu 12.04 will be
supported for five years on the desktop
instead of the usual three years of a
standard long term support release
canonical hopes that extending an LTS
desktop support to five years will help
encourage broader adoption of the
operating system in enterprise
environments for the hardwood refresh
cycle for workstations can often be more
than three years there's been a lot of
talk in the news lately about Apple
Apple Apple Apple and even blackberries
so Robbie felt it was time we talked
about oranges really really Robbie a
machine that uses artificial vision and
UV rays to scan through citrus fruit and
get rid of rotten ones has been
developed in Spain usually the
inspection is done manually in dark
rooms also using ultraviolet light but
this can harm workers eyes and skin so
they must wear protective clothing and
goggles this new technology could
eliminate the risk the professor inform
or involved in the development says our
system captures the images of the fruits
inside an inspection chamber illuminate
only with backlight if the fruit is
infected it will show a spot of
fluorescence which is like a spa right
small right circle in the middle of the
small light circle in the middle of the
dark you know I gotta say though that I
can probably tell you right now that
that one's bad just with my green just
with my naked eyes and the green when I
don't not even i'm not gonna grab that
one a shape mmm that looks delicious
great there that's definitely green
mm-hmm no word yet if the machine then
vaporizes the bad oranges in a laser
cannon but we think this is unlikely but
that would be super cool I would be
really neat I think so in a world where
90% of program programmable thermostats
that never actually get programmed by
the user isn't it time and the
thermostat did the work for us the man
who oversaw 18 generations of the ipod
has announced the first product of his
company nest labs nest is a 250
programmable programmable which is a
really hard word to say by the way
thermostat that can program itself it
cannot however serve toast ah i was
hoping at first users might frequently
adjust the thermometer when they get up
in the morning leave for work get home
from work and go to sleep eventually
learns their patterns and adjust the
temperature to appropriate levels
automatically even more impressive if
you leave on a trip the thermostat will
figure out the house is empty and switch
the heat and air conditioning to an
energy-saving mode for those of us who
take impromptu four-day vacations to the
cottage hey look is our anniversary
should users forget to make a
temperature adjustment before they leave
the house they can also control the
thermostat with any internet-connected
device or even an iphone or android app
that's pretty cool cool thailand's worst
flood in decades has dampened the
economic outlook for the country and has
automobile and tech companies around the
world fearing a pending lack of
availability of necessary components for
us computer users the impact could could
be as simple as a lack of availability
of hard drives over the coming months
from the world's second largest hard
drive manufacturing country it's a
seriously it's a serious problem and
means pricing is about to skyrocket
get and fast so if you're considering a
hard drive purchase do it now right now
this will affect everything from the
purchase of a new hard drive to a laptop
or desktop computer as shown in these
pictures provided by one of our sources
Western Digital's plants are completely
closed down due to the flood seagate
technology said its plants are facing a
shortage of parts attached eat toshiba
and Seagate have already talked how far
we stopped taking product orders it's
not just hard drives Japan's canon
incorporated has made digital cameras
revised downward its full-year outlook
due to concerns about the impact from
the flooding in Thailand although canon
doesn't operate its own camera plants in
Thailand its inability to inability to
secure supplies of certain parts from
companies because there is adversely
affecting cannons Cameron business who
so if you guys are interested you can
get the full story at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category five dot TV news
room is researched by roy w Nash's
contributions from our amazing viewers
if you have a new store you think it's
worthy of honor mention you can email us
at news newsroom at category 5 TV for
the category 5 got TV news room I'm
crystal oh thanks Krista the category 5
technology TV newsroom tonight is
brought to you in part by pogoplug they
can be found at cap five TV / pogoplug
and planet calypso cat5 TV / clip so go
there and download the free online game
we'd love to see you in the massive
multiplayer online universe how's it
working out over there I'm having Mike
issues of all the wardrobe malfunctions
that you could have had it I know it's
my mic just keeps falling down yeah
because it because before I mean I had
on my left here which is obviously right
superior to my right ear and now it's on
my right year and it's all like no you
don't you don't see this at home but she
in fact doesn't have she has a very
small right here it's very good enough
unlike unlike my ears which are you know
quite quite distinguished no but you
know what's funny I actually naturally
have Spock ears
incredible incredible it's true there
are some thankfully I don't want to just
just just a speaker it's for the viewers
I'm scared of what might happen that's
that's pretty good pretty good anything
else Eric had come in i don't know if
you saw the the picture of us on our
website from the photo shoot where we're
all standing there like this and eric is
the one guy who's got his fucking like
this always got a thumb oh is that right
or increase where's that it's supposed
to be like that so I looked it up and
sure enough leonard nimoy who created
the Vulcan hand gesture wide open just
like that that's how it's done so for
Eric you know it troubles me a little
that you spent time researching this
time okay how long does it take Vulcan
salute on Wikipedia and where is it
where's the thumb mr. kid so that's
Leonard Nimoy of course the man who
created that particular gesture based on
well you can find out more about it at
Wikipedia interesting stuff but actually
based on on a particular religious
function I don't know all about it but
it's a blessing gesture that that he had
taken from his upbringing to and said
hey let's do this make it out would be
awesome let's it will be a yeah it'll be
a part of Star Trek so if he does it but
then that that particular gesture that
it was based on sure enough has the
thumbs in so maybe that's the difference
well Eric was half rate maybe he was
half right imagine that that ever
happened before did he behalf or
anything that comes out Varick MOS is
actually right we're serious I guess for
that matter stop making me laugh
oh good task attached indeed right so
what are what are we up to now you were
to go for me I got shot so many
questions with a question extravaganza
well I have more questions for you so
you better have your thinking hat yeah
on all right oh here we go it says from
thomas george says hey Robbie I'm
wondering if you can go into detail on
how to stream three cameras along with
the DVD player laptop output and audio
from a separate mixer online preferably
we'd like to use a service such as
livestream com but we're willing to look
at any options we'd also like to record
the video in HD at this live conference
style event for post event editing if
you have time I'd love some help on how
to best switch between these sources at
three cams DVD and laptop on a live
screen on stage as well sure yeah happy
to help absolutely basically as i was
talking to God will a little bit earlier
you're off camera it's okay it's okay as
I was talking to God well a little bit
earlier about was this intensity pro
card this is the hdmi input so if you've
got HD cameras fantastic it's going to
bring you 1080p uncompressed video
beautiful okay but what's also nice
about the intensity pro even though it's
a small little box it comes with a
breakaway cable that allows analog input
as well so if you're dealing with for
example if you've got component video
coming out of your cameras perfect
however if you have that that's great
okay that's capture card at its best
it's pci express you can plug in as many
as you have pci x pci express ports the
that are free it's x1 so it'll fit in
any pci express slot but if you have
firewire and you've got a car a video
camera that has firewire or the you know
hdv it goes through the the firewire
cable then you can get into that kind of
connection as well connect it into a
firewire input and then you're not
actually needing a capture card
however you do need software that's
where Wirecast comes in cat5 dot TV /
Wirecast now I actually have here's the
camera that is using firewire okay nice
and simple okay it's just a basic hand
camera an hdv camera is going to be much
higher quality than this this is 720 x
480 however I can switch over to this
camera okay and this is wire cast as its
operating category 5 TV right now so
there are all our cameras and camera
angles each one represents a different
angle or a different scene and wire cast
allows layering which is fantastic you
can see here I've got the intro video
was played and then the layer was placed
on top of that of one of our camera
angles the reason for that is so that
you'd still hear the music playing on
the lower layer Wirecast is available as
a free download in a trial form you can
get it from cat five dot TV / Wirecast
definitely recommend that you check it
out it's going to work with any of your
devices regardless of you see there i'm
using one camera through the through the
intensity pro at which again you can buy
from cat5 TV / bh then I've got another
camera here that is the handheld and
that camera is fire wire plugged into
the same computer right so that acts as
a switching computer where you're going
to have trouble is if you want to do
that true HD recording you're going to
need really really fast hard drives
you're going to need a really good
processor to be able to handle the
compression imagine you understand how
encoding video is a very
resource-intensive thing to be doing on
a computer any time you encode HD video
it's taking a lot of processor power
even jacking your CPU usage up towards
the higher end to the point where you
can't really do anything else when it's
happening so when you're live when we're
live right now we're streaming live to
ustream TV we're streaming live to
Justin dot TV those are both being
streamed directly
Wirecast there's no third party tool
that we need to install there's no
interim computer that we need to pipe
things through or anything like that and
then those stream providers then
redistribute the stream it's fantastic
so I would recommend that you check that
out it's cap 5tb / Wirecast but that
said you know keep in mind now we're
doing those streams so we've got to
flash streams which are pretty high cpu
usage and then we take that and we're
also encoding to the hard drive in
another format in full HD so in order to
do that you've got to have a lot of
power in order to process that much data
not just to the hard drive but also it's
got to be happening on the fly it's got
to be working in real time you remember
when we had computer problems in season
four with the server one of the things
that would happen is the real time would
go bad lip sync could be off there'd be
stuttering files would get corrupted is
bad and when you don't have a system
that can handle the the power that's
required so that's all part of it but
we're here for you if you have questions
and if if you get stuck but certainly
what we're doing with our system is is
working quite well now for season 5
Michael Iowa wants to know if this is
all done on one computer and essentially
sort of sort of because if I bring up a
computer screen to do a demo that's a
different computer this is a different
computer that I'm looking at now but
it's being broadcast to the Wirecast
computer the computer that is hosting
the Wirecast application and it's doing
that through the network because
Wirecast comes with something called
desktop presenter which is a beautiful
too little imitates the gadwal was
asking about having to stream from one
computer to a capture card to record it
well with desktop presenter it does it
in real time over the network so and you
get fairly good quality it's not quite
as good as what you would get with a
direct connection through hdmi
uncompressed but that's to be expected
right you've got gigabit versus huge
huge capacity on hdmi
cool I hope that that does that that
kind of answers yeah the questions as it
was oh yes yes absolutely perfectly
actually hardware-wise intensity pro
it's the best card that I've personally
found to do it ok because it's
uncompressed hdmi input high quality
video 1080p software wise this wire cast
cat5 TV / Wirecast but you've got to
have a good computer to do it all if
you're going to be doing HD takes a lot
of power okay your cameras have to be
able to support the the bare minimum you
know whatever you're recording at if
you're recording at 1080p your cameras
have to be 1080p and you do know digital
zoom because if you do you're going to
go lossy right you want to keep things
lossless no loss of quality you don't
want to be zooming in if you're
recording in 1080p and use them in on a
1080p image you're going to get la scene
s so you want to avoid that so what we
do we zoom in this is a zoom in a 1080p
camera running at 1080p but we're
recording at 720p so there's no loss
it's beautiful so that's very tricky
yeah it's it's kind of its kind of
clever way of working around the the
John effect will call it the fact that
we have to use digital zoom at this time
so I like that even though he's not here
you've managed to incorporate him yes
still into our show thanks by the way
John your problem I said once in a while
just spin around and just then look at
the camera there is operating the camera
that's beautiful that's great yeah
you know I've been thinking actually um
yes and it's uh it's I've been thinking
it over for the past forty six minutes
of the show 46 minutes I've been
wondering you know what can I do to get
out of this do I really have to say this
but I think in order to appease Robbie
and and make him happy I should inform
you that you've got the moves like a
Vulcan well thank you Krista that was
such a nice thing for Krista to say and
in fact they died a little inside but
that's okay you're not the first to
actually save time to admit to this Oh
what do you got in fact I feel a song
coming on Oh swell go dragon this don't
let me show you just let yourself go and
i'll show you all the moves like a bump
in here
jakab open captain moves like a ball can
I don't need to try to control you look
into my eyes and I'll show you all the
moves like a ball can get all the moves
like a Balkan gotten
who's like a Vulcan don't let me show
you just let yourself go and i'll show
you look like a fucking get all the ball
can lose like a Vulcan hell needs a gong
show you look into my eyes now show you
all the moons like a ball can get all
the moves a cabal captain moves like a
Vulcan
wow that was completely illogical why
did you force me into that how long did
it take you to choreograph that i did a
cat daddy I did a lot of cat daddies and
a handful of a handful of other awesome
Vulcan moves not long not long at all to
answer your question okay oh boy that's
fantastic agra moto cheers we must have
more viewer questions Oh coming battery
intergalactic inbox we have so many
questions tonight live at category 5 TV
and also try to catch us in the chat
room say our names in the chat room
category 5 on freenode and say hey and
in the meantime I want to give shouts
out to our chat room we got ya at 1965
in the chat room you al agamotto gadwal
a Jameson Doss bomber Sasquatch joining
us tonight Troy 74 anyone joining us for
the first time in the chat room tonight
I see math man we've already made
mention of Michael Iowa nice to see a
voodoo Sandman lots of people joining us
there old guy Jim always a pleasure to
have you here Swiss Andy great to see
everybody if I missed you hey you're
just gonna have to say more things in
the chat room so that I see you on the
on the list there and if someone is
joining us for the first time tonight in
the chat room what an impression to give
them yes this is exactly how the show
usually go Robbie does it dance you know
blip I do it every show she wears paper
bags economically just miss friendly
economical end once i'm done with this
dress i can just go brit in my backyard
and oh dear Wow well when you're done
with this i think maybe we should all
sign it or something that's good though
you made this yourself too and I did I
made this he wouldn't believe I actually
know I got on my computer I clicked a
few times and entered a credit card
number that's fantastic done I it was
very easy to make
oh yeah well you have skills amaze
that's what they call those they call
them skills mad skills yeah moves like a
Vulcan hey if you love moves like a
Vulcan tonight you can share it with
your friends cat five dot TV / Vulcan
you heard me right that was cat five dot
TV / Vulcan at everyone right now is
running out yes to share it with their
friends share with your friends tweet it
post it on Facebook send it out to
people that you love send it out to
people you don't really like and just
tell them to go check it out hey and it
is a YouTube hosted video so make sure
you like it on youtube post your
comments let us know what you thought
you were saying some my son is is a good
thing he's too young to be embarrassed
yes by his father and then I said make
sure to show it at his wedding
absolutely will cuz I'll be fantastic
that is definitely making the wedding
meal wedding real definitely that's good
yes maybe you've numbed him to it so
much like maybe you just just being by
the time realizing a dream chairs his
dad is awesome or he's too young or he's
too young either I gotta get these
moments while I can right cuz when I
don't I I have this sinking sensation
that when he's 13 it's not gonna be
allowed dad you're embarrassing me yes
yes I am son yes what other matching
costumes can we come up here oh poor sec
okay take it away with a question cause
anything he had a blast did you see that
you should see the outtakes he was like
going crazy he loved it well I didn't
say he didn't oh yeah you know it was a
future emotional scarring oh yeah that's
all no hey you know for now that's when
it when it goes my school
and he becomes a famous Balkan kid and
has to perform that on like you know
what what just on shows like in Vegas 5
yeah Magus would be cool just that one
will do an opening for Adam Levine oh
dear fantastic hey d-man a 10 I am so
sorry to hear that cat5 TV / Vulcan and
all sorry i will i'll let you so back to
the question is because we have a lot a
lot I don't see if I can find a
fantastic one they're all fantastic
though so uh question it's a tip and
it's from Scorpio 35 Scorpio if you want
to run with a gnome 3 desktop on Abu to
11 point 10 that's the latest version of
ubuntu then just search for an install
gnome shell in the aboon to Software
Center you can then select for the boon
to login screen number three gnome 3
classic Ubuntu 3d or a boot to ubuntu
it's really hard to say so many times in
our own 2d the gnome 3 classic isn't an
exact gnome 2 version but it is close so
although gnome shell isn't installed out
of the box ubuntu it still gives you the
option to choose your desktop
environment well cool that's 11 point 10
gnome dash shell that will get you there
thanks for the tip Scorpio hello ah
let's run by another one this is from
the job hey John says I was checking the
asus a su s a sous sous site for my
motherboard as one does because I'm
going to put my computer in a new case
because of the noise of the current one
it's really bad for the videos and such
and I bet you can tell because it's so
loud you can't even hear me typing
anyway I figured out how to check your
motherboard as well and saw there was a
bios bios at fios yeah which allows your
board to support three terabytes hdds
and i figured you might not have that
version and if you do there's a new one
that's only a week old that has updates
for memory timing etc I know you won't
like the update like to update something
like that when it isn't needed but when
I saw the 3 terabyte thingy that's what
he actually say is that thingy
I figured it might be at might at least
be something to check for the future so
let's tell Robbie that's awesome can you
tell him thanks for yeah yeah so they
well your computer like any device has a
firmware that's the bios right and when
you update your firmware in your iPhone
or whatever it gives you the latest and
greatest features so similarly your
computer the motherboard the main board
of your computer that houses everything
as far as chips Co that contains
firmware and that can be updated to
receive new new features so what what
jawed is telling me is that hey the one
that I bought here for the for the new
server it's got some updates that are
going to improve performance so that
sounds great and also give me the
ability to install 3 terabyte hard
drives which to the next guy might
matter to me it doesn't because I'm not
about space when it comes to our systems
because it's about speed not space so I
don't want 3 terabyte drives I want a
whole bunch of 200 gigabyte drives all
running together there's five drives in
there and they're running in raid 0 so
very very fast speaking of your chassis
being super loud shot that made me think
about something here you saw the build
of the new server the thermaltake level
10 snow edition positively beautiful the
original is available as well also
stunning beautiful I mean it's the same
chassis it's black it's got the red it's
got the same kind of led effects and
stuff as mine but look sir it is on sale
for a hundred and ninety nine dollars
and ninety-nine cents hundred that must
be a fat Chester bill that isn't well
it's regular prices out of 79 right so
you're getting a good eighty dollars off
the price and that's for a limited time
so you want to jump on that if that's an
available option for you and certainly
if you've been looking at the
thermaltake level 10 wow like that is
the dream computer case it's beautiful
and a dream to build your computer into
it really was just a pleasure to work
with that chassis so
that's thermaltake us a dot-com if you
buy from them hey let let them know that
you heard of them on category 5 TV if
you're talking to them if you
communicate with them or if you want to
pop them in an email and say hey I got
this I love it make sure you let them
know that you found out about it here
that goes until November 30th so guys
get your wives your girlfriends your
mom's whatever get them in the room
ladies your guy wants a thermaltake
level 10 chassis for his computer plain
and simple it's 80 bucks off I mean
thermaltake USA com come on come on
that's the same speech he used on Becca
yeah it worked she married me ten years
ago come on I promise I won't dress up
like a Vulcan and dance around your life
you lied ah I just I forgot about that
one ahh ladies christmas is coming
there's a fantastic deal honestly 80
bucks off 100 99 bucks for the
thermaltake level 10 GT beautiful
beautiful our international viewers do
they ship internationally well I'm gonna
say go find out okay the reason I say
that is because you're going to have to
inquire you're gonna have to tell them
hey I heard of you on category 5 TV I am
from the UK and wondering if you ship it
out here and they are all over the world
thermaltake so I don't think you're
going to have any trouble getting it so
but they want to hear from you they want
to know that you that you heard of them
here and I want to tell them that
because because we love thermal tank for
sure great deal okay John hope that
helps you out man and did I answer the
actual questions here oh what a let's
see oh it wasn't actually at well oh
it's just yeah it was more uh yeah right
yeah no yeah we got it we're going to
check out that firmware for sure for
this set for this motherboard and what
job was saying there is you don't
necessarily want to update your firmware
it's like your iOS device
and I'm just using that as an example
because paper bag princess over here has
got an iphone so she understands the
lingo right you can't make fun of Apple
for like the next no but ya know I know
I know but you sometimes won't upgrade
because there's something about the new
firmware that is going to remove some of
the functionality of the old such as
untethered jailbreak in for example not
that we endorse that kind of thing but
there's certain reasons that you may
want to hold back and similarly with
your computer you may not want to
upgrade your firmware unless it's
required I don't need a 3 terabyte hard
drive I'm not going to put a 3 terabyte
hard drive ever in my computer so I
don't care about that particular thing
about the firmware but if the timing has
been improved and the responsiveness and
the speed of the computer can be
increased because of an update to the
firmware then maybe that's worth
checking into right but it can cause you
think your firmware can cause problems
if you get a version that is
incompatible with some of your hardware
for some reason but cool cool we're
almost at a time any other questions
chatroom hey there and you must have I'm
not sure how am I do I have to do a
question yes wow do I don't know if
they're short or not though so you want
me to jump into one she will see well
play by ear this is from Alistair hello
and Alistair love the unraid calculator
right have been using it for ages now is
there any scope for making it a
standalone script I would love to just
have it as an app that I could put on my
desktop to know what I have in my rate
Thank this thing it was a fantastic
little script that I whipped out but it
was so basic that it just kind of it
just sits there and lets you do your
thing calculates you know if I've got a
200 gig hard drive a 500 gig hard drive
a 700 gig hard drive a 1.5 gig terabyte
hard drive and a 350 gig hard drive I
can calculate and it's going to tell me
that ok that's going to give me one
point seven five terabytes of storage
according to manufacturer spec it's
going to require
150 watts off my power supply to start
up and it's going to use about 64 wats
during heavy operation so this is a
handy little calculator for users of the
unraid system for data storage which is
what i use here fantastic software can
you get this on your desktop well it
really it's a PHP script of the happiest
entity I don't really care but you can
use prism prism dot mozilla labs com
download let's see if we can just
download prism check this out okay it
gives me at r dot bz it's going to take
11 seconds which is all the time we have
but let's see how quickly we can do this
check out prism this will work for any
application for any website highlight it
extract let's just I don't know throw it
in my home folder so now I've got a
folder in my home folder called prism go
in there prism and you'll see a file
called prism open that and it's going to
ask you the URL so I'm going to go HTTP
colon slash slash unraid dot category 5
TV name unraid calculator and then add a
shortcut to my desktop and hit ok there
we go so now on my desktop there's an
unraid calculator link and if i click on
that see if it works
I'm Russian because I don't have time to
really go through but what prison will
do is it will allow you to launch as an
application that what would have been a
web browser window but it's a PHP script
if you have a PHP server you happy to
share it with you let me know okay oh
and it's it's launching on the other
screen I'm like why isn't it launching
there it is that's what it looks like in
prism it just loads in unraid calculator
and it removes all the Firefox branding
and everything it's not a browser it's
just the calculator so that would be
really your best option I think so but
that my friends is all the time that we
have for tonight this halloween special
little early this year because halloween
falls on a monday lots of fun though I
know okay it was thanks for all the
effort holy cow I know I love it it's
brilliant cool well I mean you look kind
of spiffy dude well you know but I I
have hair now Becca said in the chat
room earlier that it reminds her other
than the ears reminds her of back when
we first got married it's kind of it
this is the exact hairstyle that I had I
used to wear this shirt to the spot look
oh that's like that's why I got beat up
in high school I don't really understand
it no no no I can't see it I hope you
had fun I'm going to be back next week
with Hillary rumble joining me here in
the studio category five TV is where you
want to be get our mobile app mobile
cat5 TV krista you have a fantastic week
thanks for being happy it's great to be
back yeah nice to see ya and I'll talk
to you next next Tuesday night seven
o'clock eastern time see everybody night
Bobby
