you have any old laptops kicking around
I do
do yeah I think my laptop is about nine
years old yeah I've got that old netbook
that you used to use here now I've got
yes an old refurb that I put up here for
yeah for tonight the netbook was so a oh
my goodness yes
it's an Acer Aspire One and I don't know
if it's good enough to continue using
but even with Linux on it even Linux
feels too heavy on it yes and I think
that's because we're at that point now
where even Linux in a lot of cases I
know there are things like DSL and and
stuff that's built for older hardware
Lubuntu is another good example as
Ubuntu but really to have a fully
functional Linux desktop it takes more
resources than those things have right
Chromebooks
okay are becoming more and more popular
because they can use lesser Hardware
mm-hmm but the operating system is so
incredibly streamlined that it doesn't
rely so much on the hardware that you're
using it instead relies more on the
cloud alright software-as-a-service on
being able to tap into the virtual
infrastructure that is Google right so
if I was using like a Chromebook I would
use Google Docs stuff like that
absolutely ken yeah and so by doing that
Google well you use like Drive and you
use their Doc's platform and you use
their built-in stuff to do documentation
and spreadsheets all that stuff it saves
it in the cloud but it also utilizes
their network infrastructure their
server environment to run the software
in your browser which is good so it
means even if you have a slow computer
as long as you've got a pretty good
internet connection the software is just
as fast as it would be on a very fast
computer right because it's not relying
on the computer itself true that I can
do a quick search online for Chromebook
and I know
that any of the Chromebooks that are
available for purchase are probably
pretty decent right but there's the
first one is sixteen hundred bucks
what else have we got the new
Chromebooks so there's one for C this is
where things start to get unreal 249
bucks 649 $12.99 okay that's getting a
little a maybe I just want to see it
that pressure might as well just buy a
laptop you may as well buy a laptop and
put Linux on it yeah but that three that
249 whoa
here's one for $4.99 okay here's one for
$2.99 yeah I can I can swallow that so
here's the thing that you got to ask
yourself so people say okay well with a
Chromebook mm-hmm I can't install
software
I can't put my regular applications on
and this is a wonderful time for Linux
lovers because the paradigm is shifting
the paradigm has almost shifted to the
point where that doesn't matter anymore
right
okay and when I say that what I mean is
Linux as an alternate to Microsoft
Windows write an argument has been out
there for some years saying oh but I
can't install insert name of application
that normally is for Microsoft Windows
on Linux right whether or not that's
true you can use wine you can use
VirtualBox whatever but that's been an
argument so now with things like Chrome
OS and I'll say it let's say iPads okay
Android tablets smartphones mm-hmm
let's look at those Android tablets
smartphones your Samsung phone yeah
what's powering it Google electricity
Android Android being powered by
Google's infrastructure and operating
system yeah so again it falls into hey
this operating system is so streamlined
that even on this hardware which is not
very powerful compared to my massive
desktop computer it runs really really
well right now take that and put it into
a laptop and say okay here's a
Chromebook
so yeah you
can't install the same applications that
you can install on Windows but we're
used to that right because we've been
using our smartphones we've been using
our tablets we're starting to get used
to that paradigm where all right we find
applications that work on this platform
and what works for us is great so all
right I can spend 249 I can get a decent
little Chromebook or I'll go back to my
first question how many of us have a
couple of old laptops kicking around
right I do and so so let's take a look
cloud-ready is a operating system that
you can download and install absolutely
free on your old hardware now I say old
hardware because this will repurpose
your old hardware into a mock Chromebook
okay so if you've got an old laptop you
can turn it into a Chromebook and so I
say old hardware that's a great use case
if you have new hardware and you just
love that maybe you don't use anything
other than the Internet how many of us
do anything other than our web browser
these days I know that they're right I
know you can comment I'm gonna get it I
yeah I mean Matt but many don't right
I'm in a school situation right now yeah
where we use only Google Doc there you
go
because not everybody has access or
knowledge of anything else so we just
use a Mac cool we have your school is
awesome
because you think about that and you
think okay well the Google Docs is free
right unless you're using a lot of it
it's free exact and if you're using a
lot of it it's like five bucks a month
do you guys like use Google Docs to like
hijack the teachers notes uploads no no
the latest thing with school now is
people will load a wet the word document
and there'll be three people working on
typing out and you'll almost get
verbatim because one person types up
quickly the other people fall in line
correct the mistakes and then fill in
the gaps and so you almost get a
verbatim so that nobody operative yes
it's great students are using an
oscillator they don't actually have to
do in class all right so looking so it's
very it's a great way to hack your world
because a lot of the stuff now I don't
mean to generalize and I know I'm gonna
get comments and people saying well I
need to be able to install this and that
I know I know so same here this yes this
isn't for everyone well it's for maybe
it is for everyone but maybe not for
every device right my main computer yeah
I need those extra applications but
there are times when I wanted to sit
down with a cup of coffee and just get
on my my book face get on to my email do
a couple of things online and I don't
need extra stuff so why not repurpose
old hardware right but it will work on
new hardware too so I don't want to give
that impression that this is only for
old hardware no it will work great on
new hardware as well but this is not a
dual booting operating system this is
something that you install and it is the
exclusive operating system on the system
so on my laptop actually pulled my hard
drive and I put in a new hard drive in
order to install ok so that we could
look at it tonight so cloud-ready from
Neverwhere is actually it's like
chromium OS but it's been streamlined
and they've got a update process and
they've got enterprising and education
versions of the platform in order to
bring Chrome OS to regular PC hardware
and by that I mean you do not have to
buy new hardware you can use that old
stuff that you got kicking around if
you're a school you've got old computers
kicking around this isn't just for
laptops and put it on desktops as well
and it's absolutely free so let's get
started say hello to cloud ready and
you've got three different versions
personal home use o2 wealth two buttons
anyways but three versions home use is
free so keep that in mind this for
personal use only don't put this into a
business education and enterprise will
you say well I just want to try it so I
want the free version for home I don't
want to buy the enterprise version well
the enterprise version has a free trial
so keep that in mind if you're looking
for something for business or education
use still go to the business education
but request a free trial and then you'll
be able to check it out it's like a buck
per student so it's not reasonable so
for personal home use we can just get
the free version and it's a little
different in its way of deploying
so you're gonna read a little bit about
it I encourage you to do so and go
through the hardware compatibility guide
which is going to allow you to search
for your particular model make sure that
you are compatible now in order to
install this what I did is I actually
downloaded the USB maker on Microsoft
Windows on one of my computer's there is
also a USB maker for mac and Chromebook
so how is that different it's not like
an image file or an ISO file like we're
used to it's an actual image maker so
you download the software which then
creates a USB flash drive for you very
much how Windows 10 does it ok and then
that USB flash drive now becomes your
boot disk in order to install the
operating system okay so as soon as I
get it up and going for the first time
off of my USB flash drive all you're
going to be greeted with is this kind of
lower menu here and if you click down at
the bottom right now I've already
installed it here but I you will have a
button up at the top that says install
cloud-ready
and when I did that earlier today I
recorded the process just to show you
how incredibly simple this is so
remember it's going to wipe out
everything on your computer here is as
simple as it is one click I'm going to
install it's going to warn me at that
point don't forget this is gonna wipe
out everything on your computer are you
sure and I click Next and that ladies
and gentlemen is the entire install
process that's it that's as easy as it
gets on my old laptop like really old
laptop I have a very old tiny thing that
I thought hey I'll try it out on it is
breathing new life into it it took about
25 minutes to install on this bad boy
with its i7 processor took about three
minutes and then Wow shuts down so then
I'm greeted with a black screen and I'm
okay well what's going on here it's just
a blank screen right and then I push the
power button and boom cloud-ready Wow
and it's up on the screen and Here I am
in chromium OS just like that so this is
in all essences I've now converted
turned my
my laptop computer into a Chromebook Wow
so this is built specifically to be like
that cloud-based computer so you've got
access to your Gmail you've got access
to now I've added that app you've got
chromium installed out of the box it
even has the capability of installing
things like VirtualBox which on an older
piece of hardware is kind of crazy but
what this does now look at how easy that
install process is so what that does is
it allows me to now on a little bit
better hardware install other operating
systems into chrome Chrome OS or my
Chromebook so that if I'm limited in any
way now I'm not limited I can install
those Windows applications if I have
Windows installed in VirtualBox for
example so it does not have the Google
Play Store however we're able to install
a lot of stuff and you can get through
here and you can you can well let's see
what the webstore says so oh it is it's
the Chrome Web Store ok so very very
similar stuff so you're able to install
your Chrome OS apps just as you normally
would what I really do like about this
especially when I think about using it
on lesser Hardware is that when I set up
my Gmail when I set up even my my
background my desktop wallpaper when I
set that up on my old laptop at home and
then when I came into the studio today
and I fired this one up having just
installed it everything was exactly the
same because it's in the cloud right
it's associated with my Google account
right okay so no matter what Chromebook
cloud a cloud ready book that I use
right whether it's a desktop or a laptop
or whatever I'm gonna have my same setup
my same software my same configuration
my same desktop wallpaper even it goes
that far right cuz it's all cloud based
you would just need an internet
connection that is lit and would it
matter what kind of internet connection
or what speed or anything does it
well as you can expect Sasha if you have
a very slow connection which is becoming
more and more rare these days you're
absolutely even with LTE internet like
on your cellular phone piggybacked off
of your like to your computer it's gonna
be fast fast enough for in browser
document editing okay
so I've actually transitioned most of my
document editing to to Google Drive also
Google Docs does all my editing and then
I'm able to share it with you guys so
you've got access shown rights and
things like that the stuff that we print
is all done on Google Google Docs now
know what that should help like not
knowing how much data this would take up
is does that like all of your files and
your settings become part of your Google
storage yeah I think you get part was
two gigs with Google and as I say if you
go beyond your limits
it's like it's $5 a month to increase it
to whatever it is right you'd have to
look at the pricing I don't know their
pricing model but but that is something
to be aware of and and the reason I
think that I don't know the pricing
model is because it's so cheap right
well it's five bucks a month
that's all I pay and it's and it gives
me email calendar storage everything
else but I'm not a power user if you
will but this has allowed me clout Reddy
has allowed me to convert my laptop into
a Chromebook for free okay I can't
emphasize that enough
now I've got new life into older
hardware that's my scenario that's what
I wanted it for my newer hardware I'm
gonna have full OS as on like Linux or
Windows right where else but on my older
hardware I can put cloud ready on it and
now I've got a Chromebook that will sync
with all of my Chrome OS okay systems
now I know in discord there is a bit of
a conversation going on about patching
and stuff and I've never used a
Chromebook so how does updates work is
it a like you have to do a fresh install
or do you get an alert just like you
would on your phone that says hey
there's a software update update well
this is one of the reasons I love cloud
ready versus like just vanilla chromium
OS or one of the other options that are
out there cloud ready specifically
so the company they're called never
where they have created an update
process or they haven't created it it's
based on Google's infrastructure so
Google for their Chromebooks push out
updates right okay but these are
Chromebooks that you have to pay you
know at least the cheapest one we found
was two hundred forty nine bucks some of
them are thirteen hundred you have to
pay for those so the infrastructure is
there so what Neverwhere has done is
they've created a similar kind of server
environment that updates their cloud
ready systems but it does it a little
bit behind Google oh so when Google
pushes out an update its bleeding-edge
will consider it right there's a lot of
potential for bugs there's a lot of
potential for problems and systems there
so instead the approach that Neverwhere
has taken is to wait out the update a
little bit test it a little bit more
internally then push it out to all their
clout ready says I don't like that and
then it comes out on your system it
updates itself automatically you're good
to go there's nothing I hate more than
hey we've got an update and you can't
use your software until you update it's
like but I know what the bugs right or
blue screen of death if you update yeah
exactly yeah exactly this is a really
great option yeah check out Neverwhere
dot-com just like a sounds never we're
calm and grab cloud ready today it is
free for your home and personal use
[Music]
this weekend is the biggest sale of the
year at here best double 11 just in time
for Christmas shopping with massive
savings and a billion dollars in coupon
rain gear best double 11 this weekend at
cap 5 TV slash gear best
welcome back during the break we were
just chatting a little bit about the use
case yeah making basically a Chromebook
Anna and I do see like the foo
mentioning that you can get used
Chromebooks for like 80 bucks free free
out there so you're mentioning about
your children and yeah so a year and a
half ago when we're just gonna start
homeschooling our oldest we were looking
to like I said to my wife I'm like you
know there's going to be some online
stuff let's get a laptop form but we
didn't want to buy a laptop we thought
maybe a Chromebook or something like
that but the problem was at the time a
lot of his schooling came with CDs or
their software that's cool yeah and so
it's like you know that's not gonna work
we nee actually need some so we went out
and built a desktop for him to use but
I'm looking at this now because in the
last year all of his schooling is
transition online or it's still the
physical book that's what happens and a
lot of schools are actually changing to
Chrome so this would be amazing the fact
that I've got this 9 year old laptop
sitting at home I haven't fired up being
here and half I'm gonna wipe that sucker
out put YES on there and ideal because
part of the issue is the computer has
all his games and all his stuff and so
you know we walk out of the room to go
do something and come back it's like oh
that's minecraft that's not ok you know
it would be nice to have there's that it
but it'd be nice to have a computer
where none of those apps are on there
yeah but we know it'll do is work yeah
and and from one computer to the next
it's the same documents it's the same
spreadsheet it's the same I love
especially because my school does we do
use the Google Docs right so I can do my
homework like on the fly on my phone
with my Google Docs I can be on this
digital form and this is
Linux right no problems I can just pop
on into crowd ready on that and I could
you could what else do you use this for
use it for disk or to use it for google
doc that's it anything else email maybe
Gmail I yeah a gmail yeah so well I can
totally do that on this one of the
things I love about the whole scenario
talking about how it's like the same
from computer to computer computer let's
say that one crash and you had cloud
ready on it right it's still all in the
cloud all your Doc's all your images and
all that stuff hey so you haven't lost
anything even if that crashed or got
stolen nobody has access to it because
the files aren't on it so even if they
did steal it they don't have access to
your files but you can then take the
replacement one install cloud ready on
it login boom your files everything is
back right where was your applications
everything perfect okay now can I
fighting over the computers move on to
that exactly about ready computer now
can this be installed on something like
a PI no ok x86 only oh ok it has to be
x86 platform they recommend 4 gigs of
RAM or more ok it will run on 2 gigs of
RAM but you're not gonna get the best
performance so I'd recommend right stick
with four games or one it's actually a
really green option because really if
you're sitting around with just old
hardware eventually it's just gonna be a
waste
right like and now it won't be you can
really extend the life of you can take
that a waste and breathe new life into
it exactly for sure I love it check it
out again just a reminder for you never
wear calm and
three for you
[Applause]
