welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson welcome to episode number 244
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
may the 22nd the 12 7 2012 Wow yes hey
everybody to just return your blackberry
i oh no you hold the right yes I don't
even look like very whoops I don't know
it's time to start the show look I'm on
the air telling me is time okay I poured
you a nice cup of coffee tonight are we
there yet yeah we're there all right
Cheers hey everybody nice to see you
tonight we've got lots going on we are
going to be talking about more ways to
save some money I have no money to save
well this time we're gonna be doing it
with with our television sets probably
well cable TV and stuff if I could save
money with my television cuz I'm pretty
good at the television pretty good of
having velcro attached to the back of my
pants once I sit on the coach ya know
that hockey game starts boom I'm pretty
much their their duration yeah yeah all
right well I might not be able to help
you with that but we're gonna show you a
multimedia Center kind of pc like device
you can that you can get for under one
hundred dollars so stick around we're
gonna be talking all about that in just
a little bit of time and no you can't
call me Bill crew put yourself in this
is you clean that up neither okay just
clear that up with the chat room right
now
you know that bad Nick I'm not even
gonna look in the chat room cuz I'm
scared know that nickname just won't
stick Kirby doesn't hear me be oh really
he's already saved some money Hey look
you can join us on our mobile site if
you don't have a TV you can use your
mobile device if you go this blackberry
thing or something like that you can hop
on over there mcat 5 TV and check us out
you know you you even when i worked with
you you know you'd say that somebody on
the phone will hop on over Hank I don't
have fear love hopping on their internet
and yeah it's like a little like a
little valley on a hop on my shirt yeah
sorry all carry on well jolly good jolly
good hop on over to cat5 TV and say hi
there you go hop to it random
observations from okay oh my ass hey
we'd love to receive your postcards this
week I absolutely adore receiving them
get yours in by snail mail category 5
technology TV postal box 29 009 Barrie
Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 Wow is what will
you okay sorry there's so much going on
here at category 5 where we're getting
ready to launch our new website very
very excited about what's going to be
happening july first our betta team has
been fantastic and or the beta team
mm-hmm and lately there's been a lot of
progress with the site one of the cool
things I really think is kind of neat is
the community photo booth which is
actually open to the public right now
and Garbi is going to post a link in the
in the in the chat room for us it's
photo booth dot category five dot TV and
when you're there it it taps into your
webcam and once you authorize it to it
allow it takes a picture and post it on
the on the community photo booth we
should try that sometime shouldn't it's
kind of neat so you walk up to the thing
you do this is going to really flash
into your viewers very dumb and then
what do you do we have to go to photo
booth dot category five dot TV okay and
it's just like a wall of
viewers and and misfits hey rogues wall
yeah rogues gallery but over time it's
gonna be pretty interesting because that
it's kind of like a chronological
timeline of photographs taken from our
viewers webcams and some here around the
studio as well so everybody's got no TV
but he's got a handful of eminem's in
his head and Oh hand it's tough to type
with you know I gotta tell you what's
coming up in the newsroom just gonna
move away from the Eminem's ok well
search giant google I tweeted today you
have to tell the story he says it seems
kind of redundant when journalists you
know put in their stories search giant
google you know you see get it Google's
enough ya see it all the time though it
was so true so here's what's coming up
in the new year cheers man google has
patented it's a google area search giant
you know that one that one right ah the
pageant I said patented find the first
time now I guess I anyway they've done
that with their augmented reality
glasses for Project Glass Wow ok I can't
wait to hear about the video game has
been designed to help stroke victims
recuperate at home Microsoft has
launched his new social media platform
so dot seal is that social perhaps yeah
I think they kind of airplane on that
for sure ok um the eye drop down and all
you see the next one ok Google has
searched and Google again it has just
sealed the deal in its acquisition of
Motorola and they're already stirring
the pot new terahertz Wi-Fi can transfer
data an incredible 100 gigabytes
gigabits per second sick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
and I'll try to get the pronunciation
and all those other fine things down a
little better than in the intro hey
Robbie yeah cool stuff even keeping all
right I've been all really busy it's
nice thank you very much for subbing in
tonight Rachel's you as you know was
meant to be here tonight
and called in second and you were here
he said deadbeat earlier oh no I did not
you know I did not don't ever okay he
didn't really say that but I appreciate
Eric coming in on on such short notice
like I said I'm just happy to be here
glad to be alive it has been a busy day
yeah it has you know if you moving your
skeptic they're cleaning out I don't
know they're draining all the fire not
draining all the fire heard he's
cleaning out all the lines so I've had
the water turned off at the house since
eight this morning Oh had to take my
dear sweet mom for her driver training
she's 82 and Wow and you know we were
thinking perhaps she wouldn't be driving
anymore but she passed the test I Wow
like an actual road test no no this was
its own at the end it's like a hat yeah
that's what it was like a two and a half
hour session and then I tested the end
and right so for her yeah that's clear
so then then i had a couple of guitars
students and hop in the car i hopped in
the correct scoot it over here see it
work read the newsroom updates i can
assure you just hopping like Alan it was
kind of gazelle-like just like running
out the door to that you know sort of
running over putting on my shirt
drinking my coffee and yeah exceptional
I thought so and I'm here and then I
have a cello player coming over to do a
rehearsal for a recital that we're doing
on Saturday so it will be a richly
textured day by the end we doing a
recital with cello well there's a cello
teacher at this guess where i teach
guitar and she teaches violin but plays
cello and I said I would accompany her
on a couple of tons so Oh wonderful it's
gonna be fun it is such a rich sweet
sounding instrument you know yeah sure
if absolutely yeah so so yeah and then
you know there I'm not sure what's gonna
happen after that I'll probably have
missed the hockey game you're back into
hockey no no no no I'm thinking oh yeah
wine later yeah I don't know I gotcha
yeah no idea i know i'm a Velcro but
remember okay
people in the chat room are wondering is
is there any chance that we can hear
your recital on Saturday are you getting
a tape or heck no no none of that no no
could be incriminating you know evidence
like you took lessons from Eric kid oh
well we heard you play guitar and I know
that you're you're really good at like
the spanish-style a kind of classical
guitar yeah lose that too yeah so that
alongside of a cello would be that much
fun to something to the home why don't
you come out and shoot it I think yeah
Hayward and then the talk about Saturday
yeah I've got a gig in you know
Jackson's point on friday but saturday
is going to be you know recital day but
I picked up a gig and playing down a
George and downs the local racetrack and
like yeah the huge it's a huge event the
sort of the first leg of the Triple
Crown of Standardbred racing so it's a
black-tie affair and entertaining folks
as they come in and then I'm terrified
I've been asked to sing the national
anthem oh I know in front of the in
front of the track at the you don't just
be clear first race so um I'll let my
security blanket pink a guitar and will
yeah you know it won't be quite like
Christine Agni era oh shoot a little
issue with the American National Anthem
thing oh that's right now whoops anyway
so yeah richly textured week coming up
is busy see what happens is you come on
the show and you do it you do a couple
songs and all of a sudden it so that you
just can't keep up with the died and for
mr. Eric kid that's how it okay and
thank you to the folks who downloaded
and made little donation i bought some
groceries with that that was really nice
it certainly is nice that's the
community has come together and yet
supported you in that and and that's
still open actually cat5 TV / Eric er I
see how to throw that in there for you
well thank you yeah appreciate the
support for sure we got to take a quick
break but we will be right back in just
a moment's time talk to you after the
break at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but
here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference Eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV SMS
your host Robbie Ferguson and I'm Eric
Kidd and did I mention I'm happy to be
here and glad to be alive just say it I
just said I I never liked to you know
from my radio days and I learned never
never talked about the spots as they as
they go out but the when I see the spot
for eco alkalines it just it just
reiterates the fact that they are
eco-friendly batteries and we have a
year supply of these things to give away
folks so we definitely want you to
qualify for this what's the heck is a
year supply you know if I'm using it my
guitar tuner like two batteries is
probably your supply if I'm using them
insects out see that's the thing you
know so you're gonna get more than a
year than the other if you if you stock
up basically it's a it's a pack a week
so whatever you decide you get to pick
what kind of batteries you want you get
52 packs I had somebody asked me and I
didn't know the answer so this is
probably the perfect time there yeah the
question because some of the little
tuners are using the cr2032 okay little
lot yet the coin whatever love ya does
eco make these are these are standard
consumer batteries so double a triple a
none of those you know not for electron
none of that stuff at this point and I
don't personally know of any plans for
that to come into play but certainly the
C's DS nine volts double a triple a
those are the you know the main consumer
battery so fifty two packs of these to
give away all you have to do is go to
their website and there's a hot link
just by going to cat five dot TV / e co
e co and when you're there go down to
the very bottom of the page you're going
to see their Facebook and their Twitter
all you got to do is like them on
Facebook follow them on Twitter and
you're going to be casting your ballot
to win a year's supply fifty two packs
of eco alkalines batteries so check that
out cat5 TV / eco I know you're anxious
to get into the questions your viewer
questions of commando so many questions
so few answers and you never know when
Robbie's gonna jump all over you and
give you some kind of tur sarcastic Khan
doesn't no no no this is different day
when I was jump when I would jump hop
hop hop on hey Adam Jamison is in the
country music for Andrew there yeah he's
given country music a hard time you
don't want to give country music a hard
time when our kid is in the room is yeah
he will hop all over that I will all
over you like a fat kid on a smartie
vers na- hmmm yeah damn and I'm enough
these consumer plugs product placement
yeah I mean we got at least get paid for
them come on yeah as he holds up as a
boon to my fantastic ah did I ever
mention this little pup did I play out
once in a while oh yeah hey we've been
we've been yes actually yeah you sent
some pictures didn't you yeah and we're
having a bad hair day do we know any
hair dresses aren't there who'd like to
donate a haircut for the short fat goes
hits her with rabia Rosen well yeah an
electric buzz thing he just wishes he
had here yeah sorry Lucia it was Hirsch
I'm sorry true it's true it's so true
okay well why don't we jump right into a
question here we'll move on that's what
I'm hinting that you know Pete here he
didn't provide a pronunciation but I'm
going with Pete he's running ubuntu
12.04 an SSD Drive I usually partition
my traditional mechanical drives with
three partitions / home swap and / I've
read where may not be a good idea to put
a swap partition on an SSD due to read
write cycles wearing down the SSD
prematurely
I have four gig of ram but sometimes the
swap file is used when I run pan news
group reader should i go to eight gig
ram and not partition for swap i would
rather use one SSD on my laptop as
opposed to using a secondary mechanical
drive for swap and / on my regular
desktop your thoughts any other issues i
should consider love the show that was
all in caps so i figured i should show
okay well thank you for that question
Pete we're gonna hand that over to our
guru Robbie what are your thoughts on
that I I think it's I it sounds to me
like he knows what he's talking about as
far as I'm still concerned about my bad
hurty well oh yeah actually ian has had
says no hair day carry on that's perfect
that would be perfect Pete I think
you're on the right track i think the
more you know the more ram you can stick
into that system the better off you are
because then you're not going to need
the swap but even having the swap on the
drive in case it is necessary and just
having enough ram that it never has to
swap i think is a good way to go now
depending on the the nature of the
system depending on what you're doing
like eight gigs would probably do I have
16 gigs in any of my systems just to be
safe and it keeps things from swapping
and swap is our enemy in the mechanical
days the mechanical hard drive days or
if you're using mechanical hard drives
you know that as soon as stuff start
swapping it slows down your computer the
perceived speed of everything that's
going on is going to be a lot slower
because it's using mechanical hard drive
for read rights to the swap partition to
emulate ram but in your case with the
SSD the issues not the speed it's now
you're going to like you say prematurely
fail that drive an SSD is flash and ram
or whatever it's it's only able to be
written and read so many times and
because there's constantly you know
swapping going on you're gonna run that
low would run days soon as as much as
Joe to go i would say eight is the
minimum 16 would be more comfortable in
in my case because i do
fair bit at a time but if you're just
using it for surfing and stuff in H
should be sufficient more than
sufficient okay and your your swap is
what one and a half times your physical
yeah I usually set a swap that's that's
at least that like two times what my
physical memory is so I might have a 32
gig swap with a 16 gig ram but that said
in your case you may you may not need
the swap at all and what is not doing
anything just sitting there it's only
it's only using space in your car
driving on an SSD it's it's it comes at
a cost right because SSD you know price
per gigabyte is quite a bit higher than
mechanical drives so so you probably
want to keep that low if at all but the
thing is is that realistically will you
wear out that drive super fast it's
doubtful i mean the life of a computer
is you're lucky if you get more than
three years up out of a system as it is
and you're probably gonna upgrade or
change things before then so if the
drive is only going to last 10 years if
you put a swap on it then it's you're
probably going to live well you know the
computers and outlive the hard drive
anyway so most likely if if you're doing
if you're not doing power usage so i
think you're on the right track but
alright more ram is always a good thing
so okay so you're gonna stick the RAM
and you're gonna Ram it in sure just
just hop onto the land module hey we
have a hockey fan here next hey sadly
he's from hockey town USA they're the
wrong team thing that's motown in it is
that Detroit okay actually I was trying
to set up a foursome in the golf course
with all my leaf fans but they said that
all the Red Wings fans were on the
course that day and we couldn't get
there sorry they were out early to a
little I've no idea already talking
about anyway and I'm gonna talk about
something really technical okay come on
Andy from hockey town USA gold wings
he's running 12.04 ubuntu awesome i'm
trying to install dark bar X on unity
12.04 I
like the launch pads website and
installed as instructed with no luck do
you have any suggestions how I can do
this i very much dislike unity and gnome
3 I would like to keep the global menu
on top with the look of windows 7's dock
bar X on the bottom cannot wait to see
what Zorin OS six core will look like in
a week or two new to your show and enjoy
it very much thanks and keep up the good
work everyone and you keep chair for
those wings oh I gotta admit I do like
wings wings and beer actually wings have
been occasionally pretty hot sure unlike
my leaves yes and what 45 I spent a lot
of years since we have in a few and draw
all right hey dr. bar X is not even in
the repositories look at that so what
what the first thing that we would do is
find a repository or a PPA that supports
it fortunately web update does happen to
carry dock bar X and the first thing
that I want to check is what version
that their that they're supporting in
web update this is a PPA okay so I'm
going to just scroll down on that on
that PPA and icy dock bar X version 0.48
look dog barks so yeah exactly like that
if we head on over to launch launch pad
you'll see that the current version
latest version is 0.48 so fortunately
over here at web update they have a
current version it is the the current
version in there for your system so
don't be misled by the fact that it says
lucid this is a repository that will
work for you should work so let's copy
this command here sudo apt add app
repository and then the PPA I'm just
going to copy that to my clipboard let's
give it a try we're doing this live on
the air so it could work could fail
working without a net kids exactly okay
paste that in
enter our password
okay just packages in this PPA there we
are it's got quite a bit of extra stuff
it's also got dock bar X themes things
like that so that's a good thing android
to continue
did you want to drum rolled or anything
now you know you can sing me a sweet
melody or something okay sudo apt-get
update we older I got excited it is
pretty exciting all that IGN stuff
just that's what it says no looking at
me strange folks the only way I know how
to look yeah at me yeah well here goes
sudo apt-get apt-get update now has
loaded that you know the new PPA
information so now let's bring back up
let's bring back up ubuntu software
center and the reason i'm using a boon
to software center for the folks that
are saying hey why is he not using app
get it for familiarity we're learning
this new 12 point 0 for so as well get
familiar with the interface now let's do
a search for dock bar x still nothing
there so we're not seeing it in in
ubuntu software center let's see if it
shows up anywhere it doesn't look like
it so we may have to use apt-get anyways
so let's give it a try
back at our terminal is this terminal
sudo apt-get install dock bar X
alright it's going to give me a whole
slew of awesome stuff that's going to
help that to work alright do you want to
do it well usually what I check here is
how many things is it going to remove
because if it's going to remove
something it might break something so
then you want to become more cautious in
our case we're getting 16 new things so
chances are pretty good it's not going
to break anything unless it's gonna
break a you know I version or something
but chances are pretty good it's not
know that Jim said just build something
incorrectly oh good did I well I'm
wondering maybe that's why I didn't work
for note it looked like it worked maybe
I wasn't talking to you maybe it's quite
it is altogether possible that i would
do a typo oh yes if you type it in as
the package name it will still show up
mm-hmm which is what I did well dr.
juice without the dash we can try
various variations of that but as you
see the the package name sure Jim just
recanted he said you saw it wrong okay
all right so let's see
I don't know the commands for it
hopefully it'll show up here there we go
preferences there we go so that seems to
have installed it just fine for us doggy
manager Sir supposed to be in there
invisible mutant okay so that that that
looks like it worked so whatever you
were doing through launchpad I would say
get on over to the web update repository
PPA you'd hop on yeah yeah hop on over
and get that set up okay what I'm going
to do for you just for your convenience
and for those of you who are watching
and interests installing dock bar X
which is basically a nice dock bar that
can emulate the the windows seven style
interface and a few different things and
it's very customizable I haven't got a
lot of experience with it myself but
those of you who know what love it what
I'm going to do is I'm going to create a
short link for you just for that that
PPA so
which we call it PPA 1 i'll do i'll call
it the peak PPA 1 dot cat5 TV that way
i'm not making you have to remember how
to spell web update rules so you go cat5
TV / PPA one just like that okay hit
enter and it's going to automatically
take you over to web update and then you
can follow the directions just as I
showed you all right there it is good
luck let us know how it goes let us know
if that was helpful and we do appreciate
viewer testimonials if ever we are of
assistance for you visit our website
category five dot TV click on interact
and you'll see the ability there to
submit a viewer testimonial and we
appreciate that alright so we hop on
over to another question it never gets
all does it well we were talking about
hops and then somehow we I my mind
wandered over to give us ya know how did
I feel that one coming I don't know but
nobody in here ok how many hops does it
take ok this is from Sasha term itís
okay and running Windows 7 hi Robbie
hello I'm using gold wave and cyberlink
powerdirector 10 on your recommendation
and recently picked up a blue yeti USB
microphone after seeing it on your show
my question now is how do I get the
audio from my gold wav file to sync up
with my flip video oh yeah yes it is a
matter of looking at those little sound
wavy lines and matching is that what
it's questioning if so I'm horrible at
this do you have tricks hints that I can
work with Thank You Sasha it's after one
of the things that I guess people don't
realize about production is that a
clapboard actually has a purpose
and in what you're doing now what she's
trying to do is she's got she said she
was using a flip and gold wave to record
audio from a yeti microphone okay so in
that case she's got audio like a WAV
file video say I don't know if if it's
recording like MOV files or something
like that and then having to combine the
two but how do you synchronize so that
when the lips move the audio is in the
right place right regardless of what
program you are that can be tricky if
you don't have the right tools right the
tool fortunately for you sasha is that
it's it's very very simple and anybody
who's interested in doing this kind of
thing sometimes what I'll do if I'm
really being like I don't know if I just
don't feel like going and get in the
clapboard is I'll just I'll count down
from from 3 i'll go three two one and
make sure that my hands are visible on
the on the screen and I can use that
click of my hands as the marker because
in the spikes and in the peaks and
valleys of the audio track you're going
to see that instantaneous spike right
but a hand clap is not anywhere near as
accurate as a clapboard because
clapboards don't resonate they are a
very very it's designed for it it's a
it's a click right so i'm going to i'm
gonna go to cap five dot TV / vh and
just do a real quick search for
clapboard first one that comes up is 45
bucks but if i display by price low to
high the cheapest clapboard that i can
find there is a chalkboard one and it's
1295 little step up is 1495 so anywhere
around there I'm you pick up one of
those 13 bucks not look like something
you can do in your workshop well you
could if you were extremely handy for
sure okay it's pretty simple like the
simplest thing about we're paying
yourself minimum wage is probably cause
2 12 bucks worth of time
yeah yeah definitely you might as well
just go get one is nice and and you know
in it and it does the job flawlessly so
with that now you clap it and and you
make sure you clap it on film so that
the camera the flip is picking up that
visual the microphone is already
recording and is picking up the audio
and then you take that spike and you
shift it the audio spike you'll see it
on the screen in the waveform and you
shift it so that it coincides with where
you see the clack go down on the on the
clapboard the clock yeah flap I don't
know equal terms click I'd illegally
decline to the class yeah that's all
there is to it it works and it's not
just a fancy thing that you see people
use them to look cool I wondered why
that no look at me I'm take 37 yeah you
know and there's more to it than just
that and that's another example is you
know the takes you can audibly say okay
here is take 32 so now the audio track
knows that is take 32 the video track
knows because you've chopped boarded it
on to the the clapboard right so you
don't line up your click with track 31
and it can happen in air or yeah because
when you're listening back it's it's
sometimes tough that makes it so so easy
and even if you're just doing like
podcasts and things that involve like
what we do when we do the music videos
and stuff we're using a clapboard to be
able to synchronize the the voice to to
the video tracks because it's all
lip-synched right so that's that's
important to Milli Vanilli er well you
know I laid down the vocals myself
though they weren't so maybe not people
behind the curtains yes yes I heard
there you go clapboard 1295 a cat5 TV /
bh he wouldn't let me sing on that
friday song i wanted tuesday song i
wanted to to hmm it was all the time
thing it's the time crunches the times
you can even invite me to be timely
we're working on a new one we can't tell
you too much but eric and i are gonna be
getting together one of these weekends
yeah get dressed after this one it's
gonna be good yeah yeah hey we're going
for more question now no actually gotta
jump into the news so that we can get
our feature going and we're gonna you
know we welcome your questions join us
in the chat room category five TB you'll
see the the link to get into the chat
room but also category five on freenode
is where you'll find us hey good coffee
tonight eh yeah there was a little bit
all right no but it was is it gone oh
the stillroom there's start holding its
heat very well we need to get like those
those USB warmers or thinkgeek you know
and be perfect I'd be perfect anyway all
right well here are the top stories from
the category 5 TV news room Google
that's the search giant google has
patented the design of its augmented
reality glasses known as Project las
three patents for a wearable display
device with characteristics of the
much-talked-about futuristic glasses
were submitted last autumn the patents
reference such functions is displaying
data in front of the wearer's eyes and
playing audio Google is working on the
project in its research lab Google X the
prototypes are currently being tested by
the firm's executives including sergey
brin and vin Gundotra how do you were
nowhere near nowhere near ok sorry Beck
anyway some of the top executives are
testing these babies out there you go ok
scientists at Newcastle University have
developed a computer game designed to
help stroke victims recuperate the
circus challenge game created with a
computer game studio aims to help
patients recover motor functions pairs
use wireless controllers to perform
virtual circus acts such as lion Tammy
and plate spinning I've got to see this
it has hope that the pc based game will
serve as a cheaper and more effective
alternative to existing treatments with
patients able to play at home
project received a one and a half
million pound grand from the Health
innovation challenge fund partnership
between the Wellcome Trust and the
Department of Health to allow further
development interesting i wonder if ur
going to start seeing more and more of
that like because of the we and the
definitely like the xbox live kind of a
lot of the technologies in place so just
gearing it towards specific yeah this
for like i see that he's holding what
looks like maybe the ps3 or something
like that but i think about like the
kinect okay right and and and body
movement and being able to yeah could be
neither cool yeah neat to see them using
technology for something innovative
instead of just games no more shooting
both of the shooting microsoft has
opened up its so cold socl social
networking service to the general public
the website is designed to let users
share and comment on interesting search
results and connect with like-minded
people it is targeted at students and
had formerly been restricted to invitees
at universities and schools in the US
the service integrates with facebook and
is being pitched as an experiment rather
than a rival to other networks
interesting and yet I don't see a
twitter login or it's strictly facebook
okay and we're back to the search giant
google google today said that it is
finally closed its acquisition of
motorola first announced in August 2011
the 12.5 billion dollar deal took longer
than expected to clear regulatory
hurdles in china china gave google the
green light on May nineteenth and Google
now owns motorola mobility for which it
paid forty dollars per share in cash one
concession google had to make in order
to garner approval from chinese
antitrust regulators was a commitment to
Android's openness google agreed to keep
the platform open to other handset
makers for a period of at least five
years from the closing of the
acquisition
that's good now the deal is complete
google has already made changes to the
company's leadership motorola CEO sanjay
jha who led the company for about three
and a half years is stepping aside and
being replaced by dennis woodside a
google veteran according to google
Woodside played a pivotal role in the
acquisition process job will work with
Google to help complete the leadership
transition but only temporarily hmm all
right researchers in Japan have smashed
the record for wireless data
transmission in the terahertz band and
uncharted part of the electromagnetic
spectrum as consumers become ever more
hungry for high data rates standard
lower frequency bands have become
crowded the band makes use of
frequencies from about 300 gigahertz 23
terahertz between the microwave and
far-infrared spectrums which are
entirely unregulated at this time it is
used principally for imaging in research
context as terahertz waves penetrate
many materials as effectively as x-rays
but deposit far less energy and
therefore cause less damage terrors
Wi-Fi would probably only work with in
ranges book 10 meters but could in
theory support data rates up to 100
gigabits per second that is a
lickety-split it's a it's a short range
but I could see like yeah into a store
and all of a sudden they transfer like
gigs and gigs and gigs of data over to
your smartphone well just by walking
through a door or something ahoo you can
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category five dot TV news
room is researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have it's a news story
you think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Eric Kidd
hey stick around we have got a big
announcement for you going to be saving
you a ton of money coming up in just a
moment first tonight's show is brought
to you in part by garden gate farms com
for certified organic
broccoli sprout and wheatgrass juice
visit garden gate farms com also quarter
eee electric is the official electric
company of category 5 technology TV find
out more about them by contacted them
through their website quarter eee
electric com now I promise you a couple
of ways to save money tonight and last
week was a big week as far as are you
know launching our series army we're
launching a series on saving money using
technology all right and last week I
introduced a very very cool product
magicjack plus yeah just that small and
saves gonna save me here over seven
hundred dollars a year in phone bills so
you don't have one anymore where'd it go
yes very smelling all of a sudden it's
wet you hello here's the thing
incidentally one of the gentleman from
Manchester that Blackberry I tried I
tried I threw it on the cement I
literally it was I know draw it was he
like very robust little thing it is okay
magicjack plus if you were watching last
week if it's gonna save a lot of money
it actually works that we've been using
all week here and at home and it's been
he didn't answer when I called him
didn't answer but I called you back and
we talked and you didn't know that you
didn't know the difference i did not
know the difference yeah so you look the
same for them for the price i mean it's
unbelievable two dollars and fifty cents
a month for long distance any like
canada and the u.s. i'm gonna have my
phone line for 250 a month crazy so
anyways as I was saying one of the
gentleman from magicjack was watching
the show last week and said you know
what we want to send your viewers some
magic jacks hey so what I'm looking
almost we'll talk about that happen come
on let me give it away to down Ariane
let me give you one element only sure
but if we can pick it up but here's the
thing we have some of these to give away
so what I needed to do this week is give
us a call on our magicjack leave me a
voicemail telling me why you need a
magic jack plus our phone number is 2 5
45 52 2 85 88
make it real simple that is 25 45 cat5
TV that's our number for the magic check
so give us a call drop us a voicemail
your voicemail is going to be your
ballot to win a magicjack plus as long
as you tell us why you think it would be
great to have a magic jack plus maybe
you've got family overseas you want to
be able to call them for free send them
a magic jack and they can call you
locally right you set them up let's say
let's say you had family in the UK okay
you set up the magicjack with a berry
number and then you send it to them they
plug it into their internet now they
have a very number so now they can phone
you you can phone them and it's a local
call that is crazy right okay so maybe
that's how it's maybe that's your why
you want a magic jack maybe it's just
they want to replace your phone line and
you want to save some money if you're
paying 60 70 bucks a month for your
phone line this is going to be because
we're giving it to you for free it's
gonna be free phone service for an
entire year and then 30 bucks a year
after that so well mm-hmm so give us a
call to 5452 to 85 88 and that and
that's going to give you our voicemail
leave us voicemail telling us why you
think you should win a magicjack plus
and you find out more about the
magicjack plus from cat five dot TV /
magic jack please check them out and I
I've just been thrilled with it the past
week has been just every time I make a
phone call I'm like I cannot believe how
much money I'm saving unbelievable you
know you don't even really need as tik
tok says doesn't even want to talk to
anyone just want to save money on its
mobile yeah this is the thing you have
to have a phone yeah this is what I was
saying last week it's like I have to
have a phone I gotta be able to pick up
a phone and people have to be able to
contact me but for the 10 phone calls I
make in a month why am I paying 70 bucks
just to have the service it's ridiculous
forget about long-distance just the
service itself has cost me 60 a month
well that's just absurd so two dollars
and fifty cents a month free for you so
give me a call
another way loving I'm really excited
about this series saving you money using
technologies a little neighbor today he
is I am and so they there could be the
coffee it could be the excitement it
could be the the cost savings who knows
one of the amazing devices that I've
come across is this iOS device I can
show this to you but basically one of
the things that my wife and I have
always tried to have and try to have set
up in our living room connected to the
TV as a computer because we like to be
able to watch our shows we whenever we
buy DVDs the first thing that we do
because we have kids we've learned the
hard way we import those into the two we
save them on our unraid server so we
have a pretty good our whole DVD
collection is on DVD but also on isos so
having a computer connected to the
television set means that we can just
bring up a show at any time the kids can
watch their shows their dvds and stuff
that they get for Christmas or whatever
and they don't have to be transitioning
DVDs back and forth into DVD players and
of course they get broke when you've got
64 and two year old that's just what
happens so along comes the iOS device
and I've always thought you know when
pardon me would it be cool to have an
all-in-one device for the television
multimedia center but they're usually
very expensive what's really great about
this I'm going to tell you right off the
bat is you can get this for under one
hundred dollars plain and simple okay
list price is about 199 200 bucks but if
you go to their website cap five dot TV
/ I us and it's spelt AI OS if you go
there you're going to go where to buy
and you'll see a list of all the
different shops you can get it at amazon
a few different sites but you'll see you
can comparison shop and you'll see it
for eighty ninety dollars so a couple of
cool features about this first of all
three and a half inch hot swappable
drive bay it does not come with a hard
drive all I've done is I've just stuck
one of the old 500 gig hard drives in it
that that I had kicking around you
probably have a you know an 80 gig hard
drive sitting around somewhere problem
and that is of course SATA all right and
it's hot swappable and it comes with a
tray actually i have some ide drives
well out that won't do you any good for
anything this is a full HD box you'll
see the connectors on the back it has
everything find out more on the website
but hdmi is the big deal also it has
composite output so if you're using an
old-style CRT TV you can connect that in
as well they do recommend for the best
picture you want to have 1080 key or or
better you know they say but essentially
you know it will work with the older
stuff as well so on my 480p CRT TV it's
able to work through composite has hdmi
out usb3 connector to go into a computer
it's got USB ports as well ethernet and
everything coax optical everything that
you could ever need as far as an
engineer it has USB 3 out to a computer
and USB 2 to connect peripherals no and
I'm going to talk to you about that it
has an SD card reader on the side so if
you want to put in your pictures and
things like that remember this is sub
100 bucks right and it's got its got it
all aside facing USB 2 port as well so
if if you need to be able to plug
something in I like to have it on its
side like that and then be able to plug
something in at the top one of the
additions that you can buy for 15 bucks
is the wireless adapter and that's where
you can plug that into the USB you can
plug flash drives external hard drives
things like that anything at all and
there you go so I can actually fire this
thing up we're gonna we're going to set
this up and plug it in so I'll kind of
set this up for the first time here
where was all there we go ethernet let's
try that around okay power where we go
with this guy that's HDMI so that's the
video add more appear alright and we'll
one that says HDR for it you know what I
need my reading glasses
he's trying to plug it into the fan the
hdmi that that's sad yep why not you go
abroad with that hdmi straight into the
HDMI port and it powered on and their
bet it's that simple well that's that's
all there was to it so we want to give a
quick review as to what how this thing
works first thing I noticed is that it
is generating a little bit of fan noise
there I know that it does quiet down
we've been because you want your
multimedia Center to be awfully quiet
here it goes there goes it's booting it
also has a full remote it's booted
already that's pretty fantastic there
you go so multimedia remote this is
another thing that with my computer I
was having to stand up use the mouse and
control the computer bring up the videos
and things like that that way watching
YouTube it was great I mean you'd have
family over and they want to see
something on YouTube and you can bring
it up on the TV it's fantastic but this
way you've got access to all that from a
remote control yeah it's it's pretty
noisy right now as you know what I'm
thinking is it's actually pretty quiet
get ready hit it in beside a computer
sure but I bet you actually if you set
it down flat you think that's gonna make
it a fan noise be quieter all right
let's see
a little bit perhaps so much but Tik Tok
thinks I bent the fan blade why I didn't
actually get that far I didn't get that
close to it tick-tock yeah yeah okay so
that's that I'm going to see if that
quiets down in the course of the review
because it's just booting up here and
it's just everything's running at full
fledge it's basically a self-contained
computer system it is seemingly getting
quieter there no I can't even
hardly hear it now so just during that
initial boot and it booted up pretty
fast so it must need a little bit of
extra there so with the remote here you
can see I can browse my network just
like that there's the internal hard
drive which it doesn't come with it but
you can install it you don't need it you
don't have to have the internal hard
drive if you don't want it can live on
after you lose libraries stuff like you
have well you may or alternative I'm
going to show you a couple of little
features of this it's got the videos
it's got music it's got photos apps web
browser bookmarks and you're set up okay
so we're talking a little bit about the
internal hard drive and what can you do
with that well over on my computer power
consumption cyber Smurf is very very
light that's one of the things I love
about this too is it's so low on on
power consumption the actual specs are
on the website cat5 TV / a iOS when
you're there check it out but it is
designed to be a low power consumption
device and it's it's small form factor
it runs cool and and it's using just a
little power adapter here could use a
cord live TV wasn't no it doesn't have
video inputs it's it's strictly an
output device however you know what it
does have USB so i'll bet ya it might be
a fun thing to try plugging in like a
USB capture device say like a black
magic intensity external or something
like that a shuttle
I don't know we're not suggesting you
record copyrighted material no no but
for to be able to catch something after
the fact I mean right now I'm on the air
and I can't watch whatever is on the TV
right now but I might want to watch it
afterward so am I missing the hockey
game they have it would they have a
great forum on there as well great
community and they will answer questions
as far as things like that you may even
see that maybe somebody's talked about
connecting a recording device I'm not
sure if that's supported or not out of
the box no it's not supported but that's
not to say that it can't be done so what
I wanted to show you here is okay we've
got this thing connected and first and
foremost I mean because you may want to
go get one of these i'm going to show
you how to get this information i'm
going to actually bring up on the menu
here i want to know what the IP address
is so i'm going to go set up and it's
gone through dhcp I've gone to network
and I'm going to go now I'm on a wired
LAN not on wireless DHCP and DNS is auto
do I know that's actually asking me if I
want to change it I don't want to change
it I want to actually find out what my
current setting there we go if I point
to ftp server for example signos at it
has a ftp server built in 1000 103 it
looks like and notice I've got bit
torrent from transmission I've got
bittorrent running at the IP address as
well I've got Samba and security
features for that so I'm going to try
just accessing
let's see here SMB colon slash slash 10
dot 0 dot 0 dot 103 and there it is
that's my device so it has what it's
called a C Drive that's the samba share
name and you'll see that I've got a
couple of things on that internal hard
drive that I've installed there so if i
go into category 5 you can see a file
there so i can i can move things around
as if you know it's a it's just a Nass
storage device it has a bit torrent
folder so if you're getting your files
through bittorrent videos and things
like that you can actually go to the IP
address 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot 103 or
whatever it is on your network and you
can add your bit torrents here for
example so it's a PC list all-in-one
multimedia system that's one of the ways
you can do it but beautifully it also
includes let's go back to our menu
system here you'll see it has
transmission on port 90 91 so instead of
just going to the IP and it go port 90
91 it takes me right into a transmission
torn system for me so I can use this
without any software I can put my
torrent files in there and it will do
the downloading for me that can be you
know you're downloading an iso file of
the new a boon to and you can drag it
into there and it will save it to the
internal hard drive and then you access
it through samba share but your computer
doesn't have to be running it can be
this low powered device and it can be
doing it for you if it does happen to be
video audio pictures things like that in
your torrents they're going to
immediately become available on your
device which is very very nice very
image so on the menu if that's the case
you've downloaded some stuff notice at
the very bottom it says there's a little
green circle and says rescan storage
this is something i didn't know because
i was using a CRT and some of those
things are cut off because it's not TV
safe right so if you look at the remote
i've got a green button and when i push
that button it actually starts to
whatever you do don't touch that button
yeah and it's actually a good thing so
it's actually going to scan my internal
hard drive when i push that
there it goes and it's done okay so now
let's go up to videos which is going to
pull for my internal hard drive and keep
in mind you can also browse the the
network and there we go click on a video
pretty zippy loads it right out notice
it's saying hey you can press ok to
start from the last play or cancel to
start from the beginning beautiful
feature this if you need to stop a video
halfway through it will automatically it
will automatically pick it up where it
left off if you want it to so that's
pretty awesome see it's got a nice fast
forward through huh yeah we're yeah it's
got a nice seek tool so you can easily
seek just with a couple of little clicks
here to any place in the video see that
and it's got a really great zoom feature
with smooth transitions just pushing the
Zoom button on the remote control by the
way this one's kind of neat you can
change the aspect ratio just by plain
old remote on that clip do that I'm
losing so much weight alright so all
that is sorry what was that so you look
like you're playing with remote on that
clip to probably was it's pretty awesome
stuff ok so as far as going through the
provided apps I'm going to hit the home
button and I can see there's music which
is cool i can bring up my music library
if it's on the internal hard drive how
do you have any or getting totally i
haven't yet i gotta get some donate you
got photos here's something cool apps so
from here we've got audio podcasts we've
got shoutcast which is a fantastic
service available on all platforms with
shoutcast you can listen to world radio
through the internet anywhere so you
pick your genre at the left here just
scrolling down right so whatever it is
that you pick
let's say Caribbean so I push the right
arrow and push it again and now i can
scroll through the station's themselves
and then i click ok and it's going to
buffer that stations can automatically
start playing it and we'll take dog
bones country yeah there you go so you
can browse through that it does have
multitasking on the audio player if it's
running off of your hard drive you can
still continue to browse around it has
YouTube built into it as well so you can
surf the web or surf YouTube do
searching and things like that video
podcasts this is great you don't need an
aggregator you can just go right into
video podcasts so for example you can go
you can see that there's World News up
at the top US News technology and
entertainment a couple of other ones
that are we're hiding there if I go into
technology it's going to load some of
the most popular shows there you go and
one of the things that I was kind of I
guess pleased about when I when I got
this device is that category 5 TV is
actually a part of the the firmware this
sailboat oh yeah it's all built into the
chip and category 5 technology TV is is
in there does it have the search giant
google that's right so they're they're
obviously aggregating our show and and
other shows but you'll notice that you
don't need to download anything so if i
click on an episode just like that it
grabs the video probably grabbing it
from one of our CDN locations or
something like that just popped on over
and grab it just hopped on over yeah can
use this kind of as a network attached
storage absolutely yeah yeah it has
Samba built in so it's good to go now
we're using we're using this usually
loads up very very quickly we're using a
lot of bandwidth obviously because we're
on the air live right now so pulling a
file of that size is probably not a good
idea but there there you have it that's
essentially how that works beautiful
device we've really been enjoying using
it amuses with the flexor
I don't know what that is what's that
what is that rd blur but are you
connecting at 2shared like a samba share
or something like that I have my unraid
box on the network in the unraid box is
basically like a raid storage device it
has a whole bunch of hard drives in it
and we've got shares on that and I can
browse my network and go to those shares
so this supports samba as far as
browsing it also has ftp all that kind
of stuff as well there's the video there
it's not a good idea for us to load that
while we're while we're on the air but
it wish it to the point well but it
we're gonna broke into the show so there
you kind of have it going back to our
let's go back to our applications there
I've enjoyed discovering new shows as
well just because they're included on
the firmware you don't have to download
them even little things like just being
able to grab your weather that quickly
and there you go so here you've got a
device that is able to provide you with
everything you need on your set-top box
it does have a web browser as well so
you can surf the internet directly in
the box if you've got HD TV like a HDMI
device you're going to be able to see it
in in high definites and that's great so
you can actually bring up the web
browser and surf the web plain and
simple right you can select what URL you
want to go to and you're good to go so
but here's the device for under 100
bucks that can be had i'm going to go up
to cap five dot TV / and this is AI OS
it's going to take you right over to
their website what do the letters stand
for my us there you go I don't know
artificial intelligence operating system
well I'm guessing I'm guessing Wow where
to buy and just clicking real quick up
at the top here where to buy and I'll
click on let's say newegg for example
and you'll see over at the right hand
side 94 bucks there it is okay that's
with a rebate but MSRP 200 bucks you're
going to be able to get it for under a
hundred anywhere that you go and very
very cool stuff this is a replacement
for that htpc you know the having to
have a computer plugged into the TV at
all times and having to run a computer
in order to watch your shows or even
having to sit down at a computer in
order to see a show and then you know
probably bad for your posture and stuff
like that I know people do that I know
people that do that you know sitting on
the couch watching hockey isn't
particularly good for my posture no
that's not good for you at it so check
that out that is the iOS device cat five
dot TV / I us there is a new model
coming out it's called the these IOUs or
x io s they are bringing out two models
one of them is android based and one of
them is linux based they are big
supporters of open platforms which i
love you'll go to their forum on their
website you'll see that they actually
have a whole thread devote to people
hacking this device so if you're you
know interested in taking a box like
this and and hacking up the firmware and
adding your own features if you're a
programmer and want to be able to do
that here is the device for you and just
that they've got a linux and android
version coming out is very exciting it
does not support netflix or hulu out of
the box but there is a service called
play on TV which is available for very
small fee under five dollars a month and
they will be able to then stream that
service from your pc to this device so
can you watch cat5 love you cannot watch
a category 5 live on this is not meant
for live TV it's meant for on-demand
viewing so you can watch after the fact
and very very quickly after the fact is
well I might add so if you have any
questions about this device make sure
you pop this an email live at category 5
TV and that's that's all the time that
we have it's very quiet it is now yeah
it's absolutely silent so thanks
everybody hope you had a great time
tonight Eric thank you again for how
could you not have a great time come on
I know it's just been spectacular and
fantastic
yes well we you can look this up later
on on search giant google site and
they'll find us side note don't forget
that next week we are giving away the
Eco alkalines year supply batteries so
make sure you do four years okay your
supply hey take it easy have a great
week and I'll talk to you next Tuesday
night see what ya later
