what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson hey welcome to episode number
163 one I made me look this is category
5 technology TV and it is Tuesday
November second to the gym you've got
the bait right this week I've got the
date right Oh handled least we know this
is indeed fantastic so lieutenant
commanders out here this week no no but
lieutenant commander Ferguson had a good
old time on sunday night I think Bo did
he I tweeted that that is the most
fantastic thing because that's the one
day of the year I can dress up like a
Trekkie and not get beat up in fact I
received many compliments thank you very
much well well oh yeah where my hockey
gear I didn't get beat up but that's a
different story hey everybody welcome to
the chat room category five TV we are
not late but if we are delayed that
might be internet buffering well there
you go to that that's just in case I
start cussing you can blend get out by
single oh yeah the seven second delay i
will try to avoid customer happy good
well
you're all do my best hi everyone
welcome to the the chat room are live
website is category five dot TV we'd
love to have you join us in the chat
room get your questions in there or of
course if you don't have access to IRC
or if you for some reason can't get into
that we're don't want to because it's
madness all the wonderful people
chatting away you can also just drop us
an email live a category five dot TV
what do you guys know it's been a mad
dash tonight day yes it was so far it's
like okay everybody's here John had had
some trouble with the parking
arrangements tonight so there's a first
time for everything John John John is
here no I remember the wire just got
here just got here yeah so we're rushing
around but fantastic news this week John
and Christy our alumni have officially
been wed okay Saturday night Wow
desolations gratulations was there yeah
that must have lost my invite in the
mail oh very exclusive gathering I can
only invite their absolute favorites
Eric okay well sorry that's my brothers
and sisters said the same thing there
you go well congratulations from all of
us and I know what thank you guys yeah
well I think we enjoyed the gift I got
you a lot of a lot of people have
tweeted just to say congratulations and
they're thinking of you guys so huh
fantastic let's just uh I'm going to
give it looks like some people are
having some issues getting connected to
the to the feed I'm just going to give
them a couple of moments to try to get
reconnected and we'll see how that goes
alright how about you well I'm here I'm
that you're here okay we're here we're
here looks like there may be some
connection issues tonight but certainly
will do our best to get those everything
back up and running here we go things
are coming back around really Filner oh
yeah I see Justin TVs coming back hey
everybody sometimes these things do
happen and I'm thankful when they happen
five minutes into the show instead of
way way into the show Ian so I'll just
everybody is kind of reconnecting here
everything's working out good to have
you here glad to be here glad to be
alive i am exact welcome everybody all
right let's see if we can get that that
the WMV feedback up and running as well
there we are welcome to the show
everyone sorry if you missed a little
bit there we were just congratulating
John and Christie who got married on
Saturday night Christie of courses is a
former co-host on the show and then
worked in the newsroom and loves talking
about the weather I was gonna say so
much more than just a weather girl
though hey I could throw that in because
then then anyone who is fairly new here
oh yeah I remember Christie yeah the
weather person the weather person so
we're just congratulating John and
Christie fantastic tonight we are going
to be looking at basic photo
manipulation number 7 John is giving me
signals what's up are we frozen up it's
not it might reconnect we'll see if that
if that comes back tonight we're looking
at the seventh installment of basic
photo manipulation using free software
tonight we're going to be looking at a
very simple way that we can you're
having a lot of fun the very simple way
that we can enhance absolutely any photo
using the GNU image manipulation program
this is my favorite error I've ever seen
twitter is Fan Tan the server understood
the request but is refusing to fulfill
it that's just harsh calm we don't like
you is what is well many much it's the
alternative to the whale but
um yeah I know what you want I'm just
not doing it yeah pretty that's pretty
much all let's say that's my response
sometimes oh thank you sir it's a number
of times I hero3 forbidden the server
understood the request but is refusing
to fulfill it yeah and I'm gonna have a
little hello my name is the server
fantastic um Twitter sometimes has
little issues like that yes twitter is
the kind of service is just like there's
so many people connected all at once so
if you get an error most likely if your
refresh you're gonna be back up and
running but i like better it's cool air
secondly your computer has trouble
booting up and it says no keyboard
detected press f1 to continue brilliant
yeah I like that brilliant fantastic tsg
joining us from Germany nice to see you
love to hear from anyone who's joining
us in the chat room especially if you're
new here love to say hello okay in
addition to our feature on basic photo
manipulation we are going to be
qualifying you to win a brand-new
brother mfc j 615 W multifunction Center
printer so stick around for that and
what are you got coming up in the news I
know you're you're clicking around oh
you know your way okay well your google
google in fact sues the united states of
america what yeah okay because it wants
to use microsoft software the government
wants to use microsoft's off well I'm
Google of suing them yeah that's better
wow I wish them well go yeah all right
we'll hear about that is this the
beginning of the end for openoffice org
I'm just posing the question we'll get
back to that so stick around Russia has
had enough of Microsoft it will make its
own linux-based operating system and a
15 year old boys being charged with
hacking their school board's website in
a Mickey Mouse attack like right boys
and girls literally like oh I don't know
stick around we'll be telling you more
about these
and other stories in the category 5 TV
news room we will really you make that
chair look like a rocking chair dude
well you know someday I'm gonna get
John's laments like yeah John likes when
I'm moving around you like sherry down a
focus on this yeah in the air okay nuke
far just poking fun you have a good week
Lulu's a look oh that's like a
grandfatherly like don't touch my
slippers kind of look I just lose it I
was gonna wear my Crocs yeah no Dave
nice taking the grandpa oh you're such
an adult indeed yes that's that's
exciting okay we got lots of questions
that have come in you've been tweeting
like crazy sorry kids I have not been
tweeting like crazy mm-hmm we need to do
I'm not sure I have an excuse well I
didn't do it doesn't excuse you should
tweet sorry that I haven't tweeted I you
don't need to do it now I can do that
right this second you really watch you
see and that will just proved that you
really it doesn't take a long time to
tweet you know I can get this kind of
abuse on on any internet TV show not
just category 5 i'm just saying okay
anybody in the chatroom follow eric and
expect to have some sweets come through
Lori does yeah they're just all my glory
please okay oh ok so what he got for me
well let's see we have some questions
and some comment excellent this isn't
really a question and this is from
Robert streets hey buddy I don't really
have a question I just wanted to say hi
to everyone and I didn't know where to
put this oh ok I have been away for a
while I had to have open heart surgery
you know Wow we had a heart valve
replaced um I sure have missed all you
guys and it will be great to be back in
the chat room and watch the show see you
soon soon soon Robert a treatment area
Robert did it I'm so glad that
I mean I expect from your email that
that everything has gone well but yeah I
was wondering where you were at this rd
streets and good to have you back and
certainly look forward to chatting with
in the chat room and and seeing you here
at category 5 thanks for the email
that's excellent yes yeah I hope that I
hope that everything went really really
well with the surgery buddy of mine just
had surgery you know there's days when
he's feeling a little less but he's
doing just fabulous leave guys he's a
hundred percent better than he was very
things went well speaking of surgery is
not at all related to open heart surgery
or anything that critical guess who lost
another tooth today um my hair tally my
daughter has a thing for banging her
mouth off stuff and she lost her first
tooth people see her and they like oh
that's so cute you've already lost your
first tube yeah that was the coffee
table in the living room and that's what
happens when children jump on the couch
when they're told not to jump on the
couch and then they fall my daughter has
a little scar here done has a portal
scar on the floor yeah that's from
jumping on the coaching hit the club
different herbs that my son my daughters
they all have scars I didn't do any of
them I'm not responsible for anything so
today while it was yesterday that had
happened but today it was really really
loose guess what she did mama I thought
it would be nice to buy her new markers
of course it's a wonderful thing
children love five-year-olds love their
markers she could get the lid off and
she decided that no matter how hard she
had to pull she's going to do so with
her teeth well so hard can you imagine
pulling a marker lid so hard that you
actually break your tooth I cannot
imagine that like you lee there's a
point of like resistance where you said
okay I'm gonna stop here I i wouldn't
even over the beer with my teeth yeah
definitely no I've seen people do it so
my poor daughter is two teeth down and
she's five years old so she's got a ways
to go well those two teeth come but
fortunately they're both front teeth so
they'll probably get some photographs
definitely just was coated rushed always
get lots of photographs
so that's my story about surgery for
today but I didn't lose a tooth MMD
Murphy not this time okay you tell me
what the hockey with me late not tonight
put on a microphone and you could listen
to the that'd be fine the cheerful
banter while I'm out in the ice yes okay
Doug Townsend has has a problem hi
Robbie and Eric I am having a problem
with ubuntu 10.9 hundred megahertz
processor 128 megabytes of ram and a 30
gigabyte hard drive when I try to boot
it brings up the sign in box and I enter
my password then it acts like it will
boot correctly but it goes back to the
sign in box I have tried reinstalling
with no change I have tried different
passwords thinking perhaps the first one
was too complicated and it wasn't and I
wasn't entering it properly still no
change the first time I installed this
after entering my password it would go
to the desktop background with no
buttons for applications places or
system also there were no buttons or
date in the upper right corner all I had
was the standard ubuntu 10.4 paper I
love the show keep up the good work
thank you Doug Townsend that's good hey
Doug okay so I guess you got through the
installation procedure so the livecd
worked for you then right so when you
booted the livecd were you able to see
the desktop and everything seemed to
function correctly I know that the specs
are really really low Eric's just drawn
my attention to your RAM and 900
megahertz processor hundred twenty-eight
megs of ram 30 gigabyte hard drive so
the specs on the system obviously are
really low it's an old computer but with
Linux typically that's okay but once
you've installed linux it's going to try
to enable some of those really cool new
features like compass compiz fusion
these days so that's like your cool
effects that you get on your desktop and
stuff so those kind of effects could be
trying to initialize
and failing and then starting you back
at at the prompt so that's why I wonder
if it does get to the desktop okay with
the boot CD which I think it a must if
you're getting through the installation
you didn't mention about using alternate
install or anything like that so if
that's the case what you could try is
using Ubuntu desktop safe mode to
disable any of those visual enhancements
so when you click on your name instead
of entering your password what you can
actually do there is you can when you
first click on your name it's going to
bring up a little menu at the bottom of
the screen there's a few different
accessibility options and one of the
options is going to allow you to change
your session type so you can use like
you I don't know if failsafe is in there
but definitely like a recovery console
is there if you want to get them to the
terminal and fix stuff but in your case
probably ubuntu desktop safe mode will
get you through those visual problems
that are causing it to go back to the
beginning you can go into system
preferences i believe and appearance at
that point and make sure all of your
visual effects are set to none i believe
by default ubuntu is going to try to set
it to normal which provides an improved
usability and good balance etc if you
set that to none make sure it's set to
none and that's going to disable the the
main effects and stuff the other option
would be of course once you get into
that with safe mode is to hit alt f2 to
bring up your run dialog so I'll just
show you here alt f2 brings up the run
dialog and then just type Matassa T dash
dash replace and that's going to disable
a comp is from running on your on your
desktop at that time so you'll be able
to then judge if if that's improving
your user experience and getting it to
the point where you're able to login
give that a try see if you can get
through that main issue of being able to
login and if that's the case if safe
mode gets you in then we could probably
just disable some stuff in startup and
you
good to go removes so let us know okay
because this will probably be a couple
of you know a couple of things that you
might need to do but that'll be step one
getting yourself to be able to boot into
the system get yourself logged in and
then of course no doubt the chat room is
going crazy with alternative versions of
Linux our clinics dsl and the so I'm
sure silo Puppy Linux has most likely
been mentioned as well yeah agamotto
mentioned puppy puppy linux possibly
others so those are alternatives to a
boon to but to get your current to boone
to go on give that a try good guy
mentioning slacks which might be a
little more difficult to get set up
because it's a little more involved of
an install process i think das ha I
Komodos mentioning maybe the swap
partition shouldn't be more than three
times so i hear ya may I think that that
could guide just water it's tough though
when you only have 120 it megs of ram
and yeah we only have a 30 gig drive to
true true so that's that could be a
variable but but I would start with
check your sessions check you know to
try try doing what I suggest it and see
if that works but do let us know because
because I think they're you know there
could be other things we need to look at
all right I'm not getting any response
in the chat room from from Doug on that
so hopefully they'll catch this after
the fact Letta stop live at category 5
TV that's enough alright well Charles
has a little comment here
are we I just see oh sorry I do
something dominant guest 6731 is rd
streets that's our buddy Robert all
right hey buddy it's good to see you
nice to have you back yeah we were
mentioned me a little bit earlier yes
indeed nice to have here you're late and
we've been worried sick we have been yes
months once okay to have you back okay
okay Chaz Linux or Charles hi Robbie hey
Charles just watching an old show where
one of your viewers asked about
converting ogv recorded with gtk record
my desktop mmm video screen capture oh
oh that's what that was that word I'm
just okay okay well you know Hayley
found it seem surprised oh it's a good
thing yeah I thank you maybe there's
somebody else's I learned something I
was well and huh anyway he found that
the pity TV does it does the job nicely
and graphically PTV the TV did I get the
syllabic stress in the wrong spot I
think it's sad well it it's piti VI it's
on the if you've got a current edition
of ubuntu you'll see it in sound and
video well team look into the rules of
the English language the third last
syllable should get distress so fatigued
I guess you're right PTV p the ttv piti
VI video editor included with the boom
to linux so cool that that's good oh
okay so it's spelled it Oh done Charles
you added a V Charles what were you
doing man way to go Charles his
knowledge a yes I got cut you got caught
we got cut you had no idea you were so
there's gonna be some controversy over
this the only way people the only way
that air can sound like he knows what
he's talking about is if you spell
things correctly but because he would
have known where the syllabic stress yes
to quote him would have been even having
not seen the word
let me do it for you are we having fun
yet I hope so okay so that
suddenly oh well somebody found
something for you okay what so this is
from Peter Lewis and computer he didn't
know he didn't know Robbie's email
address so I'm gonna send this to him
okay live at category 5 TV hello gadwal
okay dear Robbie I know you like Star
Trek and I found this in one of my
electronic catalogs I thought of you as
trekker fan you would like old type Star
Trek communicator whoo now i'm gonna
click on this link and just see what
happens i just tried to type it but it
didn't go so let's the typed it wrong
and you're not gonna be able see my my
yeah you can order this online from
Farnell it's 51 pounds well okay now now
are those let's find out with as soon as
he says Star Trek I'm game let's see if
I can find you okay oh here we go oh
look at that whoa we're teasing
everybody cuz this is okay I'm trying to
bring up the email okay on my system so
that I can put it up on your screen okay
what are we being sent here who's who's
that was Pierre right that was from
Peter Thank You Lewis yeah well look at
that fantastic a USB communicator from
the original series brilliant and if
that's not enough it's rohs compliant
Wow so what does it do I would imagine
that this is like a communicate I would
think maybe you can use this as a
microphone for skype or something like
that which only you would know that
you're that cool because you're the one
holding it but maybe if you had video
then that's fantastic not seeing a whole
lot of specs your product information
further information but only ways you're
going to make sure you look at this
house
word it does fabulous thanks for that
now if you really want to get on my good
side you could send me one yeah said of
just a link you know well the little
blurb yer sexy star trek fans can
rejoice that's literally in the bullet
list it's an officially approved replica
of the original series communicator I'll
say far more than just a novelty shall I
carry on absolutely it actually can be
used as a VoIP phone okay House reyne
built in microphone and speaker also
allows it to be used for two-way voice
communication used with most popular
instant online internet messaging
systems that you skype msn messenger aim
and ichat what marketing your I judge
now this is this is this brings up
something because this one I see a cord
coming out of the bottom and and the the
chat room is rejoicing at this point but
have you ever thought now wouldn't it be
brilliant if they could put a Bluetooth
device into one of these I think that a
lot of Trekkies would go out and buy
that I think you should hide that will
work with it Oh Somebody Anybody
manufacturing in the viewing audience
can you imagine as a Bluetooth device
you know pick up your Bluetooth pick up
your phone just tap it the Insignia even
if it has an earpiece I don't care or
just a little speaker phone i will not a
dragon's if she doesn't let me get some
back and for this idea i think that'd be
fantastic i would buy one but i would
hope that I wouldn't have to because
someone would love me enough to just
send me one yes because it was my idea
anyways people I think every Trekkies
had that oh there is a downside to this
thing compatible with windows XP Vista
and Mac that's what they say doesn't
mention wine or Linux okay but
everything ya know a lot of printers a
lot of scanners a lot of devices say
Windows and Mac you plug it into linux
it works you don't need the disc you
don't need to go through any of the
hoopla so almost guarantee you that it's
going to work
well there you go okay gadget wisdom
guru has a guy like I says he can have
anything made in China for him right
fantastic I will take a box of 1000
Bluetooth start our communicators we're
breaching some kind of copyright
trademark the patent laws and this and
that but boy oh boy Oh Paramount's got
to get on top of this stuff all right we
should move on it's almost time for the
news but we do have fun tell me some
good guy wants a veronica belmont clone
okay um we should move on here is it
news time well yeah not yet we're
digging they've got a question this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online at triple w category five dot TV
who's that interrupt before you get
carried away me carry do it come on you
can get your questions in the chat room
or email us live at category 5 TV we're
here to answer your questions with
regards to tech and certainly we love
linux and we'd love to have some
questions about linux as well we're just
rocking these questions okay I think we
saw that one before okay have you got
any short ones cuz we got a boat yeah
okay no I'm not going to that one no no
why what's up well did somebody it's
sending you funny stuff no no no funny
stuff how much tom gad will is bringing
up a very valid point there on the chat
room is your chat room working for you
John tonight it is now again it's back
up and running yep John's got a cool
setup now where he's actually able to
see I don't know if I have any cameras
that that display at the John a feat of
this point this monitor here actually
shows the chat room yeah there you go so
John's able to monitor the chat room as
well as see the broadcast on the big
screen there with your camera
also point again yeah yeah the cameras
on top of the monitor there as well so
that's we're trying to step up things
for John so that he can be a little bit
more involved in the show John of course
we've had some some talks about about
John becoming the director of the show
so for the past few weeks you've been
kind of stepping into that role slowly
but surely so we're trying to step
things up with that rigor I just wanted
cool stuff around he just wanted to be
surrounded in my cool guys around what
more do you need oh this is stuff he
just is ambience of the fact that i can
just randomly reach over here and pull
out a Star Trek communicator I can even
pull out a ds9 communicator I mean it
doesn't matter you just tell them tell
me the show and now if I get one of
those USB TOS communicators then I'm
golden well fantastic anyways gadwal was
asking about Becca's due date Becca is
37 weeks pregnant now let's relatively
private so she is doing 22nd she could
have the baby at any time so yeah so you
just try to warn people there may be a
Tuesday when I named John and I are
sitting here saying well what do you
want to do now you won't down the road
Tuesday there could be a Tuesday where
John and Eric get around to row me as
you know what we're like ribbon so
there could be a Tuesday up and coming
where for some strange reason there is
no broadcast so I'm just going to let
you know and people can pass that along
if that happens I'm hoping that we'll
still be able to broadcast through
everything so but that's gonna take
priority mm-hmm you can say that so baby
is due very very soon very very excited
about it all right yeah that's our third
kid
c s9 for the wind says raptor 222 d is
nothing for the win yeah Deep Space nine
Cory sang Voyager for the win and this
doubles as a Voyager communicator just
for the record so that's all good Wow
well I'm at a loss I don't you don't
have too many geeky things right me that
you can just grab it well you're right
they're right here just sorry I'm gonna
tell you what else is going on in the
museum fantastic okay moving right along
then as some would say well I mentioned
Google sues the United States of America
that is some yes Tom Hall Wordie editor
for OS news com was thrilled to be able
to post such a headline last night after
google announced its lawsuit against the
US Department of the Interior whose
request for quotation for a new
messaging solution demands the use of
Microsoft software with eighty eight
thousand employees the Department of the
Interior is looking for a single hosted
email and collaboration services
solution but the catch is that it must
use Microsoft's business productivity
online sweet federal meaning no matter
who gets the contract Microsoft wins
this of course did not sit well with
Google in Google's complaint Microsoft
software is cited as having serious
downtime issues and security
vulnerabilities OS news.com calls this
marketing talk but affirms that there is
truth in there well we don't know what
the outcome will be Google carries some
serious clout and a large and valuable
bid there's no doubt they'll fight to
ensure their ability to participate in
the bidding process the category 5 TV
news room will keep you apprised as the
story unfolds that is going to be quite
a story despite reports of
openoffice.org receiving a promising
future from Oracle since they bought sun
microsystems the developers began to
fear for their beloved alternative to
the commercial office suite from
Microsoft with worries that Oracle would
do
with worries what Oracle would do to the
openoffice.org what is it done to open
solaris a handful of the developers
decided to start a side project called
the document foundation with their pilot
application being libreoffice a fork of
openoffice.org oracle did not take
kindly to the conflict of interest the
document foundation represented among
his developers and has asked the
founders to step down and go their
separate ways the document foundation
team is taking oracle up on the offer to
part ways and is taking 33 of the
openoffice.org development team with
them whoa with companies such as Google
canonical Red Hat and novell liking the
idea of the document foundation it is
quite possible we'll be seeing libre
office in an upcoming distribution of
our favorite distro rather than
openoffice.org to find out more about
the future of the free office suite
visit document foundation org Wow come
on kids let's try to get along the
Russian government is not happy with
Microsoft's practices and with a
dedicated budget of around four point
eight nine million 150 million rubles
has announced it intends to create its
own internal operating system based on
linux we will become independent of
Windows says windows says russian deputy
and computer expert ilya ponomaryov why
do i do that to you on tomorrow hi I
should have taken a look at that guru
though yeah helia who admits it will be
difficult to create an implement an
operating system secure enough for
government use the details of the
linux-based operating system will be
hashed out during a meeting scheduled
for December ok credited for the largest
security breach in the Thames Valley
District School Board's history a 15
year old boy from London Ontario has
been charged after hacking into his
school board's website and exposing the
passwords of 27,000 high school students
on october twenty third
Wow the breach took the teen around an
hour to exploit but his thus far taken
the school board more than three weeks
to fix which is raising some eyebrows as
in today's world it is standard
procedure to store passwords in an
encrypted format a practice that we now
find one of ontario's largest school
boards is not actively employing so far
students and parents have been without
access to the web portals which were
shut down to protect user data for three
weeks these portals provide access to
student marks timetables and aunts
absentee reports while London computer
expert Shaun Adamson admits the
sophistication behind the hack was not
very high calling it a Mickey Mouse
stuff the teen has been charged with
intercepting a computer function
fraudulently obtaining computer services
using a computer with intent to commit a
computer offense and using a password to
commit a computer offense this type of
charge could lead to up to 10 years in
prison depending on how the crown
proceeds really yeah you know okay Wow
get the full stories at category-five TV
/ newsroom the category five dot TV news
room is researched by roy w nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
becca ferguson and our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV what happened
to the slap across the wrist mentality
yeah or the like let them be this port
well poor kid was 15 he knows but he's
15 years old but man am I ever lucky
that I didn't grow up in this school
system ooh I all the truth comes out I
was doing stuff like that when I was 14
Wow seriously I mean if they're not
going to encrypt their passwords in the
database and also they deserve it no no
you're saying that but I mean take it as
a wake-up call and say
it's good that this kid exploited this
problem let's change all the passwords
let's encrypt them and do things right
for a change well chat room what are you
think yeah what do you think what do you
think it sounds to me like a
fifteen-year-old kid whoo-hoo but it
sounds like this professional said it
was a Mickey Mouse job so the kid
probably was able to get into the like a
SQL database and grab all the passwords
and put them up on a post or whatever
yeah but you know what I could probably
break into the office and go through the
filing cabinets and it would be really
easy so because it wasn't that secure
its ok I don't think so no I know if he
knows he shouldn't have done no it's of
course it's wrong yeah yeah but don't
punish him like he's a big hacker don't
put it in great big hugs ok always a kid
who was like oh this is cool i can get
into the school system community service
miss community service for this hacker
something like that ok make him a
teacher's assistant or something so they
don't that was my punishment i spent
grade nine teaching computer science
that was fun alright well and stuff what
do you think Jaron what should the boys
punishment p and hey should they instead
before the minute Mickey Mouse oh no
should they did they'd be doing
something about the the IT people who
apparently they hired to build this
system that is so unsecured that a
Mickey Mouse job could get around their
security ok being in app isn't
necessarily a crime though but you would
think that the one of the largest school
boards would hire people that are not in
ok so now we've gone beyond the IT
department we go into the HR know who
hired these guys ok well somebody's
fault I don't know that it's a 15 year
old kids fault it's probably Stephen
Harper's full on some level you be
careful
the higher up you get in the government
the scare here this guess but somebody's
watching all right let us tell you how
to win a printer we've got that fabulous
brother mfc my nano does well yeah you
want some nanodots i got some am about
so i won't play with log on we're not
bringing them on the air ever again ever
we've got the mfc j 615 W all-in-one
multifunction Center for brother what
I'll get you to do is go to category 5
TV click on interact on the menu and at
the bottom win and mfc J 615 W all you
have to do is click on that follow the
directions and there you go there's your
chance to win that fantastic printer
from Brother Canada should I under you
can enter you can't win hey I figure
until I get put on our a rule that would
seem a little bit fishy oh look everyone
welcome we would light sure here's your
printer Eric oh you're so cool straight
on door looks like category five dot TV
click on interact and down at the very
bottom of that menu you'll see how you
can win that brother multifunction
center we would love to give that away
of course Hillary thick when you're on
sab aleatory win by Hillary we aren't
sabbatical can you win that's the
question she needs it for school
everybody donate your ballots to Hillary
all right i want to show you this is
segment number seven of our feature on
basic photo manipulation this is the
first time that we've gotten into it
during season four but i wanted to get
into tonight just a real quick tip that
i can give you that you can memorize and
put it into employment anytime you're
using the GIMP and it will work in
Photoshop two very similar kind of
effect to take any photograph and just
give it a little bit of an give it a
little bit of stand out a little bit of
pop
so I've got this picture that i took a
becca and i'll just open it up into the
GIMP GNU image manipulation program and
right off the bat the photo is not a bad
photo at all colors look nice when you
when you look at the photo but what I'm
going to show you you're going to be
able to enhance that photo in such a way
that you'll actually see that as as dull
after we're done here and it's a really
really quick procedure to do this be
careful call them the picture of your
sweetie bill it's not my sweetie that's
dull yes the clock chimes you saying
because shovels because the colors baby
you know okay what I'm going to do is
I'm going to right click on the image
and go layer duplicate layer for those
who remember when we've looked at layers
what that's done is its created a copy
of the image so now I've got two copies
that are identical of this image so if I
draw all over this okay and then a
mustache and stuff well just to
demonstrate what the layer does if I
turn off that top layer now it's gone
because the bottom layer is it's just a
copy okay right so let's put that back
to the way it should be and delete that
layer by right-clicking on it right
click layer duplicate layer so now I've
got those two coffees this top layer is
the one that's currently visible the one
below it is basically like if we were
working with pieces of paper stacked on
top of one another the one that's on top
is the one that you can see so going to
right click on this with the top layer
highlighted and go filters blur Gaussian
blur with the Gaussian blur you're able
to i'm just i'm dragging my mouse here
i'm clicking and dragging to move to a
portion of the photo that i can actually
see supposed to be written up
look I can't really it's such a high
resolution image that I can't really get
in there but i'm going to try a blur
radius of 20 pixels both horizontal and
vertical basically what i want to do is
I want to give this a little bit of a
blur on the entire photo so let's see
how that looks that's pretty good so
there's with the blur and turn off that
layer again you'll see there's without
the blur so you can see the difference
if i compare them back to back okay so
now what I'm going to do is I'm going to
take that top layer and I'm going to
change that to an overlay as far as the
mode of the layer goes clicking mode I'm
going to go overlay so now that's going
to apparently darken the image so now if
I turn off that layer again there I am
back at the original image here i am
with that extra layer on top now what
i'm going to do is right click on that
and go down to colors and desaturate the
image this is just going to desaturate
this one layer and now i'm going to hit
okay so now what you see has happened to
my lair is that that layer is now
actually black and white this layer is
color but this layer here is an overlay
if I change that back to a normal normal
mode layer you'll see that it actually
is a black-and-white layer I'm going to
change it back to overlay so you can see
the effect so now you can see how
Becca's images has become the shadows
are really really crisp the the colors
are really nicely saturated it has a
little bit of a almost a subtle tea to
the photo but and you may not actually
really see it right away but watch what
happens if I turn off this layer and
just put it back to normal there's the
original photo now do you see what I'm
saying about how this looks dull
compared to
the vibrance behind that photo so now
what I'm going to do with that later on
I'm going to create a new layer I'm just
going to make it transparency so this
just going to create an empty layer so
now I've got this layer which does
absolutely nothing at this point if I
turn off all other layers there's
nothing in this layer okay I've got my
elliptical marquee it's like a circle
here and I'm going to drag and create
any lips from one edge of the photo just
get my mouse back there down to the
other edge of the photo not quite
touching the edge of the photo so now
I've got this kind of an oval-shaped
marquee i'm going to right click on the
photo once that loads i am working with
a high-resolution photo at about 40 200
pixels by 2800 I've right clicked on
that I know zoom in a bit and I'm going
to go select feather now keep in mind a
feather of 5 pixels is going to do
nothing for me because the photo that
I'm working with is 4,200 pixels wide so
my feathering I'm going to want it to be
at least 200 pixels I'm going to say
probably about 300 pixels so now I've
hit ok i'm going to right click and i'm
going to go select invert so now my
marquee is if i fill this with black
which is what i want to do remember i'm
about my highlighted layer here that is
absolutely empty i'm going to edit fill
with foreground color which happens to
be black see over here that's black
edit fill with foreground color and
that's going to fill just that area so
now if i change that to overlay as well
that way are there that gives me to
settle of a that gives me too much
subtlety so i don't i don't want that so
what I'll do is I'll change the opacity
of this layer it's basically just a lens
border kind of thing and what this is
doing is it's giving me this bit of a
shadow around the image we want it to be
just subtle and I might have even used a
higher number than the 300 pixels that I
used so what I'll do is I'll I'll turn
off that layer and I'm going to try a
game I'm gonna go new layer this is the
neat thing about working with layers is
you can keep retrying right you're not
going to hurt anything to to that going
that might be the right one but let's
see if we can get up exactly and when
you're working the previous one yeah so
I've saved it but it's it's turned off
so I've created my marquee again first
thing I'm going to do this time is I'm
going to invert my selection select
invert now i'm going to go select
feather and let's let's see what
let's try 500 to see what that gives us
and it is you know sometimes I know
you've worked with photomanipulation
enough to to know that there's a lot of
there's a lot of trial and error you'd
say but it's more experimentation what
works with each photo but the concept
behind it works every time so now that
I've got that feathering and go filled
with foreground color which is black now
you can see that's got a much more
subtle edge to it this does around with
500 so now if I change the opacity of
that you can see that that's just giving
it a little bit of a subtle kind of
shadow around the photo so that my
subject becomes the actual subject of
the photo I can move that for cropping
purposes I'm going to crop that photo
image crop to selection i created a
square marquee so now there's my photo
ok so again there's the photo now looks
really sharp it's got some really nice
color saturation now let's revert back
to the way it did look there it was back
to our manipulated version then kind of
pops a lot a lot more and that photo
that photo manipulation technique can be
used on pretty much any photograph as
long as it's a color photograph you're
going to have that nice saturation
effect coming through and that first
step of blurring the the top layer is
going to just give it that kind of
subtle glow that the D saturated that
layer is going to give you just do that
a lot I mean not with layers but in the
old movies just a little bit of a blur
on the actress just yeah very similar
approach in Photoshop absolutely yeah
same tools found in different locations
but the GIMP genuine image manipulation
program is a free application that you
can download for any operating system
like any of the main operating systems
linux windows mac so make sure you check
that out as gimp.org gim p org yes
actually I've used it on windows when it
works quite nicely yeah those as well as
on Linux
used in both places Mary dental program
ok this is category 5 technology TV nice
to have you here you'll find us online
at triple w category 5 TV any questions
come in during that time where I don't
see any new ones alright if you have a
question for us you can join us in the
chat room category 5 TV we've got about
10 minutes left of the show so I still
have time to will answer one or two more
questions CU Hillary Oh Hillary left the
chat room alright i don't know i think
i've read this have you read it i don't
know if i read it on air well it helps
to read it on air yeah considering
that's how i hear about it well let's uh
this is from angel d rodriguez oh hey
angel oh okay god bless Robbie I work at
a local school as part of the technology
team with the help of ubuntu and
category 5 we've been able to increase
our job efficiency I put together an
ubuntu box and created shares where we
store and access our files from anywhere
in campus we are increasingly using
mobile devices ipads iphone etcetera to
gather information scan and access data
we can normally access any of our data
with Windows Explorer finder and
Nautilus by entering the IP or computer
name of the ubuntu box here's the
question is it possible to have the
ubuntu shares be accessed via a web
browser interface if so how do i go
about getting it set up on our blue box
i get home sometimes after 5pm you may
not be able to watch this live but look
check it out after yeah sure the the
tool that you're probably interested in
is called Apache it's a web server
application that is going to allow you
to access your computer as a server
through HTTP
call so that basically look makes it
look like a website in order to install
it in Linux let's do it through the
terminal you can do it through synaptic
package manager for sure but why don't
we hop over to the terminal just to to
give us a chance to get familiar with
that so that's under applications
accessories terminal so from here what I
want to do first is sudo apt-get update
if I can type that would assist us sudo
apt-get update is going to connect to my
repository list and make sure that I've
got the latest basically so my computer
knows what the latest version of all the
applications are that are available for
my computer with Linux you don't have to
go out necessarily on the internet and
find different applications to install
they're already readily available to you
on your computer the debian based
operating systems such as a boon to such
as mint such any of the debian
derivatives you're using an application
called apt or apt-get if if you're using
something that's rpm base you're going
to be using an application called the UM
but the technique is very similar so
from here now that I've done that I'm
going to go sudo apt-get install and you
can do a patch you but I'm going to go
php5 and what that does is that's a meta
package which is going to install see
the suggested packages and the following
extra packages will be installed Apache
to see all that so all the stuff that is
required for php5 is going to be
installed so that's your apache server
so this is going to configure everything
for you now obviously I don't already
have an Apache server installed on this
computer so if I go HTTP colon slash
slash local host for example I'm not
going to get anything right now it just
says unable to connect ok
it's that similar to I know what you
want but I'm not giving it to kinda
sorta okay it doesn't know what you want
so let's do that sudo apt-get install
PHP 5 with this question I'm going to
say yes always read if it's going to
remove anything from your computer but
you'll see that this is now getting all
the packages from the internet that I
need in order to set up this server on
my computer beyond this there's really
nothing that we need to have in order to
do what you're looking to do which is
taxes your files through HTTP here it
comes everything's getting installed the
libraries and utilities selecting it on
the pack look at it go beautiful stuff
all that stuff in in the past or on some
other operating systems not to name any
names you'd have to download and install
all these packages potentially manually
here it's all automated so what we call
a meta package and it does it all for us
it's done
alright let's see what happens if I try
to connect the local host now if we were
successful if I try again Apache reports
it works here's the default web page
it's now what we want to do is we want
to change the document root of our web
page 2.2 to point to your folder so a
simple Google search or use your
favorite search engine for Apache change
document root in ubuntu just to confirm
where Ubuntu places that configuration
folder let's see
and apparently ET c / apache two and
then there should be a patchy to dot
conf but i think that maybe old yeah
it'll be sites available i think so i'm
looking at let's see
I've gone to this folder / ET c /
apache2 / sites available you'll see
there's a file called default sudo nano
default well this is my editor so this
allows me to change the location of my /
okay so you want to go through this file
and modify where your files are actually
being loaded from for the document root
here it is here / VAR / ww so instead if
I create a folder on my desktop for
example called test and then then here I
changed my document root to slash home
slash Robbie / desktop / test then once
I restart apache i'm going to have
access to all the files that are there
just by going to localhost or in your
case connecting to the IP address or the
host name of the computer that is
serving those files so that gives
read-only access to those files to to
anyone who has access to HTTP to that
server so security wise you want to make
sure you're behind a firewall to make
sure that only internal land users have
access to those files and beyond that it
would be anyone who can connect through
port 80 you'd be good to go so and using
apache HT access learning to configure
an apache server you can do a whole lot
more and be able to configure that thing
with lots and lots of security you can
even host websites on it if there's an
index dot PHP file or index.html file in
any of those folders it will
automatically load that as if it was a
web page and you'll be you'll be rocking
very cool that'll do it for you this is
online triple w category 5 TV you're
reminding me to show you this and you
don't know what it's just I just had a
demonstration for you SpongeBob
SquarePants who lives in a pineapple
under
see yes sir stop oh no I didn't drop
that well you I did not drop that one my
kids five years old and this happened
what's your Excuse they were devastated
what are you gonna do with that a it's
like for a slew crazy glue did that work
for clones oh I don't think so boy oh
boy that could have been a mess if the
kids actually put that in and tried to
fire it up Oh dear me that'd explain why
the DVD play like one of the fellas I
was playing hockey with a skate blade
broke what did he hit the ice heard yeah
oh boy yeah let's supposed to do that
with your DVDs folks well there's
another cracker behind the kids ya going
that my dear friends is why we use the
application dvdrip and archive got a DVD
shelf that John's looking at that all
those videos I've archive just in case
it was worth saving it's worth backing
up that's a backup yeah said the guy who
lost all the data from his blackberry
but sad that all right but John it's
been nice having you here tonight yeah
lots of fun pretty good fantastic good
to have you here nice to finally have a
mic on you and be nice lit well and
we'll get everything tweaked out and be
good yeah great thanks for being here
act thank you for being here and thanks
for joining Robbie Ferguson our local
guru is that what they call me well no
no show you all right have a great night
ever
category 5 TV is brought to you in part
by planet calypso this massive
multiplayer online game is available as
a free download from cat five dot TV /
Calypso now once you've got it
downloaded and installed on your Windows
computer make sure you say hi and
there's something for everyone here on
planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a Linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat5 TV / calypso i'll see you
on planet calypso
