Savannah would you like to come up and
show us your piece of technology now
Savannah's super excited because she
keeps asking to come onto the show oh
yeah oh we are Luke's been here I want
to see she's finally here no you're
gonna you know what maybe pick her up
yeah oh this is amazing so what is this
pink thing we got going on here it's a
it's a timer it's a clock so you got
this clock for what is it your birthday
yeah it was her birthday and what do you
like about this clock so Savannah is a
big fan of the movie trolls
yeah and aren't we all Savannah I mean
how do you not love the trolls are
amazing so they're bringing it back
they've brought it back remember trolls
when we were kids
yeah so Savannah likes it because of the
music the flashing lights and as soon as
I hear the song it gets stuck in my head
for about three days straight antastic
so do you want to get the song stuck in
my head I pushed the button okay
[Music]
yeah she'll play this and just walk
around the house with that missus honors
on her shoulder yeah exactly fresh like
she's all street right out of the gate
yeah that's Sumerian alarm clock this is
that your favorite piece of technology
nice well done thanks for bringing it in
Savannah and thanks for being here
tonight on our March Break family
special
[Applause]
