we bring you Debian
9 Debian stretch whoa is the code name
because we're so mysterious in the Linux
stretch unity stretch typical I think
the names come from Toy Story really
would stretch bees all the slinky there
dude
there you go dog so very liable you know
loyal
good job stretch that's what we're going
to learn tonight a loyal reliable
distribution of Linux hey welcome to our
chat room it's so nice to see you there
Henry if you if you see Henry on his
phone like he's just like oh yeah okay
we had our one of the drives in the
netbook I don't know what happened but
blew up fifteen minutes before the show
is and it decided to happen it was not a
Kingston SSDs so no I wonder if my
computer just attacked it while we left
it on for the whole day Matt yeah the
the netbook actually has in it because
it's in that book that was headed to the
studio and I stuck an SSD in it guess
what the SSD is my first ever is a
reality oh now I can't read I can't use
it in anything because it's like it's
got any capacity to write know maybe
it's given up the ghost donated to a
museum robespierre SS my first SSD it's
this big but it's only this big as far
as capacity goes so anyway so that's why
he's on his phone instead of the netbook
tonight there you have it
chat room it's great to see you and nice
to have so many comments questions
coming in by email if you're watching on
YouTube comment below we appreciate that
as well and always a pleasure to have
you along we're going to get right into
it Sasha us out are you ready for it's
Ashley
kind of here as the the question asker
the question there a newbie new user
whether you know your Windows user
essentially yeah I'm yeah I windows sort
of born and bred but like my laptop is
Linux that being said I am Robby
installed it and I use it yes I forced
the defender know right if you're going
to volunteer
here on the show got install Linux I'm
super happy to have it I just I am like
Linux new light I just that's who I am
so I want to start just by asking you
like the very first most important
questions okay what is Debian what is
Debian yeah okay so we're going to back
it up just a little bit for those of you
who are not familiar with Linux Linux is
at its core it's another operating
system we're really kind of simplifying
when we're going to really simplify this
and for those viewers who are there say
well it's a kernel and and let's get
into all the distributions and the
flavors and all this kind of stuff you
know as an experienced Linux user those
of you who are watching who are
experienced with Linux
it can be very convoluted very confusing
for new new users people just want to
give it a try who are currently using
Windows Mac whatever else you're on so
if that's you if you're if you've never
really experimented with Linux I really
kind of want to keep this for you
tonight because this should be something
that we Linux users can share with those
individuals to help them to see what
Linux is all about and how cool it
really is how great it really is so
Debian right has been around forever
from the dawn of time
Debian was there so as soon as Linux was
there Debian was there well is it like
hand in hand which came first which came
first Debian is basically a
long-standing well respected version of
a Linux distribution there are all kinds
of Linux distributions you hear things
like linux mint ubuntu debian and open
SUSE and all these different names yeah
and it really is just at its core an
alternative operating system to things
like Windows and Mac so Debian has been
around forever and has always done
really really well
with stability if that's been their push
we're going to learn a little bit about
why that is tonight how they do it
stability is really where it's at
security is where it
with Debian that has been a little bit
of its downfall in the modern desktop
linux era because companies like
canonical come along and introduce
Ubuntu and Ubuntu is a desktop Linux
operating system at its heart and a lot
of people use it but it's focus is not
so much on the stability in the security
but instead is on the bleeding edge
technology right so on the desktop this
stigma has been associated with Debian
to say oh that's you know that's the
server operating system that's the OS so
that's why you pick that one over the
other is like first on security back ten
years ago ok ok so now here we are in
the desktop linux era yeah and debian
has really had trouble kicking that
stigma because it's always been when
Ubuntu did not exist debian was there
and debian was on the server debian runs
the internet yeah if you've ever been to
a web site you have seen Debian you have
seen Linux and because at its backbone
at its core the Internet is largely
Linux based and Debian is you know it's
always been there it's no the one it
really comes to the question then Robbie
because like a lot of people are visual
nowadays like I said a boom to really we
have desktops now right on par with
Windows and Mac so I'm sure you can
answer this question because you're the
tech guy here in this wonderful building
we have uhm but why would a modern day
user then choose this guy over other
distribution over say like Ubuntu or
something yeah like in the modern day
like why why would somebody choose well
that's a hard a hard thing and it's a
that's the question that if you're new
to Linux if you've never used it that's
the first question that you've got to
ask yourself which one do I want to use
right so we just have to kind of
rephrase that and instead instead say
which one do I want to try what do I
want to give a go at because with Linux
it's free so you can try Debian now you
can give it an experiment with it for a
couple weeks give it a go and then try
Ubuntu and see which one you prefer
and that's all good way to do I could do
that because right now I'm not with
Debian I don't I have Sauron is or no
s-class so I don't think in mind Debian
edits is is basically a lot of
distributions are based on Debian okay
Ubuntu is based on Debian okay Zorin OS
is based on Debian okay see this is
sorry guys this is how I have to learn
away okay so why on it why would I
choose anyone so I'm going to look at
what kind of features am I looking for
and this is where that stigma says Oh
Debian is more for the power users it's
not really the case anymore we're going
to see tonight how great it is and how
much it's come along with Debian stretch
with this release it is absolutely an
exceptional desktop product right out of
the box so it really you know we've seen
that whole you know this is the admin
the sysadmin the experienced Linux users
OS right now is just a thing of the past
cool it's really just a matter of you
know which one do you want to try which
one do you want to use and we're going
to learn a little bit about that as we
get into this so talking about things
like the way that they include packages
I mentioned that Ubuntu is based on
Debian right okay so Debian is is here
and Ubuntu is getting the packages that
it needs in order to exist in order to
be Lubuntu okay from Debian okay now of
course canonical now also takes a lot of
those packages modifies them to add
stability or certain feature sets and
things like that it's open source it's
community based so they can do that they
also add their own products they create
their own software and add those to make
a boom to what it is okay that's the
awesome thing about it being open source
like everything that people can give
into it yeah change it or modify it it's
such an amazing thing can that make it
stronger but then also like weaker
depending on what faster bigger stronger
I dunno whatever I did just buy a new
just dance 2017 I think I learned
okay video or gonna happen okay so like
if people are in there adding right is
there like a certain level of
intelligence or like know how they have
to have before they can go ahead and do
that or would somebody be suggest adding
like me well yeah a Joe Blow user a
novice amateur could not okay create a
distribution date well yes okay so but
but I think I understand what you're
saying you know can it be customized and
modified to be your own OS kind of thing
right Ubuntu is made by canonical it's
based on Debian and they have basically
said you know okay these are the this is
the way we want the desktop to work so
we've created it based on our vision of
what the Linux desktop could be and so
this is canonical vision now Debian is
very much into freedom of choice free
software let's give you all the options
and just let you decide what you want to
do so it includes a lot of different
desktop environments it includes a lot
of different features that you can
selectively install versus the the
out-of-the-box experience with with
Canonical's Ubuntu so along that vein
boon to make some decisions that they
want to push toward this particular
branding of distribution okay so a good
example would be the unity desktop
environment so Linux is Linux it's an
operating system but then a desktop
environment goes on top of that so
that's basically the interface that you
use in order to interact with your
computer that's the part that I know NT
that's about that I'm most concerned
about it sure and if it doesn't for me
it's the part that if you click on a
button and it doesn't do what you
expected to do you go nuts and you say
oh Linux sucks right because the desktop
environment is not behaving the way that
you want it to behave right but it's
there's more to it than that obviously
lightly absolutely so when canonical
created this unity desktop it's to
replace gnome mmm
gnome is another desktop environment so
we're a boon to would say okay let's
push for our own version of the desk
environment let's create unity let's
let's do this and they've done that and
they've been running this for several
years now as the default de facto
desktop environment so the interface is
Canonical's interface where debian on
the other hand has said no we're not
going to go that route we're going to
stick with what we know what is tried
and true what's stable what is well
supported and that's known and so debian
continued on and gnome so this is where
things get really different because if
you've been using a boon to you've
gotten used to unity and you've gotten
and and you've gone along with Ubuntu's
experimentation and their development
process but now here we are in 2017 and
canonical has said ok we're finished
with unity we're going to go back to
Nome we're dropping unity we're stopping
support for it we're not going to
continue developing it and instead we're
going to switch our operating system
back to Nome so anyone who has been
using Debian has already been using Nome
through that whole process presumably
you can install other desktop
environments easily but the default does
tend to be no so you can see how
canonical may you know push for
different technology but then they may
revert back because it's it's more
experimental for the desktop so it's
canonical just like the brains they're
the company they are a company that you
create this distribution and the way
that they make their money essentially
at its core is to provide support to
businesses for that distribution ok but
they offer the distribution itself the
operating system for free so you can
download it and install it on your home
computer and it's fantastic that's what
I run on my laptop most of the time it's
boon to Mattei right but looking at w9
ok I have I have a quick chat info yeah
um so let's see once it says to myself
thank you um canonical is dropping unity
for 18.04 saying UD is Cribs yes yes
yeah and that so when they say 18 point
O 4 that's their versioning system which
represents year month so that's April
2018 so they're version of Linux is no
longer going to have unity
in April Dharan that's how that that's
how that works
okay so so there are you know I I want
to keep this fairly simple we don't want
to get into the semantics so yeah and
they really complicated set off but we
do kind of need to tack we need to know
a little bit right a little bit so Boone
two pulls from what's called testing and
unstable repositories mm-hmm so what's
okay so what's an unstable okay this is
where Debian differs so Debian being the
the base so this is what a lot of other
distributions are based on Debian being
the the kind of the main one we'll call
it are at a higher level of yeah yeah so
the way that they work I mentioned
earlier they are focused on stability
security so the stable release which
we're excited about today because Debian
stretch has finally gone stable we're
going to understand that in a moment
is considered stable it's the rock solid
this is the distribution for you if
you're a new Linux user if you are
running a server that you have ones on
the Internet all the functions that they
want working or working right can I like
tell you what my impression of it is and
then you can tell me whether or not
that's right okay so canonical which is
like the company okay it like beams
things as like the thing they support
it's being stable and then there are
other ones that maybe aren't sorta but
canonical is unrelated to Debian in that
I'll canonical build Xubuntu and Ubuntu
is a version of Linux based on Debian
okay nice our focus is really on Debian
but understanding that there are other
distributions out there that are based
on it okay so Debian stretch is stable
yes who says that it's stable who's the
boss that says it's stable well Debian
is a very community driven product found
it is set up in such a way that teams of
individuals work together to create this
distribution and to commit and donate a
lot of time in order to make it happen
so the way it works is okay we've looked
at GIMP two point nine point five love
it okay but it's still got a couple of
little bugs here and there so what
happens is the development team now puts
that into the unstable version of Debian
okay so there are three versions
unstable testing stable so first thing
happens is it goes into unstable people
start testing it and playing around with
it working out the bugs and things like
that right once they've worked out the
bugs now GIMP two point nine point five
for the example moves into testing sort
of like beta testing for video games
yeah it's like the Alpha over beta
versus open but it's an entire operating
system of yeah software bigger than a
video game we've got to get away from
you know the Microsoft mentality of
Windows updates updating my operating
and that's it Linux works by updating
everything right if your graphic editor
and your office suite and everything
else is updated you get all the updates
and it's really ok it's beautiful so
once it enters testing now it's much
more stable but there may be a little
bit of issues here and there but it's to
be considered fairly stable it is
working well and then when that
distribution the testing distribution
with all these new versions of software
that have now gone through testing is
considered stable it moves to the stable
branch or the stable distribution that's
what just happened with stretc should
anybody even bother installing an
unstable or a testing or should you just
stick to stable like wait until it's
stable ok so stable is going to have the
oldest version of software at the end of
life consider that the predecessor to
Debian stretch as stable was Jesse and
Jesse has been the stable distribution
on Debian since 2015 so for a little
more than two years it has been stable
so all of these new versions of software
like even in Debian stretch GIMP is
still version 2.8 right because that is
considered stable
2.9 or 3 has not come out yet
so there there are some benefits in
doing an unstable system or distro
distribution ok and then and that is
because it'll have more cutting edge you
got it yeah right so if you're acting so
here if you're a new Linux user or even
an experienced one who wants stability
security rock solid performance start
with stable if you find at that point
that there are packages that you really
want to have newer versions of and you
want to you don't mind taking a little
bit of a risk because sometimes it can
have problems not going to the mighty
box testing you can easily upgrade from
stable to testing so it's a really easy
seamless upgrade process all of your
packages are just going to upgrade to
the latest version in testing and you're
going good so that's once you've got a
little bit more experience now if you
are a power user you know your way
around Linux you're not afraid to have
things absolutely break ok you're not
afraid to go in and fix them and figure
it out then that's when unstable is for
you because you're going to get the
absolute latest absolutely bleeding edge
software because as soon as something
comes out it goes into unstable right
that's the newest version yeah so you
get like this super cool stuff you
always have the super cool stuff but you
got the super latest version ok or
anything like brand new that hasn't made
its way down through the the chain of
testing yet yeah so there are benefits
to like definitely Oh so with Debian
it's very specific that you can choose
whether you want bleeding edge or
stability or a happy medium with testing
in between ok so boom to from canonical
takes from Debian's
testing and unstable not from stable
because it considers that Ubuntu or
bleeding edge then then stable Debian
stable so right now having just switched
to stable on Saturday
Debian stretch is latest and greatest
stable packages whoo because it just
it's only been a few days
right so yeah I'm excited oh what heart
well no my next question is because I
feel like I took you away from it but
now I want to get back to it what are
they giving me in line here what are the
new features what is oh yeah oh yeah can
you tell me about it
yeah okay first of all your Mac guy
sorry dude PowerPC is done so if you've
got an old Mac one of the nice things
about Linux is that can always be
installed on older hardware well Debian
has done away with PowerPC oh so there
are various architectures if you're a PC
user certainly if you use Windows you
know about 64-bit and 32-bit those are
two main options so there is absolutely
support for those right out the gate you
can download an AMD 64 or i386 which are
64-bit and 32-bit PC versions of the
distro respectively there there is a new
64-bit MIPS architecture that has been
added all right
and then really this is largely all
about that chain of getting the latest
versions of software and getting things
updated refreshed so we're looking at a
new kernel I think we're at four point
nine point something if I kernel is just
what they call that's Linux is heart
okay like the skeleton there okay so
that you know the upgrade process so
what have we got a huge amount of
upgrades as far as the software that's
included gnome is now 3.2 - I didn't
want to get into technical stuff but KDE
is up-to-date LXDE these are all desktop
environments matei is 1.16 and Xfce is
4.1 - but the thing is is that there
have been over 15,000 new packages that
have made their way down the chain into
Debian stretch that we're not in Debian
Jesse and from the packages that were in
Jesse more than half of them have been
upgraded so you've got new versions of
these pieces of software right that it's
been now upgraded that way can you give
us like an example of a package so like
for like somebody new to Linux
sure so if you're trying to sell it no
not Selleck industry truth take it if
every time if we're trying to convert
Sasha to it yeah how would you tell her
I mean install it on her like yeah yes
because ok my mind still works like I've
been fully franchised so I buy a
computer from computer store and I bring
it home and it already has that would be
Windows typically on it you don't buy it
without windows on it she just take
Windows off of it and then have you know
load it you download debian from doesn't
work before you take Windows off because
how else yeah you don't have to you can
download a read on Windows ok and then
you can insert a USB flash drive yeah
you can use a tool that the instructions
are all on their website ok website you
can use the tool that will actually now
do what's called a burn to the to the
flash drive right size flash drive what
I need for gigs oh well ok gigs I think
it's 4.4 gig 16 second is not Hugh tray
like you're fine flash birth and then
quote-unquote burn it to the high use
oxygen tank right okay so everybody
already do i download it to the flash
drive no you download it to your
computer and then you burn it okay flash
drives how becomes a bootable operating
system so it's like don't you sit off
there and it replace records off and you
used to use a CD right now you don't
need a CD optical medium is dead base
what the CDs yeah exactly
so so then you boot up the computer from
the flash drive and it'll say do you
want to install over top of Windows or
do you want to install in addition to
Windows and if you do in addition it's
called a dual boot correct you've
learned 8 points for Sasha ok so keep in
mind if you buy a new computer may have
UEFI that you may end up having a little
more trouble getting Debian installed
because Debian is very very focused on
free stuff and that kind of comes down
to firmwares and some of these UEFI
systems can have proprietary firmwares
and and issues like that where canonical
Xubuntu makes it very very easy to
install on any
form debian is still very very easy I
want you to try it but just a heads up
don't get discouraged if you have
trouble and hit the community in our
website category 5 TV ask some questions
and we'd be happy to help you our
community I'd be happy to help you what
else is different things that have been
updated you were asking LibreOffice
awesome so free word processor not just
a word processor but a full office suite
suite you know remember when we used to
have to buy Microsoft Office
yes I know right the only thing missing
from LibreOffice is an Outlook
equivalent everything else like
PowerPoint yeah and we're all that stuff
Excel they're all there and fully
compatible you can open files that were
created on Microsoft Office in
LibreOffice and saved them back in Iowa
LibreOffice random questioned okay if
they're like a health manual I would
like in libre writer it's called write
my office writer yeah right I want to
just select the whole document and
shrink it to one page but I can't do I
know I can do that in Word but I want to
be able to do it in writer I know that
you don't know how to do that
specifically though I know I like that I
just I would like there to be want to
fit it on the fray but I am sure I
instead of asking individual things like
that I'd love to know if there's a way
to download some sort of how-to I'm sure
yeah okay there would be office org
you'll find occupation there there's
probably a we see and all that kinda
stuff yeah but do keep in mind
LibreOffice what's neat about it as well
as being compatible with Microsoft
Office is it's very similar in its
feature set and its command o where it's
version of Excel which is called calc
has equations and things like that it's
the same equation formulas as Microsoft
offices Excel right right so if things
are pretty one for one at this point and
it makes it really really easy so it's
been updated I use it and I find it easy
with the exception of like random shiny
things that I like I'm sure we can find
your help for it absolutely it's better
than paying like to enjoy there's
hundreds of dollars yes yeah now I
mentioned Outlook being the one thing
that's missing but there's a program
called evolution that come
with Debian as well it's also been
upgraded and it's very similar to and
it's all free still it's all free yeah
there you go yeah
so if you think this sounds like a sales
pitch wolfin we're giving it away yeah
so go download it for free and you know
that's kind of a I think you know if you
have any questions for us get in the
chat room - was watching Henry's
watching on his phone as well anything
at all that you want to ask about Debian
should we can we look at it yes there is
something thing yeah let's actually get
into to Debbie and get a look so this is
Debian 9 which I've installed in my
laptop now you may be in a similar
situation to me where you've got a
production system computer that you use
all the time and you don't want to wipe
out your system you want to try it out
though so what I did is I simply stuck
in a different hard drive so I removed
yeah I I don't know where I said it from
Garvey quick why Debian better than rpm
yeah well see there's a lot of see now
we're going to get into personal
preference experience and we we kind of
want to avoid those kind of questions
Garvey a little bit I just on account of
what we're looking for
rpm Debian 2 different software
distribution that was a joke there you
go sorry and we can get you're going to
find this folks if you're new to Linux
it's going to be if you get into if you
get into the forums and you say which
one's better you've just made a mistake
to war you have opened a can of worms
because Garvey is going to say rpm I'm
going to say Debbie never posted on
reddit you're going to estimate blue or
the food said earlier you the best thing
to do would be to find one that one of
your friends has already installed and
saw it yourself that way you have
support of somebody who knows what
they're doing already absolutely and if
you don't have someone who uses Linux
follow along with our show it is a great
way because if I'm using Debian on my
system then you can ask me questions
about Debian and I can bring it up on
the screen to sack just like that if
you're doing it and it's new to you let
me tell you you have a friend in me you
kill everybody in common so this is
Debian 9
stretch running what's called cinnamon
which is the default out of the box in
my case because when I installed this
mmm it asked me which desktop
environment do I want oh that's nice
either give me all of them here come on
I want all so I can play around and then
I can decide which one I like the most
it comes with gnome 3 it comes with
cinnamon it comes with plasma everything
yeah it's got it's got a ton of stuff
even LXDE which all these things are
just to say you can go back and forth
between them and see which one you like
the most that's part of what Debian does
well is it makes the decision up to you
you want to customize your system you
want to make it yours instead of some
other software developers you can really
toy around with it and try different
things so this is the you know this is
the screen that I'm greeted with on
first boot and you'll see that there is
a ton of software already installed and
we mentioned you know Libre Office for
example so if I go to office you'll see
well I've got a document viewer for PDF
files I've got so I don't need to
install Adobe Reader there's that
evolution email program that I was
talking about that has the calendar and
everything else map you support for
exchange and all that kind of stuff and
then we've got LibreOffice base calc
draw impress math writer and you'll get
used to the names and the differences
there pretty quickly and sometimes
you'll find alternatives on Linux that
have silly names like calculator instead
of calculators like why did I do that
why not but with LibreOffice it's pretty
straightforward and you can also just
launch LibreOffice by itself and it'll
say hey what do you want to do well
create a document create a spreadsheet
create a presentation do you make coffee
draw a drawing Enterprise draw it
probably makes coffee it is it connects
with your Keurig sounds like another
Raspberry Pi project they're going on so
what do we want to do calc spreadsheet
so when I click on that you'll see isn't
that familiar yeah looks very very much
like Microsoft Excel and we've got the
same kind of formula system we've got
the sheets down at the bottom here we
can create new sheets we can name our
sheets whatever we want to do and it's
it's basically at its heart it's
Microsoft Excel so then it let's say
I've got
friends or colleagues in business who
are using Microsoft Excel and now I have
to send them this I don't want to have
to say all you need to install
LibreOffice to open the file no that's
no good so save as and when I save it I
choose the format default to this the
open document format like LibreOffice
format spreadsheet but then you can
choose from here Microsoft Excel format
XLS remember those or there's the newer
XLS X if you'll see the PDF you can do
PDFs but it's a little different as
opposed to saving so this just answer
that question but here we're looking at
compatibility being able to open this
and edit it on Windows computers
Microsoft Office if I'm going to email
an attachment I want to email it I want
to email it as a PDF if you don't want
them to be able to edit it essentially
so open invoice or some sure yeah right
so I can just save it as PDF not you
can't save it out the PDF that's a
little bit of a different way I can
export it's like Oh so as we're saving
we would select a Microsoft Office
format Microsoft Excel LSX so that's to
send it to a colleague who uses the the
full you know they have money to throw
away so they've bought Microsoft Office
what I would do in the case where I want
a PDF see this giant PDF button no way
and it's just going to save it as that's
all yes okay so that's the version that
you would use to share it as an email
attachment or right so if I was sending
like intake forms to a patient who wants
to fill them out before I would just go
in save it as a PDF and it's print and
then fill in yeah oh for sure yeah okay
absolutely got that and same goes for
your Word document not to put too much
focus off of the distribution that we're
looking at debian but to show you that
hey you know what it comes with a large
suite of software that's going to get
you up and going pretty quickly I'm
gonna bring up LibreOffice writer again
not to focus on the the suite of
software but instead just show you hey
you know this is really really
straightforward you get started
super user friendly I use this and like
it yeah a lot well it's familiar right
like it dives into the familiar but
the same time it's so useful mm-hmm
great we can save as Word document files
docx there you go or just the old docx
format so you see what I'm saying is
that if we're transitioning from
Microsoft Windows
unless there's specific software that's
an executive ol file that you absolutely
need to have new accounting software
might be a good example but a lot of
that's moving to the cloud so you use it
through your browser anyway sorry oh why
not install a distribution like Debian
that is not susceptible to the same
malware you don't have to worry about
viruses like you do on Windows that kind
of stuff so let's jump through the the
suite of software here we've got
everything was nicely organized one of
the things I've always admired about
Linux you notice when I go to games it's
just there are the games what do we not
see Just Dance 2017 well you don't see
that but you know what I don't see in
the list is readme I'm right about the
product and all these subfolders that
are nested and you selling selling or
show you install a program on Windows
and you get all of this stuff on your
menu and they've kind of done away with
that by changing things in Windows 10
but it's now become even harder to find
the things that you're looking for in a
lot of cases this one it just is out of
the box there's not a lot of we'll call
it cruft from a programming standpoint
you know that's the term where it's just
junk that doesn't need to be there this
is all the stuff that is installed I
mean it even comes with VLC I just saw
you know that Media Player pre-installed
you can watch our show in HLS for that
live
yeah comes pre-installed there's all
this kind of stuff so they really
thought of everything
didn't they beautiful just by its stable
this is why it's stable any questions
from our chat room at this point before
we take a quick break ah nothing to do
nothing no nothing after at all break
time if you are interested in Linux
you're new to it you've never seen it or
maybe you have seen it and you just
maybe you know on the fence because it's
you know that I could like we've talked
about tonight
it was here five years ago and now it's
a really viable desktop operating system
as a replacement for Microsoft Windows
you can put this on your existing
computer hardware and we're going to
talk a little bit about that right after
the break we've got to take a quick one
and we'll be right back
[Music]
you
this is category five technology TV
welcome back and thanks for joining us
tonight as we celebrate the release of
Debian stretch as a stable distribution
of link and we're doing this from the
approach that we're presenting it as a
new option for Windows users Mac users
to switch to and we certainly welcome
you to send us questions if you go to
our website category five dot TV you
click on contact us and you'll see ways
to reach out to us if you've got any
questions about the transition or the
software that you can use Henry during
the break you were mentioning what keeps
you on Microsoft Windows
yeah and it's unfortunately like right
now it's a must for me right because I
have both Adobe products well a medical
fan of Adobe for like video editing okay
for Photoshop yeah Premiere Pro like all
those guys yeah um but also is gaming
right like you got to have a little bit
of fun right like I know that like Linux
has steam and other fun stuff but at the
moment there's a lot of games that I
play that currently don't have scheme
okay like the capability but I'm seeing
a lot more that are like try compatible
sure so like with Mac what happens and
you know we're certainly seeing that and
these days as you say steam being a
Linux product steam OS is in fact Linux
so you know they're putting a focus on a
game though as far as Photoshop goes
we've looked at it on the show check out
GIMP two point nine point five that was
the one thing that was holding me on
Windows y-yeah Photoshop because we have
lots of problems yeah the loss enos of
scaling the images everything else in
GIMP was great in two point eight but
the the fact that you lose quality when
you rescale yeah that's to say this is
an alternative version of Photoshop it's
free
well here's the thing that's next
release really excites me too though
because with it being more accessible to
people and with us talking about it on
the show hopefully more people try it
which means that more people are going
to be using it which means that
programmers and those developers are
going to be like a more people are using
it maybe you should move our program
towards this off yeah oh absolutely
when you hope so I really hope like over
the next three years like this really
kicks into now but there is there is the
opportunity to dual-boot right yeah yeah
so could you not technical okay so not
super trendy you can't wait can keep
windows right will run Linux exactly so
could you not do that until you start it
to feel comfortable and try the products
offered by Linux see how that feels and
then maybe uninstall or just never use
Windows if you have to live that's how I
migrated over to Larry was dual booting
because I still needed to boot into
Windows once in a while and so that gave
me a chance to use Linux for all of my
online stuff you keep me safe online do
all that stuff and progressively these
days everything is online yeah most of
the stuff that I do so it just makes
sense to use it and then you can just
boot into Windows when you need to right
it will be true so what happens you turn
on your computer and it's just that
black screen and you just scroll to you
choose which operating system you want
it creates a memory that says Windows
Windows 10 or Linux Debian so that you
mentioned Photoshop and and I and I
mentioned GIMP for those of you who
aren't familiar I mean Debian right out
of the box comes with a program called
GNU image manipulation program so Henry
what this is I know you know but for the
sake of our viewers this is a full image
editing software you look at it and it
looks fairly similar to photoshop in its
in its the way that it actually operates
I'm going to go into single window mode
so that you can see something that's
even more photoshop asked but there you
have it so it's it's a free alternative
to photoshop that came with debian 9
right out of the box and you guys
already have a lot of tutorials that can
go with this guy exactly so yeah I
really hope to see more open source
programs like that right now right
because like again like we're seeing it
happen video production exactly
up-and-up exactly and I'm really excited
about that because like I said I use
like Adobe Premiere Pro um I use
InDesign i use like pretty much the
entire suite even Dreamweaver and all
the other guys um but that's the cool
thing about like this age of technology
is that access is becoming so huge right
now so we see a lot more open
source programs like this and it's
absolutely I'm excited
head on over to deputy dot org de B I am
dot org support the community if you can
and certainly get a download there look
for Debian stretch it's under stable and
you want to just select amd64 if you're
using a 64-bit system which most most of
your systems these days are going to
support that so go with that that's the
better of the two or there's also i386
which means 32-bit so if you've got an
old system that doesn't support 64-bit
then you can go that route as well you
can install 32-bit on on a 64-bit
computer but you can't do the other way
around right so but I would lean toward
the 64-bit if you have support for it
whether there be any benefit to
installing the 32 on it on a 64 system
home ok said you can't do it all the way
yeah if you can go huh yeah yeah are
going to go with the best of the best
for tester ed alright so the questions
anything at all send us an email off our
website category 5 TV and that is debian
from debian org
