welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 470 for tuesday the
twentieth of September 2016 nice to see
you hey I'm Ravi Ferguson please help me
welcome Shelley de Silva yes tonight
we've got an amazing show for you we are
going to learn how to batch convert raw
images into jpeg or ping I'm gonna tell
you why you might want to do that we're
going to use a linux terminal window in
order to do it so stick around all you
geeks it's going to be fun we're also
going to look at a USB cable that simply
cannot be beat it cannot be broken it
cannot be chewed or otherwise destroyed
you want to stick around i'm going to
show you the ultimate titan USB cable
here looks coming up in the category 5
TV news room the launch of the date of
the new Star Trek TV show has been
announced and will happy info coming up
you do first time on the teleprompter
folks thank you and you and you don't
even have a microphone on your here oh I
don't know t-mobile is early one day no
one users not to upgrade to iOS dead and
Molotov remember just before the show
and I said everybody right everybody
ready that was you and David oh my
goodness okay here you keep you keep
talking there I think you've you've got
a 2 taught at the back that's what it
was so when you moved your head it
actually pulled it right off your ear so
you're saying something about t-mobile
how do I get her back you can't oh just
moving lack window left the hacker gain
access to your network and Microsoft
will likely not be fixing it
for the first time ever a video game
youtuber has been charged for promoting
in-game gambling and someone has built
the first tiniest main cabinet in the
galaxy stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show this is
category 5 technology TV welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV and I'm
your host Rob you Ferguson hi I'm Shelly
Silva shall we have you been it's been a
while since you've been here busy summer
oh yeah people doing a lot of traveling
and so on and so forth what you've been
up to I went up to a camp out in
Winnipeg so that was fun winnipeg
manitoba do we have some viewers from
Manitoba hello apparently it's only like
four hours from Ontario so apparently
it's not legit Winnipeg but is it really
that close ya know so Jen said no you
there must be like a like a direct path
to Winnipeg had to fly there's and it to
be to be fair jen is traveling at about
180 kilometers an hour what else you've
been keeping well anything new oh
nothing too much I got sick a couple
weeks ago so yeah over that but good
you've been at your ear once again the
category 5 celebrity you've done a
couple more shows with new every day
that was cool so is nigh seen you over
the past couple of weeks yeah we went on
a good old road trip where'd you go what
you do oh we went to see the sixth great
lakes of Ontario sex and uh yeah how do
you count six hours but 16 hours okay I
did finish them in 16 hours but to get
back home with dip 24 it's like there's
five Great Lakes but will also include
this lake and we'll call it great cuz
it's awesome st. Clair is that a great
lake like like actually we'll have to
Wikipedia that yeah but that's cool six
great lakes and you got did you swim
them or did you we all went in took a
dip in one day who did all the driving I
carry mostly yeah yeah you remember
Carrie web from seasons one and two so
funny story she laid her head down for
like
good two minutes will back up and never
slept back again she stayed awake for
almost 24 hours which is that's not I
know but she's a nurse so I guess it
kind of helped so so that was laid back
staying awake after I guess jet-lagged
oh yeah I'd be out completely our
torrent server is up if you want to go
over to torrentz.com 5 TV and download
the show of course tonight Shelley is
the season finale of season 9 so that
means this coming week you're going to
be able to find all of season 9 by
BitTorrent at torrent dot category five
dot TV thanks everyone who's seating
that for us let's get into a little
information about what's happening next
week okay of course this being the end
of season 9 season 10 launches next
Tuesday night as you know category 5
technology TV is moving to wednesday
nights for season 10 and so that takes
place not until october fifth however
our so our pilot episode for season 10
which is next week is still happening on
a tuesday night so we're going to be
kicking off season 10 with a special
two-hour episode and we are going to be
filming it in 360 video we were
originally hoping to do a broadcast live
in 360 view and the VR technology just
isn't quite there yet so we're working
with a couple of companies that are
going to be bringing some new hardware
into the studio to make it happen but
right now what we're going to be doing
is actually recording in 360 but we're
going to be broadcasting just as you're
seeing this episode here so the live
view will be like this but the after on
demand is going to be full 360 view
that's where you can actually
participate by looking around and that
brings me to our top seller this week
because everyone's gearing up for it
Shelly you remember looking at happy
goggles these are like super happy
goggles level these are like to the top
to the max of 360 video so you stick
your phone in here up to 6 inch phone
and and then it gives u vr so pretty
awesome if you've got an accelerometer
in your phone which most of the new ones
do you're going to be able to
participate not only in VR games
things like that but also in next week's
episode in 360 view that's going to be
amazing so we're going to we're going to
absolutely make that the best we can
we'd ask that you please have skype
ready to go with skype video because we
are going to be calling on you our
wonderful viewers to give us a quick
call on the category 5 skype call number
ID it's simply category five dot TV so
you're going to call us that up on skype
and do a video conference call with us
and those who are on patreon are
probably able to see the the view screen
over here right now in 360 view so
you'll actually be able to look around
in 360 view of it be able to see the
screen where you will be when you're
skyping in and then look around to us
and carry the conversation it's going to
be pretty cool so make sure you got
skype video ready for it and be prepared
to call up share your your favorite
memories of category 5 TV I mean we've
been doing this for nine years so here
we go it's an exciting time and I'm
really excited to be kicking off season
10 in such a cool way we've got some
really cool companies helping us to make
that happen last week we looked at what
we had a poll and we're looking at how
we want to structure season 10 as far as
the the I guess the the Robbie Ghica
meter goes with regards to my tutorials
so the question that we're polling our
viewers about and this is what I want
you to participate in is whether you
would like our tutorials to be really
sophisticated really under the hood like
let's get into the terminal and learn
exactly how this works very detailed
very detailed but also like let's build
it let's do it from scratch versus
option B would be hey it's already kind
of ready to go let's learn how to deploy
it in a fast easy to deploy manner a
good example would be I used the
Raspberry Pi as a good example so we
could show you how to install the OS on
the flashcard how to install the
software how to get it up and running
how to configure it how to get it up and
going or we could do all that and then
create an image file that you could just
download and install and then we can
focus the
the review more on how to use it so the
question is there if you're on YouTube
make sure you click on the pole up there
and that's just over your head there
shell so click on that and and then
you'll be able to cast your vote so that
we know how you would like to direct
category 5 technology TV at season 10
Shelley we've got to take a really quick
break when we come back we are going to
be looking at Titan USB cables from fuse
chicken they are the toughest USB cables
in the world if you're hard on your gear
you'll want to pick some of these up
also later in the show tonight we're
gonna be learning how to convert raw
images into jpeg and ping in a batch
file format or in a batch way using the
linux terminal so you want to stick
around don't go anywhere now here's
another great way you can support the
shows you love for the category 5 TV
network by shopping gearbest that's the
right Jeff cap five dot TV / gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones well of course
I mean especially your loved ones right
because cat5 TV / gearbest quite frankly
has all of the greatest tech gifts that
you could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices do they have cell phones you
betcha cat5 TV / gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets what about compute
consumer electronics those make a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 TV /
gearbest has you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb yeah I there's no
way they have it all it's true it's just
a bunch of a grant of electronic Sesame
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock bottom
SuperDuper prices how to like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than thirty
dollars plus free shipping a cat5 TV /
gear best yeah all right you kind of got
me there Wow any other questions for me
jack ah now that the winter is past
flying season do they have any good
deals on sale own copters oh my goodness
well check this out dude they have
everything check out over 500 various
drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about thirty
two up to sixty three percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're gonna find gearbest
on our partners pages for any of your
favorite category five TV shows like new
every day category five technology TV
the pixel shadow but of course if you
want to shop absolutely right now and
you want to go straight to the site all
you have to do is visit cat five dot TV
/ gearbest so that's easy tech five dot
TV / your best that's right happy
shopping hey everybody this is category
five technology TV nice to have you here
thanks for joining us tonight Michelle
you do you do a fair bit of graphic
designer yeah like a fair bit yeah
that's a good shift good shift I came
across this really cool tool that you
know I think this is pretty intriguing
and you can you can tell me what you
think of it let's bring up our web
browser and I'm just gonna actually head
on over to this website it's called
color eyes and you know have you ever
been designing a website or creating a
graphic design for somebody and you're
trying to think okay what colors would
really complement this or you know what
what would work really well with this
color scheme so color eyes is a pretty
cool tool that let's bring it up but
what it does shelly is it it goes out on
the internet instantaneously finds a
bunch of images for what it is that
you're searching for so if I'm searching
for
beach for example it grabs 10 images the
first 10 images that come up in a google
image search or however it works i don't
know under the hood how it works but and
it figures out what is the number one
color across all of these images so if i
search for beach I would expect it's
going to be maybe a little bit of a
brown for sand or possibly blue for the
water depending on what it finds yeah so
let's let's give it a try and see how
accurate this thing is so in your
browser all we need to go is Alex Beals
dot-com and it's spelt just like that
let's see if we can get there alright
and let's see if he's got it right there
color eyes there it is and I do that
just to show you a quick way to get
there but there's the full URL if you
want to go there Alex Beals calm /
portfolio / color eyes and Alex put this
thing together it's pretty cool all
right so let's let's bring it up the
link to the actual tool full of this
link if you want to try the site this
will give you the final there it is /
projects / colorized ok so here we go so
what color eyes does is goes out grabs
all those images figures out what the
top color is for those images and then
give it to you in hexadecimal format
shell what's what's a good object or
something you want to try the beach idea
so I'm going to type in beach in the
search up at the top and there you go
you were right it's like blue I like
that blue that is kind of nice but it's
a blue that you may not have thought of
to use if you were using just your
swatch right it's kind of a nice yeah
aight ca8 b3 might not have thought of
that uh what's another one let's try
sand there you go so just a search for
sand and there there it is what Italy so
what color is Italy oh it's like grey so
you know what it makes me think hey
would it be like a bunch of buildings
that were that we're shown what's at sky
there you go that does look like it goes
that is a really good sky color but I
may not have gone with six c99 c6 so
needless to say that's kind of a fun
little tool it's called color eyes and
URL is there for you and that is just a
quick little way to grab some colors I
like idea starters I like things that
get me kind of creatively going yeah
because sometimes it's tough and you
just want to find that right color and
that's a fun way to do it I thought it
was a clever project I think it's really
neat how how we put that together this
is yeah I created it it's freely
available on github you can follow the
links on the site and that's pretty cool
it's alex bills.com ve al s and i think
that's exactly it they do cool things
and here we are in 2016 and there's
still people coming up with neat ideas
cool stuff that hey let's just build
this thing and it's so simple yet so
cool all right oh it's got a cooler for
that stuff I would just bring up my
color swatch and just drag around until
I find a blue I like yeah he's never
that book whatever you got yeah cuz I
got a pantone book let me just look
around here there might be an app for
that I'm sure there is I'm sure there is
this is category 5 technology TV and hey
let us know what colors you come up with
your favorite hexadecimal colors color
eyes what's your favorite hexadecimal my
favorite hexadecimal color is fire truck
ff0000 no not really yeah that's read
minds f3 f3 f3 that would be like an
off-white see I can actually read
hexadecimals so you can't give me
another one alright capital e lowercase
ed 3df that's like a gray okay like a
like a bluish gray yeah yeah how does he
do it how's he doing i know but i still
like color eyes oh i know right alright
so we're going to take a look at these
cool cables have you ever broken a USB
cable yes i have a friend let me tell
you a story i have a friend who had
their printer up above their computer in
a hutch they have the USB cable going up
behind the hutch into the back of the
printer and one day the jocelyn things
around i don't know maybe they had a
paper jam let's just say right for the
sake of the story because it works
it works in the context of the story and
so he's Jocelyn and around and and
little did he know that he's kind of
tugging on it on the back of the
computer and so on it and it broke the
cable at where it goes into the computer
and they put it back and everything and
he's using it away and and then his
printer wasn't working right after that
and he's trying to figure out what
what's going on then his USB port
stopped working because there might have
been a short circuit or something in the
cable ouch so it actually damaged his
computer's motherboard the USB port got
damaged warped it out just a bad
scenario of hey when you got a cable
that is you know frayed or broken it can
actually cause some damage to your stuff
my nightmare scenario is I always end up
with a bag or a box full of USB cables
inter tangled with all different power
cables and stuff and they're hard to
untangle and usually I end up fraying
them while I'm trying to untangle the
night in walks fuse chicken sounds like
a YouTube channel of sorts but no they
build the best the most rugged USB
cables in the world they're called Titan
and you cannot break these your dog
cannot chew through these your children
cannot damage these this is this is what
I'm talking about folks okay let's bring
up let's get the Titan em in here these
are like I say the most rugged
incredible USB cables in the world I've
got a couple of micro USB s here because
I'm an Android guy here we go thank you
in every language that you can think of
why you're welcome I was going to try it
in a different language and I don't know
how to say you're welcome in any other
language I just realized that there you
go so this has two layers of nice hard
steel and yet it is still fully
malleable oh there you go try your best
to tangle that this is the Titan m that
we're looking at right here this is a
nice long one it is a little bit heavy
and that's good just try to tangle it
right
you can go to cap five dot TV / tighten
to pick up these now okay untangled just
like that you just couldn't break it if
you tried you could you could hang your
stuff from that when you make it a noose
over there no I wouldn't recommend
murder but these are fantastic okay
let's get a look at this I like this
because this one you can stick on your
your backpack and stick this on your
keychain this one is called the Titan
loop and perfect for mobile and there it
is and it kind of goes right into this
little holder here so you can put that
on your keychain and then stick that in
there and you always have this nice
rugged USB cable with you this is a bit
much to put on your belt loop you could
use that as a belt and your pants would
never fall down so there you have it so
as I was saying it's got two layers of
Steel you're not gonna break that cable
that's awfully strong and yet there's no
there's nothing to it it actually like
it's just that extreme it's magic
they've actually used magic to put these
together because you can see you can see
how malleable it is it's not I would
have expected this to be really like
hard to depend but no it feels just like
a cable with the steel coating on it but
it's very very strong its fuse chickens
tighten USB cables again cat5 TV /
tighten their human proof they are not
Shelly proof they actually are but my
camera is not Shelly proof which is
sitting right there you never have to
deal with frayed cables again or the
tied up knots and they are the last
charging cable that you are ever going
to need and you get them a cat five dot
TV / tighten what do you think of that
Titan Titan I love you come on mater see
that's thank you but how do you say
you're welcome oh i thought you said
thing
oh well I can I can read danke gratis do
you messy how do you say welcome in
french I don't know we're Canadian we
should know this map see how do you say
you're welcome folks help me out I'm
terrible aren't I I know we got nothing
I know that's what do we get here in
Canada these are cool hey I love them
cat five dot TV / Titan Titan never need
another USB cable I love them unless you
want more at which point you can buy
more buy lots of them and as I say these
the micro USB we can get other kinds as
well so there they do have apple cables
and things like that cool well folks
this is category 5 technology TV and i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson Shelley
dasilva over here do you feel ready to
tackle that teleprompter you can't even
wave without hurting yourself this desk
is very rigid yeah well you've never
used the teleprompter before so today is
a big day for you rather fun this is
kind of exciting so I'm here to bail you
out if you need a hand but hey I think
you're gonna do just fine those of you
again watching on 360 view can see the
teleprompter in front of Shelley just
behind you there it's kind of cool yeah
so hey stick around after the news
tonight we are going to be looking at
converting raw images I've got my nikon
d50 100 on hand we've taken a couple of
pictures we surprised Shelley as she was
coming in the door and we're going to
learn how to convert those raw images to
a format that anyone can enjoy share
them over email and things like that so
stick around the meantime over to the
newsroom here is Shelley de Silva it's
Tuesday September 20 2016 and hear the
stories recovery the launch date of the
new Star Trek TV show
been announced and we'll have the info
for you coming up t-mobile is urgently
warning iphone users not to upgrade to
the new iOS 10 a safe mode exploit in
Microsoft Windows let the hacker gain
will likely not be fixing it for the
first time ever a video game youtuber
has been charged for promoting in-game
gambling ye is rough and someone has
built the tiniest name cabinet in the
galaxy this big these stories are coming
up right after don't go anywhere I love
it Jeff Weston Yemen you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
know right you're terrible actor
what does we're acting comes into play
oh I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay Farrah I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't peddle the papers are just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cat
five dot TV / dreamhost the new Star
Trek television series call Star Trek
discovery has had its launch date bump
back a couple
see it doesn't work
in may of next year it was announced
Wednesday afternoon by CBS all access
the new premiere date is driven by the
creative scheme behalf that this will
give the show appropriate time for
delivery of the highest quality premium
edition of the first new Star Trek
television series in more than a decade
executive producers Alex Kirkman and
Bryan Fuller said in a joint statement
bringing star trek back to television
carries responsibility and a mission to
connect fans and newcomers alike to the
series that has fed our imagination
since childhood we aim to dream big and
deliver that means that means making
sure the demands of physical and
post-production for a show that takes
place entirely in space and the needs to
meet the airdate don't result in a
compromise quality before heading into
production we evaluate these realities
with our partners at CBS and they agree
Star Trek deserves the very best these
extra few months will help us achieve a
vision that can be that we can all be
proud of Star Trek discoveries coming to
CBS all access in May 2017 following
premiere the CBS television network and
will be distributed concurrently on
netflix in 188 countries and through the
bell media in canada dope wait you've
got it paused you're getting the hang of
it that teleprompter is crazy good speed
yeah he says okay
back to you do not install yep do not
install wait imma do not assault Apple's
new iOS 10 on your iPhone 6 6 plus or se
Ward's t-mobile us or you'll mess up
your connectivity on Thursday the
American cell network blasted out its
sex to its subscribers urging them to
hold off on upgrading and is tweeted
publicly to raise the alarm telling
people to stay away from the software
this is because some iphones running iOS
10 can't maintain stable links to the
cellular network causing calls to drop
and the mobile internet connection is a
flake out if you've put the new code on
your bed set and you've effect bit
affected by the signal problems that can
turn you turn thing on and off as a
temporary fix alternately switching in
and out of play modes may also work
t-mobile is firmly blaming Apple for the
issue even though it's been suggested
that t-mobile's carrier software update
is causing the problem a customer reps
said its iOS 10 issue an apple is
working on fixing the problem we hope to
have that fixed very soon security
research to Tron name has cooked an
attack that views Windows 10 safe mode
to help hackers steal logins you the
cyber Ark man says remote attackers need
to have access to a pc before they can
spring this trap which involves
rebooting a machine into safe mode to
take advantage of the lesser security
controls offered in that environment
once in safe mode logins can be stolen
and otherwise with defeated past the
harsh lateral techniques can be used to
compromise other network machines a fake
login screen can be shown using the calm
object Nick leaks to nippy manipulate
and menu I eliminate the Lea eliminate
boot and cloak safe mode using then
types in their credential assuming
normal reboot will hand their logins two
attackers name says once attackers break
through the parameter and gain local
administrator privileges on an infected
windows-based machine
they can remotely activate safe mode to
bypass and manipulate endpoint security
measures in safe mode the attackers are
able to run freely run free tools to
harvest credentials and lateral
movements to connectivity system all
while remaining undetected this exploit
can also work in Windows 10 despite the
presence of the microsoft virtual
security module apparently Microsoft
will not fix the attack vector since it
depends on hackers already having access
to a Windows machine two men can we just
take it take a quick moment there so
what Shelly's talking about is that that
hackers are able to get into your system
on Microsoft Windows if they've first
gained access to it Microsoft's not
going to fix it because they're saying
well they have to have access to the
system but that's where all these
phishing scams to me make you know that
gets kind of scary because you think
about the folks that fall for the phone
call that says hey I'm Microsoft and
where we've detected a problem on your
computer can we need to remote in and
gain access to your system to fix it for
you well Microsoft has to admit that
this is a problem that the phishing
scams are a real thing but not only that
we've talked in the past about people
installing modems routers you get a new
modem from your isp for your internet
service and it's got all the default
password set up and unless you manually
change those other people can gain
access yeah and if they've got access
they can get into your Windows machine
and microsoft says that they or at least
the theory is is the Microsoft will not
fix it because it's not a problem
outside of someone having actual access
to the computer well it starts with that
initial access so where does it begin so
it's it's all about secure you know make
sure that you're safe by being careful
if you get those calls if you get those
phishing scam emails don't click on them
don't don't take the call okay back to
you shell
who is this uh well he this guy appeared
in court large offenses under the
gambling act in what is believed to be
the first prosecution evolving betting
on video games Wow craig douglas and
dillon rugby who are both from essex are
charged with promoting a lottery and
advertising unlawful gambling mr.
Douglas makes gaming videos on YouTube
under the soon pseudo pseudonym soon
annum new Pez yeah nepenthez pentas here
we go we'll say he is also charged with
inviting children to gamble Oh yikes the
two men appeared at birmingham
magistrates court the case has been
adjourned until october fourteenth the
gambling commission which brought the
prosecution has been looking into the
rise of video game gambling it is
warning parents that children can be
drawn into betting so-called skin
virtual goods such as weapons or clothes
that are features of many of these
popular games it has been estimated that
the global market embedding on video
games is worth as much as four billion
pounds euros I don't know pounds behold
the tiniest main cabinet in the galaxy
the world of main cabinetry cat
cabinetry essentially a subculture of
arcade lovers who build amazing cabinets
for their emulators the goal is usually
to either create recreate the arcade
games or build something really wild
adafruit built something really wild
originally a weekend project this main
cabinet is a few inches tall and uses a
screen about as big as a thumbnail Wow
the kid is far from complete and the
screen too small to really be usable for
most games however with a little down
sampling and some Judas Judas judicious
nice work sorry about that game choices
you can play some pac-man or dig duck a
dig dug in this miniscule machine
the cabinet uses point nine six inches
are gigabytes of a LED display and a
raspberry pi 0 also great the Creator
Phillip burgees uses a tool called nano
screen to down sample and display the
game frames on the tiny tiny screen big
thanks this week to jeff weston roy w
nash in our community of years for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story you'd like to send email it to
newsroom at category 5 TV for all our
tech news with a slight linux bias visit
the category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category for the
category 5 TV news room i'm shelly
dasilva thanks Shelly this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson hi I'm Shelly hi my voice
garage ok that's fine that's fine
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it is here
cat5 TV / tpn and the international
association of the internet broadcasters
cat5 TV / IA ib want to say hi to our
chat room thank you so much for joining
us tonight don't forget really cool way
that you can support category 5
technology TV and our slew of growing
shows is to head on over to cap five dot
TV / patreon and that's PA te reo n and
for just 25 cents an episode you can be
supporting category 5 technology TV and
it's a great way to to get some extra
content to I'm trying to put up some
more behind-the-scenes stuff that's
where a 360 camera rig comes in tonight
we're doing some test runs for next
week's special and so those who are on
patreon if everything went well I'm
assuming it is the cameras are rolling
so you're going to get some behind the
scenes there so get on over to cap 5tb /
patreon to support us in that way it
helps us so very much tonight we are
going to be converting raw images and I
guess you know it boils down to hey what
is raw image right really Morty's wrong
really big files but why do we take raw
images with our camera do you know for
billboards and stuff mmm yeah I mean
it's full resolution right
the thing is when you take a picture
with your digital camera and if it saves
as a JPEG okay your camera gets all the
data off of the image sensor and then it
has to go through some processing to now
compress it into a JPEG image and save
it to the disk so all of that image data
is compressed to jpg and converted and
it guesses that the exposure and the
light and the white balance and all
these kinds of things the frequency of
your lighting and and all that and then
save the JPEG and it's done and done and
it discards everything else so all of
the remaining data is discarded shooting
in RAW what it does is it takes all that
image data from the sensor so what the
camera actually sees and dumps it to the
disc it's raw it has not been touched
yeah that's why it's so big it has
everything so if your JPEG might be
overexposed because there's a lot of
light the raw image you can bring down
the light and it does not affect the
quality of the image unlike a JPEG if
you brought down the light you'd have
trouble getting contrast and so rise the
way to go if you want to shoot stuff for
high quality because you can always
manipulate it later it's the raw dump
from the image sensor it's also very
very fast because of the fact there's no
processing going on or little processing
going on so you can shoot picture after
picture after picture but it takes up a
lot of space the other problem if you
will other than space being a problem if
you if you can consider that I mean I've
got a 100 and yeah Kingston has put a
128 gig SD card in our camera so who
cares if there's a 30 meg file right but
beyond space where does that really
matter space is when you're trying to
email it to somebody but beyond that
they can't open it it's quite a good
chance that your friends that you're
emailing it to or if you're emailing an
image to mom or dad pretty good chance
they don't know how to work with a raw
image because remember it's not that
compressed jpg or pain or tiff or
something that you can just open and and
it just opens it is a raw
data dump from the camera sensor so you
need to use special software to open it
and view it and then you know it's a
pain in the butt for people they
probably won't know how to open it so
that said it would be nice to be able to
send all of those images to mom and dad
but to have to bring them up into dark
table to have to convert them to jpg
manually and which is fine if like if
you're doing this professionally and you
know I've shot a wedding and I'm going
to put up a bunch of I'm going to send
them the final pictures probably not as
raw they'll probably want jpg that they
can just take to a printer yeah you know
you plug it into the kodak machine and
it just prints they're not going to take
raw files on that so they'll want the
jpeg so that's when i'll get into that
process but tonight what we're going to
learn to do is just take all those raw
images and just dump them to jpeg we're
going to auto calculate exposures we can
do all the stuff that the cameras system
would normally do to save as a JPEG but
we're going to do it on our Linux
computer and we're going to do that
through the terminal so by knowing how
to do this on Linux we're going to be
able to shoot with raw mode on our DSLRs
and you know if you've got any kind of a
DSLR look for the setting to save as raw
or on Nikon it's an nef it's a CR 2 on a
canon camera so you can save directly to
that raw image and it's going to give
you all that sensor data ok so just
before the show shell i mentioned i snap
some pictures in raw format on our Nikon
camera here so you can see here's what
they look like in dark table right so
this is dark table which your parents
probably don't have these are any f raw
files so these are right off at the
camera they there's the surprise on your
face when when you walked in the door I
was literally just standing there
waiting to snap your picture ok so that
you can see this is in dark table and I
can manipulate these with dark table
we've shown this on the show you can
check that out do a search for dark
table on our website category five dot
TV if you want to learn how to use it
but tonight we're just we want to we
want to share these with our family and
friends we want to be able to put them
up on facebook and whatever else
directly so let's bring up our terminal
and the first thing that we want to do
is we want to install a nice little tool
that's going to allow us to do this in
batch mode is called UF raw batch so
we're gonna go sudo well no I'm on
debian so I'm not gonna use sudo but you
might be using sudo I'm going to
actually become superuser no I'm not on
debian I'm so used to being on debian
I'm on point Linux sudo apt-get update
and then enter my password it's going to
update from my repositories there you go
so what this is doing is going out on
the web and saying okay what are the
latest versions of all the programs that
are currently available for Linux and
it's telling my computer that
information so that when i install any
program i'm going to get the brand new
latest and greatest according to the
repositories this is telling me that
some of the repositories that i have in
my list are no longer available when i
see errors like that that's probably
because of the fact that i'm on an old
version of point linux its deprecated
and i need to upgrade so you'll see soon
we're going to probably have a boon to
mate on here matei sudo apt-get install
and we're going to install this program
called UF raw dash batch just like that
and run that for the install you'll see
i already have this installed probably
because we've done some demos in the
past with raw imaging probably using the
gimp so we use that tool already so i'm
going to jump over to where my raw files
are stored right now i've already
dragged them onto my desktop there we go
so there are all my nef images which
again my windows using friends are maybe
not going to be able to open those Mac
using friends i'm not sure can you open
those directly can you open raw files
directly on a Mac without photoshop I
haven't tried and I haven't tried so I'm
not too sure on that but you know what
jpg or ping are so easy to use you can't
put a raw image up on the on a website
you need to have it converted to a jpeg
or a ping depending on on the format so
how do we choose whether we want jpg our
ping jpg is photography photos
cheers generally speaking ping are
lossless so ping are great for things
like screenshots or if you need an if
you need an alpha layer if you need to
have a transparent layer so that you can
cut someone out of a photo than it needs
to be saved as a pink but generally
because it's lossless screenshots or
greatest pains pictures are going to
work fairly well as JPEGs but it is
lossy so you lose a little bit of
quality whether you can tell that or not
is is the question okay so we're going
to convert all of these in one fell
swoop you saw when I started opening
well you saw when I started opening them
in dark table how I would have had to go
through and change and change each image
and save it we're gonna actually use
that program that we just installed and
we're going to start with something
really really simple I'm in the folder
with all of my files which are let's
look at the file size 16 mega piece see
that so we're going to convert those
down to jpg just as a quick little demo
so we're going to go UF raw dash batch
and then we're going to go dash dash out
dash type space and we're going to do
jpg this time around and on space and
I'm not going to go one by one I'm going
to say asterisk for everything called
dot and EF and notice its case sensitive
so I can't use dot nef I need to be
observant of the case so now when i hit
enter it's going through that folder
KaBlam saved open saved and it's going
to go through all 35 of those images and
convert them to jpg so now you notice
that now I'm getting thumbnails because
even nautilus here knows how to work
with JPEGs right it doesn't know how to
read an nef file so there's my jpg sweet
how big is that jpg it is only one
megabyte so it is one sixteenth of the
size with just the default settings but
you see that it is full resolution it's
full quality I Starfleet uniform sitting
on there there's our 360 cam rig there
it is that's what it looks like there
and there's our teleprompter that Shelly
was reading in that you can see the
camera GaN the right hand side
they're so that's what we're looking
into right now cool so there you have it
it's going through and converting all
those 2.jpg from raw and it does a
fairly swell job of that but that is
just I've just said hey take all these
nef files convert them to jpg and just
do your thing right so that's where
you're saying hey I trust you to do what
you need to do and I'll just let you do
it because we're just doing this to
share them with mom or dad but those
files are still pretty big so a Meg each
yeah I can only attach maybe five or six
of them before something like a local
ISP might bounce them back because it's
over five mix a lot of ISPs places like
Gmail and stuff are going to accept
anything up to about 25 Meg's but that's
like 25 images and then you're done
right or one raw image right so so let's
instead ok now I'm going to cancel this
with ctrl C and we can see that yeah our
JPEGs are all there and there you go and
you see notice how dark that is because
the raw image is is all the data so if I
brought that up into dark table I could
actually improve that quite a bit see
the difference right out of the right
out of the gate it's it's better and I
could go through and again we're not
going to get in the dark table usage
tonight but ok so let's let's remove all
of our JPEG images and let's try another
example there we go so now we're back to
just having that's a script created by
dark table we're just having the nef
file so let's get into a more
sophisticated way of doing things first
of all i'm going to show you something
here with that UF raw dash batch type
dash dash help and that gives you a nice
little output that shows you a lot of
the different features that this thing
is capable of we're talking some cool
stuff like being able to set the
temperature of your lighting and we're
not talking like 36 degrees we're
talking the color temperature in Kelvin
so here at the studio for example we're
at six thousand Kelvin because we're
sitting under sunlight here so these
lights are special sunlight lights so
that we don't have to have lighting all
around us we've got it in an hour
ceiling so in a studio you're probably
looking anywhere from 5,000 to six
thousand Kelvin at an office you're
probably looking about 3,500 Kelvin and
at home you might be a little bit lower
than that 2400 two to three thousand or
so depending on whether using
incandescent sore fluorescents so so by
setting it once you know how many Kelvin
like what the temperature of your
lighting is you can really tweak the
it's basically affects the white balance
because then it knows the the frequency
of the lighting itself and can adapt for
things like anyway you manually do that
you can actually just specify it in the
command line so dash dash temperature
equals six thousand four here at studio
D alright so let's let's try it and you
can go through all that that big long
list of different features that are
available for you it's pretty vast and
sophisticated you can do cropping and
image sizing let's do a couple of things
so let's do you f raw dash batch and
then let's get into something like okay
first of all out type jpg and I've
mentioned that we're trusting that it's
doing all the compression and everything
but let's actually set the compression
level compression equals and you notice
it wrapped but it is compression equals
and the default is 85 I believe but you
can set it to 80 or 60 or 90 if you want
it to be perfect quality 99 or 100
compression is a little bit of a
deceiving word because you think 85%
compression means it's very highly
compressed eighty-five percent actually
means eighty-five percent quality so
only fifteen percent compression versus
you know compression sixty means that
there is actually forty percent
compression so 60 is much less quality
than 85 so you find that happy medium
but because we're sending this by email
for mum mom and pop we're just going to
set the compression to say 60 let's make
it really low quality why not because
we're just talking about really really
small images okay then we're going to go
temperature equals six thousand because
we know that that's the color
temperature of our lighting here at
studio D and let's actually shrink them
down so dash dash size equals and then
we're going to go
with comma height so and that's those
are maximums so you don't have to
actually specify the actual dimensions
you can just say a thousand comma a
thousand and it will never be wider or
taller than a thousand but it will keep
the proportions so it also works as a
scalar as well so let's do that let's
say nine hundred common nine hundred and
those are now our maximums so that is
perfect okay so then the final thing is
that our actual file type so star dot
nef and then i'll just let it save to
the current folder by just leaving the
default but i could if i wanted to i
could set the out path equals and then i
can set home / whatever but let's just
let it out put to the current folder and
if i did everything right here we go
it's creating those JPEGs and you see
what it's doing is doing a lot faster
this time because it's working with
smaller images and smaller quality
cannot downsize from zero to nine
hundred I'm not sure what that one is I
must have done something a little off
but ok so let's take a look now see the
how it's green so my color temperature
is in fact off ever so slightly so let's
try 5000 * dot jpg so let's try changing
my color temperature to 5000 and see if
that gets it a little closer still given
us a green image so i may be off on my
lights or maybe my you know what my no
because those are raw images maybe i
didn't set the camera exposure correctly
but it's wrong needless to say i need to
look at the light bulbs and make sure
that we're running maybe I'm four
thousand countin all i've got to be at
least 50 500 here but their their aged
bulbs we've been here for two years and
I've never changed them so okay so let's
see just with the default okay so it
detects the color frequency a lot better
than I can and there you go so now you
see that that image is 900 x 51 x pardon
me nine hundred by 591 much much smaller
at full resolution there it is my shirt
there that's full resolution okay and
the file size for sharing on the web is
only 33.6 kilobytes okay so now i can
include way more images there's still
good quality at that size at that scale
but we're not printing them we're not
doing anything like that it's strictly
for display and there is Shelley
surprised to see me so there you have it
there's the quick nerdy dirty dirty I
just made up a term nerdy dirty there's
the nerdy dirty way to convert your raw
images again works with Nikon nef format
as well as CR 2 s from a canon camera
and that will allow you to convert
everything to jpeg ping remember when i
set dash dash out type space jpg I could
have done ping I could have done TIFF oh
there are a few other options there yeah
and that will automatically affect the
output so that you get the kind of file
format that you're looking for so that's
really all there is to that folks and
joy and you're welcome yeah I like that
one that's our t-shirt for the week
thanks everybody for joining us tonight
this has been season 9 can you believe
it's over and you're here all throughout
season 10 that's cool so we've got a
really great team this this coming year
we've got Jeff Weston yourself Shelly de
Silva myself Robbie Ferguson and Sasha
tomatoes beautiful right and of course
we've got other people that are on
standby like Hilary Rumble who is on
maternity leave we're looking forward to
having her back sometime throughout
season 10 and it's going to be a really
fun year and don't miss next week next
Tuesday night is going to be the it's
going to be the nerdy dirty of all
episodes we have that 360 view so make
sure you join us get your headset at cat
five dot TV / cardboard and these really
are astonishingly awesome and they're
comfortable so check them out cat 5 TV /
cardboard to get one of those thank you
to everyone who's been purchasing things
off of our website and through our
partner links it makes such a difference
and thanks for supporting category 5 for
the past
nine seasons and here we go with season
10 so we've got our work cut out for us
over the next week as we prepare and I'm
looking forward to to seeing you again
next Tuesday night as we kick things off
so don't miss it have your skype video
ready yeah Shelly thanks for being here
thanks for having me and thanks to you
for being here have a great night and
we'll see you next Tuesday night
