hello and welcome to new every day my
name is Carrie and jen is away so i have
two of my friends Emily and Aaron and
we're going to be talking about family
matters so thank you
hi and welcome back to new every day
thanks so much for tuning in I have my
good friends here with me Aaron Hatton
and Emily Riley and we're going to be
talking about family matters and
parenting and what it's like to be a mom
but before we do that I thought I'd let
you get to know them a little bit better
so maybe Aaron can we start with you
sure about yourself okay I'm a mom of
four I have a son who's 14 daughter
who's 12 and twin daughters who are 9
i'm also a published author I write
fiction and I volunteer at a local
charity called redwood park communities
awesome and what what do you do at
redwood park I'm a family support worker
so basically I do anything that builds
supportive community with the people who
live in the transitional housing there
okay awesome so for kids yeah busy yeah
and a dog thank you so much for taking
time to be on the show with us i I'm
very thankful that you would give us
your time and sit out in the great
outdoors in the heat of the summer so
your problem in so Emily so I'm a new
mom I have one daughter Claire who is 11
months old and my husband Matt and I
also had a three and a half year old
golden retriever and my backgrounds in
interior design and I work with
commercial interiors but right now I'm
on maternity leave yes and 11 months
have gone by so Oh about this I've seen
her grow so much yeah once has it gone
by quickly for you yeah fastest 11
months of my entire life yeah and how
and your kids how old are all your
children again 14 12 and 9 14 12 and 9
that's right yeah and has that gone by
quickly oh so quickly yeah like my son
in high school now it's insane I feel
like he was just a baby yesterday yeah
and he plays the tuba yeah my doing is
amazing
so I wanted to have you guys on the show
to just talk about what it's like being
a mom but before you were a bomb tell us
a little bit about like what life was
like for you what were you doing maybe
how long were you married before you had
your first child and maybe he can just
share some of what you're what you
thought parenting was going to be like
so give us a little snapshot of what
what you're doing before you had kids
okay um when I had my first we had been
married for a year and a half and I was
a new graduate from Redeemer university
college I had a teaching degree and I
was all set to be a teacher and that
kind of didn't turn out the way I
thought as far as my expectations for
parenting I don't know I had this sense
of this fairytale kind of happy happy
happy you know I knew there'd be
challenges but yeah I don't think you
ever really know just how challenging
parenting is going to be really yeah so
when you thought challenges are you
thinking just like oh you're going to
change some diapers and drink some
divers invite you a little discipline
you know stuff like that but yeah no no
no I'm glad I did it for sure but yeah
yeah mm-hmm so kind of a utopian
perspective a little bit yeah little bit
and how about you Emily yes so Matt and
I were married for four years and just a
bit over four years before we had Clara
and I'm a very organized person so I was
saying to carry beforehand I'm like I
would have my day to clean and
everything and my schedule and that's
what kept me calm and happy and content
was that I could have that organization
to my life and that control in a sense
that I knew when things were going to
happen and how they play out and all
that jazz and I could have that kind of
sense and as far as expectations like I
heard from my mom how I was as a child
and Clara very much takes after my
personality so um we found out we were
having a girl so as soon as I heard that
I was like okay she's gonna be
strong-willed child stubborn just like
me kind of thing and noticing is I
anticipated yeah so I anticipated that
kind of from the get-go but like erin
was saying you can even anticipate that
and not know what it's going to be like
because I don't think there's any way to
really sense that emotion of having a
kid and that connection until you
actually have a kid like you can have an
idea of it through different means like
if you have a niece or nephew and that
sort of thing but when it's your own kid
and you're dealing with it every single
day it's totally different yeah yeah so
you you kind of anticipated having a
strong-willed baby and oh yeah you're
your personality yeah yeah which emily
is such a wonderful but yeah there's
definitely that strong-willed side to
her yeah exactly yeah yeah yeah yeah her
aunt's face yeah yeah and that's part of
what makes her so wonderful yeah yeah
yeah so can you share with us how things
changed with your first child
just trying to paint a picture maybe
when you real what you realized as soon
as you had your first child I think how
did things change unwise relationships
wise I was completely unprepared for how
much of a toll it would take on me
having a child like just the level of
exhaustion that I and I mean I was kind
of person who needed 10 hours of sleep
every night so to go and function on
nothing since the first night he slept
for six hours was like heaven and I and
then I learned I could function on less
sleep for sure but the emotional toll to
you've got like these hormone levels
that are doing crazy things with your
emotions and bonding with this little
person and and being responsible for
their survival and their well-being it's
it's it's a lot to deal with and a lot
to get used to and yeah for sure that
changed a lot and the you know that what
Emily was talking about being in control
of things and having a schedule is a lot
like that too and it kind of goes out
the window and you have a baby yes it
like that in a sense that you just you
won't be able to plan your day because
you don't know what they're going to yes
for sure you know if they're if they you
want them to sleep at a certain time but
they don't want to sleep so or they you
know they take longer to eat than you
expected or you're just about to walk
out the door and they have a really
messy diaper yeah just things just can't
go according to plan it's yeah and did
you find like Kevin like your husband
kevin was able to adapt to those changes
to is he a pretty flexible person yeah
he's great with change so he's been very
supportive and helpful and all that and
yeah that's good and you had double your
twin girls mm-hmm Megan Gwen and were
they premature yeah they were three
months premature they were very very
tiny and they're in the hospital for a
long time so that took a really big toll
on us because we had two kids already my
husband was trying to work to support
our family I was in Hamilton and my kids
were in Midland and kevin was working in
barry and i think it was harder on him
than me
because he was back and forth where yeah
whereas i was i was able to stay at
ronald mcdonald house and kind of
recover and get used to taking care of
the twins a little bit at a time yeah
yeah but having all four at home really
I changed my expectations for sure I had
to let go of a lot of expectations on
myself and at that point like did you
realize that you wanted to be able to
stay home with your kids or did you
still have that desire that you wanted
to do some teaching with her no I always
wanted to stay home with my kids that
was always the goal and I've just been
really thankful that we could see that
spent some sacrifices and things have
been tight at times but I'm really glad
that I was able to do that with my kids
it was just the choice that work best
for us and yeah that was always what I
wanted to do anything else that i do I
sort of fit in between when the kids are
in school yeah and there's so and I know
Emily you're on mat leave yeah I'll be
going back to work soon yeah and you're
going to be doing two jobs yeah actually
oh yeah for sure motherhood like even
what I've seen you know if I amazing
sister-in-law and I've you guys it takes
so much time it's a lot of planning it
is a job oh yeah a great job yeah and
like we've all seen our moms do that
great realize until my friends they're
super hero oh how did think change for
you Emily when he had Clara well as I
was saying before like I'm a total like
organization yeah yeah so like I said I
try to clean the house in one day and
even when she was like a firstborn I'd
be like okay I'm gonna get this done and
that's gonna be clean it's like I've had
to split things off and its really been
my mom telling me as well like you don't
have to do all this and even just
learning to accept help from others like
that's been a really good lesson for me
as well as learning to say yes you can
bring me lunch yes you can bring me
dinner okay all except these meals okay
you can clean the house and just
learning to accept that help has been a
good thing for
and learning to relax and breathe and
all that and like as far as like timing
goes and stuff just learning okay I
don't have to do my devotionals right
before i go to bed like when she was a
newborn when I'd wake up at 2am to feed
her 3am or that sort of thing like I'd
have there's great apps for phones now
and that's when I would do my devotions
is like at 3am I'd be sitting in the
dark and scrolling through on my phone
right and just learning how to do
everything again in a sense and fit it
yeah and learning like it's okay I'm not
feeling guilty yeah yeah exactly I'm
reading the Bible at 3am yeah at the
same time when I would exactly and I
don't have to do it at 3am that's not
critical it's critical but I do it and
that I read cuz that helps like me get
through the day but yeah yeah not not
having that pressure pressure hey
everything just so yeah um at lunch we
were talking about how there can be
expectations about elbow that people
have of you at a certain stage of your
life so whether it's you know you're
finishing high school and people are
like okay well what are you gonna do
after high school what's next what's
next what's next or you know being
single they're like so when are you
gonna get married I don't know no or as
soon as you're married then when are you
going to have kids there's expectations
and then as a parent you guys said that
that you you have witnessed and
experienced that there were some
expectations from the culture from other
people that are put on first-time moms
and maybe second third fourth time you
should can you share what some of those
expectations that you felt from the
culture that
we weren't true that you realize later I
think part of it is they're often
conflicting expectations so you have one
school of thought that says you know let
your babies cry to sleep and you have
another school of thought that's like
you'll never let your baby cry to sleep
and and you have to find this you have
to find what works for you what works
for your family and it's so there's so
much at stake because you feel like well
if I do the wrong thing then my baby is
going to be scarred for life and they're
going to grow up to be this adult that
needs therapy and talks about how bad
their parents were oh they're gonna be
like emotionally crippled or or you know
even just as you kids get older and you
have schools of thought and say let your
kids take risks let them do dangerous
things or some schools of thought
they're like you don't put a helmet on
your child while they're walking around
and I don't let them climb trees and
look at all the old playgrounds because
they're dangerous and you know so and
and and the thing at stake there is am I
putting my child at unnecessary risk are
they going to get you know maimed for
life are they going to die from you know
letting them do this and so there's the
expectations I think are things you put
on yourself to like like I just I want
to succeed at this I don't want to bail
I don't want my child to fail and I
don't want my child to be hurt it's
really hard to be able to let your child
be hurt sometimes because it's essential
to their growth but yeah it's hard to be
so emotionally attached to this this
child is this that you've raised from a
baby and and and watch them get hurt and
maybe not be able to do anything about
it oh yeah loving someone that much and
then having to watch them suffer a
little bit
you know I think that in a sense maybe
that's watching my friends parent has
given me a different perspective of God
move in that I can see how much i love
these children and knowing that he is
our Father and He loves us liked it
becoming a parent impact your
relationship with God your perspective
of him in any way or yeah sure like it
gives you a totally different
perspective on unconditional love as
well because it's like the love that I
have for Matt and the love that I have a
clear and that sort of thing it's like
different than the love that I have for
you and Aaron and that like it's a
totally different kind of love right
because like she can scream for like two
hours straight or whatever and it's the
sort of thing where I'll still love her
even if she screams at me like the
entire night and yeah it's just
understanding that in me um it's a it
gives it kind of that different
perspective right cuz you think how much
love does god have for me if yeah yeah
like he can't comprehend it that was a
little broken no yeah like when you're
changing a dirty diaper yes not like ah
just a min cantilever changing this
dirty diaper and you don't scold there
they're who they are because they've
made a mess or after you change the
dirty diaper and then they do another
one like yeah but I heard one speaker
talk about that her name's dr. Karen
Purvis and she's done a lot of work with
children coming from hard places man I
just really appreciate her perspective
on that how there's bugs outside mom and
she was talking about how like children
they make mistakes and you just pick
them up and you just love them for who
they are and you wash that dirt off and
you just wash that dirty diaper and you
just love on them mm-hm and the god
has that for us you know he still picks
me up when I'm yeah screwed up or you
know he made mistakes and still loves me
okay how did how did it change your
relationship with god Aaron ah for sure
that like like Emily said just
understanding God's some unconditional
love that way but also my dependence on
God it's learning like I can't do that
by myself I there this is beyond my
capacity yeah really is and to be able
to rely on God to get me through and to
to rely on God's God's image of me
rather than how I see myself like um
instead of my own perception of myself
as maybe not fitting into those
expectations to be able to to know that
God thanks imma not you know God God
thought that I was going to be the best
mom for these kids so he gave you know
he put us together for a reason and with
with the Holy Spirit's power I can I can
do this yeah you know so I think that's
been a big a big thing for me and my
walk with God yeah and learning just
about his faithfulness as well more like
Clara she went through the bit of a hump
in the beginning where she she lost
obviously wait after her birth weight
and then she started gaining it back and
then she lost more before she got back
to her birth weight and just going
through that and just God's faithfulness
through that and getting her back like
so quickly and like she's totally
healthy now she's thriving and yeah like
how if I'd put you in touch with the
right people to help Oh exactly support
with the midwives yeah and like friends
and family and church family and like
erin was saying like you can't do it
alone like you need that support system
around you and it's not up to just you
as well yeah mmhmm yeah I think we're
out of time already there's so much we
didn't get to talk about expectations
even further but if you come back again
for another show yeah I really love that
so thank you so much for tuning in and
there's so much more for for us to learn
funds
and erin so tune in next time same time
same place new everyday TV if you want
to go to our website check out our
partners page scroll through if you go
onto amazon from our partners page that
helps to support the show so thank you
so much for tuning in
you
