welcome back to new every day my name is
Carrie and my name is Jen and this is
the final part of our four-part series
on adventure begins so stay tuned be
right back
welcome back to new every day so why do
you tune did really really are we're so
glad that you actually listened to us
and get to share with what we're
learning because every time we do this
we learned something hey Jen yeah and
for the last four weeks well three weeks
we've been talking about the adventure
begins and when we first started talking
about this all I could think about was
Frodo Baggins oh lord of the ring in in
The Hobbit The Hobbit I mean and where
he wants nothing to do with the
adventure and then Gandalf tap tap tap
you know saying basically fred was like
no I don't want to go on Frodo know
Bilbo Bilbo Bilbo he says no I don't
want to be part of this and Gandalf like
what aren't you the Son and he starts
saying giving him all these reasons why
he said gone why he should go on this
adventure like he has been basically
equipped to go his DNA has equipped him
to go on this adventure and he's just
like no no and then the dwarves show up
and the team is built this team is built
and then Frodo you know you see this
image of him while least in the movie of
him flying down and they're like oh are
you going Bilbo my goodness Bilbo
running down he's like I'm going on an
adventure and he doesn't even really
know what the adventure is yeah um and
so then he joins the dwarfs he signed
the page and he's in for the he's in for
the adventure right to the very end yes
and when we're talking about the
disciples and the people who came to
Christ after the disciples they are
embarking on this great adventure and
they've just received the Holy Spirit we
had a bread about the day of Pentecost
so they received the Holy Spirit so now
they've got the gas in the car they had
a high vision the vision which is like
Jesus came yeah go tell everyone a bow
tell everyone about the kingdom about
the fact that Jesus came and we can have
life through the Sun and become children
of God yeah so again now what so now
they're just getting started we're in
the book of Acts chapter 2 yeah and the
heading just before verse 40 is called a
vital church grows
hmm yes a vital church grows of mind it
says the Fellowship of the believers
okay which is interesting because we've
talked about Jesus gave the vision he
built the team he gave the power and so
now we're back to so now had to reach to
know what so maybe can I just read this
here too sure so starting verse 40 and
with many other words he testified and
sorted them saying be saved from this
perverse generation so this is Peter
talking still right then those who
gladly received his words were baptized
and that day about three thousand souls
were added to them and they continued
steadfastly in the Apostles doctrine and
fellowship in the breaking of bread and
in prayers then fear came upon every
soul and many wonders and signs were
done through the apostles now all who
believed were together and had all
things in common I love this part and
sold their possessions and goods and
divided them among all as anyone had
meat so continuing daily with one Accord
in the temple and breaking bread from
house to house they ate their food with
gladness and simplicity of heart
praising God and having favor with all
the people and the Lord added to the
church daily those who were being saved
they came together they had everything
in common that's a work of the Holy
Spirit right there yes it is how many
times you get a big group of people
together it's like you just don't yeah
you just might not get along with
everybody just might not but he smooth
things over cuz love coke covers over a
multitude of sins God's love is
transformative in our lives yeah they
sold stuff yeah they met needs yes this
is him everyone was filled with awe and
many wonders and miraculous signs were
done by the apostles and this wasn't
just to do miraculous signs and wonders
it was in order to draw people to the
Lord it was to testify to who Jesus was
right and and so that's what drew more
people to them so you have this this
inward they devoted themselves to the
Apostles teaching into the fellowship
breaking and bread this communion and
prayer and then so that's internal
that's our group and then the Apostles
did these wonderful miracles and that
one
and just inside the group I don't think
I think it like kids we're told and the
rest of Acts how Jane Eyre Peter and
John would go walking and if Peters
shadow fell on someone they are healed
right so that's an external thing and
yes miracles are done inside the church
I've no problem that but it's also
outside the church as well for the
purpose of you know pointing people to
Jesus miracles are not done to point the
to us miracles and an AA and and wonders
are done to point people to Jesus yeah
and so I find that very interesting and
because then they come back in and all
the believers were together and had
everything in common selling their
possessions and good and gave to
everyone as he had need Kerry is very
good at this we were uh we picked up a
young lady to go to school and I sent
her she's in grade 8 and I said where
are your mittens and she's just like I
forgot grade eight girls and really
they're just too cool to dress for
winter and it was winter here in Canada
I am cold and I said where are your
mittens and like little cold no scarf
jacket open and Here I am asking you
about mins cuz we're all like bundled up
right to the top hat to this who cares
about being cool now really and so she's
like I don't have any and so what did
Carrie do she's like well here I have an
extra pair i just gave and I'm like you
like those minton and she didn't even
didn't even bat an eye and I'm like
that's what that means that's what that
passage means where you just like give
things because there is a need and um I
know sometimes I struggle with that one
sometimes sometimes it's hard yeah my
mittens are one thing but I've been
challenged with other things too like
maybe it's money that God's asking you
to give like there's some who really has
need and you think well they might not
use it appropriately or whatever we've
talked about this another episode and so
maybe I just don't want to give but I
just challenge you and I am at the same
time feeling challenged and reminded of
this
to be a crazy giver hmm like let's just
decide this week that if god brings
something up that we need to give you're
going to give it and then watch what God
does because they've been so many times
where I think oh man I don't know if I
can give that but I just do it and God
like totally meets my needs in some
other way amazing ways so maybe you know
about talking about miracles maybe
that's how God is going to work a
miracle in their life mm-hmm that you
are going to be the answer of prayer for
them but then he is going to in turn be
working in your life because of your
obedience to give so I want to just
challenged you actually if you have a
miracle story like maybe you have been
the recipient of something amazing or
seeing a wonderful healing or maybe
you've been a crazy giver and God has
met your need I just challenged you to
actually record your story so get get on
your iPhone record a selfie video and
then i challenge you to post it on
facebook mm-hmm and talk about the
wonderful works of God maybe you want to
go on to our Facebook page under new
every day and post your video I would
love to hear your stories and just be
challenged to be a crazy giver this
church there was no one who had me
because they sold their stuff gathered
there what they had and then met the
needs of the people and I not know we're
gonna take a break be right back
you think those two bugs are alive oh no
they've been done okay there's been an
incredible con that's occurred in the
culture evolution and millions of years
is the greatest myth ever forced on the
minds of men Big Bang evolution people
just believe it blindly how can you not
believe that somebody designed all this
we know he exists because of creation
anyone who denies that as a fool it's
not just faith we have science it's
really on our side and welcome back to
new every day we're in part four of our
four-part series on the adventure begins
Jesus has given the mission he's built
the team he's given the power of the
Holy Spirit and now it's actually the
walking it out and they're doing it in
something called Church and what's
interesting is we talked a little bit
beforehand how they were in perfect
unity nobody had any need and you know
amazing signs and wonders were happening
and the question that comes to mind is
yeah that was then but what about now
like am I seeing that happen in our
church and so many people said well that
was the Apostolic age like that apply to
now does not apply to now and all I can
think about was I don't think Jesus has
stopped has said don't be generous
anymore because I don't be right and I
don't think it's almost a shame it's
called the Acts of the Apostles because
it's really the act of Jesus right and
talks about the Holy Spirit but it's the
act of Jesus right what he has done and
he's still doing that good work right
yeah and so yes the apostles were
carrying it out but they were carrying
it out to the next generation to the
next generation and so that's why Paul
sets up like this is the way the church
is supposed to look and like this is
what it's supposed to do and and and so
no I don't when I read this passage I
don't think no that was just for that
now are we supposed to you know give up
you know our homes or single homes and
then come together well no that's not
were saying but maybe this but if God
calls you
to that then the answer is yes like one
of the reasons why Carrie and I choose
to share space together is one it is
cheaper but that money then allows us to
spend it on other things that God is
calling us to because the thing is we
could say no I want my own space but
then we would be paying you know two and
three times the amount and then you know
you are strapped to do what God has
called you to do and I had at one point
I was looking about buying a house and a
lady said to me well Jen what does God
calling you to do because know that even
though the bank will give you this much
money know that you also like to give it
the church you sponsor people like in
mish ever mission missionaries you go on
vacation like what is the lifestyle God
has called you to and then that is the
house actually that you need to live in
and several times Carrie and I have you
know if we ever if God ever calls us on
from the spot where we're living now the
fact that no we would love the house
that would have one or two rooms to open
up for ministry purposes to share with
other people so that they can you know
save money and do the things God has
called them to and but that's a god
thing yeah it has to be a god glad thing
and that's why we've always said we will
be in this location until God calls us
somewhere else because we want to do
what God wants us to and that's you know
through the power of the Holy Spirit and
so when this passage says that they
continue to meet together in the temple
courts they broke bread in their homes
ate together with glad and sincere
hearts praising God and enjoying the
favor of all the people and the Lord
added to their number daily so obviously
people from outside we're seeing how
they were treating others inside and
they wanted to join yeah and so one of
the big big questions is is this
happening in your church right and if
not then why not yeah and so what we
want to blame someone else well this
team isn't doing their thing or this
team isn't doing their thing and I think
we have to come right back and point to
ourselves say well am i doing my thing
like am I willing to break bread with
other believers am I willing to welcome
people into my home am i praying like
all part of it am I praising God like am
I actually showing up to church on
Sunday morning and participating or am i
there just sort of sitting feed me feed
me in the app okay it's time to go by
and then we wonder why God is in you
know using us or doing amazing things
was because we only come in plonk
ourselves down up and now at the door
but we actually haven't interacted with
anyone we haven't shared our stories we
haven't listened to other people we
haven't prayed for other people we
aren't aware of the needs of others
because we haven't actually done our
part and then we blame the church for
not encouraging us or not inspiring us
and I'm thinking this haven't been part
of it I know like this passage alone
should be inspiring enough for us to say
wait a second Jesus gave his mission go
into all the world he gave us the team
which is the church then he'd the gas in
the car he gave the Holy Spirit that is
all you need we don't need to be asking
i wonder what God wants us to do yeah
wait goods true he's already told us
he's already told us and so if you've
been waiting to know what is God asked
asking you to do we encourage you to
read these first two chapters of Acts
and just be inspired again that Jesus is
calling you to share the message of his
kingdom with other people that he has
provided you a team in the church to
help you with everything that you could
ever need and then he's given you the
Holy Spirit to lead and guide you yeah
and the whole end up and the church is
like this this crazy living organism
yeah of people multiple people one body
many parts but one body with Jesus as
the head and you are a part of that body
has a role to play the Bible says you
know if the if the foot should say
because I'm not a hand than I have no
part in the body well that's not true
because if the your vehicle munoz that
I'm not part if I'm if I'm not a nose or
if I aminals yeah essentially each part
has a role to play yeah so encourage you
this week to pray and look at your role
yeah is it being a crazy giver yeah in
one instance yeah I'm not saying that
you have to take on a specified role in
the church like
have a title but you are part of that
body and you can meet needs in
conversation yes in bringing a meal in
phoning a new person in shaking their
hand yeah I'm warning in inviting your
coworker to church that so many ways so
many ways so we encourage you to take
this mission that Jesus has given us
seriously to take your role in the
church seriously and to submit that to
the Holy Spirit saying Lord these are
the things I'm struggling with because
often is the things that we struggled
with that hold us back but when we turn
them over to the Holy Spirit said this
is what I'm struggling with I don't even
like the church that I'm at or I don't
even like the passer I don't like the
person i'm sitting beside and yet this
is where i am could you help me and you
know what there are times where I've
prayed that prayer and God has totally
shown up it's okay to pray those prayers
because that is where I think the many
wonders and miraculous signs happens
sometimes where he just comes and he
gives us starts giving us a love and
understanding he opens her eyes but are
we willing to actually be honest with
the things that were struggling with
with the mission because i'm going back
to set sail boat baggins and he
struggled with his role on the team they
said well he's a thief right like they
had him to be a thief he's like I'm not
a thief I don't do anything wrong and
then he looked at his life is like but
I'm so comfortable and look at my teeth
my cheese and look at all these things
in my home I don't want to leave my home
and comfortable but if he had not gone
and stepped out he would have missed out
on the greatest adventure of his life
yes so we encourage you today to maybe
let go of some of what you find security
and and embrace the mission that God is
called you know that the Holy Spirit is
going to guide you and that a church
that church and a local church will
equip you for all you need so be
encouraged the Lord is with you have a
great week have a great week serving the
Lord
amen amen
you
