welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob a
Ferguson welcome to the show its
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
December the 13 2011 and I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Rachel's chill nice to
see you yep good to be here yeah I'll
warn you although I've had a bug this
week so if I start coughing or hacking
or keel over that's if that happens
don't worry I'll turn off your neck yes
alright so coming up in the newsroom the
cloud is an unstoppable Deenie and a
study has found chrome to provide the
best online protection versus internet
explorer and firefox a German Court has
ruled in favor of Motorola against apple
will iPhones be available this Christmas
and the people who make XP antivirus are
paying out eight million dollars so
stick around these stories are coming up
later in the show awesome we've also got
a brand new photo gallery on our website
category five dot TV do check it out
over on the left hand side click on
photo gallery you're going to see all
the thumbnails for the last several
photos that that have been taken I'll
give you a quick glimpse at that very
cool stuff
so check it out and there is a lightbox
effect if your browser supports it as
well nice to have a full-fledged gallery
on our website will be adding photos to
that on a regular basis it goes all the
way back to season one so you can catch
photos from seasons 1 2 3 4 and now here
we are in season 5 also mobile dot cat
five dot TV is the place to go if you're
using a mobile mobile mobile device
pardon me and you'll be able to head on
over there if you've got an iphone or
ipod touch you'll be able to actually
catch the show live but no matter what
device you're using i actually heard
that some people have gotten it to work
on the android platform as well so keep
that in mind do check it out and we'll
continue to test as you let us know what
platforms it's working on but mobile cat
five dot t be a great website if you're
using a mobile device tonight we're
going to be looking at how to make our
internet faster which is really cool
because typically you've gotta you know
invest dollars in bandwidth and things
like that but there are a couple of
tricks to getting your internet to
operate a little bit faster and we're
gonna be giving you one of those tonight
it's free of charge and that we're going
to walk you through step-by-step so
stick around we're going to show you how
to get faster internet on the cheap aka
free also in addition to our photo
gallery great new feature this week is
live dot cat five dot TV live cat five
dot TV as a brand new landing page for
you what tends to happen on a Tuesday
night it gets really really busy here at
the studio our website gets just
bombarded with a whole lot of traffic on
a Tuesday night you see it's like a
mountain every Tuesday when we look at
the analytics but essentially what what
can happen is people start to have
trouble getting on to the website if
there's too many people making requests
all at once because it's a one-hour
window for you to get on to the show so
we created live dot cat five dot TV just
for you about a half-hour to 15 minutes
before the show goes live you'll
actually get a little countdown right
there and you'll be able to catch the
show live interact with the chat room
interact with or get access to backstage
pass as well so very handy site for you
and I see that there are some people
actually using that tonight
very cool so some people are wondering
if you're using a green screen but
really his heater just broke so it's no
one inside now we're actually
broadcasting tonight directly from the
North Pole which is really cool and as a
matter of fact I was chatting with
somebody that I ran into up here just
this afternoon and he had a message for
you a viewer from the North Pole let's
uh let's see what he has to say ah
you're here my dear Rachel oh I'm so
happy to see you I haven't seen you in a
while my you've gotten old come with me
I have something very special to show
you this is where I keep a card of all
the big kids in the world including
yours now where did I put it could this
be your card excellent you must be
wondering what I'm going to do with your
card first of all I'll need this cut Oh
watch closely what happens when I place
it right here
oh I see that you're now a young woman
now I have a very important question my
dear Rachel have you been good this year
now let's go see what my magic machine
says
hmm you haven't been all that good have
you I see that you've been very
mischievous to your loss and your
grandfather that's unfortunate well look
at what you've accomplished this year I
see that you no longer fart in public
that's wonderful i'm fairly crowded I'd
like to give you a challenge for the
upcoming year I would like you to learn
to use a computer I'm sure you can do it
you can do anything you put your mind to
my dear Rachel oh and don't forget to
leave me some cookies and milk on
Christmas Eve a very very special
message specifically oh boy sent out to
you from our friend from the North Pole
oh you no longer frightened public she's
like trying to hold back the laughs
laughs I know that will not happen again
magic Santa dot CA check it out you can
send those to your co-workers that's all
automated it uses flash you can just
fill in the blanks and you'll be able to
send one of those to your co-workers
your friends your family get a good
laugh for for the adults but also fun
fun thing to send your kids as well and
lots and lots of fun and pretty neat but
magic Santa dot CA check that out yeah
all right are you surprised are you
surprised Santa paid you a visit I feel
so special so special okay we're gonna
be right back after this and we're going
to have your questions so email us live
at category 5 TV tonight or get into our
chat room its category 5 on freenode and
we'll be right back
dusty trails liquid image Canada
captures the action with a true point of
view HD video camera directly into a
high-quality MX goggle it records every
bit of the excitement exactly how you
see it if my octane isn't your thing
take a relaxing underwater adventure and
capture it forever in high definition
video with a high quality underwater
camera mask from liquid image Canada
perfect for the enthusiast snorkeler or
the deep sea diver check out the entire
line of camera masks for every sport
liquid image canada.com this is category
5 technology TV and we're online triple
w category five dot TV so lunatic head
says hi Robbie greetings fame India
watching from India live in the chat
room tonight nice to have you here is
anybody brand-new here as well or want
to say hello nice to see you joining us
in the chat room and of course that just
a reminder if you're just joining us
live cat five dot TV is a brand new site
that's going to allow you to watch the
show in your browser as well as interact
with the chat room and participate watch
the backstage pass which is our
behind-the-scenes camera Maxwell 6307 is
joining us I believe for the first time
tonight but definitely is new would love
to hear where you're from let us know
has been catching up on some of the back
episodes on the website very cool a
lunatic head has been enjoying the chat
room throughout the week nice to see
some of our friends and viewers who lurk
in the chat room and hang out and have a
good time and very helpful people like
gab gab Willard garbey is is there a
what yep nice to see ya yeah alrighty
Maxwell 6307 sorry is is from Cobourg
Ontario nice to see ya I've lived in
Ontario all this time and I don't know
her co very good where's coburg north
south middle yeah
yeah it's kind of at the bottom near
this blue thing nana's oh well there you
go right on Lake Ontario just passed
Belleville so we are way west of ya know
we're north where are we yeah right no
we're just gonna sell oh just right west
yeah I was right the first time there we
are yep we're over broadcasting from
very tonight literally I mean it looks
like the North Pole I know alrighty well
we have some viewer questions awesome um
here's one from Robert gorsinski hey
Robert um hi Robbie I would like to say
thank you for helping me with my
question regarding IP cameras on episode
219 I've managed to get the cameras
working using dyndns uh didn't DNS
probably didn't DNS yeah dyndns in
regards to my second question regarding
redirecting files from NASA to a net txt
file I access the nos through samba for
example I go to the places menu then
select connect to server then enter the
IP address which is displayed on the
readiness display and change the server
type to window share I can then access
my files from the Nos what I want to do
is be able to get a list of the movies
DVD HD DVD blu rays right that I have an
enough on to a text file that I can then
store on my mobile phone as I have
around 300 movies I want to be able to
check list to see what i have when I go
shopping for movies thank you and that's
Robert Melbourne Australia ok so 300
movies Wow all one hundred percent
legitimate I understand ok so basically
what what he's trying to do is he's got
an ask about a device the box an ass box
device that allow the masses network
attached storage so it's like a hard
drive that you can access from any
computer within your network usually is
the way it works so with that you're
able to save files in a hopefully a
safer locate
because usually these devices have like
a raid one or something along those
lines it's a good idea to to have such a
device but the situation here is you're
using Linux and you're not sure how to
mount that samba share in such a way
that you can get access to those files
so what what is actually being done I'm
going to bring up my computer screen
here you're going places connect to
server and we're switching over to
windows share which is Samba or SMB and
we're entering our server IP or
qualified name the share name right and
then connecting using a username and
password if you need to so then I've got
access to the files in that folder right
there we have it so the problem with
that is of course if you hit ctrl L
you'll see that you're connected through
SMB colon slash slash right but that's
not a valid protocol for for use for
running like an LS command or you know
something along those lines so what I'm
going to do I'm going to do things a
little bit differently using a tool
called SMB FS Samba file system and jump
into terminal here for ya ok first thing
we want to do is sudo apt-get install
SMB FS enter your password ok it may ask
you if you need to continue otherwise
it's just going to go ahead if it's
already installed it will just tell you
that you've got the current version no
problem ok so that's done now what I'm
going to do is I'm going to create a
mount point so let's say I go CD and
then a tilde which is going to take me
to my home folder let's say we want to
do that I'm going to make a directory
and we're going to call this Nass ok
enter so now I've got a directory called
Nass it's empty so what we want to do is
we want to mount our samba share to that
so we go sudo mount and then we're going
to specify the server so it's / / in my
case is 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot 5 yours will
be whatever your IP or name host name of
your servers / i'm using temp as an
example so that
the samba share it's the IP address /
the share name so whatever you shared it
as pictures or Nass or whatever you've
called it okay so then I'm going to put
that on Nass that's the folder I created
it's empty so I can turn it into a mount
point I'm gonna hit enter ask me for my
super user password because notice I had
to use sudo that gives me access to
mounting things now I'm going to take
that same command LS Nass and you'll see
that I've actually got all the files
that I saw when I when I brought up my
places and that connect to server same
files so now to redirect that
information into a file of course i can
go LS Nass whatever it could be called
movies dot txt right txt hit enter now
I've got that file so G edit movies dot
txt notice I just pipe just like the
dose pipe alright so there it is in G
edit ok if you've got some sub folders
on it though what may happen let's bring
it back up here and create a subfolder
i'm going to move a couple of these
files into that sub folder there we go
so now things look a little bit
different when i run that LS nass see
this so it actually creates a header
called sub folder and then shows me the
list of files that are under that so
that may not be ideal for your situation
if you have things sorted into folders
so in this case you might try well you
could do LS nass dash r dash all pardon
me let's move Nass to the end of the
command ok LS dash are with a capital R
dash all lowercase all and Nass that
gives us a bit of a different output
that shows us the folder the file sizes
the ownership the dates everything
basically ok
what you may be looking for those to use
the find command find Nass and you'll
see that what that does now is it
creates a list with the directory names
see so there's the directory NASA /
subfolder now / subfolder those files
right so now I can go find Nass and then
pipe it through with a single pipe to my
list dot txt G edit list dot txt and now
it looks like that nice and organized
probably exactly what you're looking for
there beyond that the only other thing
to understand about piping is for
example I can go with my if I wanted to
do another folder I could pipe a double
pipe and what that's going to do is it's
going to append a single pipe is going
to actually replace so if list dot txt
already exists this is destructive
there's not going to be any prompts so
if I hit enter it just does it just does
it just does it on the other hand if I
do double pipe that's going to append so
if I do that one two three four five six
seven times and then G edit my file
you'll see that it's actually in there
seven times ok that's really all you
need to know that's a I think that
probably answers your question but now
keep in mind if you have a password for
your samba share on your nice box you're
going to need to enter your password
when you do that mount command so things
are a little bit different we can get
into that probably I wouldn't be
surprised if we've got an article in the
wiki I'm sure just to say that Garvey's
already over on the wiki checking to see
if we have one and post a link for you
image in the chat logs there you have it
um actually Dave may do is saying which
media software is better movida or XBMC
well
that's the tough one I think it's a
different thing right XBMC is kind of
design in my view of it and i'm not i
tend to use totem but these are media
center pieces of software so you can
watch basically internet TV on your
computer screen or on your TV with a
connected computer so XBMC is more
designed for computer scenario or pardon
me a TV scenario whereas movida which
used to be ELISA or Lisa or something
like that it was always good on the
computer but then they try they're
migrating over and I haven't used it
honestly since they since they changed
because I didn't like the interface but
so hard to say but that would be a poll
for the you know ask that's the question
in in their forums alrighty then you'll
get the the very biased review I don't
know how to answer that what features
are you looking for that'd be that'd be
probably a better way to approach it
would be say you know are you connecting
to your TV or using it on your computer
screen if it's on your computer screen I
would include mural internet TV on in
that mix and even on the TV if it's
strictly just to be able to watch your
movies from your Nass then XBMC is
probably the most streamlined of the of
them kind of you know your HD kind of
connective viewing experiences okay 32
inch LCD try them both I mean they're
both linux based right so install XBMC
and install movida give it a try
alrighty well we have a question here
from Leyland who I don't see him in the
chaplain I'm not sure if he's here but
he says Robbie or Eric he doesn't ask me
because I hope in what we're having and
he's been computer elated um could you
explain to use the importance of the
flash read speed of a video memory card
SD etc so secure digital is SD the
media speed if you bought like an SD
card for your camera where it has like
the class of the card has to do with the
speed how that relates to you let's
consider we're using a HD camcorder
right for me let's let's bring up the
wonderful Wikipedia ok HD bitrate let's
try that bit right first one that comes
up for Wikipedia audio video here we go
ok check this out AVCHD is the first
thing that stands out to me because most
HD camcorders support that AVCHD is a
compression codec that utilizes mpeg-4
it makes the file smaller for your
camera so that's why you're able to get
a camcorder that has eight gigs of
memory and yet you can somehow record
two hours of video on that it's it's
amazing compared to yesterday's
standards so looking at that AVCHD is a
common standard also there's hdv 1080i
which is if i would say you know that's
it's not as standard as AVCHD as far as
consumer cameras go it's leaning more
towards the high-end camera so either
way for HD video on a camcorder you're
looking at 24 to 25 megabits per second
ok so your cards are classed your SD
card is classed from level 1 class 12
class 10 and that number specifically
represents how many megabytes per second
that card is so if we go back let's
bring up Google for example just a real
quick way to do it so we know that we
need 25 megabits mega bits in mega bytes
ok so that is 3.1 25 megabytes per
second ok so the 25 megabits that we're
being told by Wikipedia our HD video
camera is going to require is the
equivalent of 3.1 25 megabytes per
second so that means a class
for card will successfully be able to
record on that camera if you go any
lower than that you're going to get
granularity honest on the image it's
going it's going to work but it's going
to have to compensate by dropping frames
you're not going to be able to record in
full motion certainly not 60 frames a
second so so similarly you might go to
six mega megabytes a second card like
class 6 gives you a little bit more room
for play if you're using a still camera
then it may speed up the the time that
it takes between shots if you've got a
high megapixel camera you take a picture
it's several Meg's right so you I don't
know you take a high res picture what
are they like three or four mags for a
photo a JPEG so you consider if your
card is a class three that photo is
going to take a whole second to save all
right because it's megabytes per second
right so if you've got a class 6 it's
going to save and a half a second if you
get a class 10 what everything but
couldn't take a whole I'm joking well it
doesn't sound like a lot but your kid is
up to bat and your kid is up to bat
you've got those you know those
milliseconds for that swim right and
it's like snap wait wait snap wait you
just don't want that okay so you get a
class eight or a class 10 card you're
going to be able to snap pictures like
that you see class 12 class 4 cards for
dirt dirt cheap at the store checkout
aisles but you got to know that it's not
the same thing it's you're looking at
one to four megabytes a second sure it
may suffice it may work but it's going
to be really slow which for your camera
means it's going to take time to take
each picture for your digital video
camera it's going to degrade the quality
if it doesn't meet the minimum of your
camera cool I hope that effectively
answers your question
how's your week on oh it hasn't been too
bad yeah you're saying you're sick yeah
so far I haven't been crossing at all
but I can't get her to laugh tonight I
mean I try what cuz I'm going I'm afraid
if I start laughing the cough will get
going and then I'll just beautiful over
the place see I'm trying but you don't
want me to have a coughing fit that
wouldn't be nice no laughing fit yes
coughing fit not so much I got a tree
growing out of my head it's kind of cool
alrighty so you can take it away with
the news if you like if I like righty
all right jump out to to the cloud yeah
of course Oh should be like wearing a
cape or something Superman all right get
my glasses on so
the us-israeli startup cloudshare whose
technology enables web based development
and testing of software applications
expects to as much as triple sales in
2012 as it benefits from rapidly growing
cloud computing market its top seven or
eight customers all large well-known
software firms pay four hundred thousand
to eight hundred thousand a year to
cloud chair clients include sap is that
is it's a press AP Adobe HP Dell and
Cisco I'm not sure on that one I see
oguri stark told routers today that
acquisitions in the cloud sector are
happening almost weekly it just shows
how important the cloud has become he
said the cloud is irreversible the genie
is out of the bottle you did it trying
to trip me up with clouds is the first
topic alright so a new case study which
compares the safety features offered in
Chrome Internet Explorer and Firefox on
the Windows platform has found that
Google Chrome offers the most protection
against online attacks than any other
mainstream browsers and the 102 page 102
page report prepared by researchers from
security firm a Q vent started with a
premise that buffer overflow bugs and
other security vulnerabilities were
inevitable in any complex piece of
software rather than relying on metrics
such as the number of flaws fixed or the
amount of time it took to release
updates the authors examined the
practical effect protections included by
default in each browser had on a wide
class of exploits chris valasek who is
the senior research scientist for the
study said that they found that google
chrome did the most sandboxing so I'm
assuming we all know what's in boxing is
I was like a test environment is a safe
environment for surfing so that as soon
as you've done your session it basically
clears the sand you can build your sand
castle which is to surf the web do your
thing and then rake it and everything
that you've done is gone in such a way
that if you got a virus it's
considered you know it's it's contained
to that session so you close the session
it's gone it deletes the sand it deletes
the sand it's like a cloud that comes in
with a bunch of wind yeah yeah I suppose
I could use that my computer is crawling
because I'm sure it's loaded with
viruses right now how you heard that I
ended don't put sand in your computer
just just being sure that you didn't
misinterpret that just pour it us
working the bag of 25 kilogram bag of
sand all right so surprisingly firefox
placed third and rub yes Robbie trying
to trip me up said what's that up in the
sky its a pig in the clouds I can't
believe the Firefox place so poorly but
this is on Windows platform as well so
alrighty am the report was commissioned
by Google but the authors insist that
they complete autonomy in deciding what
metrics to use and what conclusions they
made so a German Court has ruled in
motorola mobility's favorite in a patent
dispute with Apple the Android
smartphone maker had complained that
Apple failed to license one of its
wireless intellectual properties Apple
uses a technology in its iPhones and
it's 3g ipads motorola could now try to
force Apple to remove the feature from
its devices or halt sales in Germany
however Apple said it intended to appeal
and the stress that users should have no
trouble finding iPhones or iPads this
Christmas and so more than 300,000
consumers taken in by scam that warned
them they needed to purchase software to
get rid of non-existent security threats
are in line to get a slice of up to
eight million dollar seized from fake
antivirus peddler innovative marketing
the firm agreed to surrender the
ill-gotten gains to settle federal trade
commission charges that they use
deceptive ads to trick people into
buying software packages such as wind
fixer drive cleaner and XP antivirus so
if you want the full stories you can go
to category
five dot TV / newsroom and the category
5 TV news room is researched by Roy w
Nash and simple 10 with contributions by
our community of viewers if you have a
new story that you think is worthy of
honor mention the email the newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Rachel shoe Thank You Rachel
tonight's episode of category 5
technology TV is brought to you by
garden gate farms com for certified
organic broccoli sprout and wheatgrass
juice visit them at garden gate farms
com also planet calypso download the
free online massive multiplayer online
game cat5 TV / Calypso to get your hands
on that and also the pogoplug device cap
five dot TV / pogoplug now offering a
free cloud-based solution you can visit
cat5 TV / pogoplug for more information
this is category 5 technology TV and you
will find our website at category five
dot TV oh and there we go so I have to
ask yeah the pogoplug is a USB storage
google plug is a device to connect your
USB storage to and it connects your
internet connection so you can access
that storage from anywhere from any
device securely encrypted alright does
that make sense like for me on a mobile
device I can access all my files I can
do backups remotely let's say you put
one at at a family member's house you
could do a backup to your pogoplug which
is going to your external USB device
hard drive and it's off site so if you
ever had a flood or a fire or something
to take out your computer it doesn't
matter because your files are off site
and it's like an amazing solution and
there's no monthly service fees or
anything like that just the hardware
solution is the the greatest solution it
gives you access to a physical drive you
know where your data is because it's
actually on your hard drive brilliant
cool yeah i remember back in the days in
college of the original USB things they
were the new the new craze i had to pay
over a hundred bucks for one gig this
one hand gig like it's worn right off
this is my first USB flash drive this is
64 Meg's and I'll guarantee you i paid
over a hundred dollars for that what and
it still works i plug this into my
brother multifunction center printer the
other day and so amazing I comes up on
the screen and you can scan one page
after time directly to your USB device
this was cool so I was backing up my
daughter's school photos and dance
recital photos and things like that so i
plug this in it immediately props me
promise me what i want to do this is the
brother multifunction center and i put
the first picture in hits can put the
next picture in hit scan and it saves
them on here then plug it into my
pogoplug right on the front port of the
pogoplug pro and it synchronizes with
activesync to my off-site pogoplug so
i've got a backup of it immediately it's
amazing yeah I don't know you're
laughing about no because I run I forget
who said it but he said you need to turn
down the Star of Bethlehem over your
head and i was just like there's a star
over his head and i actually looked i
just looking worried about my head it's
a little glue up there yeah um also I
think was let's see who said it someone
said the pogoplug oh good guys says
Robbie f I tried the pogoplug software
and it wasn't working on my pc alright
windows on Windows the pogoplug software
is another solution from from pogoplug
that allows you to share the files that
are on your computer should work if
you've got windows but if you don't have
if it's not working for some reason i
would i would contact them they're very
good to get back to you their support
department
but it gives you access to your
computer's files all the time but here's
the disadvantage your computer's got to
be on right that's a power hungry beast
and it's going to decrease the lifespan
of your hardware that's where the
pogoplug device comes in real nice
because you can plug in a USB Drive even
a flash drive they're so cheap these
days and get like we're saying like a
multi gig stick for very cheap you can
plug that in and that you've got no
moving parts on the entire device and
you've got access to the files from
anywhere and it's very very low power
consumption you think about an external
laptop computer hard drive like the
little one you know 500 gigs say plug
that in and it's very little power
consumption because they're designed to
conserve battery life on a laptop and
you can access it from anywhere and it
uses very little power and you don't
have to have your computer on so that's
the difference there but contact
pogoplug if you're having trouble with
your so with their software there and
I'm sure they'll be very helpful to to
get you set up or send us a direct you
know information about the problem
itself if you want to email us I'll
maybe can connect with them and see what
they say live at category five dot TV if
you'd like to email us speaking of email
I got an interesting one today just as a
side note not tech related but something
that has been affecting a lot of people
in our area and and I'm certainly
elsewhere in the world but it's
Christmas shopping time so everybody's
doing a lot of shopping and when you go
to the store you're not necessarily
watching the screen the whole time you
have the kids pulling on you and you got
you're trying to hide this stuff and
it's like it's difficult to keep an eye
on things and it's actually been
happening it's very dishonest but it has
been happening where people are checking
out their pang and they're walking away
sometimes without even a receipt but
people have been going home check their
receipt and they see that there was
twenty or forty dollars cash back on the
purchase they never asked for that cash
back so the cashier or somebody has been
actually punching in a twenty dollar
cash back knowing that all their they're
not going to notice and pocketing the 20
l know but you gotta sign those things
cuz otherwise you can bring your receipt
back done that's my theory he knows this
because he's tried it no goodness that's
dishonest but i would expect they
probably you know did you mark the
receipt so that they can there's it can
be done right I would expect we think
you'd notice so like you buy a few items
it's like 40 bucks Oh that'll be a
hundred dollars please well but you
don't though if you're standing in a
superstore and you're doing Christmas
shopping for example and you're buying
for the kids and stuff you're probably
not going to notice twenty dollars right
there at the till I worked at a sore
once and I was short given the lady
seventy cents and she was so furious
she's like you're trying to rob me and
you stealin 70 since I've been from
everyone who comes through here and then
she's like she said she was calling the
cops and she stormed out of the building
she's kinda have you rested for stealing
my seventy cents like you can have it i
miscounted customer service random so i
don't know if that's legit because it's
an email forward and lots of people were
on a cc and so i encourage users when
you're forwarding things of course use
blind carbon copy bcc it's going to
protect your friends and your family
from receiving that further email
because that gets forwarded down the
line and everybody's email address is on
that so all of a sudden one of those
people has a virus and guess what every
single person in that email is going to
be on that virus list so it's a problem
but that said I don't know if the email
was legit so I'm not forwarding it to
you I'm just sharing the information
that was in the email sounds like it
could be legitimate and it was a local
email so what I'm not sure if it's legit
so I'm nothing weird it to you but I'm
going to tell you all I know for sure
but I'll tell you I tell you I'm sure
Daisy legit just be cautious it's like
when I go to an ATM these days I like
for the past several years I always feel
the card slot to make sure that there's
not an insert reader in that card slot
because if you put in your card and
there's a reader and it's transmitting
your card information and they're
monitoring your PIN as you punch it in
they've got acts they can spoof your
card right so similarly I'll just
you know check your receipt on your way
out watch the till watch the cashier and
double check that they haven't marked
you down for cash advance if you didn't
request it so just a little food for
thought thank you for the email jim i
think that's a good information for sure
ok so we're talking about getting your
internet connection to be faster and one
of the ways that we can do that is
through modifying our dns using a dns
server that is going to perform much
faster for us so dns is the domain name
system it's basically you know the
internet uses IP address it's like when
I was connecting to my server there 10
dot 0 down 0 top 5 easy to remember
Google on the other hand you know let's
see I'm gonna do a ping 74 dot 125 dot
2268 for there they are Google that's
their real address that's their phone
number on the Internet ok but what do we
do we don't memorize that that's crazy
talk we use the domain name system even
though we don't even know it google.com
Google dot CA enter and it takes us to
the exact same thing it's the same thing
putting the IP address ok because it's
going through DNS if i type in google
dots EA well so what happens well if
you've got a slow dns server your i
usually you're connecting through your
internet service provider they've set a
default dns record it's probably their
own server who knows how good it is who
knows how fast or reliable it is it
could be affecting the performance of
your internet you don't even know
because when you type in a web site
address it has to go through dns well
why does that matter right i go to
google and then i do my search and i'm
finished going to google i go to
category 5 TV and i'm done right well
here's why it matters because i'm on
category 5 TV and here's a you know
here's an image well that image is
hosted on our static server that's not
an
IP address every single image right is
hosted on HTTP colon slash slash its
resolving through DNS in order to get
you to that image so if you've got a
slow dns server it doesn't just affect
the load time of a page it affects every
subsequent load on the page so what we
need to do is we need to detect not only
the speed of our current dns server it
sounds advanced but it don't worry it's
not that complicated okay but what we're
going to do is we're gonna get a free
tool tonight that's going to allow you
to scan the speed of your server but
also the speed of alternative dns
servers that you can punch into your
computer and then all of a sudden your
computer is going to be run real fast on
the internet you'll be surprised at how
much of a difference that it can make so
what I'll do is I'm going to bring up a
special website that we've got here it's
just for you cat five dot TV / DNS ok
that's going to take you to this domain
name server system benchmark from GRC ok
so just click on that picture and that
gives me the file now you'll see that
I've downloaded that go properties
permissions and I'm allowing executing
as a program this is on Linux ok so what
I'm going to do is I'm going to actually
set it up so that I can run this program
on Linux remember it's a windows program
but I can run it on the next no problem
because I've got wine installed ok so
I'm going to run it in windows in wine
okay first thing I want to do is now
this is the same on Mac if you've got
wine you can install it you can run this
on Mac there's no installation ok if
you're on Windows you can just run it
it's an exe no problem so it works
across the board but you do need wine if
you're on linux or mac you can get that
by going sudo apt-get install wine in a
terminal or type in wine in synaptic
package manager or yum ok so click on
nameservers it's going to populate the
list see those orange ones hmm those
ones that are going to redirect if you
type in a bad website address so if i
type in google for example that domain
that DNS server if I'm on it is going to
in fact take over that and redirect me
to their error page or it might be a an
advertising supported page not
necessarily ideal not necessarily what I
want I've clicked on add remove up at
the top left here okay this is important
what we need to do because out of the
box this program is going to be using
DNS servers that are central to the
United States the developer where they
are so what we want to do so we want to
click on build a custom name server list
at the bottom there I've clicked on add
remove build custom name server list
okay and now you'll see a button there
we click on it and it's going to take 36
minutes fortunately we've done this in
advance so what this is in fact doing
and now it's done we can see that it's
finished there but at 36 minutes is
going to go through like 4800 different
dns servers including your own and it's
going to test them it's going to see how
fast they are in cached mode uncashed
and resolving comms so from that from
those 4,800 it's going to narrow it down
to you know the top hundred or so and
then from there we're going to run our
benchmark tests and find out how fast we
can really get your internet so now I'm
going to let this go what I've mentioned
there is that these guys here the brown
colored ones are orange they are going
to redirect now is that a bad thing not
necessarily opendns has that as a
feature so that you can log in and you
can for example block gambling sites on
your network so that if somebody tries
to go to them it will redirect so that
may be a good situation so keep that in
mind but in some cases you may not want
that feature certainly if you're not
sure you probably don't want it so what
we're going to do is we're going to
right click on one of those or anywhere
as a matter of fact we're going to go
remove redirecting servers that's going
to get rid of all those so now we've got
only servers that are going to just
route our traffic through okay so there
we go
next up basically now these are the
these are the ones that have been
detective for me remember this took 36
minutes in real time now I'm going to
run the benchmark over the top right
hand side there okay when we run that
it's going to scan all of those and
we're going to see how fast these things
really are you'll see that is bumping
the slower ones down at the bottom of
the list and putting the faster ones
right up at the top you can see what the
company names are it's important to note
you know atria for example is a very
well-respected internet company their
provider of fiber optics for major
companies so we know that they're
reliable server so because they're so
fast it could be a good option now my
benchmark is done and you can see the
difference in speed here between the
first four for example we only need
three because we're going to have try
tre DNS records in our router or in our
computer so I can see that this top one
here is running in cache mode it's going
to give me zero point 15 seconds to
receive a website see that's real fast
uncashed which means they've never
indexed this site before which is rare
but possible it's going to be a fair bit
slower but still quite fast dot-com
resolution means it has to go to a
dot-com dns server so it's basically
like it's going through this dns server
and then out to another dns server and
that performs fairly well as well so the
top one is the best performer the next
one down and so on and so forth so what
we want to do is we want to pick which
ones we want to use for our computer so
in my case I'm going to use the top one
because let's say that you know we we
can trust this and you can always test
it you can change it if you find that
it's not performing the way that you
want you can always change it so no
problem there so now what I can in fact
do is bring up my network configuration
here this is in Linux and go down to
edit connections highlight my auto
ethernet and the reason I'm doing that
is because that's the one that I'm in
fact connected to okay and I'm going to
go edit
on my ipv4 settings page I want to
change my method again this is on Linux
going to change it to automatic dhcp
address is only because we want to
specify the dns ourselves and now we can
take 434 dns servers or whatever and we
punch in those numbers here so if it was
you know let's i'm just going to make
some up here just because i didn't
record them there i'm going to put and
punch in the best one that's my first
one then a comma and then the next one
well with periods there right and you do
that for two or three maybe four dns
records and that's setting your computer
to use those dns servers so these are
the fast ones right now back in our
software from GRC you can actually go
through the tabs there and it's going to
give you reports on what it thinks is
the best option for you look through
them it's very informative and it is
very helpful that's going to give you a
boost of up to say thirty three percent
on your internet speed which is
unbelievable and it's just from doing
that little setting it's free it's like
a if we all knew about it then we're
going to have faster internet so give
that a try again cat five dot TV / dns
to get the tool follow this tutorial and
you'll be able to improve the speed of
your system on the internet and of
course and that's based on the dns but
in Windows you can set that up by going
into your network connections go into
your settings for that connection and
change your ipv4 settings just the same
way you can even install them in your
router lots of routers will allow you to
set dns records directly in the router
to override your ISPs default if that's
the case that's going to impact the
performance on all computers in your
network without having to change each
one individually so that's nice and then
if you have problems if a dns record
goes down the nice thing is is you can
just change which dns you're using you
can set back to your ISPs normal ones
and do a new scan or whatever but gr
sees products which is free is is
probably the best one out there I've
compared many including Google's product
and the thing is is that it also tests
the reliability of the server so if you
see some of
areas they're being covered by red if
you see some of your test let's see if I
can find one here yeah I didn't I didn't
get any that we're red but let me just
show you okay so when you get your
results okay over here on the left let's
say that to 16 dot 254 there it may be
half covered in red if it was half
covered in red that means it lost half
of the information that was sent to it
by the benchmark so in that case you
know you know what I'm going to stay
away from that DNS server because it's
may be fast but it's dropping
information and it's going to add that's
going to therefore actually make it slow
so check that out cat5 TV / dns get
yourself some faster internet absolutely
free Oh Rachel it looks like the Sun is
coming up Wow oh and look all prezzies
oh look will you look at this there's
one right here that has your name on it
ah and it's green wrapper that's awesome
so be ready what is it if it's um
supposed to wait it's not happening yeah
green wrapper ah weird my head go oh
it's actually not what is this oh it's
amazing what if i could get out of the
prize hold it up to this camera here
we've got a very special pickle cam
there it is it's enough now as I
understand it the the pickle the pickle
is a German sign of good luck you put it
on your tree and and somebody finds it
and it gives them a year of good luck
but in actuality as we can all imagine
it's really just to have a pickle that
you can hang on your tree so merry
christmas best gift ever I love pickles
she likes pickles not harkins but the
gherkins are good no they're like
shriveled up grandpa and there's a
little something you can actually use as
well yeah I could have used this other
way here oh yeah ten billion dollars Tim
deal
micro pennies in fantastic I never got
you anything so yeah they kind of sialic
wiser already wiser how cool okay do we
have any quick questions in the chat
room category five TV I had to ask you
to join us in the chat room uh yes Sammy
says I thought it was something else
produced by a Keebler Elf it's a
Christmas pickle yes category five dot
TV join us there and of course through
the week we are available through that
site and through our email live at
category five dot TV hit on over to our
website and login category five dot TV
if you are a registered viewer if you're
not a registered viewer I'm very very
sorry make sure you register okay you're
not going to you're not going to get in
now we get over to our website category
five TV and if you're watching this
after the fact register on our site join
us in a live show head on over to
category five dot TV because we're going
to have a quick click race here I've got
a pogoplug to give you love to give you
a Christmas gift tonight which is it
surpasses any Christmas pickle nothing
surpasses the Christmas pickle well
Christmas pickle is pretty awesome head
on over to category 5 TV you have to be
logged in in order to participate you'll
see the cliq race button on the home
page and that will let you join us in
click race only get a couple of minutes
left so what you just like how do you
play you just click like crazy or what
yeah pretty much I mean you destroy your
mouse
and we win a billion dollars the winner
pogoplug 250 points tonight a viewer
points for the runner-up so we're taking
two winners category five dot TV click
on click race make sure you logged in
you won't see it if you're not and if
you are logged in refresh if you don't
see it it's right on the homepage we're
gonna give you a chance to win a
pogoplug tonight and also 250 viewer
points for the runner-up category five
dot TV couple more moments to allow
people to come on in you want to join
what your exciting than clicking
clicking clicking clicking the only
thing that could be better is winning
waiting for ya all right people someone
just join this click game we just had
thousands of people click onto our
website poor John is waiting ah well
there we got two people so far hurry on
up jut come on get in there for click
race we got a s 759 g-dog 1985 come on
Oh No hey Toro you can't win
here we go and the quick race
put a one last time on click race oh
look at this
John is like going mad there oh my he
wants that focal blood we've got a night
star in second place
g-dog 1985 very close behind
jordo is clicking
down there at the bottom spring cowboy
16 clicks in but nowhere near the 375
the John's body
I'm on night star keep on clicking what
do these clicks going out
you can do it print cowboy
man you can do it you're clicking lately
great
yeah beats the rabbit was waiting for
his Mouse to give up
and ladies and gentlemen
no matter the cliq race keep going keep
going the winner of a bungalow tonight
is and our runner-up who wins 250 viewer
points tonight is night star you're
gonna say dollars and I was gonna say
one was not common well I wasn't I
pogoplug congratulations guys all you
have to do is email me a email that
would be the best thing to email me live
at category 5 TV what I need from you is
your real name your full mailing address
and your phone number so that we can
give that to the courier we're going to
send those out we had 575 clicks there
from jot and night star gave us 472
clicks so it was pretty close only off
103 the only only only 103 that's like
there's a couple of you that were down
around that many it's been doing his
finger exercise yes probably did you do
we're talking about rapid fire mice that
would be cool when it comes to that we
are going to be giving away one more
pogoplug next week just in time for
Christmas so make sure you watch on the
show make sure you register on our
website because once again you cannot
participate in the in the contest unless
you have registered on our website
category 5 TV it's free absolutely free
it just allows you to become more
involved in our community and that
certainly will love having you here so
if you're new pop is an email too it's
always nice to hear from new people or
send a postcard yeah that's a great idea
we're relaxing okay I'd love to yeah I
mean yeah who was it was in India send a
postcard yeah come on was beside me know
gonna take something lunatic had with
that lunatic head it wasn't a normal
name that I would name my child so it's
it's difficult to remember God says that
the reason that he's so good at clicking
on the mouse's from planet calypso
deathmatch battles in peer-to-peer so if
you want to you know
have you don't want to have shot on an
opposing team but definitely if you want
to get on his team it's camp fived on TV
/ Calypso you can download it cool have
fun this week yep I managed to get
through without a coughing fit I was
very good thats how i was like this very
good yeah don't make me laugh what I is
Santa trying to make me laugh with that
horrendous photo I think that was from
last Christmas it's something like that
I don't know something ridiculous pulled
it out of the tickle trunk yeah hope
everybody had fun nice to see you Sammy
says a gamoto we've got there is lunatic
head bill m NFL Chris Reich good day
Dennis Kelly my man check it out the
videos I awesome job man thank you very
much I'd love to chat with you very soon
d hand drumstick ever mined in
alphabetical order let's change things
up a little bit spring cowboy we got
toward oh of course Trekkie double oh
yeah Simon's the Seas rd Blair our
f-bomb good to see ya nua night star we
even have Rachel shoe in the chat room
that's how classy our chat room is have
a great week everybody I'll see you next
Tuesday night Krista is going to be here
for another Christmas special and we've
got another pogoplug to give away we're
going to be having a lot of fun and
we've got a lot of great information for
you get your questions in live act
category five dot TV ready merry
Christmas everyone yeah Merry Christmas
Merry Christmas yeah let's see until
that until after so new year good to
have you here nice as always and I hope
you have a fantastic week in YouTube
mm-hmm see everybody hey good night
Oh
