here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom an IT
worker who accidentally threw out a hard
drive containing a small cache of
Bitcoin has lost over 100 million
dollars because of the blunder
investigations have been launched after
a helicopter reportedly crashed when
swerving to avoid a consumer drone a
Japanese company is planning to build
the world's tallest wooden skyscraper in
2041 to mark its three hundred and
fiftieth anniversary a mountain of
sensitive FedEx consumer data has been
exposed and Microsoft has back ported
its Windows Defender advanced threat
protection security toolkit from Windows
10 to Windows 7 and 8.1 these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on thinkgeek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux place i'm sasha-ann in here the
top stories were following this week an
IT worker who accidentally thrown a hard
Bitcoin has so far lost over 100 million
dollars because of the blunder we've
reported on this a number of years ago
as well but as Bitcoin continues to grow
the time has come to revisit this the
story dates back to 2013 when James
Howells had who had been mining
cryptocurrency on his computer since
2009 to solve complex mathematical
problems and earn rewards dismantled the
device after spilling a drink on it he
said after I had stopped mining the
laptop I had used was broken into parts
and sold on eBay however I kept the hard
drive in a drawer at home knowing it
contained my Bitcoin private key
so that if bitcoin did become valuable
one day I would still have the coins I
had mind he continued in mid-2013 during
a clear outs the hard drive then worth a
few hundred thousand pounds was
mistakenly thrown out and put into a
general waste bin at my local landfill
site after which it was buried on-site
the hard drive contains 7500 bitcoins at
that time that amount of Bitcoin was
worth about seven hundred thousand
dollars but Bitcoin didn't stop there
had he had not thrown away that drive it
would have amounted to over 100 million
dollars 119 million five hundred and one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-five
dollars you asked as of last week while
Howells had made several requests to the
local council to dig up and salvage the
hard drive at this site he has yet to be
granted permission to look for the
missing treasure he says I haven't
actually tried to search for the hard
drive yet as I have not been given
permission to look despite having
financial backing in place and engaging
the local council a couple of times
Howells who calls himself a Bitcoin
pioneer and Bitcoin cache proponent on
Twitter says that he will not give up on
his search on December 2nd 2017 he
tweeted a diagram of a modern landfill
with the bittersweet caption Bitcoin
cold storage vaults I remember this
story I recall you doing this story
years back it makes me so sad for this
guy and I every time Bitcoin goes up a
coin is constantly going up and has been
going up but good news is that he
tweeted on December 7th seems to be in
good spirits has not taken his own life
so this is this is Grace on the up and
up I cannot believe he's waiting for
permission like I feel like if this was
me with a hundred million dollars I
might be sneaking in under the cover of
darkness and when you're telling a story
again I can't help but think about
Shizue Yamaguchi coming on the show and
talking to us about decluttering well
I'm leading up cleaning house the Mary
Kondo method
I might be wrong in my recall on this
but I do not believe it was him who
threw it out was it the people from
hoarders that came in and like took all
this stuff and threw that something
makes me think it was his wife and I
don't know whether it's because I'm a
wife but that's the thing that a wife
would do I guess believe me it's true
how many times have I been like where is
such and such tech device and then I
find it years later in the bottom of a
box because there's a box that says
random miscellaneous Robi things exactly
at least they don't go to the dump oh
okay so I want to know okay how like
would that usually be okay if you took a
hard drive out could you just put it in
a safe and yours leader would it be okay
if it had Bitcoin on it like is that
obvious I wouldn't trust it right
certainly it's certainly not yes and no
I mean cuz so many things could happen
putting a drive in a drawer right
sensitive to electrostatic sensitive to
vibration as people open and close the
drawer sensitive to people coming in and
throwing out the things that are in the
drawer granted he did spill a drink on
it to begin with so he's not exactly
up-and-up on the safe keeping of his
VidCon yeah yeah okay so if we're gonna
mine cryptocurrency first of all yeah
you're gonna get a string of words or a
decryption key a private key they this
is what it was stored on that hard drive
the Bitcoin itself is not stored on the
hard drive the Bitcoin is in the
Internet it's like just they call it the
the the blockchain it's in this
blockchain so many many computers have
that Bitcoin coded into them but in
order to access those Bitcoin you have
to have the private key so they're
Bitcoin out there that people can see
that it's not tangible but numbers it's
it's digital binary stuff with with the
decryption key though or with the pardon
me the private key
you can access that as money I kind of
thought so right so had he had multiple
copies of that key or had he printed
that key and put it in the filing caps
so this could easily be just a backup
your stuff oh my gosh right especially
if you have 7500 Bitcoin at the time
even when they were $1 each that's
$7,500 and at the time when he had this
discarded it was $700,000 I cannot
believe he's so I like Jessica he thinks
he's gonna find this you're not fine in
it no well at this point it's been so
many years buried in the muck
when you buried in the muck what do they
do at landfills they put things on top
of it and they put chemicals and yeah
types of bacteria that eat away at the
things that are buried there right okay
so when it was in your drawer was
already possibly subject to some it
should had some 7up all over it yeah and
now it's a know you're never sorry buddy
if you're gonna mine cryptocurrency once
you get up to a half a Bitcoin you got
to know it's time to like backup your
backups put it in a safety deposit box
print it print it when the
electromagnetic pulse comes from the
alien invaders you have to have a paper
copy I will say I hope this guy is still
happily married but if he's not he
should never say on his first date that
he does it's not a way to introduce
yourself I could be out of McDonald's
right now I have a story for why this is
our first date I would be wining and
dining you downtown not a good pick-up
line investigations have been launched
after a helicopter reportedly crashed
while swerving to avoid a consumer drone
a trainee had been practicing hovering
about 50 feet above trees on Daniel
Island South Carolina seeing a
quadcopter flying towards them the
instructor took control
all but clipped a tree with the tail
rotor router causing the helicopter to
crash to the ground and tip onto its
side the drone is believed to have been
a DJI phantom DJI says that they are
trying to learn more about this incident
and stand ready to assist investigators
they also added that they do provide
owners with help to ensure that they
steer clear of traditional aircraft
industry groups representing large US
airlines pilots and air traffic
controllers have previously urged the US
Federal Aviation Administration which
has also launched an investigation into
the crash to end exemptions that
currently prevent it from regulating
consumer drones a letter co-signed by
three organizations warns the likelihood
that a drone will collide with an
aircraft airline aircraft is increasing
it is increasing because there's more
drones out there yeah and it's scary I
hope that the pilot and the student are
okay now there was no mention of that I
think I think that they must be okay and
that it would be a much bigger story if
they were not oh sure yeah you know what
you're right absolutely if they were
hurt or bright worse it would be bigger
news but even if they are what I mean
I'm certain that there are some amount
of pain if you're feet above the
treeline and you fall but okay I'm
assuming that they're alive and even if
they okay who pays for this is where
this is going you know how you segue to
that okay so these people are on the
ground and there is there obviously hurt
in some way and they have to go to the
hole they just lost a helicopter that's
gonna be worth a couple of Bitcoin right
so the drone flier is clearly at fault
right because I would dim this I mean
I'm not the judge and jury on this one
but the drone was flying around we don't
have any inkling as to how close they
were but
it it was the pilots error that hit the
tree that's what took down the
helicopter now had that drone gotten
close you know what's happening if it
got on top of those rotors done sucked
down and shattered and who knows what
kind of mess right could have been worse
could have been worse I still okay they
were 50 feet they hit a tree that's what
took them down so they were 20 feet they
hit at that point right the hit a tree
to avoid a drone yes was perhaps coming
toward them in my mind it's like
barreling toward them at the feet of the
way matrix-style
okay so they panicked they panicked yeah
so is there insurance did DJI but the
the pilot instructor would have had
insurance of course on the craft itself
right so they'd be covered now how do
you track down the pilot of the drone
good luck there now if DJI is helping
they may have GPS data but they have
been under a lot of heat for holding
onto GPS data so guess what they're
apparently not doing that anymore or
they're hiding the fact that they're
doing that so who really knows it does
say DJI helps drone fliers avoid area
education for education so like when you
see a plane oh and through the features
right they will you can't fly your drone
into a no-fly zone if you are a good
pilot if you're a good player a good
player does not disable their GPS in
there and the geofencing right
geofencing will stop your drone dead
stop if you are approaching a no-fly
zone some people will turn off that
feature on their drone I just had only
want to keep a light bulb moment yeah
can each commercial aircraft each
helicopter and plane can they not have
like a beacon of some sort that does
like a force field I think I know where
you're going with you like here's my
theory detective bubble it's probably
not a good idea
on an aircraft
to have a transmitter that takes down
aircraft right I see what you're saying
yes but if it was a signal if it was a
like a radio signal the broadcasts 50
yards in front and around right and and
and the drone had a feature to receive
that and say oh I'm getting too close
but these are things that are traveling
at super speeds I'm picturing like Star
Trek or Star Wars that is in the Stars
has the force field that goes around
Star Trek has right collector dishes and
in force fields
right so okay can planes not have that
in theory but for just like like it did
welcome to reality Sasha I'd love to be
able to say the Star Trek is real but
alas no but it's science fiction like
just something that pulses that working
like okay they're working on it also
faster-than-light Drive they're working
on it not yet a thing right and my idea
is this is the how drones like the way
you think yeah this is how the force
field and faster-than-light Drive
dilithium I don't know somewhere a
2041 to markets three hundred and
fiftieth anniversary summit Tomo
forestry said ten percent of the 70
story W 350 tower would be steel
combined with about one hundred and
eighty thousand cubic meters of
indigenous wood enough to build about
eight thousand homes with trees and
foliage on balconies at every level it
said a braced tube structure diagonal
diagonal steel vibration controlled
braces at the center of a 350 meter wood
and steel column would protect against
Tokyo's regular earthquakes the
projected cost of the building is about
six hundred billion yen more than five
and a half billion u.s. dollars which is
about
is the cost of a conventional skyscraper
of the same size but Sumitomo said that
it's expected that the costs will fall
before completion due to technological
breakthroughs a block of student flats
in Vancouver was currently the world's
tallest wooden skyscraper at 53 meters
so this is about 300 meters taller than
the current world holder the 300 the W
350 tower would be used for offices
shops hotels and homes I love stuff that
would be stunning I imagine so if it's
happening in that many years right 2040
G they got a lot of time to prepare and
save up like they could probably plant
the trees that are going to be used by
the would probably have deflectors by
then I know right okay well with that
that girl she knows it all yeah all
right how how is a braced tube structure
gonna protect a wooden structure from
earthquakes you mentioned that it's in
the it sounds like it's in the interior
so the interior column being set up such
a way that so you think of a building
and if a building with these trusses of
wood and everything else and built to
look nice if they flex like this then
things start snapping things start
breaking right so you get a truss
structure made of steel tube that is
like crisscross that is really really
solid that's not going to bend and warp
and and flex the same way that's that
traditional buildings like a square
building would in that kind of
environment if there was an earthquake
okay some may be worried about this sure
that's pretty tall for it but it is
steel and wood right and I don't think
I'm as worried in that trees seem pretty
resilient like you see sure they flex in
the wind right and those are all right
with them I
don't know if I live on the top floor
and I don't know that there should be
any amount of cooking instead building
ever in case of fire yeah I kind of was
like what what kind of fire hazard is it
to have a wooden structure of that
magnitude that's that's giant like 350
meters that's half the size a little
more than half the height of the CN
Tower that's crazy this is significantly
a non-smoking building you have to stand
in the steel trusses you're fine I guess
earthquakes people but I'll match you
got some issues researchers said
Thursday that passports driver's
licenses and other sensitive
documentation for thousands of FedEx
customers were left online possibly for
years in a blunder that left the
information available to identity
thieves and other malicious actors in
all Karam tech security Center said
researchers found 119 thousand scanned
documents stored in a publicly available
Amazon s3 bucket the photo ID scans were
accompanied by completed US Postal
Service forms that included names home
addresses and phone numbers of people
who requested to have mail delivered by
an authorized agent the IDS are from all
over the world Mexico Canada European
Union countries Saudi Arabia Kuwait
Japan Malaysia China Australia and more
the data was initially gathered by bongo
international a company that helped
North American retailers and brands sell
online to customers in other countries
FedEx acquired Bongo international in
2014 and eventually changed its name to
FedEx cross-border international FedEx
shut down the service last April the
discovery of the customer IDs and other
personal information suggests that not
only was the information never properly
secured to begin with but FedEx
officials fail to purge the data once
the service was discontinued Chrome tech
said the information may have been
available since 2009 people who used
Bongo International or FedEx
cross-border international should be on
alert the incentive
Siddhant is yet another example of why
people should avoid giving over personal
information whenever possible Wow this
is a weekly story when things feels like
that's a lot of now very like data you
think about identity theft what do you
need hey ID up on an s3 bucket which is
basically like a spot on the web to host
files so right obviously they're able to
download these hundreds of thousands of
ID scans right so it's ID and addresses
right and like it's actually everything
you need to become it if it was never
secured to begin with yeah sounds like
when FedEx took over the company why
wouldn't you purge like why wouldn't you
get rid of that if it hidden from them
in the acquisition of the company I have
no idea like how can you know I don't
know in an acquisition of that scale
like what if the here's a hypothetical
for you what if they just didn't realize
like they acquired the company and
didn't realize that they were storing
all this data unsafely I would assume
that they wouldn't have realized it that
FedEx seems like an up-and-up sort of
company that wouldn't do something like
this intentionally right like you know
you would I guess in crit would with
that help encrypting yes I have
discussions with with people and I say
what are you thinking like you can't
keep doing this you can't not have a
backup you can't have all of your data
stored on this onedrive you know I'm I'm
very vocal about hey you need to have
ransomware protection on your Windows
network yeah you can't just use
antivirus anymore you can't use security
essentials you have to have proper
protection and whether they listen to me
or not that's up to them now here's a
case where did FedEx go in and did they
see that that was there and did someone
be vocal about it and saying you can't
do this you can't have personal
information free
available for anyone to download on s3
in a public bucket like think of a hard
drive that is accessible to anyone in
the world don't know what this is and I
have that yeah these are the sort of
people who should have had that hard
drive in a landfill oh boy are you still
holding on to Windows 7 well good news
Microsoft has back ported its Windows
Defender advanced threat protection
security toolkit from Windows 10 to
Windows 7 and 8.1 now in hindsight
looking back at our previous story I
feel bad that I said security essentials
is not the product for you I didn't see
this coming
but it was a perfect segue we realize
that is now available the release will
allow those holding out with older
versions of the operating systems it
gets the exploit and malware infection
detection prevention and Event Reporting
features offered by Windows 10 for
enterprises the extension to Windows 7
and 8.1 will more importantly allow
admins to bring their older machines
under the same security management and
administration tools they use for
Windows 10 pcs this is where Microsoft
is focusing its pitch by adding ATP to
Windows 7 and 8.1 Redmond hopes that it
will convinced sis admin's
to add those machines to the Windows
Defender monitoring systems that they
use for Windows 10 devices and in the
process product purge companies toward
migrating in the older pcs to Windows 10
Microsoft noted that Windows 7 is still
slated for retirement in January of 2020
the software giant is also looking to
extend the ATP support for non Windows
devices by signing up another partner
for its security push Sentinel 1 will be
adding ATP supports to the endpoint
protection platform security tool it
sells for Windows Mac Linux and VDI this
means that administrators
setup Sentinel 1 to automatically pass
alerts along to management consoles via
a TP hmm I'm not a big Security
Essentials fan I like ESET I like proper
protection but for those who are going
to opt for what comes with your computer
it is good that there's something a
little more robust than what's freely
available right now
yes if you're on Windows 7 why are you
on Windows 7 why are you on Windows yeah
I think a lot of people are still
holding on to the past it's true
and some people are stuck on hardware
that doesn't support Windows 10 or some
people just don't want updates crippling
their computers right some people stop
mullets she went there
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm satiric i
actually loved everybody even if you
have a mullet
with your bathroom it's always nice to
feel bad at the end of the show
[Music]
