welcome to the pixel shadow on mangafox
70 this week I'm jumping onto the pixel
shadow survival server stick around this
is going to be fun kidzone gaming on
twitter send us this amazing banner
thanks hey look it's me thanks for
sending that in last week we again
upgraded our mind system gaming server
are creative and survival worlds are now
running faster and there is a guy in my
face and now faster and more reliable
than ever and today I've done a lot of
uncut off camera work and I have a
generous house sorry i deserted the
house over there and today I'm going to
be working on this house right here and
our goal for today is we are going to
make a gamer's room with the stuff that
we have collected so as you can see in
the inventory here we have things like
she friend oh soo pony sleigh station oh
nice I hasten to as expect her a Tetris
arcade a computer tower of Pony vanyo
and the me n TN dohui and things like
that so in this room here we are going
to make the most amazing gamers system
in the world and our bathroom is not
finished so we won't look at that close
it oh I lock someone in there
so many people in my home today so
before we do any of that I would like to
show you the way my house looks so this
is my main bedroom I found yes I did
find a nyan cat in one of Kendall's cave
realms I have got the iron speechless
Cairo and Kendall's k realm which I
might show later up in the video I have
to mow chests a golden chest some
furnaces and we have a really nice
balcony so yeah and we I also have this
really nice kind of living room kind of
place with the TV a filing cabinet and a
really nice sofa that I created myself
and to keep turning off the TV anyway
I'll turn that off because we're leaving
the room this is my bed and let's head
downstairs and show you the garage so
right now I have a really nice garage
going on um and some more to show you is
this is my farm I have wheat Pepe Russ
and cotton growing here I used Kabul
slabs for most of it not right here
because I was running out right here
I've used half blocks which can be
crafted for a three cobblestone going up
like that which will get you six color
stone slabs and I also use some of this
which is just nine um wheat in a
crafting grid and let's hit it inside so
this is the kitchen so far it's not
completed I've got a sink
covered and five a computer in the
kitchen I might move that to the gamers
room and also my backyard which I am
really a fan of I have a giant sequoia
tree I don't think that's how you
pronounce tit I'm not very good at
pronouncing I have this little pond a
willow tree and yeah it's just a really
nice kind of place to hang out and also
thank big thanks to Dennis Kelly he
helped me build a big quarry but right
now this um we had to disable technic
quarries because it was causing leg but
otherwise before that look how deep this
Doug it's very expensive and i have no
clue how on earth Dennis Kelly was able
to build this so I I really need to
thank him for that I am so thankful that
he helped me to do that cuz I'd never
would have been able to do that alone so
so far it's gone let's see that the
coordinates out about most it looks like
it's gone about almost 600 blocks d I
thought they were only supposed to go
100 but I'm probably wrong I know I
don't know my way around cornet so don't
blame me if I am way off but this is the
quarry my chest have quite a lot of
cobblestone some silvers and 10 things
like that and have some furnaces around
and also this big long mine goes deep
and you can see some of the quarry and
let's head in back into the house and we
can start on our gamers room so first
I'll grab the computer and go upstairs
and dump make make a little put some
stuff in the chest because we don't need
this right now I will so this is a
monitor and keyboard as you would expect
got some myths throw from somewhere so
I'll just try and clear all this out Oh
No okay so i also have I've 164 five
mind gelled notes which is pretty
impressive so the store check input here
some planks which you can stack here
I've got the cobblestone wall which I
can stack onto here I've got some gravel
and put here and that's pretty much all
i can put here i can put a water lily in
my other chest or in here and we can get
to work on our game your grandma's room
so in the inventory it looks like there
are keyboards let's see how to make this
so you and I need three wooden planks
and three plastic sheets so I have
plastic sheets and yay long join the
game yes yes yes like he's finally in a
video first time in the world okay so uh
hopefully he will know so yeah I'll tell
it I'll try and get out to be in the
video and I will grab the three plastic
sheets which is made from all you have
to do is get leaves and put them like oh
no
oopsie so you put them like this and you
will get for you so what you do with oil
is you take the oil and put it into a
furnace that will melt into unprocessed
path bran which you can then put in here
and that will smelt into plastic sheets
so in here I have a plastic sheet so
it's pretty simple you just need to
gather a lot of leaves and I will grab
three planks so one two three one two
three and one two three this might not
work yes it did work so I have a nice
keyboard I'll put these birch leaves
back in here and let's get let's go back
to this now let's just try and crafts
everything at once so now maybe we
should get a printer so one meds crystal
one black dot 3 plus note 3 3 4 5 and a
wrought iron ingot so I have all of
these objects you can mine this from my
um from a mezz meds or and um you can
get iron ingots from the iron ore which
you can then smelt to get raw iron
ingots and yeah so let's just quickly oh
you can just make black dies from this
end so accidentally press that so I'll
make a black dog grabbed a mess crystal
I've quite the vodka put one here one
here okay so i have lots 25 wrought iron
ingots that there one two three one two
and we now have a preacher this is going
to be lots of fun so now Wi-Fi route
let's try and get that so i miss crystal
fragments which is you just put one miss
crystal and i'm pretty sure you get
eight or nine of them i'm not quite sure
so so i need to wrought iron ingots and
i will put one so now we have one of
those i have no clue what that is
forgive me rack server I don't think I
want to make one of those so let's try
and make a computer tower let's look
like some sort of stereo so I need I'll
just grab all of my rod iron ingots and
grab some mess crystals which I will
then do one and we now have a stereo
let's try and do one more because why
not one more you can never have too many
stereos and let's try she friends so so
one glass I put away my glass for some
reason here it is and we will grab just
couple planks and one so now we have one
of those just get polling station a pony
slave station which is actually play
station obviously they just had to go
against trade couldn't go against
trademark so now we have a pony slave
station C X Factor let's get one of
those and looks let's look at a laptop
so three plastic sheets a glass and
another plastic sheet so let's get one
of those and wow this is going to be the
best tech place ever nintendo wii so
let's get a copper ingot i don't recall
having any
darn I i'm pretty sure that my quarry
hasn't grabbed anything so let's go i'm
going to go to my shop which I didn't
tell you about we have a mod called the
shop mod I don't know what exactly what
is called it includes money which you
get every single day you get 15 dollar
which you can craft into ten dollars in
one dollars and you can get exchange
shops to sell so I one of the shops that
sells copper hopefully i haven't sold
out because these are really the only
cupcake so i can grab one of those i'll
grab i'll just grab all of it and take
this out because it's not done i don't
want anyone and cheated out of anything
and let's head back to home and their
zombie stuff 13 he's finally in a video
yes and we have quite a few people
online today its head back to the home
and go back upstairs and we will crown
fort we will have to smell some of this
first seven coppers arms see thats
welted into it sick sheet let's do one
of those and we now have we let's flip
to the next page hmm I'm pretty dirty
yeah there's more there's also tablet
get one of those
there is already half the monitor and
keyboard I'll try and see if I can find
some more for the gamers rooms that be
so much fun if I could get some sort of
aquarium so try and find out how to get
that look the food mods working ok so
I'll search it aah oh no aah flower this
is gonna take forever to find don't
there's 32 pages springville block mmm
want to make one of those hmm want to
try and get some sort of like aquarium
cuz I'm pretty sure you can put some
sort of fish in it or something like
that but I'm not finding it so look for
some more technology lets get a touch us
oh no power crystal takes one golden two
diamonds to make literally i only have
like i only have six diamonds oh well i
don't want to disappoint everyone in the
world so I need a golden God and I need
a torch
hey cut away no no trouble thank
goodness the but the way it did work
turn it I was just about to say they
gonna stay buttoned in more okay so
let's make a torch
miss crystal fragments and one to make
two and i'm pretty sure we can make this
now need to black dies no k 2 is cool
one okay so grab another cold lump get
that and is that all i need yeah i can
make a tetris arcade that was a bit
expensive for diamonds but i think
that'll look pretty cool cool in this
and nine cat you can craft 19 cats it's
interesting I didn't know you could do
that wow that's expensive and I and I
just found my advice find your nyan cat
do not craft it it is eggs wonder here
you find that we get a ceiling fan how
do we make that it electric motor oh no
I can't do that well it could do that
but though that would be so expensive
DVD and VCR how do I make a piece here
oh no oh no no I can't some of the
things sounds really cool maybe we
should get a dog house in my backyard
make this
oh no this isn't telling me anything
maybe we could get power Slot copper
strips to copper ingots oh no sorry my
mouth my mouse is going all weird mm-hmm
I need to get rid of something i'll get
rid of this piece of wood and where was
it here it is ok so one power slot like
i'll make two because why not I look
really good in the electric room and
what can we trash now don't really want
to trash anything this is difficult
no I'll just put it in there now we'll
put something in the chest sticks
bitches and get that back and I'll see
if there's anything else we can get the
electric room we can get large stereo no
it can't I don't have some of the
resources so I wouldn't be able to do
that i would love to do that but i do
not have all things to do that maybe I
could
so in order to craft order to go okay so
speaker you need paper
I'll get rid of the gold ingots and the
met no no okay I'm pretty sure I'd paper
here somewhere if I don't I can go to my
paper respond no I have 30 paper which
is crafted from three papers and I need
some can go down to the quarry and grab
some iron lumps which is needed to make
the speaker I have literally the quarry
picks up to iron lumps how many doing
need one
what if I need to terrorize something or
not I'll just do that okay to speaker
divers will turn craft another on we'll
put that there that there now I can make
the egg speaker tiny to that okay so I
need black wool so that's pretty simple
need to put something in the chest or
something maybe place some of the stuff
down think I should use of some sort a
table it can accent what's really cool
so now he's a painter know what the
keyboard doesn't go there
you turn nice late pick up call me
sliced Asian oil oh my goodness I'm
gonna have to get a TV which i think i
should put the place for the TV right
here so i'll put the green stuff next to
it and i'll put the stereos on outside
of here I have a really old style
computer but we which I can put I put
this maybe I can get rid of that put the
we here and put the speaker right here
and I'll grab this and what else do I
have I is this thing no clue what that
is pretty sure these are old style kind
of technology I'll grab the power
outlets and put some put one in the
garage for some reason cuz why not ok
now where should I put the tetris think
we'll put it I think we'll get rid of
the power outlet put the tetris there
grab power outlet and put it there if
only we had wires that be cool and put
the tablet we're gonna put the tablet
all out I'll just get rid of this
because oh wait no I can't I can't where
could I put it maybe I could put a
little table here no no no that would
block of that maybe I could put the oh
my goodness i'm running out of space
I put it I can't have the speaker there
mm I'm running out of space maybe I
could put it over here maybe oh no maybe
I shouldn't have made two of these oh
well I'll just find somewhere oh no I
just ate a meat oops okay so we'll grab
this put these two here put the tablet
down um grab the stereo and put it right
here and
um whoa this is pipe is getting crowded
my goodness so let's try to make a TV
wait we still have to do this okay go
back to the room give some cleared space
because we've been working on the room
and it's wool one two three no don't do
that on me undo the one Tuesday and that
will craft three buckle and on its own
planks so we'll go back to the speaker
in do one and I can craft one of those
so I'll go back downstairs and put it
somewhere where am I going to put this
I'll just put it over top of the tetris
whoa what did I just do oh no I think I
broke it don't know if someone keeps
breaking it okay let's make a TV
like make a coca-cola machine no I don't
have to cover TV 22 we have one can I
make this guy can so plasma TV right
here and i will get the sofa
shuffle
I crafty so far
so much to make brown show photo to
brown wool this is exactly the same okay
to what inside two sticks into bone
sticks and i will get die like a brand
Oh from dry shrubs try and find some to
go to the desert this place is a nice
for sale place so so I'm it's called the
getaway cabin
please are you fine to drive shops in
respectfully Magnus two things of people
there grab one
two okay i can get background so i'm
going to go to know
Oh extracting how do I do that oh no
wait is it red and green I took it
children mixing
okay Brown so you have to mix something
like I do orange and dark green forget
our green so this is getting complicated
maybe I shouldn't make brown one ok I'm
making a different batch grow too
complicated maybe I could get a cyan I'd
be nice ok cyan I need to get sign
is complicated because I'm white guy and
blue dye so i'll quickly get that blue
dye is blue colonel
please think I've were so all grappling
solely oka to and where for someone
everyone's just like where is she
to sign Oh it makes it to sign my wall
always need wall 12 so so now i have
some of that and hopefully this'll work
Oh does it have to be regular
need regular class darn it so I have to
go
classic tree type which are quite hard
to find especially when you're when it's
nighttime I can't see at all in the
world
good job oh here are some cheese through
right here and I was flying over
I just be warned
out of the way Thanks claps yep
we now have a science yes
Oh
okay so now we have a full um this is a
great place I still have some stuff
expand the lonely bathroom um and then
this video game room so if you enjoyed
this video then please do leave a like
subscribe and ask questions on our blog
website mine too blog mine test on TV
and you can also suggest mods for the
server and if you found a better way of
crafting these items or a better mod for
video game systems then please do
comment about it goodbye guys
