haymakers now I'm Robbie Ferguson and I
am a beginner maker I'm going to get
that out of the way right off the get-go
with this series so as we're learning
together you're going to hear me misuse
terms you're going to hear me make
mistakes but I'm going to do my best to
to explain things as well as I possibly
can so we're going to be learning this
together now through the episode that
you're about to see where we're learning
about electrical resistance we
continually make the mistake of calling
it ohms resistance so let's back up a
little bit what is an ohm well an ohm is
actually the measurement of an
electrical resistance so where I kept
saying ohms resistance you're about to
hear I should have been saying
electrical resistance so little mix ups
like that that don't really impact the
effectiveness of the demonstration but I
want you to know right off the get-go as
we start our maker series that as a
beginner maker myself I'm just learning
these things as well so please come
along with me through the course of this
series and we really hope that you'll
enjoy what we have coming up over the
the next several months as we learn to
become electrical makers together we're
starting with the basics we're getting
started with just learning our way
through becoming a maker so one of the
things that I love to have on hand is
make electronics this book you can pick
it up at cat five dot TV / maker and you
called it the Bible of happiness it
really it well not even da but just like
just electronics really you're just
starting all the way to what is an ohm
up to building your own little radio and
you can you just get better i'll get you
started and this is you know all of that
knowledge put together and you'll see
that a lot of the components from the
kits so the kit that we carry the
components themselves there's that
switch that we were looking at and you
know needing a breadboard and all of
these things are included in that kit so
it gets you started so really really
handy really really good to have I know
that the Internet is a go-to resource
but this is so well organized I stop
something on actual paper you know
because and again it gives you the
old-school pneus
no well that's the thing though is that
it gives you a great learning process
right because anyone can go out on to
reddit google search cool projects but
this literally starts you from the
ground up and helps you build a male 6
it makes you build positive habits
pretty much right and I think that's
important because when I didn't go to
school for electronics obviously I'm an
aviation guy but it's just being able to
say yeah when your solder make sure you
do this don't burn yourself obviously
right yeah um he's witty the author flat
is a lot of fun and some of that will be
reflected in through our series because
this is part of part of how I'm learning
is through this book things like you
know we're learning about a multimeter
and and you know it will say you know
generally you know there is power behind
this it's not going to hurt you unless
you stab yourself not going to that's
not good so watch out for it so pick up
one of these books if you want to get
started even if you are experienced it
takes you back to the basics as Henry
saying but so we learn things like not
only okay what does the resistor do but
how does it work why does it work and
look to the lines mean on the side right
what do the lines mean we're going to
learn all about that kind of stuff so so
tonight we're going to start with our
multimeter and how does this thing work
so basically this is this is a pretty
decent multimeter that my my my
father-in-law gave me and so it's pretty
cool I love it we've got so many
different features like continuity test
is an important one for me you can hear
that beep that just means that there's
continuity yep tonight we're going to
learn a couple of other things with this
but it's got basically your multimeter
has three or four inputs we've got our
common which is your black that's like
that's going to be shared no matter what
it is that you're testing we've got
voltage and things like that and then
we've got amps we've got continuity
notion what that symbol means one of our
viewers will know that one unless you do
and ohms which is your owns resistance
which is what we're going to be focusing
on tonight because that is what we're
going to be learning with with resistors
which has Henry mentioned at the top of
the show is going to help us to limit
the amount of voltage going to something
yes as we don't blow it up but another
fun thing about making things go bang ya
know that's another thing with this book
is that he will actually walk us through
blowing things up and I was skimming
this and oh we're gonna find out what
happens when we short circuit a battery
don't do this that I'll go today to do
this at home but it says if you buy the
book and yet stupid out others all kinds
of fun stuff okay yeah so get a 9-volt
battery here Henry okay are you feeling
brave oh you're gonna make me do it
aren't you I'm going to make you do it
because like in the book there's even
like a diagram just cartoon and we
showed it last week I know you he looks
like he's in pain when we come back
we're going to test almost resistance
using Henri's face don't go anywhere
welcome back this is category 5
technology TV and tonight we are
becoming entry-level makers I'm star and
get nervous here I've got a nice slide
both I was going to get a 16 volt
battery for yourself but they only had
nine volt sorry thanks guys do not do
that at home nine volts safe anything
higher than that I would probably not do
this experiment it's a very shocking
experience this is a brand-new 9-volt
battery have you ever done this before
when I was like the kid they taste good
it's not like one of those new like
switch console things that taste really
bad like you heard about nevermind
sunday what's going to have somebody out
there will gal quick disclaimer anything
that we're going to be doing through the
course of the of the series is generally
safe but does require adults supervision
so if if you're you get as an adult hmm
I don't know I'm technically adult now
so I can supervise myself okay so
moisten your tongue make sure it's nice
and wet and then give it a lick scared
now yeah it hurt is hot hot yeah or like
that oh yeah I also glad that I dig the
do the possible but it looks good feel
like jaw drop tanks I'll get a cup so
but it didn't hurt that bad right like
the no no it's okay alright I've got a
paper towel here for you thank you I
want you to stick out your tongue and
dry your tongue with this and then do
the exact same experience
okay I want your tongue to be dry mmm
dry mm-hmm okay give it a go hmm did do
anything mm-hmm nothing I still felt a
little bit but it's just a little bit
yeah why is that is there any room for
stuff to flow this is interesting
thought but why do we need to be careful
in a lightning storm in the rain because
when we're wet we're very conductive or
we have a lower ohms resistance so
something with low ohms resistance such
as copper or aluminum is going to be a
conductor it's going to carry that
electrical flow very very nicely your
wet tongue it has a low ohms resistance
something with a high ohms resistance
which means it resists the flow of
electricity like a resistor or like PVC
plastic or the you know why do they put
rubber around the outside of wires
because it has a high ohms resistance so
it's not going to conduct the
electricity so using our multimeter
we're going to actually be able to tell
why this happened to Henry so I'm going
to plug this into ohms resistance and
we're going to actually set our
multimeter 2 ohms I've already got it at
home yeah sorry there okay so how r that
baby on at right and you'll see that
there's nothing really going on there
okay all right so all I want you to do
is same test but with our multimeter
okay okay so we're going to touch this
to your tongue as would be reminded in
the book do not stab this into your
tongue it's going to give me a piercing
or about an inch apart it just it just
like the battery so when you do that I'm
going to just switch mode here so that
we did so everyone ready three two one
go mm-hmm so we've got about now does
that hurt mm-hmm 195 kilo ohms 195 kilo
ohms okay so now do the same thing with
your tongue dry it off it's like licking
chalk you know like that dry
it's a bit sciency tonight see feel
society mm-hmm tongues dry hmm ok same
test mm-hmm hmm go hmmmmm okay so now
we're getting mmm notice this is
millions so one point one point
something million ohms so we're getting
a much much significantly higher ohms
resistance oh yeah so when your tongue
is dry it's resisting the flow of
electricity much much higher than we
voiced like says ronica that's like the
set of bad where'd you use these days
yeah never on the hot so there you have
it i mean that's a basic experiment to
show you the difference in you know how
ohms resistance affects the flow of
electricity and that is what these
resistors is going to do for us when
we're building some of our kit so when
we're building some of the fun things
that we're going to be doing these are
going to create ohms resistance or they
provide ohms resistance to reduce the
electrical flow so that if we have a
battery here that's nine volts we can
reduce it to say six volts or maybe four
or five volts if we want to be able to
plug in like LEDs and not make them
burst yeah but we're going to mass em
burst we're going to make some explode
for the sake of experimentation yeah
unfortunately I didn't learn this lesson
ahead of time and I remember blowing at
my first led yeah weeks ago Scott did it
actually bursts out or to know it wasn't
that exciting it's kind of like diet but
yeah it can add more power with a lot
the kit comes with a lot everything that
we're going to be doing for the course
of the series is going to be probably
nine volts or under okay so yeah it's
still safer they keep building really
fun to y'all we're gonna keep it safe
we're not gonna be doing anything where
we're going to need to you know work
with high currents or anything like that
it's all very basic entry-level stuff if
you're familiar with it I would
encourage you rather than saying oh I
already know all this stuff please
become a part of the community and of
the series by including yourself in the
chat room by sending us emails to
correct my errors or to even give your
own feedback or experiences and and even
your suggestions if this is something
that your experience with we would love
to have that
yeah we are actually learning along with
you our viewers and really looking
forward to what we're going to be doing
and I did pick up a TV oh yeah you did
okay absolutely free absolutely free and
the goal is that near the end of this
series we're going to actually be taken
that TV apart and repairing a TV that
will not turn on that's exciting mm-hmm
maybe it'll end up on the wall box yeah
house tower I'll be writing the studio
we're going to learn how to fix things
and then which already fix them for the
studio one thing that I didn't remember
to show you Henry is a grounding
bracelet ah this we're not doing
anything that required grounding tonight
but what this does is it lets you it
just it's just something that you can
put on and then you can clip it onto a
ground such as the back of the metal
computer awesome thing like that you
know those you can get stuff to not only
no shocks but no damage to your
peripherals if you have static
electricity when I get shocked a lot
without light switches and stuff
shopping this will protect your
equipment so that it won't get damaged
all right
[Music]
[Applause]
