I mentioned it last week the data
traveller mm I said I'm really excited
about this tech from Kingston for so
many reasons okay so can I just tell you
this is let's let's jump over to our our
special unboxing camera and Sasha you
show them this this little piece of kit
it's a USB flash drive but it has a
built in key pack yeah so with that
keypad you're able to encrypt and
decrypt your data using hardware
encryption on the USB flash drive
without having to use any software well
why does that matter Robby I can just
plug in a normal iron key and and set it
up and and BR use Luke's if Jeff was
here to talk about that we could yes
this one here yes that I've had for
since I the old school right I don't
know it's there you need to download
software install it right so if you
encrypt the data on that let's let's
just use I want to use a really really
easy use case scenario for a we've all
got Smart TVs these days or maybe a you
know set-top box that you can plug a USB
flash drive in with your movies and
watch video yes right so with the
old-school way of doing it which
requires software installed on your
computer in order to encrypt and decrypt
yes your data is safe on the flash drive
right but then you take that out you
plug it into another system you've got
to set up the software on that system
you've got to then decrypt the drive and
be able to access it again but using the
scenario of the USB Drive into the Smart
TV mm-hmm a smart TV you can't generally
install the software No so you're not
going to be able to watch or your JPEG
images from the slideshow from your
vacation on the TV if that drive is
encrypted right so the temptation then
is okay well I'm not going to encrypt it
I'm just gonna leave it wide open so why
does encryption matter well if I put
confidential stuff like we're not
talking about hiding stuff that is
illegal or anything right it's just
about like pictures of my kids
has it has exif data that shows the
geolocation those things i want to keep
private things like spreadsheets with my
passwords and things like that i don't
want people to have access to that so if
i have it on my USB flash drive or a
backup of some of my files hmm and then
someone steals that from the front seat
of my car or your purse or something
like that are they going to be able to
read that data well if it's encrypted
then no then no so then you're not
you've like say I had patient
information on that sure I needed to
take some work home for you from work it
has like confidential patient data I
would be legal just a theory but I I
would be legally like I would be liable
sure if I were to drop this in the
parking lot and then all of a sudden I
would have to do a huge report I'd have
to actually contact each patient that oh
my goodness right and you said with this
one
I said what's on it and what did you say
nothing no no said I don't remember
remember I don't remember I haven't used
it in awhile I haven't used this in so
long because I don't meet I don't use on
a Chromebook exactly a cloud yeah so
there's like nothing of importance on it
okay with that you cannot you can't just
plug that into any device and it's up
let's get a look I wanna I want you to
actually unpackage which is our unboxing
of the data traveler 2000 you get these
a cat5 TV /dt 2004 once scissors are the
appropriate device for our unboxing
video so here you are sighs alright in
there and I do worry
yeah this could go all sorts of ways
guys he's not unboxed live this is an
opportunity for you to shine your shot
there Sascha come on how do you do this
Robbie I know everything is backwards
for us now you know that when I'm
unboxing things backwards and upside
down
I'm really challenged and Dave would be
saying well you should probably be able
to get it right now cuz of every time he
told me tells me to turn left and I'm
driving I turn right oh thanks
driving backwards so it's very confusing
alright okay so does it you know you
want to charge this thing up it has a
battery inside it so when you plug it in
it's going to actually recharge itself
but when you push a button does it light
up yeah that's no perfect okay
so Sasha the default password is all
right this tell you this don't tell
anyone else okay one 1 two 2 three 3
four 4 so the way that you get into this
drive so if you plug this into your
Chromebook right now it's not going to
do anything if I plug it into my Windows
10 laptop it's not gonna do anything
it's gonna basically just be like
nothing is plugged in however as soon as
you decrypt it it's going to be
accessible it's gonna be launched so I
want to show the folks at home if you
could if you push the lock button you're
gonna see can you guys see can you see
the red light actually comes on there
you go so you see that red light
flashing that means it's encrypted
push one 1 two 2 three 3 four 4 and then
the lock button again and then lock
button green green ok so now it's
unencrypted so right now in this state
you can plug that into your computer
your TV whatever device has a USB port
and it will read just like a USB flash
drive well sure you can okay yeah so
you're gonna plug it in so we don't have
for this but you can see that it's come
up with a removable device exactly
that's on a Chromebook so we wanted to
test it on a Chromebook try opening the
files app ok can you can you bring that
up um you have law there you go this one
here yeah click open files ok clip there
you go yes so now if I don't like
clicked on Garvey Garvey is just popping
up everywhere so we see oh there yeah on
Sasha's screen and I'll bring it up over
on on my screen as well so that you can
see what we actually have is the drive
with a single file which is the user
manual you can convert you see that on
your I do I do and we wanted to bring
that up on the Chromebook because I
really wanted to challenge this drive I
wanted to I didn't want to plug it into
a Windows 10
because it's is it compatible with
Windows 10 you know that it's gonna be
Windows and Mac absolutely Linux right
yeah yeah absolutely
but if it works on a Chromebook
perfectly we've proven that that
decryption is unbelievably compatible
with everything right plug it into
anything and it'll work now what happens
now Sasha if you can unmount that from
your Chromebook so bring back up the
little dialog and unmount that I know
this is all new to you I know do I just
do that here no go back to your files
there you go so you see the drive and
you see eject right next to Kingston now
watch what happens to the light and I
want you to tell the folks at home
because they can't quite see it it's
just off the camera oh it's flashing
right okay now unplug it it's what
happens sash Oh locked locked
immediately she's doing a great job of
showing it to you but what happened as
soon as you unplugged it it locked
immediately it went into the red
encrypted mode Zak so now it's encrypted
so now if I take this Drive and I plug
it into my device it's not gonna work if
I don't know your password which right
now is the default one 1 two 2 three 3
four 4 right then it's I'm not gonna be
able to read the data do you know how to
change the password well let's get into
it because that's the next best like
that's the thing that we have to do now
that we've confirmed that it works right
all right so try to do this on camera
Sasha oh I want you to unlock it so
you're gonna push the lock button here
we go ok and then you're gonna go one
one two two three three four four and
then lock again lock right wait for it
to unlock it's unlocked
okay now double tap the lock and then
enter a password that you want it to be
let's make it something you're gonna
change it again but do like one two
three four five okay and then double
click the lock again okay all right it's
still unlocked
okay so now holding the lock button to
lock it and do my a be mindful to that
after ten seconds if you haven't plugged
it into a device it's
gonna automatically lock itself again
okay so now I want you to try pushing
the lock button and use your new
password now that you've changed it was
one two three four five yeah so you tell
me it was so super secure and did you do
it
I don't it didn't turn green press lock
and then one two three four five and
then lock again I did I think it died
always the battery yeah because we
didn't recharge it first I do have one
here that is recharging so I'm gonna
unplug it from my computer and I'm gonna
go okay so alright you guys get the idea
but so lock one 1 two 2 three 3 four 4
lock
now it's unlocked now lock lock one two
oh you know what ah I realize this as
we're doing this there are security
measures in place that makes sure that I
don't pick a stupid password oh is that
what happened for the sake of the TV
show today sorry we try to be on this
show we tried to do a stupid pass we
want to do a stupid password so what we
would do is we need to choose a better
password so is this still my password
then 1 2 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 yes
yeah it's still my password so I failed
the password test yes there are actually
things in place so it's so it must be
between 7 and 15 digits in length it
must not contain repetitive numbers for
example 3 3 3 3 3 it must not contain
consecutive numbers such as 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 ok ok I've got this ok so that's a
clever mechanism
ok your unlock just enter a password
okay so you're entering a real password
here like we need to like mask this no
I'm never gonna use this one for real ok
do you remember what it is though yes
and then double click double click and
then enter it again so it's unlocked you
enter it again do it again okay
and then and then double-click again the
lock okay and now you set now it says
it's locked so now we've entered it
twice oh so now single click the lock
enter your new password and then single
click the lock again and see if it
worked okay so I need to I need to lock
it hold on hold on here yeah you can
hold in the lock button I learn ok there
we go
ok so now I'm going to click the single
click and then I'm gonna type in this
password that I'm not going to keep and
I only put it in because I know how to
spell this oh you're using the words
yeah ok unlocked unlocked I won't
remember a number especially when it
can't be one two three four five I'm
never gonna remember it so to change
your password you know out of the box
we're gonna press lock one 1 two 2 three
3 four 4 lock and then unlock the device
then double click the lock enter my new
password
double click the lock again enter the
new password again a second time which
is a confirmation that I've typed it
correctly then double click the lock and
it will lock the device with the new
password now it's encrypted and it can
only be decrypted with my existing the
new password that I have set right
amazing right so now from here on
forward in order to use that drive all
you have to do is enter the we hit click
lock enter your new password click lock
again plug it into anything beautiful if
somebody gets a hold of that and then
they've stolen it out of your purse and
they start messing around and they start
pushing buttons and I'm gonna figure
this out I'm gonna hack it if they get
the wrong password ten times mhm it's
going to delete the decryption keys from
the device so the data can never be
recovered at that point
oh so really be certain from a security
standpoint that is genius
yes because I know that even if I lose
this someone's not gonna be able to get
access to my data right so can this be
the sole copy of my data no never never
never have just
one copy of your data anytime in the
entire existence of your data no ever
never ever do that
however I've got encrypted storage in my
server that houses my cryptocurrency
keys that example right so that data is
double encrypted the drive is encrypted
the files themselves or GPG encrypted
the drives themselves are luke's
encrypted so then I could now enter a
password in this copy my decrypt my
cryptocurrency keys onto this which are
GPG encrypted format as they are so
again double encryption on this device
so now with my password I can then get
access to the GPG files which I can then
decrypt and access or somebody else gets
ahold of this they can never access
those files and if they try ten times
it's gone right but I haven't lost the
files because they're on my server
exactly right so great at this these are
fantastic I think this is something that
we should all have in our pocket the
data traveler 2000 you can get it a cat5
dot TV /dt 2000 we do have one of these
to give away and if you would like to
qualify to win a Kingston DataTraveler
2000 encrypted device make sure you
follow the information in the
description below and again if you're
watching this on cable TV you can you
can go to our website category 5 TV find
episode number 594 of tech TV and follow
through with the links below just a
little bit of specifications for you it
is
FIPS 197 256 bit AES encrypted it's
hardware encryption with the keypad no
software needed it comes out of the box
is fat32 so if you want to be able to
access store larger files on it you
might want to reformat it once you
decrypt it you can reformat it as exFAT
or NTFS or EXT 3 or 4 whatever you want
but then you're gonna be able to put
larger files on it so out of the box
you're limited to 2 gig files but that's
not a limitation of the drive that's a
limitation of the filesystem
very easy to change the drive that I'm
holding in my hand and the one that
we're giving away to you is 64 gigabytes
of storage and you can imagine that for
your encrypted data storage that's a lot
of space to be able to carry around in
your purse in your pocket and that is
fantastic it's also it's got like a
water sealed okay yeah you can really
hear it exactly that's like a nice solid
and I really like solid lock e key thing
I really saw the lock e key thing folks
good thing you heard it here on tech TV
alright folks so follow the links below
I'm excited about those for obvious
reasons I think it's it's about time
there were consumer products if you will
and when I say consumer products I mean
stuff that's accessible to the consumer
like the average Jo user I don't need to
be a hacker or a Linux guru and
understanding Luke's file systems and
encryption and all this kind of stuff in
order to operate a data traveler mm all
I need to know how to do is press some
buttons with my finger and then plug it
in so that to me is what's so exciting
about this device yeah it's just easy to
use and gives me added security for my
files this is why I got to do the
unboxing is that what I think because
it's super easy there you go yeah boom
done
super easy folks you heard it from
Sascha and it has like a thingy
that's super fancy a lock thingy like
that yes it had it's super easy
yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
