for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 263 of
category 5 technology TV what season is
a rabi season six yeah that many hey
everybody that mini Tuesday over the
second 2012 so good to see ya we got
lots of new viewers joining us tonight
if you're brand-new joining us in the
chat room make sure you say hey we'd
love to be able to give you a shout out
let us know where you're from PM me or
Eric and we'll we'll give a Greek and a
shout out how you doing but I am CH get
this all fixed up there wrong man ah you
know and and I didn't get to spend any
time in makeup today be I know just wild
i did go and dig through my closet and
find my ravi shirt hi Robbie shirt I
could not find the bald wig he actually
calls it the Robbie shirt the ravi shirt
couldn't the pump the bald wig but it's
Renick well I didn't want to say yeah
condom thing today yeah that was a good
show though I'm having a lot of fun i
love looking back at some of those old
episodes last week I was good fun you
know and fun and sadly Rachel captain
together fairly well for that show to
his I who kept introducing myself I was
of course right Robbie Fergus time
Robbie hi I'm Eric Kidd thanking hi
September John no it's not as we were
doing it a few days ahead yeah it was a
challenge sorry I digress that was fun
though hey viewers Ravens if you ever
messed it with if you missed it go to
our website category 5 TV of course
there are the the clips from last week's
episode episode number 260 to our fifth
anniversary celebration if you jump over
to our website though category 5 TV yeah
just kind of hopped over there go over
there and do um the dance I search for
spoof be a good one let's see here as
there it is number 226 that is a darn
good look I've got going on that is you
know your beard with my with my forehead
and kind of cranium I'm so sorry I was
good-looking guy he's smarter all of a
sudden yeah not and I was itchy hey
oh no oh yeah did not see that one yeah
well really 226 see that one you gotta
check it out all right definitely
definitely what do you got coming up in
the newsroom there Eric I'm not even
gonna tell you and as she's getting
ready because it takes him awhile he's
you know hey look what we got for you if
you were at the live anniversary show
last week don't go away we've got a job
on icon to give away in just a couple of
moments we have our tickets folks who
didn't win lucky in that jar I told you
there'd be chances for you cuz we love
you yacht didn't show up I was expecting
to meet him in person I was expecting
him to fly over from planet calypso sir
coming up on in the newsroom some
windows 8 laptops and PCs could end up
running more android apps than ones
written for Microsoft's offer haha Japan
has introduced piracy penalties for
illegal downloads pretty soon robots
Shores that Ravi bucks could be as smart
as a honeybee seriously that's what the
buzz all over the news guys that's the
bus plans to certain UK domain names may
c dot co uk become simply dot awk I mean
UK ah yes and I said who's gonna
register F dot uk' somebody probably the
first week in the first moment an X
Factor style TV show to discover tech
entrepreneurs is in the work so you've
really ought to stick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
thanks Eric tonight we are gonna be
doing something really really fun we're
gonna be looking to that's gonna change
a lot of domain names because it's gonna
really because you don't have the coat
UK so all of a sudden it actually you
don't say dot well then you say doc
condos you say calm yeah you don't stay
donkeys usually does CA yes was gonna
say doc
yeah yeah doesn't really work so he
could come up with ca ca you have pakka
which is sorry I'll carry on Tara did
you know category 5 TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here and the International
Association of Internet broadcasters
don't forget we've got our minds there
it is visit our mobile website scan the
code yeah I didn't see the mcat five da
TV you touched it and disappeared and
how did that happen okay so we've got
our mobile website I postcards we love
to receive your postcards send those in
to us this isn't quite a postcard what
do you got I have tricked this out would
that be glad harrogate bum short fat guy
was an electric guitar yes that's nasty
there he is doing a gig wasn't an after
picture and send it our way try not to
get run over by a car there was a
Salesman they're trying to throw me into
quite the it out i used ford it was son
very cool all right sorry yes you can
send us a postcard snail mail at
category 5 technology TV post office box
29 00 9 or 29 09 Barry that's ba RR I e
nobi rry or anything like that ontario
canada l4n as in november seven w 7 all
right we've got to take a really quick
break stick around we've got a jawbone
icon to give away to those who were in
our studio audience last week yes this
can be happening just after the break so
don't wait it was one day we'll recap in
just a few minutes we'll be right back
alright at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but
here and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Ravi Ferguson I am your co-host Eric kid
or sometimes known as the gang or
sometimes Krista sometimes Hillary
sometimes Rachel I haven't been called
Sasha yet not yet the viewers haven't
caught on yes okay folks get your
ballots out the this is really really
cool we made mention of the jawbone last
week on the show at number 2 62 so they
said some one day this is the one that
you saw anything on your mic there I
kind of got some all over me no but this
is the this is the device that we showed
on the episode we actually demonstrated
this with an old clip this was only my
favorite looks looks back it's amazing
how it's incredible blah standing right
there in front of a blender or you know
if your if you work you know you you use
like a leaf blower or lawn mower or
whatever you want to be able to still
buy and sell your stocks yeah you can do
it I was talking to my niece she drives
a city bus and she was done in terminal
and I'm talking her hello she could have
used one of those yeah cuz it was well I
just use it when I was self-employed I
used to use it well when when I was out
and about because I was always on the go
I only how Canadian is that open about
your beard yeah I had no no way for
people to reach me except for my cell
phone when I was out so best thing for
them to do I call it would ring through
I answered on my jaw bone they wouldn't
even know that I wasn't sitting in my
office it's amazing hey what up noise
assassin technology it takes that noise
and it assassinate
it that's job on icon my friends check
it out get your tickets out come on drew
all that so these are tickets that were
in deep they were given out at our fifth
anniversary celebration yeah we're gonna
give you one Dawson didn't show up ok we
have a car a number here 865 707 so last
three numbers 707 so if you were at our
anniversary party I hope you held on to
your stub cuz that's the winner there
you go 865 707 hold steady would you
okay so folks all you got to do if that
is your number is email us live at
category 5 TV or give us a call to 545
cat5 TV that's 25 4585 I know it's
really drinking let me figure it out 254
5228 588 you're not getting any phone
calls you know that you're not getting a
chair in folk oh it's all just to say 25
for some poor can I and they get a wrong
number hey is the nerd there is the ball
nerd there they're gonna say who how
dare you call me that you know they say
please hold I'll get him for you I used
to work in a music store I work in the
fuel but it was called the bandstand and
of course everybody remembers the show
the American Bandstand and there's a
fellow who worked there his name's
Richard but he went by the name dick and
his last name was in fact Clark so we
get crank calls regular oh right and you
know first I didn't pick up on it yeah
and poor dick he was oblivious to what
was going on and you know I'd say Dan
stand and let the bandstand just get
Clark there and they'd be chuckling I
said yes just a moment please dick and
he'd pick up phone hello why does this
keypad I don't understand really he
didn't get it at first all right
congratulations to our winner will look
forward to hearing from you live at
category 5 TV living phone in the phone
anytime this week I mean any daytime so
you've got a week
at seven o'clock next Tuesday when we
start the show what happens it's gonna
be an amazing Brock how would you like a
question from the loved one you got got
time for one of those yeah I'm just
drawn doodles you are so you know what I
i gotta say kristen letter was at Rachel
you were doing that competition where
you tried to draw that was Rachel and I
ya know yes the gnome it's some of that
because yeah I you know I don't want to
pick sides or anything but I think
Rachel did a little better job than you
marginally just marginally yeah you'd be
careful when you're looking in for
flickering you spell that wrong if you
go to our website category 5 TV and as a
registered subscriber to our website you
can click on the the member sectors my
photo gallery there's that good shirt
nice let's see here I'm looking for this
for Eric there it is there it is yeah I
don't know what actually you did a
commendable job a commendable Joe I am
NOT not at all a drawer but I don't know
why you draw a called your gnome GIMP
that's kind of the gnu a manipulation
program yeah yes my drawing on the left
yeah yeah Rachel summary Rachel's kind
of spectacular okay oh my god I
available in two hour season job yeah
why don't we have a set up a computer
competition to see who wins typing or
something yeah that race race to the
finish line okay we have a viewer
question from the lovely and talented
Robert gorsinski hey Robert you've heard
from him before hmm hi Rob yet oh I am
all the cat five crew today wishing you
a happy 5th birthday and I thank rubber
cat5 TV has many more to come wish i was
able to come and celebrate yeah so do we
with everyone but unfortunately it's a
little too long a trip for me what it's
just an Australia like come on a little
ways in regards to Google my
opps getting a root or wrote depending
on whether you're Robbie or Eric wrong
look what it did to me check out the
distance in time taken on the left-hand
side of the picture LOL i'm gonna have
to lose that lots of love or laughing
out loud depends on who's sending it
Thank suppose so are you sending it to
mom are you sending it to to Eric that's
the question no all the cat5 true
alright so it could be either are well
do we have a picture yet yeah I'm
working on it as i do recall the folks
at Google did have a sense of humor
because they're in Canada there is a
place called London and so but if you
typed in Toronto and then London it
would send you out to the east coast of
Canada on proper highways and everything
it would tell you to swim for 4,000
kilometers and then it connected back up
with some roads which is I don't think
it does that anymore with those yeah
that's fun there you go so a bit of a
roundabout way to get to where we were
but there was the one of you headed west
instead might work that's a UH that is a
bit of a trip how many hours does it say
what does it say a 250 Cottle's roadies
I actually used to live on Kendall's
road a long time I lived in 40 30 hours
that's a long they must tell you to swim
in some will read the instructions down
this route includes to ferry this route
has dolls this route crosses through
multiple countries so you may take your
passive order take a passport make sure
you get it stamped each spot Wow Wow
thought it all starts on route 8 yeah
cool thanks for the oh thanks for the
email yeah that's a kick we're not
seeing Robert anytime soon ok well we
have one from from Michael comes from
angle Sophia or Sofia Bulgaria and has a
question for Rob
how to install I've got a question for
Michael first ok we have a street here
in barrie that I call Sophia street and
it was so far people correct me and say
Sophia so can you tell me Michael is it
Sophia or Sophia um there's an important
fact that you're missing is he lives in
Bulgaria and enri local vernacular like
if you live in Toronto you know you're
so vague Linna you don't say a clinton
street it's a gling ton even though
there's no G in the word so the locals
win so you just to come from away it's
Sophia street here in bearing I'm just
telling you you let us know Michael all
right okay all right tally head upstairs
we have towing we have a visitor yeah
visitor in the studio tally okay
upstairs right so uh where was I how to
install adobe flash player on debian
squeeze six point zero point five thank
you and you are the best oh thanks I'm
second best he's pretty awesome he's
pretty awesome okay so how do we install
flash player on debian squeeze well
actually know what I'm not even sure how
to pronounce Michael because it looks
like the name is actually me ham oh yeah
so yeah mihail mihail perhaps but um so
yeah and we're kind of interested in
that sort of stuff cuz cuz Robbie
mispronounces almost everything anything
he gets chance to UM all right so okay
have an answer for the question stick
look sorry for the distraction folks
sorry was checking the lottery numbers
on the screen it's double checking okay
here we go oh let's get into debian
squeeze shall we who is this debbie and
how do you get to squeeze debian is a
linux distribution it is squeezes the
latest you know the stable version so
we're going to take a look at that right
now for you cappuccino much thank you
alright so if we go for example over to
youtube
you'll see now it will play videos okay
on youtube because it uses html5 that's
cool but there's no flash okay so
otherwise I need the flash reviewers
know you're thinking not very flash
player is what's required folks for
video playback and things like that
fortunately we live in a world where
people are developers are getting away
from using Adobe Flash in their designs
there was a time when people would use
that for navigation and things like that
will ensue does it developers would roll
their eyes and say huh but now you know
sometimes you do need it for video
though we're still roll the rose you
still owe ya know developers you're like
that's just great for you know right now
if you're watching this live you're
watching this using flash flash plugin
right because that's what's required in
order this I'm just saying developers
have opinions and rolled her eyes all
the time are you are you pointing
fingers at me ok available that's an
elbow rub what we need to do is we need
to bring up synaptic package manager in
debian squeeze here and we're going to
do a quick search and the reason that it
doesn't come with it is the debian is
strictly free stuff and when it's called
free it means that it is open source the
source code is not proprietary but flash
is flash is made by adobe i was
previously a macromedia product that
adobe bought and so it is closed source
it's not it's not something that is
that's free in that sense of the word so
it's freely distributed there's no cost
to it but the software is not open so it
doesn't cut we can't muck with it mess
with the code no ok so what we what we
want is we want Flash plugin dash
non-free and you'll see that when I do a
search there's no result reason for that
is once again debian comes out of the
box set up for free only there's only
free stuff included in debian so own
free what we need to do is we need to
turn on the contrib repository by going
settings repositories
synaptic package manager and turn on the
second option which is in brackets
contrib okay so that is the non-free oh
it's a contra but it's gone it's not
contraband game coach okay so you see
that I've added a check mark to that and
hit close it's warning me that my
repositories have changed so all I have
to do is just click on reload over here
it's going to download the new package
information there we go rebuilding
search index up at the top here so that
our search will start to work because
it's got new packages now okay so now
you still see that it's empty all I have
to do is just remove one of those ease
just to to query it to search again and
you'll see that now we've got adobe
flash player click on it mark for
installation hit apply here's what's
going to happen it's going to install
flash plugin non-free and a bunch of
unchanged stuff is going to take place
apply that's all there is to it it's
going to grab that off the internet it's
going to install adobe flash player in
your debian squeeze installation and now
you've got access to the contrib
non-free repository so you'll be able to
install some things that are not always
available in debian but it's not easy
how cool is that yeah very very easy to
do Brunei's thank you very much for the
question I hope that that helps you get
all the flash stuff that you need to be
able to do on the web like watching the
show live on debian squeeze that's an
important thing to be able to do
invincible mutant in the chat room says
what is extra sound well that is an
add-on let's like when your daughter
walks into the studio and says I did
yeah that's extra sound who's who's
invincible mutant okay so that is well
described here is an open source
extension library for adobe flash player
it enables support for otherwise
unsupported sound system providing like
aa gai think and all that kind of stuff
detective Oh OSS
open sound system so i guess if you what
if you have trouble with alsa then you
can install that for access to I've
never needed it but that's what it looks
like is if you have trouble with your
sound card and flash you can install
extra sound from the description that's
what it sounds like to me looking at
Eric like he's gonna oh yeah yeah that's
what it is yeah i was reading the next
direction i'm sorry you know thanks guys
oh look a squirrel Oh sir okay we have
another question here from I'm gonna go
jpf but I'm not really gonna stand
behind that one this is a question i
would say jai jai PA okay so hey but we
know who we're talking to nice to see
you could be JP that's from JP yeah
there you go keep it simple we don't
need all those X yes yeah this is a
question on campus all right gets comp
is to run but lose the taskbar hmm any
help bald nerd what this is actually not
really say that this is JP does mention
JEP does not say the operating system no
I quick chat room no nobody in chat room
seems to know may I just for one sec
well you show you a little secret here
that we have okay there we go ah just so
tell me a whole lot we're on linux i686
that narrows the dough JP I'd love to
know what distro Your Honor I wonder if
it's a conflict and plug in between
unity and comp is if that's the case
what you could try Mozilla five is that
just the browser ya know what what I
would try just in case that's all it is
is bring up your comp is config settings
manager go
to preferences over here and you'll see
a button button there that says reset to
defaults it's gonna take everything back
to the way it was there may be a plug-in
that's that's causing a conflict that's
if you're using unity that's pretty much
known to happen I don't really know
anything about your system please let us
know if you're in the chat room let us
know beyond that what could it be let's
see there's no panel plug-in or anything
like that I don't think for comp is
let's look under general options just
taking a quick boo here folks and just a
boo yeah just in case there's something
because I seem to recall a there was a
side windows good up who's the taskbar
knows the menu that's for the menu bar
is losing yeah I lose kospahr so go back
to the oh that's the that's just windows
that live hides okay yeah it's a
different setting there and if anybody
in the chat room has an answer for why
compiz would make your your panel
basically disappear there are other
things you know like normal that large
known compatibility turning that on is
meant to make things a little more
compatible with gnome which is probably
that's no roster we're running it's got
something for everything no never seen
him before I hope that sorry i well I
hope that we can be of some form of help
maybe pop us a note in the chat room
okay JP and we'll do our best thank you
very much for the question who needs
comp is Alberto says or asks time
cheaters here's a question murder mm-hmm
well if you're a unity user then you
need compass right now I like comp is
but it's bloody Toby says you know a
person from Toby I wonder if it's the
same Toby
might be compasses is folks are yeah
it's it's it is what it is it's pretty
awesome though what you can do with it I
like it but I use it in such a you know
in the old sense of the word I mean like
my comp is is is set up a la barrel
project you know I've got it set up so
that it feels a little more old school
that's how I like to i'm not into unity
and all that car be saying comp is is
outdated it's junk what are your
thoughts pop us an email if you want to
rebuttal I think live a gentle old are
you I believe don't think he was talking
about you well one comment in the next
moment let that mentioning that comp is
runs really nice on Zura no ass I'd have
to agree it runs great on debian i run
debian squeeze in the office and I've
got comp is helping me be more
productive you're already pretty
productive Robin Ferguson what you got
for me we got a couple more minutes okay
we request this is from Toby um how I
Robbie and Here I am again i am the rest
of the category five gang if you're
reading this on the fifth anniversary
which i am NOT episode happy 5th
birthday category five thanks tell me
big smile just wanted to say thank you
to robbie for encouraging me to do my
backups it really paid off this week
when my SD card died and i thought i
lost all my photos and i realized i did
two backups the day sasha was on a way
to go Sasha nicely done on the show
talking about her crashed HD so this is
a thank you to all of you for constantly
reminding us that all that is very
important to keep it back up and please
don't stop haha thanks for everything
else you all do and taking the time to
do category 5 big smile hope you all
have a nice time at the category 5 party
also the viewers please take time to do
a backup because it really does pay off
good call to action yeah
that's awesome you know what I actually
I hate reading stuff like that because I
really need to do some backing up
pointing jay-z will back me up you need
to do your backups Toby thank you very
much for sending that in good to know
that's something that we said on the
show the the story that we had with with
Sasha and her loss of pictures that that
influenced you to run a backup and what
an awesome thing to be able to say that
you just a couple days later or whatever
a couple weeks later your hard drive
crashed and you didn't lose your stuff
you realize Robbie sabotage your drive
from afar just to make a point but EMP
me but your house use your IP address
and we have a satellite up there
somewhere that yeah there you go Toby's
actually in the chat room and just
reminding Eric Kidd to do your back up
so well definitely needs to be done yeah
okay one more question okay real quick
this is from Dennis hey Dennis Kelly
alright once you have your home folder
on a second partition how do you set it
up with a fresh distro install example i
have ubuntu 10.4 to a second hard drive
i want to install Zorin OS don't keep my
home folder in tact thank you well I'm
is Kelly I mean you can mount that drive
as your home folder but then you've got
a lot of leftover garbage because it's
not going to have you're not gonna have
the same programs in the same versions
of programs that you had on 10 point oh
four so what I would do here's what I
would do that's what I would do I
wouldn't I wouldn't move my home folder
because then you've got a single point
of failure right unless you've got a
backup that is redundant never never
have a single point of failure so when I
come from the department of redundancy
department hi
okay try to behave train of thought
train of thought what I'm thinking is it
get your get your home folder it's on a
separate drive and then install the
operating system on to that new computer
okay and just set the home folder to
default on the same hard drive then
reinstall that hard drive okay don't set
it as your home folder yet but instead
boot up from a live CD go to that second
hard drive which has your home folders
on it and I would rename the home folder
to like old home on that your own place
old homes good ol blue engine just so
that it doesn't become your home folder
or whatever then copy don't move your
home folder from the actual install hard
drive copy that over to that hard drive
because you've been booted from the live
CD you've got access to doing that
you're not going to have any sharing
violations on files or anything like
that so copy that over and then edit
your FS tab file and and make sure that
you set your home folder to mount to the
new the hard drive that you just copied
everything over to and make sure you've
got to point it to the right folder okay
so then you can boot up your computer
you got the two hard drives now FS tab
says during boot the next time you boot
up hey okay the home folder is now on
this other hard drive but you've copied
the the actual installed home folder so
you're still not accessing your old home
folder right that's old home right look
so now that you've booted up now you can
go into now you can go into your old
home folder on that drive mount the
drive go into the whole old home folder
and copy over all the stuff your
favorites bookmarks and and desktop
files and pictures and all that stuff do
it that way and then that way you're not
getting all the extra garbage that
should be discarded at that point run
your backup and then delete that old
home folder because you're done with it
once you've got all of the critical
files that you need you know what I mean
because if i install a program just to
test it right on linux it throws all the
configuration files into my home folder
i may never ever use
that program and you're talking about 10
point oh four that's a two-year-old
operating system almost three years old
so over the course of three years how
much of those little configuration files
that you no longer need and different
things from old versions of software
that you don't no longer need it starts
to build up you don't really need to
keep that so that said if you want to
you can use that same process and just
point it to the home folder but be ready
to break things if you do that right my
method that I've described here what
you're doing is you're taking the newly
installed operating system copying its
home folder so you know what's going to
work mounting it so that it now directs
to the other hard drive and then copying
your old stuff over if you were just to
install the operating system point it to
the old home folder it's going to break
stuff because maybe the user IDs are
wrong food wells you've got permissions
issues because you used to be you know I
used to be called Robbie and now I'm our
Ferguson on my new install so now my
user ID is different the number that
corresponds to my group so now all of a
sudden I don't have access to my own
home folder and then it breaks things on
boot so my method is to avoid those
kinds of potential problems so good luck
let us know how it goes always keep a
copy of that home folder drive okay we
don't want to see you lose anything
nobody yeah I never delete stuff until
I'm absolutely certain like I wouldn't
delete that old home folder until I'm
absolutely certain that i have
everything okay all right next you know
what we've got one work no yes yeah I
just like actually there was question
there in the chat room to asking about
to is it worth buying SSD drives and you
would say yes well I'll tell you what
sure makes a difference here I mean
we're using thirty-six percent
thirty-three percent CPU right now on
the broadcast server we were up at about
45 with a spinning hard drive yeah makes
a difference on my cpu makes a
difference on my actual performance the
one thing that really the jabs me though
is all the performance tests that you
see where it's like oh well look at how
much faster my computer boots well who
cares wow I turn it on and it's ready
before the one with the spinning hard
drive that tells me nothing
about the actual performance of the
computer itself what I have noticed in
switching from a raid 1+0 so raid 10
unit we had five hard drives in our
server spinning drives running in to
raid 10 so you would expect really good
performance from that one is for read
one is for right so the 3dr raid 10 had
a the OS and the to drive raid 10 was
for strictly recording video recording
and production and things like that now
we've switched to a single solid state
drive and we're receiving better
performance less weight less power
consumption much better resume as though
there is no but technically winding
technically there are no no there's no
seek time I mean you're you're limited
to the sixth gigabit bus on your on your
motherboard versus the sixth gigabit bus
on the on the hard drive that's the one
thing to keep in mind is you're buying a
drive I suppose is obviously you want to
make sure that just got could seek times
and good I guess right I oh and and
redial speeds now the one that I
purchased was the red one I can never
remember the name of it but the red
there's one drive that's red and it's
540 megabits a second like super fast
and it's got a six gigabit bus so keep
in mind i mean if it's a if it's an
older drive an SSD or if it's got a or
some drives will still be manufactured
with a three gigabit bus you're actually
effectively cutting the speed of the
drive in half by buying that drive so if
it means spending a little bit more and
getting a six gig hard drive it's gonna
travel it's going to transmit and
receive data back and forth very very
quickly how big of an SSD hard drive is
the question in the chat room from lead
sap and and really realistically I think
we don't need to store a whole lot
anymore if you're storing a lot of
personal photos and things I mean I've
said it before I mean backups or
important redundancy is important those
things don't belong on your personal
computer if I have a laptop and I've got
all of my personal files on that and
that laptop gets stolen because it's one
of the first things to go if somebody
breaks into the house
they're all gone you need to have a nice
Nast device like a network attached
storage that you can stick in a closet
somewhere a server that you can use for
file storage that has more than one hard
drive using redundant storage that's
where you put your files so therefore
you don't need a lot of storage space on
your computer's barely any I mean we're
running our entire broadcast server on a
120 gig hard drive which by today's
standards is not that's that's small you
can by today's standards yeah can
terabyte drive yeah well not not when it
when you're talking SSD well right how
large can you get with an SSD it's all
ever-changing I'm not sure what the what
the limit is right now but but yeah it's
certainly get huge if you have I have
never worn I got my 360 megabyte drive
it was huge i was never gonna fill that
up my first drive was an RL l took up
three bays Wow so yeah I remember those
days 1 1 megabyte hard drive megabyte
not gigabyte not terrible megabyte
smaller than a floppy disk that's what
we're talking about yeah don't you
listen hey Jamison's just letting you
know that for about a thousand dollars
you can have a terabyte SSD right now
well we go now what's the failure rate
on those a little higher than the
regular spinning driver Oh check out my
blog bald nerd com here's my problem
with a one terabyte SSD if you have one
terabyte of storage space what are you
gonna do with it you're gonna leave your
stuff on it you're gonna put it on and
it's you're gonna fill it up and you're
not going to have anywhere to put that
stuff cuz your backups hard to back that
up to anything yeah what are you gonna
do if you've got a 500 gig backup Drive
and you've got a terabyte worth of file
sitting on an SSD danger do check out my
blog that I talked about to my concerns
about that kind of scenario you know you
buy a 64 gig SSD or SD card for your
camera what do you do you never bother
to copy your pictures off onto the
computer
because you've got room for 28 billion
more photos so you keep going and keep
going and keep going guess what you can
only write to them seven hundred times
and then they die so then you come in
for down to recovery and it's I've got
five years worth of photos on this year
card ya know you don't know you don't
not anymore you know yeah don't you
remember that whole transferring off to
your computer well I think it was a
comment like that that saved Toby
recently so I gotta be firm about this
stuff folks so Toby did have another
comment here okay and this the question
is and I like the way he set this one up
hi cat5 gang and whoever is co-host this
week Eric Kidd folks there he is hot in
the flash about a year ago I blocked
many torrent sites on my rotors so
nobody could access them is there a way
to block all torrent sites all at once
without writing in hundreds of sites in
to my block page there was an
application for a boon to the block
sites but it's not going to cut it in
this case also can you block all proxies
all at once thank you and sorry if it
sounds crazy haha I think that was an
evil hahaha thank you for giving us a
great show hey Cheers the first thing
that comes to mind is dansguardian which
is like protection for your linux
computer that you can block certain
types of websites pardon me things like
that if you want to go all out a squid
proxy server on your network with
dansguardian installed and you can block
all of the internal traffic switch your
dns on all your computers switch your
dns on your router to opendns and open
dns allows you to block certain types of
content by logging in to their website
and blocking certain types of content
whether or not you can block
specifically peer-to-peer sites i'm not
entirely sure but that's that's
something for you to check out another
thing that you can do is go installed
dd-wrt in your router and then you can
block words like tracker from the URL
words like announced from the URL right
all common words that are used when
using torrent websites but Zen what
happens if you actually wanna search
that's the catch-22 right I want to find
out who was announcing the show last
night there's the issue right there yeah
for sure that's a good point but that's
something that you could try um yeah
don't know what else to suggest
certainly dansguardian squid proxy on a
server that's the complex thing try
looking at opendns set your router to
connect through them set settings to
block certain types of traffic and then
taking one step further dd-wrt installed
on your router and work with like eric
says you got to be careful because what
if you block tracker and then you're
like oh I can't get onto mantracker
because I want to watch it online yeah
you know and next anyone when I was
working the TV station i install the
product and they can trim the name of
the product right now but you know we
were able to block anything and
everything plus i could get a report
from ok IP address so i knew when you
were you know surfing the financial site
or gambling or doing whatever was you
were doing but this what when you first
set it up the screws are just a little
bit too tight you know oh yeah so my
accounting department couldn't check the
bank account i race looking at all talk
you know the programming the friendly
couldn't get into anything and we were
working with you know yeah a TV show
that had some you know shows that had
some I'm what's the word I'm looking for
some stuff that was a little bit blue
and of course you know I had to open
things up for programming to see these
things and news you know we're searching
it was really tough trying to find the
balance between you know trying to keep
things businesslike and you know the am
brother like it was that's a definitely
tough talk we think that's what you're
gonna run into is that there are no drop
in solution there are legitimate reasons
why somebody may be checking out a sex
site you've got to maintain this stuff
yeah but we're get under the head sex TV
I mean so you needed to be able you know
certain people were doing that show
or whatever why do companies does he
work for if I was I don't know that was
City TV Toby um uh cat5 TV / block has
got a forum sorry I know I understand
you want it we need on me right quick
before it is I'm really bad he's talking
about sex on TV and all this stuff so
moving along then no we've got a I've
got to get you to talk about the news
you teased about it Toby cat5 TV / block
I've set up for forum thread scroll down
to terabyte 911 s thread there and he
talks he or she talks a little bit about
using dd-wrt in them and the way that I
had suggested there so give it a try let
us know what you think all right wrongs
are ready for the news are you ready are
you ready well for some Windows 8 apps
laptops and PCs could end up running
more android apps than ones
d will become optimized to run the
android apps a collaboration between AMD
and software firm BlueStacks that's the
devices run 500,000 apps more usually
found on a droid phones by contrast
microsoft reportedly only has a few
thousand apps written specifically for
windows 8 at launch the Android apps
will be available on Windows 8 devices
via AMD's app zone player inside this is
code from BlueStacks that acts as a
wrapper around the mobile phone programs
so they can run on desktops laptops and
tablets AMD has made changes to the core
code that runs its processors and
graphics cards to ensure apps built for
the small screens on the mobile phones
look good and run well on larger
displays well that's very cool neat
Japan has introduced some strict
penalties for illegal downloads thanks
lobbying by Japan's music industry
Internet users who download copyright
infringing files now face up to two
years in prison or fines of up to two
million yen that's about 25 thousand
seven hundred dollars or fifteen
thousand nine hundred pounds that's
steep you know two million anything
gender yes he's a pile of money in
theory the new download punishments can
be enforced if a user is found to have
downloaded a single pirated file that
sounds a little harsh but just a little
ina honeybee brains could soon be
helping robots act more independently
this is the puzzle many bees aren't
independent they work like a variable
carry on what am I saying is judging
that I use objects the way that bees
smell and see is being studied in 1
million pound project that's daughter
that's like the money the currency yeah
oh they're not like a whole pig he's
picturing a bucket full of bees and it's
really
heavy it's a million pounds removing
about some rock star who you know is
consuming like a thousand pounds of
cocaine nothing what is that that's like
a ok so the simulated be brain will then
be used by a flying robot to help it
make decisions about how to navigate
safely fantastic I am my gassed is
flattered plans to offer uk-based firm
shorter internet domain names backed by
added security features have been
proposed the scheme would give
businesses the chance to register www
name UK as well as their web address it
would run alongside the current wwn am
co uk service applicants would have to
prove they had a UK presence and pay a
higher fee of course of course an X
Factor style TV show aimed at covering
aspiring young technology entrepreneurs
is reportedly being considered by music
mogul Simon Cowell and rapper will I am
there you go well I am told the sun
newspaper they had met to discuss the
details of the project x factor for tech
last month the Black Eyed Peas frontman
who was last year appointed as Intel's
director of creative innovation said the
show would create lots of jobs I've got
a feeling it's gonna be a good show Oh
nerdlings had to go that I got good deal
in get the full stories in category 5 TV
/ newsroom the category 5 TV news room
is researched by roy wa ash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a new story you think is
worthy of on-air mentioned email
newsroom
category five TV for the category five
TV news room American or the whole gang
or the cat5 gang sometimes one day I'll
be Sasha X i was thanks Kate last time I
was here oh yeah yeah tonight's show is
brought to you in part by quarter
electrical contracting inc find out more
about them at quarterly electric com
book them if you are looking for an
awesome electrical contractor in barrie
or the surrounding area and they go all
over Ontario as well so check them out
also netflix get your free one month
trial of netflix camp five dot TV /
netflix right Erica we've got just a
couple minutes to the show but i want to
show you how we can do self publishing
on the web using absolutely free
software i mean i think we're talking
openoffice org for our word processor
hour publishing application and we're
talking the GIMP GNU image manipulation
program to actually create the the
graphics for our book and using the
software from well the website that
you'll find a cat5 don t be / cafepress
please use that link rather than hopping
into google or going direct to their
website go to cat five dot TV /
cafepress there we go alright so here we
are at cafepress first thing we're going
to do up at the top let's click on sign
in you see where i went there right up
at the top sign in yes that is the first
thing you're going to do even if you've
never done this before because we're
going to go create an account okay so
simply go through the steps create a
user ID using your email address email
address password password answer a
question and give your birthday you'll
be good to go happy birthday g there you
go ok so i've already created my account
i would have loved to go through the
process with you too to show you how to
create an account very very simple at
cafepress but we're close two at a time
and i want to show you how this is done
we've got a good eight minutes and 15
seconds come on
you can do it Ravi mmm we're going to
create a book from scratch I'm talking
if you've ever wanted to be a writer if
you want to write a novel or anything
like that we can actually do that using
cafepress and free software so the
software that I've used to create the
publication is called open office you
can download it for free for Windows Mac
and Linux I app openoffice.org the book
design that I've created is book that my
wife is written and you'll see that it's
laid out nicely in openoffice and what
I'm actually going to do is I'm going to
give you a copy of the template that
I've created to do this okay and this
will actually allow you to create your
own book take your your book and
whatever you've written and put it
together into novel form so using
openoffice i'm going to go file export
as PDF we want to make sure that tagged
PDF is checked that's very important
that's going to basically embed fonts
structures and the way that everything
looks all that kind of stuff ok check
everything else there's probably nothing
else that you need to set other than
tagged PDF and make sure that you have
lossless compression set for your images
because if there are any images you want
to make sure that they don't have they
don't get lossy they don't lose quality
is lost in Asheville detects a little
word it's a technical word I understand
it this sounds silly now we've created
the PDF a little bit there you go you
got quality there that's kind of law see
ya Lassie alright so there's our PDF
again what I'm going to do is I'm going
to provide you with the template files
so that you can create these yourself
okay they're going to be found at cat
five dot TV / publish you see the link
down there that's going to take you over
to a special website where you can
actually download these templates as
well as get all the information that you
need to be able to publish your own book
directly through cafepress so all right
let's hop over here I've got that file
now I've created a front cover a back
cover and a spine for this book so we're
going to remove the bleed lines okay
I've created a layer here that has the
bleeds bleed lines means that you don't
want your text to go outside of that red
area and again these templates are going
to be available to you ok so we turn off
the bleed area and we're going to
actually save as a pinging file front
cover dot ping make sure your fingers
are in the right spot merge visible
layers really neat spelling when you
move over a couple yeah you know you
just create that's creativity now what
we're doing is we're actually creating
these files they're very high-resolution
ready for print what's neat about
cafepress kind of interesting about them
is they use RGB files we're creating a
ping file not a CMYK file if you're if
you've ever done printing that means
something to you if you have never done
printing then it probably doesn't matter
but basically we can use programs like
the GIMP to be able to create this so
that file is 1404 by 2214 now I can
close that because i have my front
covered ping there we go back cover I'm
going to save that I've already created
it and again templates will be available
for you so that you can create your own
covers as well using these free tools
now I'm saving that one as a ping as
well okay
there we go and last but not least the
spine this is what you see on the end of
your book oh and i left the bleed area
on scene I did what I told you not to do
let's turn off the bleed area there I'll
be from the back yeah pressed for time
can you do back pain now I've turned off
the bleed lines we're going to say that
again over right okay
you ever done any writing yourself as
far as literature goes no no mostly
music and things like that I've always
kind of wanted to do a bit of writing I
like to write technical stuff and I
think I do a fair job at writing manuals
and stuff like that but here's an
opportunity for you to actually publish
your work in a way that you can purchase
and allow distribution of your your
books at one at a time what's
interesting about that is that is not
vanity press so you're not sending your
book public ear your manuscript out and
then they are printing a thousand books
at your expense and then you have to
hope that you can sell them because
that's that's that's tough I mean that's
very expensive up front but it's also
what happens if you don't sell them then
you're in big trouble then you've got
Christmas gifts for the family for years
they're like yeah once a year make sure
no Robbie I don't want so the thing is
is that with cafepress doing it this way
the way that we're doing it tonight
we're actually not having to purchase
anything we cook how we could purchase
one copy for ourselves if we'd like but
you don't have to so you can actually
get one you could buy one for yourself
yeah in print it looks fantastic we've
done many of them in our time and and
next week I'll certainly show you what
what a printed book looks like we want
to see ya don't we but you do not have
to purchase them and as people buy them
off of your website or off of your
cafepress store they manufacture it on
the fly for them so you never have to
buy a hundred up front you never have to
buy five hundred or thousand it's also
as the publisher of this book mmm do you
they sell one you pay X number we'll get
into ya know you it comes off of the
there are margins you will set up
margins here ok so we're going to manage
products and sections in our store we've
already created a store and we're going
to add a product this is cafepress which
you can get to via this link cat five
dot TV / cafepress okay so now that
we're adding a product we're going to go
to office and go make selections okay
that's right here
office make selections scroll down there
it is right there look single click on
it we're going to create one book base
price is four dollars and now we're
gonna go down to the bottom and add that
selection over here now we're going to
go ad these products and there we go
there is our book with no cover pending
four dollars and eighty cents let's edit
it okay so first thing we need to do is
we need to upload our document agree to
the terms choose our file which is going
to be that file that we've created the
PDF file okay here it goes twenty-five
percent 45 50 70 and it's done okay so
you want it no what happens we bought it
we're not buying anything yeah this is
all free we're just uploading our file
oh so we're creating the actual
publication that allows us to sell the
book we can buy a copy at cost if we
want right so the week because it would
be nice to have your very own copy of
your book right so now you'll see that
that file is now available okay so I'm
going to select the dimensions of the
book are five by eight and that's based
on the template so you'll see that based
on this book because it is four hundred
or three hundred forty two pages long
okay that's going to cost me seventeen
dollars and twenty-six cents to print
okay so I'm going to go select and
continue because i'm going to go perfect
binding that's like a nice binding on
the book okay so just like a novel any
novel that you would buy if you see a
server error there don't be concerned
that's just because your file has not
been processed yet just click on next
okay now we're going to select the cover
of our book front cover you can download
a template from here if you like but I'm
going to actually give you an ex CF file
which you can open in the GIMP which is
going to help you to be able to do this
using free software so I'm going to go
select image and we're going to actually
upload a new image let's upload all of
those all at once so back pain front
cover dot ping and spawn dot ping ok
these designs are related let's group
them together sure and we agree to the
terms and conditions everything that you
see has been created by us remember that
we're actually printing something we're
putting something up for sale so you
have to own the imagery that you're
creating that you're a bluing I can't
take you know my favorite hockey team
and put them on the cover of my book
because I don't own the rights to do
that right so that's uploading 45% chat
rooms okay with us going a little bit
over time tonight and for those of you
watching at home really would love to
show you how this works and we're very
very close to actually having a
published book and the real work is
setting it up in these templates but
once I give you these templates at cat5
TV / publish you'll be able to do this
reasonably simply you can download the
templates from us and create the files
that you need and then simply follow the
steps that we're doing but you still go
to go home and write the book for you do
have to have a book right yes absolutely
there is that yeah all right that's
coming along it looks like it's almost
done your grid pull this area so it's
got all three images there's the back so
i'm going to call this back make sure
you tag these better than this okay
folks all I'm doing is I'm just I don't
have time to do a proper job of tags
tags are going to help you in the search
engines okay so make sure you put in
things like this is a you know a bit of
a synopsis of the book Becca ferguson's
new book something like that okay and go
through each one and tag each one
front front front only doing that
because we are out of time folks
otherwise I would love love to tag these
properly for you okay there we go done
oh okay so now we have those three
images remember that I clicked on the
front cover so now I want to actually
select this one as the front cover and
you'll see that it actually puts it into
this template now it's showing a broken
image now because we know that it's
still kind of processing let's do the
spine okay so I've selected that now
let's select the back image you don't
need to click there we go check box a
little help for no okay all right so I
click Next even though we see what
what's happening there is we've got
broken images because things are just
being processed at cafepress no problem
book information title we're going to
call this what it is author and now
here's our cost our base price is
seventeen dollars and twenty-six cents
it's not unreasonable to say okay let's
charge 1999 so then we're going to get a
couple bucks every time and if it's a
shorter book I mean if you've got a 100
page mini story yeah you know like a
short story your cost is only gonna be
like 10 bucks or something like that so
you can charge 1499 a lot easier okay
product description synopsis here's
where the synopsis will be category you
know choose one that's appropriate for
this particular book definitely not
architecture okay and then we're going
to save and finish and you'll see now
the cover is in place and in fact the
book is already up and it's on my
product page so if I go there there's
the book it's ready to go at 1999 okay
click on the product ID at the top and I
can see that this book is in fact ready
to be purchased and you can actually
purchase it right off of the website
cafepress
right because it's it's a part of now my
store so I can take that link and I can
create links I can tweet that I can put
it on my facebook profile here's my book
and put it on my website and say here's
a link to my book and you can actually
purchase that so are we you purchase
these send you books is your shipping
charge and drop of the night oh of
course yeah it's like it is a store
right very cool yeah so you see that as
as I've just added this stuff there you
know the cafe press it seems to do a
poor job with regards to error handling
and things like that otherwise it should
say you know this is still being
processed that would be the more
appropriate thing don't get scared when
you see we've encountered an error well
i just uploaded the files it's still
processing the PDF file it's still going
through all that those steps so don't
worry about it don't worry about it so
there you go the book is up it's
published it's ready to go you could
actually purchase it right now I can
purchase it from my own store at a
discount because I don't have to pay the
mark-up obviously right and if i buy in
bulk if I but if i want to buy 15 copies
they'll actually deduct the prices so
you're doing is well well big deal done
at the local library yep purchase
watched you go ahead yeah absolutely so
that is cat five dot TV / cafepress and
do check it out I would encourage you to
do that and as it was saying we're going
to put up all the information that you
need those templates all those files are
going to be available to you at Camp
five dot TV / publish and a good
opportunity for you to be able to
publish things and check out some of the
stuff over at cafepress to when you're
there because you can add t-shirts you
can add posters and calendars you can
make your own shirts and your own mugs
and your own merchandise it's a very
very cool service and really it's free
for you to use and then you can just buy
your own products so you're basically
you know instead of going to a store and
buying this mug I could go out and buy a
cafe a category 5 mug that I've made
myself that I've designed myself for
example and why we don't have those
they're coming okay season 6 graphics my
friend they're coming be watching our
website for them alright folks that is
that's all the time that we have people
asking about ISBN numbers and things
like that though that's outside the
scope of what we wanted to show you
tonight which is just basically pressing
a book on cafepress but at cap five dot
TV / published we're going to have a lot
more information for you so do check out
that website if you're interested in
publishing your own book and it's a
great way to get your books available
for for purchase online so Eric buddy
thanks for being here hey always fun so
all over time folks welcome to season
six yeah do I have a blast i'm gonna
have for the time and a half for the
extra eight minutes yeah yeah time and a
half is the same as time well folks have
a fantastic week been lovely having you
here and oh they were filled see you
next Tuesday night Hillary is going to
be here next week and we've got just an
awesome month planned out for you lots
of cool stuff going on we've got more
prizes for our viewers that we're at the
anniversary show we're going to be
sending out some prizes to you at home
as well so make sure you tune in every
week right here category 5 TV thanks for
being here and we'll see you next week
my foot bong please drop me I have
witnesses did you see that it was
thousands of them
see you guys
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at 7pm easter if
you're watching this on come on or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chatter
category 5 is a production of prodigy
kuchulu solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
