alright folks we've looked at pine
sixty-four products in the past and
tonight this week
he is no different except for one thing
this is the Rock Pro 64 single board
computer well this is the box for it
should we open sesame' these unboxings
are really simple because there's just
not a lot in the box that's it
the rock pro 64 is in fact the most
powerful single board computer from Pyne
64 I'm gonna tell you all about it this
is strictly an unboxing it's not a
product demonstration tonight although
we will be demonstrating it for you
we've got tape and the immediate thing
that I notice is that marsh man I do not
have my box cutters but I do have access
to scissors there we go so have your
scissors handy folks and there it is at
the same form factor as the a 64 from
Pine 64 this one is massive I mean as
far as specifications go you're ready
for this it has an arc a $33.99 hexa
core 64-bit processor so that's it has
two ARM Cortex a 72 chips and a quad
core arm cortex a53 so to simplify that
this single board computer has six cores
of processing power it also has a Mallee
t8 60 quad core GPU
let's see where the output is here on
the board there it is we've got a
full-sized HDMI now this will provide 4k
video at 60 frames per second on a
single board computer unbelievable it
comes in two models one is two gigabytes
this one is a four gigabyte so that's
the onboard ram and that is lpddr4 it
also has 128 megabytes 128 megabit spi
boot flash it's got a microSD slot here
on the bottom that's for booting and of
course what we would expect from a
high-end SBC like this
is the emmc port so the emmc will take
up to 128 gigabytes and that is we've
clocked these boards running about four
times as fast with the emmc so if you
use that for your hard drive instead of
the the microSD you're gonna get about
four times the performance out of your
operating system from from my
preliminary tests anyways we have one
USB 3 port full size we've got a type-a
USB 3 as well we've got our type C at
the bottom here we've got two USB to
ports and these are all dedicated hosts
as well so it's not pulling from the
Ethernet which is Gigabit Ethernet there
you go and you'll notice as well there
is no Wi-Fi chip on the board however
like other pint 64 boards that we've
looked at it has a riser card that you
have basically a module that will add
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and all you have to
do is simply plug that in and we've
looked at that component before as well
as I mentioned it's got true Gigabit
Ethernet so that's not shared with the
USB bus like a Raspberry Pi is so it's
true Gigabit Ethernet that's gonna make
it pretty reasonable for an ass or
something like that and speaking of one
of the things that really excites me
about this board and I think Sasha that
this is probably the thing that is
making me excited about the Rock Pro 64
is that we have an X 4 PCI Express
open-ended slot so presumably I can plug
in a card that's actually longer than
than X 4 you've got to be able to power
it so if you're plugging a video card in
there for example you probably don't
want to be drawing the power from the
board itself power is 12 volts and it's
going to take a 3 amp if you're not
really plugging anything into it you
might want to go with a 5 amp adapter
for that if you were going to be
plugging something into the PCI Express
so what you can do with this of course
with PCI Express is the first time I've
ever seen it on a single board computer
you can plug in for example storage
peripherals a RAID controller things
that making it really a great solution
for a true Nass I have an nvme card here
that we use periodically and and so I'm
just gonna I want to see what this is
going to look like if I plug this card
into my single board computer there you
go
can you imagine it's a it's an SBC folks
so think along the terms of a Raspberry
Pi and you know just to put it into
perspective a single board computer that
is only gonna cost about $80 and it has
x4 PCI Express I'm eager to try all the
different things that I can do with that
yeah I'm not sure what we can do with
that but we're gonna play around with
that I've got some GPU risers we're
gonna have a lot of fun seeing what kind
of throughput we can get seeing what
kind of thing we can do with say GPU
mining on this board for example so that
is pretty sleek beyond that of course
we've got the GPIO PI 2 style
we've got mipi DSi interface EDP
interface touch panel interface we've
got all look at all these connectors
here for four different peripherals
we've got you are at spi i2c so if
you're a maker you want to add some
other peripherals or sensors it's
definitely got the hook ups for it and
again the full GPIO at the top here but
that PCI Express that is blowing my mind
one final mention here
this board is LTS which in this
particular case represents long-term
supply so that means pint 64 is
committed to supplying these boards for
at least five years we're gonna see them
right through 2023 and possibly beyond
so that is fantastic you're you're
investing in a board that is going to be
supported and available for years to
come really excited to plug this in
we're gonna be looking at this over the
pan the next couple of weeks
that is the rock pro 64 available in
both 2gig and this one the the 4 gig RAM
model
check it out it's six cores and you can
get one at cat5 dot TV slash pine 64
[Music]
[Applause]
