you remember we have Windows 10 and
we're looking at hyper-v and how we
could use it and the new features in
order to deploy Ubuntu 18 point oh four
on Windows right we were so excited oh
we're still so excited I mean this is a
great opportunity for those of you who
have never tried Linux to try it out
without any commitment and without
having to reformat your computer not
have to risk losing anything because
it's still it's just running on Windows
right so you can bring it up but Jeff
right at the end we got it all set up
it's working great it's going yeah
woohoo and then we try to login it's
just like we're gonna call it the
hyper-v blue screen of death it didn't
do anything and then it started doing
this kind of logout login logout yeah so
I was like okay they haven't quite got
it and I uploaded the video anyways to
YouTube in particular and and thought oh
man folks are gonna come down on me so
hard here because you know anytime I
mess up a feature they write on YouTube
it starts with the whole oh the trillion
guys chest stuff before you do it why
don't you know because we're a live show
because we're live show and I want me to
experience the same problems that you
yes may experience because if I just
figure it out beforehand and then I do
it and it works perfectly because I
already figured it out and I already
worked everything out then how how are
you gonna figure it out if you get stuck
so tonight we're gonna take it from
where we left off we're gonna say okay
hey if that happened to you if you got
stuck with the hyper-v blue screen of
death trademark 28 yeah then we're gonna
show you how to get past that tonight
and get this thing up and going alright
so I'm gonna jump over to my laptop here
and this is right where we left it so
now this time so you type hyper-v and
you we use hyper-v quick create the new
feature in Windows 10 in order to create
the virtual machine but we've already
done that now because it's already
created we're gonna bring up hyper-v
manager this allows us to access already
running already created virtual machines
now you can see that it's running in the
background so if you've noticed
since doing this that why is my CPU
being used why is there some Ram being
used it might actually still be running
so don't forget to shut it down just
like you would a normal computer because
otherwise it is using resources on your
computer but it's running right now and
I'm gonna connect and Jeff I'm gonna
show you in the community what is what
was happening here so let's connect I've
made it fullscreen there we go works
great right yeah okay login
Robbi password test test one two three
ready for it hit enter in three two one
go go keep going
go okay it's not gonna mess up this time
yeah but you tell me Jeff or is this the
blue screen that's the hyper-v blue
screen of death Oh gotcha I'm expecting
like error code but I see some nothing
happens it doesn't work again another
show ruined let's fix it shall we okay
so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna close
out of this because remember I'm not
actually closing the virtual machine I'm
closing the connection to it
it's like remote desktop okay into a
virtual machine now I'm gonna tell you
what the problem is first thank you okay
the problem is during setup I chose to
have my user account automatically login
if you haven't done your virtual
appliance yet when you see that prompt
when you get to that point when you're
setting up the user account do not check
that box if you leave it set to OFF it
will work out of the box right okay so
that happens to be the problem for those
of you who have set it up already and
you're you're trapped out of your
machine we're gonna show you how to do
that tonight I want to back up just
really really quickly and talk really
briefly about how we came about it now
this was a real community effort over
the past week because we had to figure
out how do we fix this so we can show
the viewers it started with that with
marsh man installing several copies of
this on his Windows 10 machine and got
some of them working and some of them
not working and why is
and and trying to get what's the
difference in the process why did one
work and one didn't and then c128 d also
ran some tasks they got it working but
only if you turned off enhanced session
mode but that was crippling to the to
the responsiveness it was like slow and
the whole idea here the the reason we're
so excited about this feature in hyper-v
is because it has enhanced session mode
aka and while or via xrdp that's what is
making this so exciting right you could
always install Lubuntu on hyper-v but it
always did not have enhanced session
mode so by turning it off see 128 D was
able to get it to run and able to log in
and it worked just fine but it was
really wrong which is no good countered
that that's pretty miserable but then
Chris Whelan on YouTube made the
connection and said I think it's because
of the automatic login I created one and
I made sure not to check off
automatically log in and it works as
everything else does the session mode
everything else was done the same but
just not checking off that box okay
right so then I took kind of the
accumulated knowledge that we all learn
together and packaged it up into this
video that is happening right now live
and I'm going to show you how to fix
this so first of all I'm going to
connect to that machine by
right-clicking and hitting connect then
we're gonna I mean you can make it
fullscreen you do whatever right now I
just want to connect so just connect and
we're gonna look at what both c128 D and
marsh man kind of alluded to and kind of
pointed toward which is that enhanced
session mode so wait for it because
right now it's grayed out I have to wait
for it to try to connect so let's see if
it connects and in this set in this with
this problem sometimes you have trouble
connecting so that screen you see that
xrdp this login screen it doesn't look
like the traditional Kubuntu login right
that's because this is powered by xrdp
which gives us the enhanced session mode
so based on what I learned from C 128 D
and Marsh man
we need to turn off enhanced session but
Robbie that's gonna kill your
performance yes it is
however now I can log in just like
normal
watch this test test one two three
I'm on I can close out or whatever right
okay I'm in huh
so now activities just type the word
user and you're gonna see let's see
users wait for it try again users visit
account let's try account details
no that's not what I want wait for it
it's really it is really laggy when
you're when you're running without that
so much for that accumulated Dolan Joe I
know is it a capital you know Oh user
account ironically when I typed login as
the search I get user accounts let's so
that's what we're looking for user
accounts okay huh so it comes up if you
type the full thing maybe it's just
truncating the list and when I type user
maybe there's too many and it's dropping
off the bottom so type user space
accounts and that will definitely get
you there okay click on it no that's not
the one
no that's not the one Oh boom - I hate
when you do that kind of thing
no account details no that's not what I
want user users come on now you - oh
yeah it's not an ideal out-of-the-box
situation here folks what happens when I
clicked account details why does it want
me to install something is it because
you turn something off
no I didn't turn anything off should I
install that Jeff maybe it doesn't have
the right thing installed no yet see you
not being able to I gotta try it folks I
yeah I uh try install it like just
letting it install that maybe there's
something missing
so see what 28d says you want account
details so my guess is you have to
install it it doesn't look like it comes
with the virtual machine maybe it's a
stripped-down version of Ubuntu and it's
just not there ah solving orders about
Worthing the GUI command in terminal
where does that what is the fan that
you're asking about he just said what
about running the GUI command in a
terminal what's the GUI command we're
looking for I have no clue I'm just
reading off of this court yeah well
that's like this install folks this is
the account details that it keeps taking
me to I
I'm surprised that it's not already
there though
not wrong because users is it it good we
have a whole hour let's see let's see
what else Robbie Ferguson what happens
when I click on Robbie Ferguson account
settings and it takes no there it is huh
okay so try ok folks so sell see so it's
not the account details yeah so I found
a little bit of a way to get to it
without doing the search so I can
actually can I cancel this no it doesn't
even let me cancel it I'm just gonna X
out of that so the way that I did find
it this is hacky and and again for those
who would I wish I could just can I just
close this window just leave me alone
again I take the approach with our show
that I want to I want to encounter these
problems the correct one I want to
figure it out with you ok so I'm gonna
click here see that little drop-down
arrow at the top right and I click on my
name then I can click on account
settings and it does take me there
that's where I want to be that's what I
was looking for users hello ok click on
unlock up at the top right and it asked
me for my password this is the one that
I created and now I can turn off
automatic login so keep in mind I had to
unlock first remember that was
inaccessible while this was a locked
application now that I unlocked it and
entered my root password I can turn off
automatic login ok close this window now
oh great account details is installed
that's it
alright so now that that's done now I'm
gonna change I'm gonna restore this
window so that it is now not fullscreen
and I'm gonna click on that arrow again
and I'm gonna hit the power button and
no I'm not gonna hit the power button
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna hit my
name Robby Ferguson log out now log out
wait for it
okay we're back at the traditional long
to login screen cut in a roundabout time
getting here but we got here so we're
here we're here it's the adventure that
counts
absolutely okay so now that we're at
this screen so we have logged out of the
Ubuntu machine in the normal mode not
enhanced mode now I'm gonna go view and
turn back on enhanced session now I'm
back here okay
so maximize that and are we ready Robbie
test test one two three and Sasha's
crossing her fingers Jeff come on and
hit enter and ladies and gentlemen low
and behold we have purple yeah now we're
gonna have much better responsiveness
because we've got xrdp enhanced session
mode running out of the box now I can
shut down I can reboot I can real aughh
in with that enhance session mode and
it's going to work yes
so I want to see what this is all about
just like we had planned last week I
want to see what it's all about so we're
gonna take a really quick break when we
come back we're gonna take a quick tour
of a boon to 16 to 18 point oh four
point one running on Windows 10 right
after this
[Music]
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV we've
got it working whoo boon to 18.0 4.1 is
running on Microsoft Windows 10 now just
to reiterate this is actually a window
on Microsoft Windows 10 using hyper-v
manager and that was installed on 575 so
if you want the step-by-step on how to
install it go back to episode 575 of
category 5 technology TV but watch what
what you find here when you go hyper-v
quick create on Windows 10 with the fall
creators update and in there you're
gonna now see the ability to deploy
Ubuntu 18 point oh four point one and
it's gonna work for you right out of the
box with all of the information that
you've learned here today SAS - why are
you laughing it's going to work out of
the boxes turns out that you get in
trouble if you use capital letters oh
right yes oh did you get reprimanded by
the bots fantastic third time you get
banned for 30 minutes okay so here it is
it's a boon to running on Windows so if
you're a Windows user and you don't want
to wipe your
drive and lose everything that you've
already got set up this is a great way
to test it out you can try Linux it's
absolutely free and because you're doing
it through hyper-v you're just
installing it as an application on your
computer and you don't have to wipe
anything out or do a boot or set up
anything difficult so let's get a quick
look and a quick look it is so we've got
Firefox we've got Thunderbird which is
male kind of similar to Outlook Express
back in the day we've got our file
browser we've got rhythm box is kind of
like an iTunes like thing libreoffice
writer' which we've looked at here on
the show software for installations help
Amazon and initial set up which is the
screen here which probably walks me
through some of the things that I've
skipped over you'll want to go through
that
I just find it like it's a big window on
my screen taking up space okay so click
on this guy down here you're gonna see
all the applications that come
pre-installed it's pretty yeah and
remember that this is built kind of for
touchscreen so if I drag with my mouse
I'm actually gonna be able to move
things around just like you were on a
tablet like on Android or something like
that you can see that it looks like it's
got support for Bluetooth and things
Firefox let's bring it up and see what
what it looks like I mean it's it's
gonna be what you expect right there's
Firefox mm-hm
jump over to YouTube it runs so the nice
thing about doing this is you can do
your web surfing we talked about sashes
we talked about getting roms mm-hmm and
things like that and people saying well
I don't have Linux I can't install Linux
how can I do this safely because it's
there are a lot of malicious malware and
things that you can catch from those
kinds of things you can do it on here
yeah in a virtual machine
it's Linux exact and it's not going to
infiltrate your windows filesystem so
that's everything right so here we are
in YouTube let's do a quick search for
category 5
we're just kind of I was in there for
discord sorry it sounded quiet there for
a moment
okay so there's category five technology
TV and there we are and there it goes
and it's working and it's playing right
out of the box all right so that's
Firefox we know all about that it's got
writer so I imagine that means if I
click here and type calc
it's got LibreOffice calc which is your
oh yeah and this is a new version to
look at this so there's your kind of
Excel spreadsheets and things but it's
absolutely free version 6.0 point three
point two I don't know what that version
was so yeah yeah yeah so there there you
have it folks so it's up and running
it's a boon to Linux in Microsoft
Windows wait you're gonna do this at
home you can do this at home do it at
home but now I can do that Windows 10
you're stuck on Windows 10 you want when
the next we started with which to
Windows 10 for games and now we can do
this so there are a couple of quirks out
of the box we have found that I mean
this is a project that is officially
endorsed by both canonical Ubuntu and
Microsoft Microsoft worked with the open
source community to make this work and
it's not perfect right out of the box
because of that one little quirk don't
check off automatically log in and if
you do that you'd leave it off you're
gonna be good to go so enjoy that's a
boon to 18 point Oh 4.1 running on
Windows 10 through hyper-v
