hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
on today's show we are in part four of
Prison Break
finally Peters out of prison and now
we're gonna see what the response the
church has to this miraculous Prison
Break in Acts chapter 12 so stay tuned
this is new every day with Jen wagger
and Carey web
[Music]
hi everyone and thank you for tuning in
again to new everyday we're so glad that
you've tuned in and so glad that you've
stuck with us for now our final
installment but who knows you know what
we just turned the camera on we start
talking and we end up going down a
couple different rabbit trails and
that's what we love like we started this
show so many years ago because we Jen
and I we share space together and we
just really value talking about the
Bible and talking about real life and
find that having conversations about God
and who he is really encouraged us yes
and so we just started doing this show
turning on the camera and having these
similar conversations that we would
normally have yes and so Robbie Ferguson
who oversees category five for some
reason he's like hey would you consider
doing a show and it's like well we
already do the show content without
turning on the camera so we might as
well just turn on camera and record yeah
I know the conversations that we have
and some of them are completely random
because because you're right one thing
leads to another yeah but for the
purpose of building one another up and
that's ultimately why we do this show is
to build you up in your faith or if you
have questions about God then we
encourage you to you know check out the
Billy Graham like the Billy Graham
Evangelistic
if you have questions about how do I
meet with Jesus like literally type in
how do I accept Christ enter and you're
gonna find out reasons but at the end of
the day at Jesus said just follow me do
what I do so what you can do and dear
Lord Jesus I want to follow you I want
to learn more about you and pick up his
bird this is the Bible start in the book
of Matthew and say okay help me to
follow you yeah and what you see you
written there go and do yeah like and
you know what go on to youtube or I
believe it's on Netflix as well and
watch the Gospel of John yes because the
Gospel of John is word-for-word the
Bible but it's depicted like as a movie
and so I'm just really helpful to see it
and hear it at the same time
so just just get started and maybe like
you've been like you believe this and
have believed it for a long period of
time but it's when you start like
reflecting on the person of Christ and
spending time with him and actually
reading it and listening to the word
that God is just gonna explode in your
life yeah I don't know how else to
explain it no other than explosion and
you just it really begins with the
prayer a journey Lord I want to follow
you yeah and I can't follow you by
myself so I need your help
yeah and then he takes you on this
journey what I find so interesting is is
Jesus called Peter he didn't say now I
want you to repent first now I want you
to get cleaned up first no you need to
get out of this boat and we need to sit
down and have no repeat are those gnats
and you know get yourself off no he's
like put together come follow me come
yeah like and we've talked about that
before how all like all people are
welcome it's not get cleaned up first
yeah remember the Passover it's like the
lamb came and then the feast of
unleavened bread comes afterwards which
is what we talked at like about before
and it's so important that we don't
think we have to get cleaned up first
we don't yeah and you don't have to have
it all together when you say I want to
follow you Jesus you just say I want to
follow you I don't get it all
what would you help me I can't do it on
my own let's go and I would say even
like maybe you are investigating another
faith like maybe your Baha'i or maybe
you know have been practicing Hinduism
whatever I would say test him test Jesus
get a hold of a Bible get alone and just
pray and maybe you've never prayed
before but just go ahead and say God
would you show me that you're real yes
Jesus show me who you are and God loves
you so much God loved you so much that
He gave His one and only Son and whoever
believes in Him will not perish but have
eternal life
yes eternal life in heaven but life
abundant here and now yeah he wants you
to know him
so just test him in that I know
as often people are like well how do I
follow Jesus you do what he says at the
end of the day that's what he's gonna
ask did you do what I did did you do
what I do that's it did she do justice
love and mercy did you walk humbly with
me did you did you get to know me yeah
and we just want to make it so
complicated like did you pray the prayer
I want to say did you live the life yeah
that's a good question so because I
would hate to say you know you know we
say like Oh invite Jesus into your heart
but I would I would hate for someone to
just say okay here's my heart but not my
life yeah it's all in yeah like I said
last show like the ultimatums there red
poked blue pill you put the chips into
the middle of the table like you're
you're just all in you're all in like I
said it's okay that we talked about the
matrix and gambling on the fifth
yes rapid code blue pill is a reflection
of the matrix for those of you who were
born after when it was made
it's getting to that point now no it's
not yesterday that was before I knew
Jesus I know millions of people have
been born since then no yes
no sorry we're digressing we just want
you to know all right and we just want
you to know Jesus and that's why we do
what we do so on that note we're gonna
jump back in to chapter 12 all right
then Peter came to himself and said
aloud now I know for certain verse 11
that the Lord has sent his angel to
rescue me from the power of Herod and
from all the Jewish people who were
expected who and and that the Jewish
people are expecting which was that he
was gonna die that's yes as the truth
broke upon him so it's like this very
good line oh this Ruth broke upon him
like what do you picture that hop like
do you picture that as like a 2x4 like
the truth hits you in the face yes okay
so this is another cool story
I prayed Lord I need to tell people who
don't know you about you could you
please make it happen yeah and then
somebody and maybe I told the story then
somebody called the church and said we
have no tell a story yeah somebody
called the church and said would you
come in do you pray give blessings over
people
home and I'm like yeah I said are you
Christian I don't know and and they said
I know we're Muslim I'm like okay
welcome and it was this amazing
opportunity to tell this family about
Jesus and how much he loves them and I
was like wow that's really cool guts at
the end of the day they need to know
that you love them and you have plans
and purposes for them and this is what
happened this is why I mean this is the
tree broke over me in the car it was so
amazing I went oh tell me God you
answered my prayer yeah huh
like literally Oh like that's what it
felt like the truth broke over me so
maybe I was like Peter where's like I'm
walking through this situation and I'm
just doing what I know I'm supposed to
be doing I supposed to be telling people
about Jesus I supposed to be offering
the good news I'm supposed to be reading
the scriptures showing it in my life and
and that's just what I do that's just
what I do
because daily I don't really know doing
anything else doesn't fit right in my
life actually it doesn't feel right so
in the way home on the car the truth
broke over me I was like I've totally
wanna answer prayer I prayed he provided
he walked me through it and Here I am
like God answered prayer I was so very
Tooting God's horn by the way that's
yeah I do God's work a lot and he
answered it when he answered it I love
that okay so um in I think it's Psalm 37
talks about how the Lord gives us the
desires of our heart but he'll put the
desire on there like you're like I want
to tell people who don't know yeah cuz
you preach it to a church full of people
who a lot of the Christians like they're
Christians like they know about Jesus
but you know there is something really
wonderful and powerful to tell people
who don't know so I feel like I just
walked through this whole prison thing
with Peter just now as over in yes and
broke over him and he went to the house
of Mary the mother of John surnamed Mark
so that's John mark where many were
gathered together in prayer as he
knocked at the door I young maid called
Rhoda came to answer but on recognizing
Peter's voice they
else to open the door from sheer joy
what isn't that amazing
like sheer joy she's like Peter's had
the door period of the door she doesn't
open the door she goes and she tells the
rest of the Peter the rest of the people
leaving Peter standing at the door
leaving Peter it was thinking like come
on come on sir you know you hang on to
that thought we're gonna take a break
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show is in cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts welcome back you're still
watching new every day
she's still Jan and I'm still Carrie and
we want to thank our partners who make
this show possible go to our partners
page new every day TV click the partners
tab see the organizations that help make
this show possible if you would like to
help support us by donating it goes to
category 5 TV that's the umbrella
organization that we are under and your
support helps to go pay for cameras and
yeah all the things that are actually
needed to do things all makes I see
things that that Robbie Ferguson in the
category 5 team do that I'm really glad
that they do because I don't know how we
just know how to sit and talk and that's
good to do so we're still in Acts
chapter 12
so Rhoda the servant girl comes to the
door Peter's knocking on the door and is
like hey I'm here she's overwhelmed he
doesn't open the door but goes and tells
everybody so mm-hmm she says when she
recognized Peter Peter's voice because
of her gladness she did not open the
gate but ran in and announced that Peter
stood before the gate but they said to
her you're beside yourself yet she kept
insisting that it was so so they said
it's his angel now Peter continued
knocking and when they opened the door
and saw him they were astonished but
motioning to them with his hand to keep
silent he declared to them how the Lord
had brought him out of the prison and he
said go tell these things to James and
to the Brethren and he departed and went
to another place yeah okay so so many
things in there that I really find
interesting
firstly Rhoda was overjoyed and didn't
open the door
secondly she goes and tells the group
who don't believe her but they were
praying an expectation so that's the
second thing
another thing is Peter doesn't give up
he keeps on talking keeps unlocking and
he says here's what happened it was
awesome and then he leaves and goes to
another place he doesn't just see there
he's like the Mission Continues it's
like the middle of the night yeah
the other thing that speaks to me is
that the church was praying through the
night
yes and what's interesting as we look
forward I'm looking for Peter again he's
not showing up for because it goes and
we talk about Paul for a while yeah oh
and not until chapter 15 where Peter
shows up again but you're right it's
like the Mission Continues like because
he he very well could have sat down but
he didn't he's just like finally I'm not
a present I can't even believe that I'm
okay I'm gonna keep going because it's
very possible that once Herod discovered
that Peter was gone that he would come
to where the followers were because
we're told that in verse 18 but when
morning came there was a great commotion
among the soldiers as to what would have
happened as what could have happened to
Peter when Herod had had a search put
out for him without success he
cross-examined the guards and then
ordered their execution then he left
Judea and went down to Caesarea and
stayed there like so he did go searching
and so I guess if if Peter had stayed
there would have jeopardized their
safety yes so not that God couldn't
bless them at a prison - yeah but he
obviously had had more things that he
used do more people that he need to tell
ya and to keep moving you know what I
was just thinking John is that he shared
the story he shared the testimony of
what God did and that puts a fire and a
faith in people because it firstly the
church didn't even believe Rhoda they're
like to st. Joe like they were praying
and believing that God could rescue him
but then when they rest when God rescued
him they weren't ready to receive the
miracle
but I just wonder like after that time
how their prayer changed or how their
view of God changed because it's like
here here's this miracle that actually
happened and and the Bible talks about
overcoming by the blood of the Lamb in
the word of our testimony and there is
something so powerful about sharing the
stories of what God has done to bolster
the faith and sometimes I feel like it's
when you release a testimony about God
there's that little spark of faith that
happens in people and makes them more
prepared to receive mm-hmm do you know
what I mean like when when I've heard
people share stories about praying for
someone else and God miraculously heals
them even though I've prayed for some
people and they get healed and they
don't and pray for others and they get
healed and it's awesome right those
stories make me go yes I know if we're
gonna keep this party going
yeah it's bigger than me it stirs up
something inside of yourself to be like
I can do that yeah cuz it's not about me
cuz it's not about me it's about God
it's about God doing the impossible
it's who busted Peter out of prison I
know it wasn't Peter yeah it was not
Peter in fact he was asleep he was
prepared for whatever and we talked
about that in the last show the fact
that he was at rest in peace sleeping
because he's been down this road before
he's been in prison before he has stood
before the teachers of the law like he's
he's he's done this and he was like when
he first came before the Pharisees
initially he's like Who am I gonna
listen to God or man yeah like the
answer is very clear to me yeah I'm just
gonna keep going and so by Peter leaving
them going to another place he protected
the believers yeah that's true and
positioned himself in a place that God
can continue to use him because he could
have just stopped right and he knows I'm
done I'm done but no like now I've got a
testimony yes or I'm tired or no he
could continue to use him so it's like
so often we're like oh I'm done that
mission I'm done yeah good point and
it's like no no no God doesn't
work that way like he just he for some
people there is rest in the moment but
for other people's like no you have to
keep going because you're not exactly
where you need to be like you finished
this part but you're not exactly where
you need to be and I don't I don't
necessarily have a story about that
except for you know when I remember
applying for a job and I knew I was
supposed to be at camp for the summer
and then I got the news I didn't
actually get the job once like camp was
finished and so I was like okay well I
know I have to finish off camp but then
then what well that's just it it's like
well no I need to find a job yeah like I
knew God God's like well you're not done
yet I still have things so while camp
was on I I started playing for another
job yeah so it's it's sometimes you just
need to keep going like you don't stop
when something is finished
oh well that door closed I'm guess I'm
done yeah
no no you keep going until God gives you
a piece to stop and so it's like no like
God leads you like you might be tired
and exhausted like Jesus was tired and
exhausted after he found out about John
the Baptist dying and yet he looked up
and there are crowds coming towards him
and he fed them and he taught them it
says he had compassion yes so we want to
encourage you today you might be in the
midst of your prison and God has and
then God is delivered in like yes it's
done put my feet up and celebrate yeah
I'm done yeah and it's like no no no and
and this is where I think we can look
back at people's example like Peter who
got up and kept going and other other
Christians through the ages like I think
of Jill Briscoe yeah still working now
and she served in India with her husband
like tirelessly and she shared a story
about how she was saying you know what
I'm wrapping up ministry like I'm very
tired and God spoke to her and said no
you carry your cross all the way home
all the way you just who else is gonna
pick it up you just keep going you
dressing that God will give you the
strength to face what you need to face
yes I just finished a book called kisses
from Katie in the second book which I
can never
what the title of it is and she just
says to Lord I'm so tired I'm so tired
and this is a young woman like probably
25 at this point she's doing missionary
work and she says I'm just so tired and
the Lord says I'm not and on that note
you never give up you never give up and
so I'm just gonna pray for this lord
thank you that you never give up you
never grow weary
you don't slumber or sleep but you're
always working god help us to have a
perspective that's bigger than ourselves
to see that you are working in people's
lives and what's most important is that
people come to a knowledge of the truth
about who Jesus is what you've done and
what life is really about god I thank
you that you give us hope and purpose
here and now and hope for a life after
this one thank you for the example of
Peter and I pray for the people who are
watching and listening you are feeling
discouraged for a feeling weary in
ministry would you build them up God
would you give them that bit of
encouragement would you minister to them
as they sleep to refresh them thank you
in Jesus name Amen thank you for tuning
in and we'll see you the same time same
place next week on new every day thanks
so much
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day
dot TV we're also on Kody Roku flex
YouTube and Facebook or if you're in
Southern California tune in every Sunday
morning at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33
television for the high desert
