hello and welcome back to new everyday
I'm Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're talking about some
prickly situations so stay tuned for
more life in the desert on our road trip
welcome back we're so glad that you've
tuned in again this week we are
continuing our discussion about our
crazy road trip that we took to the
United States landing landed in Vegas
rented a hippie man travel to la camp
through the desert was amazing yeah the
desert was actually cold the desert was
cold I thought Sam it's hot first
morning I thought my hands were going to
fall off oh yeah it was bad but man we
lit up our propane stove when we cooked
and it's just so satisfying to camp you
never gone camping you need to do it
right what who can't stop the cab for
but she did so great I did I was very
impressed in our camper van but it's
because now campervan no scorpions no
scorpions no snakes the Bears can't get
at you there are firm walls all around
you drive in you park it there is no
shimming it up there's no getting out
putting it out packing it up when the
rain comes bring it on like I did try
and put together a table you said
anytime you did it's funny what's
talking so not everything worked out
perfectly but we did have another
amazing adventure down into the toya
gardens yes add the joshua tree national
tree national park in southern
california yeah and the toy garden the
Choya cactus it's a family of cactus ki
kak ty kak ty chance done some research
and it was like a hundred thousand of
these plants owe money in the bottom of
this family thing so when we drove down
what happened was when there was a
torrent of water going down into this
valley they carried well brings water
yeah and there were some cacti there and
they spread their seeds in the torrents
of water would then pick up the seeds
spread it out into a fan like I was
talking about last week and spread the
season so consequently there was a
garden like a practically a forest
these teddy bear Choya yes teddy bear
Choya it spelt CH 0 lla and I have said
it several different ways to Walla Walla
tola today she was like actual yet Toya
so it is pronounced Choya yeah and but
they're anything but Teddy bear-like
because the the spines would you call
them spine pokies pokies scientific name
pokies the pokies on them are like quite
long oh yeah and they are designed in
such a way that when you rub up against
them then they immediately like to stick
to you they're like velcro they're like
velcro like slightest touch they're like
the best velcro ever yeah and one of the
one of the videos that I watched on the
garden the guy said this is not the
garden to run through naked at night
it's like Howie ethylene because what's
interesting is you think of a teddy bear
think cute cuddly I want to hug it right
cuz but these they stick to you at just
the slightest touch so I think at one
point we just simply went off the beaten
trenton and not even far like just
slightly to look at a plant and one got
on my foot and you didn't even know it
in fact someone came up behind her and
said Jack I not judging or name that
weird nerd unless she was like hey are
you Jen from you every day Oh didn't
happen did not happen but if you ever
see us in public come and say hi because
we really want to meet you everyone
who's watching anyways so this little
Choya thing and they're called jumping
Choya because it seems like these little
pods which are actually the seeds that
break away and that's how they germinate
or spread so this little thing stuck to
her and she didn't even know it someone
came up behind her it was like hey you
got a guy yes on your foot yeah and then
Kari at one point like cuz I'm as I'm
getting it off of me Carrie actually got
one on her foot and she's like fling it
off playing it off a crab and what was
interesting about the
teddy bear Toya is that if you get the
barbs or pokey things Robbie can you
blend that you know you can be the
intellectual one for this show and put
up the real name whatever they are
quills they go into your skin and they
said they're quite difficult to take out
why it must be the little thing on the
ends the barbed end gets in and if you
do not take it out properly then
actually infection can occur and you
need medical attention I'm like because
you look at them and you and they really
are quite beautiful to look at yeah and
they look soft in a way because they're
totally covered right yeah but not even
soft even looking at them on the side of
the path I was like I just want to touch
them and I wanted to touch them mostly
because I knew I couldn't you know like
I just want to I just want to touch it
so hard not to it was so hard not to but
they were so sneaky like because neither
one of us knew that we had them on us
and it reminded us of the fact that the
enemy appears like an angel of light
like just so sneaky and I was looking at
a passage from Hebrews this is Hebrews 2
and it said so we must be more careful
to follow what we were taught then we
will not stray away from the truth and
it just these these little jumping teddy
bears made me think because they're so
sneaky that you know they they latch
onto you and they wait for you to carry
them away and they're smoother designed
for that like that's how they germinate
and that's how they spread to other
areas and it protects them against
predators as well as well for being so
spiky but it just got me thinking about
the enemy and how sneaky he is and how
he can sort of just you know we can
unknowingly just brush up against
something and think oh no or perfectly
fine because I didn't actually do what
ever i thought i might do and when we a
little bit when we were in vegas i said
to carry my eyes are seeing things I
don't want to see because what happens
is those images go in right and I can
think well I haven't meditated of
Germany yeah but you know those things
can go in they can come back and in
dreams and just cause you to have so
much like angst I find and I really
thought about those jumping cactuses and
and just as a as an object lesson for
how the enemy can sort of attach itself
into our lives like just get involved in
and be carried along right and do not
even know and not even know and so
needless to say when I finished being in
Vegas I was like okay Lord could you
just take care of my thoughts would you
just you know get rid of all those
sticky things that might be sticking to
me cuz I don't want them to I don't want
to you know get an infection spiritually
yeah and and that's where we met another
Park Ranger Ranger Beth I'll show you a
picture of her she said that that was
okay and Beth kind of explained a lot
more about the cactus and the types of
birds that actually live in the cactus
and what the danger is being associated
with it she was our guide and that's
again like the Word of God and we had a
map with us actually to tell us about
the different things of the garden and
help us to see the beauty in it but also
to be warned about some of the aspects
of the cactus garden that we should
avoid mm-hmm and psalm 119 105 says your
word is a lamp unto my feet and a light
unto my path and that's the purpose of
the scriptures to illuminate things in
our life yes and and and the Bible says
to purify yourself out of reverence for
God Jesus says if you love me you obey
me you put away the things that the
things that are an ascend that's so
easily entangles and then run the race
with perseverance and that's why we need
that guide in our life may the Holy
Spirit will need the scripture to
illuminate the path that we can walk
clearly yes and in
the end it's less painful oh yeah cuz
they said don't go off the path not only
is it bad for nature but it's going to
hurt you yeah and I we were hiking
another mountain trail and I wanted this
really cool picture of a cactus with the
mountains in the background and I did
get it but at a cost because I went off
the path and I bent down and I actually
put my arm in a cactus and I don't know
if you can see the quills that were in
my arm but I had to pull them out and it
was painful I'm video of that oh dear do
you yes that likes us so I just learned
something very important if you see a
cactus don't touch it or lay on it
because they will stick in you as you
can see here very dangerous oh that's
all i have to say so yeah lesson learned
and it was it was ouchie like it hurt
like as I'm video taping her you're
thinking why did she put the camera down
and help her it's better to get it on
film but she's like and at one point you
were kind of like some of them are my
coke but some of them were my skin yeah
and like that hurt was Ali yeah so it
was very interesting like stay like they
were very clear like stay on ah but what
was also interesting was that the
Rangers they appreciated the diversity
they wanted to preserve that and as we
were hiking through Joshua Tree we saw a
plaque about a woman named Minerva whoit
whoit Minerva Hoyt who was this woman
actually from Mississippi mm-hmm very
well-to-do woman actually you think what
was she doing oh yes yeah she was a very
well-to-do woman from a well-to-do
family who had moved to Southern
California oh and she got attracted by
the beauty of the desert yes appreciated
the diversity that was there and saw the
beauty that no one else saw and maybe
you can speak a little bit more to that
Jenna no way you've done a little bit of
reading on her well she yeah I
appreciated the beauty she saw the
beauty in the desert when so many people
as she said we're digging it up and
burning it and running
over it she was like no there's beauty
here and so she actually petitioned
President Roosevelt right to make it a
national part that they needed to
protect that land the vegetation in the
desert there for future generations
because it was important there was
beauty there and and it challenged me as
I read that because we had been talking
we have been talking a lot about how
there's life in the desert there's life
in the desert but it takes I want to say
a keen eye to see it like are we
actually looking for the Oasis's are we
actually looking for the the sources of
water or the beauty around us are we
looking for how God has the provisions
God has given us and she was seeing that
she saw the beauty even though you know
everybody thought well it's a desert
there's nothing good that could come out
yes people often only see how a
landscape can benefit them directly and
I saw a picture it was assignment that
said that essentially that people wanted
to to take advantage of of the geography
there only if it could bring them in
some money through that area was really
affected by the gold rush to if people
are running to dig up the gold and they
start a lot of minds and whatever it
reminded me of was in Genesis 1 where
God actually you know after he created
male and female he said god bless it and
said to have many children and grow in
number so this is Genesis 128 from the
new century version fill the earth and
be its master rule over the fish in the
sea and over the birds in the sky and
over every living thing that moves on
the earth and it says look God said look
I've given you all the plants that have
grain for seed and all the trees whose
fruit have seed in them they will be
food for you I have given all the green
plants as food for every animal and
every bird of the air and every small
crawling animal and it happened and it's
like God gifted us the earth and we are
to be stewards of it we're supposed to
look after it and just like Minerva
looked at this land in Joshua Tree she's
like we need to look after this we can't
let people just run over it and just
like the two Rangers
said no look at the beauty see the
beauty look beyond just you know driving
by it like actually get to know it it it
really challenged me because I remember
Carrie it showed me a video about this
young woman who basically was trying to
live a garbage free life she did it for
two years like like no garbage except a
mason jar of like random string and yeah
something she didn't know what to do
with yeah and I just it really really
impacted me because I thought okay we're
called to be to Stewart the land so what
about recycling what about you know
watching the things you know being
careful what the things that we buy in
too much packaging because it does that
just go into a landfill which you know
we're gonna get this big chemical he a
feat that we're gonna eat eventually
yeah opener food and down and and so it
challenged me like how am I being a good
steward of the land like even down the
car that I dry and being excessive with
driving and using up you know gasps and
and I'm still working on that I don't
have a final answer I feel like there's
a healthy middle ground because there's
some people who take it too extreme and
and can't even enjoy the things that are
before them yes and there are some
people who are like and even Christians
who say well you know what this world is
not my home anyway I'm just here for a
short time and not really consider the
people who are coming after the exact
same thing to think about yeah yeah yeah
I was challenged by that video 2 i'll
put a link for you to the youtube video
of the interview with this woman that it
was really challenged by so yeah and
every so-and-so looking at minerva and
how she stepped up to protect the land
and i'm so glad because now we we were
able to go and enjoy it and I was just
so blessed by her for thought so I guess
that's what I'm wanting is that the Lord
would give me for thought in how to look
after the space he has given me to look
after so
that you know future generations whether
they're mine or someone else's can then
enjoy the same space yeah it's really
cool on the outside of a farm that I
lived at my great-grandmother planted Oh
golly I've dropped the name it's a
flower that clematis and and it has been
climbing up the side of the house for
over a hundred years no way and it's
beautiful and I'm so thankful that she
had the forethought to plant it and that
the oncoming generations have taken care
of it so that we can enjoy the same
beauty plus more that she enjoyed and to
the fact that my cousin that lives in
that home and he's actually wanting to
build like an arbor so that it can grow
up and over it so that future
generations can continue to enjoy that
climbing cactus or climbing clematis and
so you know as we are to be good
stewards of the land it's it's not only
for our own benefit but it is so that
our future generations have something to
enjoy yeah so yeah and very cool yeah
the I've dropped the name again Toya
Toya the choice to cholla or oh yeah a
lot of lessons to be learned i mean oh
yes much more that we could talk about
as far as the life in that area of the
desert including like a desert ran like
a little bird that lives in the cactus
mrs. home their finds refuge their
protection from predators yes when we
could talk about that for a long time
but yeah we just encourage you to take
stock of your life and maybe there's
something some changes that you could
make to be more conscientious about the
waste that we're making so maybe I'll
just pray for us Jen sure father thank
you so much for this earth that you've
made it's so diverse and beautiful thank
you for the world around us thank you
for the places that each of us live in
and I know a lot of our viewers live in
other countries that you have also made
so incredible I pray that you'd open our
eyes Lord to the things around us that
we can celebrate the view
that you have made and realized that it
declares your glory thank you for the
diversity in this world would you help
us to be good stewards help us to
advocate when we need to advocate and I
just thank you for our viewers I'll
always just commit this week to you it's
in the name of Jesus we pray amen amen
thank you for tuning in again yes and we
probably have a couple more shows to
show you about our trip and some of our
adventures in the United States and we
hope that you'll tune in pop on over to
our website new everyday TV click our
partners page scroll down we've got so
many people partnering with us so many
businesses partnering with us which we
are so thankful for thanks to Robbie
Ferguson and category 5 TV for hosting
this show and for editing and producing
it we're so grateful and also so
grateful for you for tuning in yes so we
encourage you to stay on the path this
week and we'll see you here again next
week same time same place it's on the
internet it's hard to say where you're
going to be watching it true I've
watched in different places i actually
have watched us on vacation true bye bye
bye
you
