ah well good morning it's Saturday
morning my time not your time since this
is on demand backstage pass if you've
been following my blog bald nerd calm
then you know that I've been really
excited and experimenting with the use
of a DSLR for for video broadcasting and
using Telestream Wirecast
so we're talking as a live camera source
now of course there are expensive DSLRs
that have clean HDMI output and of
course the reason that we you know
backing up a bit the reason that we want
to use a DSLR is the fact that it has a
honkin huge sensor and the
interchangeable lenses allow for
extremely high quality video compared to
the form factor and the and the cost so
the camera that I'm looking at is a d50
100 from Nikon it comes with an 18 to 55
millimeter kit lens and they're
available now that they're a little bit
you know their past stock you can get
them refurbished for about 350 bucks and
of course you can also get them new for
about 500 550 bucks in around there
you'll find the links for that as well
if you want to see pricing make sure you
go to my blog bald nerd comm and you'll
be able to find pricing by following
some of the links that I have there for
B&amp;H and Amazon and all that so speaking
about the sensor size I mean these are
it's it's a standard DSLR and Nikon is
known for making really great cameras so
what I have done I've got a d50 100 here
now we got this refurbished and it cost
three hundred and fifty some odd dollars
plus tax came with the kit lens now I
had to also buy a couple of accessories
for it for broadcast so we've got a
shotgun microphone for for when we're
shooting in the field I got a bunch of
SD cards and extra batteries and
chargers and stuff one of the things
when you're shooting live video though I
don't know about your Telestream
Wirecast broadcast but fact is as ours
is an our solid broadcasting so
got about you know 20 minutes before the
show where cameras have to all be up and
white balance and and we have to set the
exposures and we have to have the
cameras up because HDMI being not hot
swappable if we have the cameras down
and then we turn them on and
everything's already live we're gonna
blue screen of death or Windows
broadcast server so that's not a good
situation
so there's a couple problems with the
d50 100 out of the box first problem is
that the kit lens and getting a little
bit closer for you this kit lens this is
the focus ring here okay
so if i zoom in and out you'll notice
that the focus ring in fact moves in and
out of the camera so that's not a good
scenario if you want to use a follow
focus device like which you're
definitely gonna want to do because DSLR
the autofocus sucks plain and simple I
don't care how good they say it is
you'll see it in the in the
specifications even a gh4
sucks so don't depend on autofocus at
all you are going to have to have a
camera operator or you're gonna have to
stand very very still after you set it
up so as a cheap solution just to get us
up and going here's what I got a focus
and zoom controller ring so I haven't
even opened this yet but basically okay
so this just goes on to the lens with
velcro so this is going to go on the
outer edge of the lens where the focus
is and if all goes well if this stays on
let's see it's not flexible at all sure
oh there we go oh you do have to
actually pull it awfully tight guys
okay so that's on there now so now I've
got this this gear mechanism okay so now
as i zoom in and out I've got the
ability to just use a gear to adjust my
focus now I want to show you what we're
actually using right now the only way I
can do that because we're using the
camera is to actually shoot it on the
DSLR so you'll you'll have a bit of an
idea of the difference here in quality
so I was saying we're shoot
in ours videos so one of the problems is
these batteries they they're yen L for
teens they last about 40 minutes when
shooting HD video even less if you're
using the built-in LCD I'm sure we don't
do that because here's what we have so
I'm using the focus ring adapter now so
we're using the consumer camera up there
now notice my auto exposure there that's
what you want to avoid as well so I'm
going to just calibrate to the floor
maybe calibrate to something else there
we go alright so now there's what I have
so this is with the 18 to 55 kit lens
you'll notice that it's jerky now that's
our that's our monitor for the camera
operator and usually we have that can of
the the monitor built into the camera
flipped around so that we the the hosts
of the show can see as well we're not
gonna have that anymore because the DSLR
won't have live view on the on the
screen and don't think it might so
that's that's that that's what that
looks like I think I was recording so so
that's kind of what we're doing right
now now this consumer D s this consumer
camera over there doesn't have nearly as
good a quality as a DSLR and that has to
do a game with the sensor size the
quality of the lens is the
interchangeable interchangeability of
the lenses and so on so this camera the
d50 100 is built to take up to 1080p
video in order to produce live view
output we have to actually hack the
firmware on my show category 5
technology TV we're going to show you
how to do that it's extremely easy but
you probably want to see someone else do
it first so what we have to do is we
have to download the firmware from the
camera for the camera from the Nikon
website and we have to hack it so that
it will allow clean HDMI output so with
clean HDMI output we can generate a
perfect 720p video output from HDMI
there's a mini HDMI output and you can
also go up to 1080i everything is 30
frames per second though so that's all
you're gonna get from the HDMI output
but it's crystal clear it looks really
really
great and we're again going to
demonstrate all that so with the
batteries only lasting about 40 minutes
that's a problem right when we're live
broadcasting so what I've done is I've
gone picked up this adapter again there
are links for this in my blog but you
can go to shop category five dot TV what
they've done is it's pretty smart it's a
battery pack because there's no AC input
on this camera right so it is an e L 14
battery pack and it just goes in where
the battery goes on the camera and
you've just got a cable hanging out of
your camera and that's got the the AC
transformer pack and plugs right into I
would say a UPS would probably be your
best bet reason I would plug this into a
UPS and not into the wall or into a
power bar is because you are not going
to have any battery power on your camera
so if the power were to fluctuate or go
out for a moment your camera's gonna
shut off so this I would power from a
UPS just to give you that little bit of
extra battery backup so that if the
power does go out you've still got power
going to your camera but that's all
there is to it so that's a really cheap
part I mean that one I got for about 30
something dollars you can get them you
know thirty to fifty dollars kind of
range there are a couple of cheaper ones
too now I went with a brand name
Polaroid one thinking that maybe I want
to stay away from some of the the
cheaper ones just because of the fact
that this is going to be used for
broadcast and I don't want to have any
problems with you know the bad
capacitors in the transformer or
something like that suddenly happening
okay so next up is okay well I talked
about follow focus follow focus of
course now I'm using a ring adapter for
now we want to actually put a follow
focus kit on the camera and that's a
dial wheel so that the camera operator
can adjust the focus much more easily
and much more seamlessly so you're gonna
need to grab yourself a lens that has
that doesn't have the problem that the
kit lens has so this lens for example
this is a nightcore 55 to 200 and with
the 1.5 crop factor of the d50 100 this
is going to actually provide up to 300
millimetres of zoom so that's pretty
decent for a cheap lens so with this
lens now we've got you notice that the
focus
ringg does not move and the zoom ring
does not move so the fact that the focus
ring does not move is brilliant because
you're gonna be able to set this in the
camera rig with the follow focus on the
the focus ring and you'll be able to
adjust the focus with the dial because
that doesn't move so that's pretty good
it comes with the the little lens hood
as well not a big deal you'll probably
want to put something a little bit
larger on that if you're working with
studio lights and stuff that you know in
here we've got the fluorescents above
our heads so we would definitely want to
have a decent something blocking the
reflections off of the lens so we don't
get lens flares because after all
this ain't Star Trek okay so anything
else you guys want to see beyond that I
picked up these days you can get SD
cards ultra cheap so what I've done is I
picked up a couple of little 4 gig SD
cards because they're only 5 bucks so
the reason I did that is I figured ok
I'm gonna need three firmwares for my D
5100 I'm going to need one for shooting
pictures which is going to be the stock
firmware I'm going to need a firmware
for shooting video in the field which
means the camera LCD is going to have
all of the controls on screen and I'm
going to be recording to SD card so I
need a firmware to actually do that
because my final firmware is the one for
live broadcasting where in order to
generate clean hdmi output it has to
actually remove all of these settings
and on-screen display stuff from the LCD
because it's a mirror image going out
over HDMI so I have to have those three
firmwares in my bag ready to flash at
any time so I've bought three different
SD cards micro SD with an adapter just
so that I can vary so I can generate the
firmware now and take them with me
everywhere I go and I can flash my my
camera at any given time so if I need to
shoot in the field I can reactivate the
on-screen display okay so that's really
all that you need to see right now
really it's about the AC adapter being
ready for follow focus I think we're
probably gonna if the 200 millimeter
lens will work in this space I'm not
sure well it's probably got too
telephoto to it but for now we're gonna
use the 1855 in studio and see how that
works
I've also one of the things is I've got
a nice long 25-footer hdmi cable which
is going to give us some more
flexibility because right now we're
limited with this consumer camera it
doesn't have enough oomph behind the
HDMI to pump out a signal more than
about six feet I don't know maybe it's a
10 foot cable 15 foot cable if I go any
longer if I try putting a 25 foot cable
on it it's just a black screen when we
pull it in to capture so so I'm gonna
try that with this this you know
semi-decent 25-footer cable and see if
that's gonna give enough signal off of
the HDMI on the DSLR so that's what
we're up to I'm excited to be putting
that together and what you're gonna get
to do is if you want to see it actually
come together here at the studio you'll
want to watch the features so I'm gonna
be posting those in the Telestream
forums under Wirecast for Windows I'm
going to be posting them on my blog bald
nerd comm and of course it's going to be
a part of backstage pass if you've got a
Roku make sure you add the category 5
technology TV channel if you haven't
already done so and you'll find under
special features you'll see a feature
called backstage pass which is anything
that happens behind the scenes here
that's where it ends up so things that
don't actually air on the show but it
has to do with behind the scenes so
check that out if you haven't already
done so make sure you follow us and
subscribe to us on YouTube please
youtube.com slash category-five TV also
youtube.com slash Linux tech shows where
you'll find some of our little bites and
our category 5 TV newsroom so we've got
a couple channels they're available to
you and in the meantime excited to be
putting this together for you I think
it's gonna work
we did run a test you'll see on my blog
bald nerd comm ran a test tally you were
there I hooked up the DSLR 2 to our TV
at home a 720p flatscreen and I just let
it run with the hacked firmware with the
AC adapter and we ran at what tali about
an hour and a half we ran the camera
about an hour and a half at home a
she's really engrossed what do you play
she's playing lemmings lemmings my kids
just discovered the Sega Genesis and
it's a wonderful thing she's gonna blow
him up she says so you know what I'm
thinking I'm actually gonna put this
thing up on the tripod and connect it in
and and see how it works so let's do
that
okay so I've already flashed the hacked
firmware into the d50 100 so I'm just
gonna basically be able to plug all this
in hook it up plug it into our mage well
capture card and see how it goes oh I
wonder if I should switch out the stock
lens and actually give it a go with the
200 mil let's see what happens it one of
the great things about about this whole
rig is the fact that you can buy these
cheap lenses I say cheap I mean you can
get lenses as cheap as like a hundred
bucks that will do all different things
for you in different studio environments
so if you're shooting in a church for
example something like this the 200 mil
that gives you 300 millimeters with the
1.5 crop factor this is going to be
great for shooting all the way up to the
to the podium from the back of the
church so you just get a nice solid
tripod make sure nobody's tripping over
wires and stuff and you can you can do
it there you go so what am I gonna get
here as far as what kind of crop that's
a bit tight that's as far back as I can
go now if I could back up the camera a
little bit does that make a difference
because I might be able to do the 25
foot yeah that's not bad but look at
what we can do we can get right in there
we got to go manual focus remember look
at that
this is recorded to sd card right now
but I'm gonna be changing that in just a
moment okay so let's see what what
happens here 25 foot I don't even know
if this is gonna work
nice thin cable anyway if it does work
I'll be pleased about that in here one
of the things I want to do is make sure
that this is got something to grab that
cable if it gets tripped on so I'm just
gonna I'm gonna use the the camera strap
actually which I'll probably end up
removing if this ends up being our
a-roll a-roll not to be mistaken for a
hole there we go
there that just gives us something to
grab onto so that's that gives us a good
amount of length here she said let's see
if I can go straight into the card
without crashing the computer there we
go
all right just turned off and now it's
back on again
there we go remember I'm on battery
right now see if I can set up a shot
okay so here we are pulling live video
off the DSLR I think I'm a little out of
focus I don't have a somebody here to
run focus for me pulling live video off
the DSLR at 720p into Telestream
Wirecast
so if my lips are moving at the right
time
focus looks great I love the narrow
field of field of focus there the f-stop
that's cool doesn't that look super good
on camera mug is out of focus bring it
into the focus I can't get that from a
consumer Dias consumer camera like you
can from a cheap DSLR so now I do feel
like it's stretched out I'm not sure if
that is the camera or if it's Wirecast
I'm going to take a look at my shot here
make sure that the aspect ratio is yeah
so I'm definitely stretched out I'm not
this fat I need to look at perhaps the
frame is a little bit off in the hacked
firmware so now I could manipulate that
but it's not perfect yet so we're gonna
play around with it and see what what I
can come up with
let's sit where I'm in focus so there
you have it so this is running off of
the 25 foot cable so I moved the camera
back a little bit it's coming through
our seven-inch camera monitor so we can
actually see the the live view from the
camera as well as pull it into
Telestream Wirecast and I'll show you
how all that's done in the future videos
as well but this looks a lot better and
I don't have the lights on this looks a
lot better than than what we were
pulling on the little consumer camera
that is for sure so I'm excited to tweak
things get that crop factor a little bit
better
so that I'm not kind of squished this
way and stretched out this way cuz
that's not gonna you know the camera
adds ten pounds will don't add 20 come
on come on camera so we'll get that
fixed as well I'll talk to the guys over
a nikon hacker and see if it's something
that they need to do or if it's
something I can do in the camera we'll
play around all right that's all that I
need to show you for today but I hope
you enjoyed this little segment and I
will see you soon
looking sharper than ever take care
