welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 464 for Tuesday
August the 9th 2016 nice to see you
my name is Robby Ferguson and please
help me welcome Jeff Weston in the flush
welcome sir this week we are gonna be
taking a look at something pretty cool
yes I'm excited a pair of earbuds that
are more than just music more than just
hands-free for your smartphone but also
Intel if you have trouble hearing they
also double as hearing amplifiers which
is exciting you want to stick around
we're gonna be taking a look at amp
sound that's gonna give you a boost of
up to 125 decibels in the form factor of
earbuds it's amazing
stick around alright here's what's
coming up in the category 5 dot TV
newsroom one of the largest torrent meta
search engines in the world has shut
down suddenly and without warning Chip
and PIN debit and credit cards have been
shown to be insecure thousands of
seismic sensors monitoring geological
activity are vulnerable to cyber attack
IBM's Watson artificial intelligence has
saved a woman's life having successfully
and accurately diagnosed her rare form
of leukemia and ESET is recommending
Windows 10 anniversary update users
disable Windows Defender stick around
the full details are coming up later in
the show
this is category five technology TV
welcome to the show it's so nice to have
you here again my name is Robby Ferguson
dad I'm Jeff Wesson and it's nice to
have you here oh thanks you're never on
the show I feel like it was just like
last week was the last time year old my
wife and I founded category 5 TV network
in 2007 that's in Stu thousand seven I
have never taken a Tuesday off not one
and you know what's funny there's a few
times I thought maybe I could learn to
run the camera and the computer so that
I can give you a night off and the show
looks like this yep pretty much and then
the other thought was yeah I don't have
the tech know how it'd be like so we're
gonna do some paper airplanes tonight
fly drones drones just flying around in
circles let's see if we can hover yeah
so last week was my first true vacation
there was ever since 2007 so that's
pretty awesome and thank you to those
who who were willing to grant me that
we've been having some feed difficulties
with our streaming provider and they're
aware of the problems and and and they
actually clarified that the problem was
a failed NIC card network interface
controller and so rather than repairing
the old server what they're actually
doing is they're building us a new sir
oh wow so the hope was is that taking
last week off would grant the time to to
fix everything up and build the new
server right they're not quite there
they've got it almost ready and I'm told
that it will be ready for Tuesday that's
episode 454 so if you experience any
buffering issues tonight watching live
do keep in mind this is also available
on demand and if you're watching on
demand you can just ignore everything I
just said because it's perfectly perfect
it's true but last Tuesday I was I was
driving around Minden Ontario we were
actually heading back
when I realized that the show was on the
air because Garvey and gwg were in the
chat room sharing the the links to the
pre-recorded episode you and I yeah and
Sasha was we all came into the studio I
think it was a Saturday yeah I courted
the show and then we uploaded it and put
it on YouTube so you could so that was
still an episode so we still have our
track record that we have never missed a
Tuesday here at category-five tech TV
but I got the day off which is awesome
so that was really really nice so I was
driving around him in an Ontario
beautiful spot up kind of northeast and
and we had just left a huge 50s
dinner like 50s retro diner yeah dinner
burger was like this and we're you know
the kind that you had and and we were
just driving back it was about 7:25 or
so and I realized oh the show is on
right now and it made my heart smile I
thought that's so nice that everybody
was still enjoying the show even though
I was taking some time off I'm glad you
got some time off though I am - it was
refreshing and I had a good time flying
some drones yes we've been receiving a
lot of drones for the drone zone if you
haven't seen the drone zone yet it is
our brand-new show that is just in the
works producing a bunch of episodes
right now but go to the drone zone dot
TV I was flying the free x MC FX - zero
one that's a nice look if you loved it
so I got the gimbal accessory installed
I got it up into the forest and did a
flyby on a kind of a single lane dirt
road and it's a nice flight there just
to test the gimbal and that's all for
the drone zone no random Wi-Fi issues
taking over this time no Wi-Fi issues
but I did not know I did not have a GPS
signal way way up north so that was kind
of so I was flying free flying the whole
time even though the drone has GPS how
would you not have it just too much tree
cover too much tree cover and you are
absolutely in the middle of nowhere so
isn't that where GPS should work Google
just you know Google Streetview and it
doesn't even go there and
and when you look at the the satellite
imagery you can zoom all the way in and
it just looks like it looks like you're
looking at the top of a broccoli awesome
like take a broccoli zoom in on it with
your camera and take a picture and
that's what it looks like from satellite
imagery it was it was so dense with for
Wow so there was no there's nothing
around it was beautiful so really enjoy
that also a few weeks back Kelsey was
here yes and we did a we did a couple of
unboxing of drones and we also had
Nelson who does form who dis
Communications who showed us and did an
unboxing of the Starfleet communicator
so again you and Bluetooth communicator
Star Trek 50th edition licensed product
beautiful thing if you didn't catch that
episode make sure you check out our
website category five dot TV or if
you're on youtube click on the I up
there and that'll take you there but so
there's company called Air Hogs yes they
happen to catch the show somehow someone
posted it to them yeah and they said
whoa these guys love drones we do and
then they said whoa these guys love Star
Trek we do and they said oh but they're
in Canada and they said hmm we have a
drone that is from Star Trek that's not
available in Canada yet but maybe we can
still get them one so we're kind of the
first in Canada yep
I know it's available in the States it's
not here yet it's kind of working its
way you can go to cat5 dot TV slash fly
if you want to get one it's a true drone
of the Starship Enterprise NCC 1701 and
we're gonna be unboxing and flying this
on the drones own dot TV I'm so jealous
you know if there's time tonight maybe
we can break the seal
he's still my heart go week at five dot
TV slash fly to check it out but I
thought that was awesome of Air Hogs to
send this M it is Star Trek meets drones
and we've been waiting you know I have
not been alive for fifty years but I
have been waiting 50 years for this to
come out yeah I think every Trekkie I
totally agree and we want sees a fly the
enterprise bb-8 that little handheld or
not the the little guy from Star Wars
yeah was like the big thing last
Christmas baby eight this needs to
wounded be being this Christmas Oh miss
is coming by all means you can buy one
of these for Robbie and one for myself
oh my god grateful mmm we need one for
Jeff you need two and I've been open the
box yet it could be just an empty box
they sent me an empty cardboard box it's
got a bit of weight to it a little bit
in the Navy is heavier on your side so
I'm just gonna okay we're excited the
geek and me
just had a geek chasm does it have its
own stand that it said so it does for
display so that you've never have to put
it back in the box so you're not when
you're not flying around the galaxy you
can put it on say the shelf behind you
in studio D just to put that out there
might do that I had no time my whole
vacation I wasn't on the computer I
might check it was beautiful I forgot
how they worked so tonight we're you
know I'm figuring it all out again folks
back to square one so
control-alt-delete and power cycle in
the middle the show
oh this isn't Windows this isn't Windows
we'll be fine I want to say you know
thanks to folks like Alex who decided to
you know while I was away take on
category 5 TV network and become a
patron which you can do at cat 5 dot TV
slash patreon also people were using the
tip jar to throw a little little change
into care and and help us out help fund
the show and the shows what we do here
and also a lot of people shopping
through our partner links which makes a
huge difference you can find out more a
cap category-five dot TV click on
support us support the show and you know
those are it was so nice to come back
and realize you know wow you know I had
a week off and people really love what
we're doing I got some emails from folks
that said you know we just got a Roku
and I installed your channel and I love
the show and I didn't realize that you
also had this show and that show on the
category-five TV network some people
think that we're just tech TV but we've
expanded over the past year or two so
hey that's really cool appreciate that
as well
a reminder though for our patrons yes
because I've encountered this because
I've been really trying to make an
effort to get caught up with perks ok
patreon makes it really really tough the
API is young it's not very sophisticated
and hopefully they'll be improving that
to automate things a little bit for me
but as it is this pretty manual process
to get your perks out but there are a
lot of you who are supporting us with in
ways that you're meant to get perks like
stickers and other things that I would
have to mail to you there are some
viewers who are meant to receive a
birthday card so for example so it's
important that I have your shipping
address at your birth date if if that
applies to you so please email me you
can email me directly
Robi at category-five dot TV that goes
right to my phone out of curiosity who
wouldn't have a birthday to apply to
them
ha ha padam bow nobody if you donate at
a certain perk level then we will sign
and send you a birthday card
gotcha so by the way we have some
birthday cards to sign and send good to
know but we don't know your birthday so
do I just send one every day in hopes
that we nail it we'll just assume that
very merry unbirthday you're a thirtieth
comes we'll just send out the birthday
card there you go there you go it's like
it's like the Olympics that happens once
every four years that's that's 25 oh
right oh the 30th never goes right you
got me there
you're still a vacation brain I am I
totally am still on vacation I it was
only a two-hour drive and I lost 10
hours you mentioned our website for
purchasing items yes what's the big
seller this week this week we've been
selling a lot of Raspberry Pi 3 kits so
that's and that I think is due to our
our plex demonstration that you guys did
because and I figure that because we've
sold a bunch of them but also we're
getting a lot of emails questions about
Plex how do we do this how do we do that
getting a lot of comments on my blog
bald nerd comm asking you know how do I
get through this step and that step so
if you have questions hey email us live
at category-five TV but certainly thank
you for buying your pie through us but
for what it's worth we do have a
Raspberry Pi 3 Plex question your Oh
fair question tonight so hole alright
we're gonna touch on that a little later
in the show that will be great you you
can get your Raspberry Pi 3 at cat 5 dot
TV slash PI P I not P ie yeah and just
when you thought that was enough of the
commercialism we got to take a quick
break but it helps to pay for the show
folks and everything that you love here
after the break we're going to be
talking about amp sound it is a
fantastic set of earbuds that are not
just fantastic sound as a Bluetooth set
of earbuds but it also doubles as well
it kind of triples has three
it has the hands-free phone product
built-in and it's also got the
microphone everything all built-in you
don't have to plug anything into it it's
rechargeable it comes with the batteries
it's got everything I'm gonna show you
everything but it also has hearing
amplification so when you're not
listening to music you can look like
you're listening to music with stylish
Yurbuds but it's gonna help you hear
better so you want to stick around this
amp sound coming up exciting right after
this
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand new beautiful website what aren't
you you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat5 dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV / dream host just
don't put that on the papers on just
don't do it
but hey
it's a great deal folks best deal you're
gonna find five dollars and change per
month go to cap five dot TV slash dream
host welcome back this is category five
technology TV and you'll find us online
at triple W category five dot TV Jeff
let's go back in time a little bit okay
we met working in radio we were on ships
yes we were I was when we first met I
think I was like a co-op student in high
school were you so I was the senior
officer yeah yeah you were the senior
officer and I was like not even Wesley
Crusher yet I was the midday DJ I know
you wouldn't believe it with my squeaky
voice but so you came in and you got the
job after one of the deejays left and
moved on to another station yep in the
big city and you took over the night
shift like you were doing the youth
music and that is in the rock
predominately loud this stuff that my
band played yes and boy did I crank the
speaker's yeah how do you stay a week
awake when you are live in a studio all
by yourself there's nobody else working
in the studio well crack the speakers
and I drank so would go through a 12
pack of cans of coke a show so that's 12
cans every five hours five days a week
Wow yep the thing about the radio
stations they had a pretty sweet sound
system yes so when you cranked it up it
was your own personal rock concert it's
true not to mention the rock concerts
not to mention the rock concerts the UM
seed yeah are in the front row backstage
standing in front of the speaker yeah so
needless to say I do have some nerve
damage and hearing loss as a result now
is this diagnosed her as this self
diagnosed it was his self diagnosed
hearing loss it was self diagnosed when
my wife kept saying why are you not
answering me it was like a hard to hear
with and and I'm like maybe I should get
my ears checked she's like you're young
they should be fine so I got them
checked and sure enough I actually have
hearing loss from moderate to severe
sorry mild to moderate do you know how
many decibels do they tell you that they
did but I don't have the report in front
of me so I could remember all I know is
that the range in the mid total range
I've got upwards of 50% loss Wow
so and it's amazing that you know when
you look at statistics it's a huge
number of folks yeah that are like you
have hearing loss some undiagnosed but
you know that it's true because you know
you have trouble hearing out of one year
or two of both years and that could be
from loud music or it could be from
work-related incidents or could just be
from you know it can happens with aged
life yep yeah but it's not always an
option to go out and get some hearing
aids no it's not they're very expensive
they are and you've got you've got the
assessment you've got the medical
consultation the medical referral you've
got the moulds of your ears to be done
you've got the tweaking of the hearing
aids and it's not usually covered that's
right unless you've got a good benefit
plan you're paying a lot of money
actually I have the Beltone bluetooth ok
aids but there was a recent software
update and so I says to go update them
so even though they're fantastic hearing
aids won't get us wrong credible you
have to actually go to the hearing
specialist in order to have the firmware
updated yeah ouch yeah so that's a
fifteen hundred dollar bill ah okay what
if I told you we're not gonna call them
hearing aids we're gonna call them we're
gonna call them hearing amplifiers yes
but really I mean what's a hearing aid
it's gonna help you here absolutely
so what if I told you we could get you
hearing amplifiers for 99 bucks I'm sold
it's a product review we've got Chubby's
these are the brand-new amp sound
earbuds so we're gonna give you the full
overview of what these look like now I
was able to
my hands on a prototype they are not yet
available they're coming out in two
months time and they're currently
raising the funds in order to
mass-produce these okay so you can get
there through IndieGoGo we've got a link
at cat5 dot TV slash amp sound and if
you've got hearing loss we're gonna
learn all about them tonight but this is
a great product for you
it looks awesome it's a great little
case I say that I say that
tongue-in-cheek but their design is I
made oh you noticed like yeah okay it
has USB we haven't even opened it I
haven't even opened it yet it looks like
just a like a normal case no they they
are all about really sleek design as
part of what this product is about so
without the medical evaluation you don't
need any of that stuff you don't need to
get any ear molds done you don't have to
get any consultations or anything just
you know that you've got some hearing
loss you can pick these up today for 99
bucks on IndieGoGo alright let's get
into the package let's what is so you
know the first impression that I get
from this packaging is Wow
okay that's really well designed it's a
carrying case but you notice okay here's
that here are the earphones okay there
are these these battery capsules that
are in fact charging inside the 3000
milliamp hour case right now so the case
is a charging pack and that heads the
usb on the outside the case charges the
capsules for the hearing aids the
hearing amplifiers but it also has a USB
port so that if you want to also charge
your phone because you might be using
them to listen to music or something
like that then you can also plug that in
now if you're just charging the hearing
amplifiers the Bluetooth end of it
you're gonna get at least 21 charges on
a single charge
so you charge the case first Wow and
then you can charge your your hearing
amps for 21 times minimum now is that 21
so like both both amps are done 21 times
yeah or 21 between them
ah good point okay not sure we'll say at
least 11 times
for to know I think it would make sense
for both because yes I mean if they're
interesting because okay first of all
hearing aids you go through a ton of
batteries yes and one of the problems
with hearing aids is the batteries are
not rechargeable you're constantly
buying batteries yes that also means
you're constantly disposing of batteries
this comes with these rechargeable
capsules okay so let's let's get one out
and they just they unscrew okay and
there you have it so there's the capsule
itself and interesting that you would
mention you know is it one or two you
can actually charge one at a time okay
and so if for example let's say your
hearing loss is quite bad yeah and you
really need these and you rely on them
to be able to hear well and one of the
and and the battery is getting low
you can charge one and continue to use
them with only one battery okay so you
still have some sort of amplification
absolutely you do so those are the
capsules so the capsules charge directly
within the case now that I've removed
them you can kind of see how that works
it's just like that you can push the
button to see my battery level now I
just received these today they were
rushed to us and again it is a prototype
so the charge I got as much of a charge
as I could but I mentioned as well so
there's our capsules I mentioned that we
don't have to go through the process of
getting this thing fitted to our head or
anything you'll notice that it comes
with a ton of different sized little
earbuds like you would expect they're
really high quality though and these
will fit on here too to basically fit
this to your ear right okay so you don't
have to go through a molding process
it's it's just simply hey you get this
out of the box it's ready for you and if
it doesn't quite fit you can actually
change that's awesome so the other thing
is you think about your hearing loss and
a lot of people have a little more
hearing loss in one ear versus the other
correct not sure how yours is mine is
like that my right ear is is that
significantly Rosanna there's a lot of
these little fittings I'm
Oh surprise yeah so along the vein of
your your hearing loss in one ear more
than the other you would normally once
again have to go to your hearing
specialist get them to adjust it right
it's not quite right go back a week
later get them to adjust it again and
it's this process of tweaking it so that
you can hear it kind of equally from
both ears right the the amp sound from
from chubbies
you can actually modify the
amplification on a per site basis
yourself oh okay
so again you don't have to get you are
your own hearing specialist that's
amazing
that is not an official statement but it
comes with a little itty-bitty
screwdriver alright so with the
batteries out there each each side
actually has this itty bitty hole and
you can just put that in there and give
it just an ever so slight adjustment and
that is basically about your a per
channel volume okay so you give it just
a little quarter turn
put them on listen to it for a little
while see how they sound see how they
feel and then take them off give it
another quarter turn and just do it that
way until you've got that good balance
awesome works really well okay so I love
that so let's install the batteries
you're gonna be doing this yourself so
first of all left and right these are
labeled the batteries are labeled but
you need to know that the right is
basically the one that has the the
volume control that controls itself so I
just put that on there and give it a
little turn see if I can get it there we
go
there and now the left one so there's
two cells
there we go
so we've got our charged earbuds awesome
they look and behave just like any other
Bluetooth earbuds absolutely okay so we
fire it up
absolutely I think you need to try this
because you're the guy okay I'd like to
know your impression of them because
you're you're the one who experiences
who goes through life with hearing loss
sure so the question really becomes okay
hearing aids are very expensive these
are on IndieGoGo for 99 bucks right now
are they effective
do they help you to be able to hear and
at the same time they look stylish
because they look just like any other
earbuds right plus they allow you to
listen to music answer the phone they
connect to two different phones at once
if you want two different Bluetooth
devices oh really so you could be
watching TV but also with these then
have your phone hooked up so when the
phone rings all of a sudden the TV goes
off and you can answer the phone for
example so it supports that now where is
the app like where's the speaker for the
amplifier is it is it in the volume
control it's actually in the note the oh
the the volume control it sound oh no
they the actual so like if I just if
I've got the minute I'm not listening to
any music I'm just you know sitting in
them all oh the microphone yeah where is
it there are actually two microphones
okay within this piece here so it looks
like one on the front okay and one on
the back these little holes so it it's
designed so that it will work out you
know the best noise reduction okay with
those two microphones so it gives you
the best quality sound possible with the
best amplification so basically what
we're gonna do is we're gonna turn it on
turn on the amplification mode then put
them in your ears and you can adjust the
volume and see how they work how they
feel excellent other than that I mean
it's crystal clear but we got a look at
the sound quality as well of course
let's take out their Bluetooth 4.1 they
are and they have this new what's it
called apt X it yeah it basically it's a
technology that is implemented in the
Bluetooth 4.1 to
that allows such good sound quality from
your Bluetooth connection that it you
wouldn't know the difference between
wired hardwired and Bluetooth right okay
so fantastic for listening to music and
everything like that so okay so let's
fire these up Jeff so first of all
there's a power switch right here which
I'm just gonna flip and you'll see that
it goes into it's looking for Bluetooth
or something like that I should turn
bluetooth on my phone oh there you go
there's a nice oh yeah
brand new s you have any music on there
I do have music fantastic okay before we
get before I actually connect it to your
yep sound is it already got it it's
already got oh well let's put it on
camera so that they can see it's already
got it's already paired to amp sound can
you just like fast it's gone oh but in
in less time than we could get it on
camera for you it was already paired
yeah so there's no passcode like it was
Oh connects right in okay so I want to
hold in this mode button on the side for
about two seconds and that mode button
is gonna put it into hearing
amplification mode one two and now
already I can hear it's in off mic it's
in hearing basically hearing aid mode
see that no way okay so notice I did
that without these in your ears I always
want to turn on the amplifier outside of
your ears because that would be loud
yeah turn it down yeah okay volume is on
the side here it's just you know
standard but volume up and down and
hello so I've turned that down a little
bit check check check
yeah it works great so this is left
right and that would go around the back
of your head so I've turned that down so
it's a safe safe volume but then you can
use that volume control to turn oh wow
so check check
you know one of the things when you when
you have hearing loss that you know
things that you take for granted but
stuff like rustling of plastic or
rustling of paper right children
dropping things in the studio you know
all those things you'd never hear yeah
that's true I think that your buds are a
little bit big but you've got you've got
funny ears
I do have lived encountered that before
yeah so we you will need to fit it with
the fittings that works are here and
that's fine because it comes with so
many of them sound yeah you haven't
turned it up or anything it's just no
everything's the same like I can hear
the AC running or whatever the venting
system is doing right now can you hear
that I could at better than so you I
turn it like right down yeah how's it
sound it's good it's good I mean it's an
amplifier so I mean there's there's a
slightly digital list to it but you're
gonna get that with any of my oxygen
system so but no this is great I mean
cool all right so you've synced it so
that's really all there is to that
you've got the volume control fantastic
now you synced it to your phone yes it's
connected to bluetooth yes so now that
mode button on the side there yes you
want to tap it twice here bring it back
on camera I gotta bring it up front just
so weak sure okay so in order to exit
basically to exit our sound
amplification mode we just tap this mode
button twice one two okay and now you
just give a listen and yep it it did
turn off so now we're in Bluetooth mode
okay so it should be you know if you put
on some music
yeah so it immediately started playing
was it play yep so you should put those
in and crank it out and and actually
this is your right ear and just we've
worked with Bluetooth earbuds before
cuddled like you can wear it like a
beard if you want we've worked with
Bluetooth earbuds before and they you
know from peer bud to earbud a lot of
them have good sound quality some of
them don't have great sound quality
how's the sound from those he can't hear
me he turned off the sound amplifier
yeah that's great sound
it's great it's amp sound I don't know
what you're saying yeah I'm doing music
right now I know that's amp sound you
can find out more a cat5 dot TV slash
amp sound let's make sure that you know
everything about this thing and I really
wanted to show you these because you
know that we have you know we have a
passion here for helping people with
technology so technology is an exciting
thing if it's used you know to me if
it's used to help people we love that
Jeff mentioned Beltone first and beltone
is a fantastic company that builds they
create manufacturer exceptional hearing
devices but they're quite expensive and
you might not be at the point where you
can get into that kind of thing so
seeing something like this that's
available for a hundred bucks right now
is IndieGoGo is really really awesome we
work with the deaf community here in
Barrie Ontario and Hilary Rumble is a
co-host here and she actually signs for
the hearing community random paired
people at a camp and so you know we
really have our hand in that and we
really have a passion for helping people
and so I wanted to bring these up to you
because I think it's a really great
thing for you to support and also if you
do have hearing loss make sure you pick
up a pair what have we not mentioned
Jeff I mean there 16 levels of
personalized sound amplification and I
mentioned that it goes up to about 125
with about you know about a 5 decibel
variants you can hear that when you
first turn them all I mean it was sure
yeah it's rocket absolutely and when you
turn it when you're listening on on
average it's gonna be about 50 56 58
decibels right improvement over your
regular hearing so it makes a huge
difference without actually going into
being a hearing aid you know a medical
instrument it's something that you know
it looks fashionable absolutely and it's
it's gonna work really really well for
you I think I should mention that it's
if you do have hearing loss and you've
had it assessed these these amp sound
earbuds are meant for hearing loss down
to about a hundred decibels so if your
hearing loss is beyond 100 decibels
these may not be the thing for you
but I think that covers a very large
spectrum especially you know for those
who just want something comfortable to
put on once in a while and to be able to
hear better at the very least even as
Bluetooth wireless headphones that's
their great amazing
they're great did I mention the
rechargeable battery cells
yes that's cool I really like the design
and you know we joke we joke about stuff
like you know Christmas lists and
everything but yeah I've got people in
the family that have hearing loss
undiagnosed but you know that it's there
yes and something like this is much more
comfortable much more accessible than a
hearing aid it's something that you can
you can get as a gift and it would make
a really great gift
so check out cap five dot TV slash amp
sound and find out more about these but
also through that link if you support
them right away there are limited
edition a limited number of them
available for only $99 so you can I
don't think I've ever seen a hearing aid
for under 400 you know so usually and
that's like entry levels yeah and these
we've got the Bluetooth and everything
else and because I love the fact that
you can tweak it yourself which is
awesome I think it's perfect
IndieGoGo campaigns or sometimes Effie
sometimes sometimes and sometimes we
don't necessarily want to go out and
support IndieGoGo campaigns because what
happens if they fold or they don't raise
the funds but then they still take your
money
yes so I did want to touch on jobbies is
a you know they are known company with a
great product line they're doing this in
order to be able to mass manufacture
something that they believe to is a
fantastic product for those who perhaps
can't afford hearing aids those who are
in countries that is simply you know
they don't have access to that
technology and boom here you go we've
got a rechargeable pack that you know we
can charge this once a week and take it
and you've got your hearing apparatus
already for you
so they're you know they're a good
company that is they have a whole
product line they're reputable and as
you can see even their prototype
is is really serious it's really far
along that's one of the ways that I can
judge you know the quality of the
prototype really tells me that this is
this is a good good product they're
serious about this and they're ready to
go into manufacturing so they're coming
out in two months so get on over to cap
five dot TV slash amp sound to find out
more about it support it get yours in a
couple months time when they actually
start shipping and I think you'll you'll
be pleased with those I am I wish you
could hear them it's one of those things
I can't into review earbuds yes kid how
do i how do I do you hear me now well
they work and they do they're really
well done really well thought out
no that's love I love that love it cool
awesome
good job use has done it again with AM
sound well done indeed
well should we yes cover the news yes
our ice we should alright
it's Tuesday August 9th 2016 and here
are the stories that were covering this
week one of the largest torrent
metasearch engines in the world has
suddenly shut down and without warning
Chip and PIN debit and credit cards have
been shown to be insecure thousands of
saved a woman's life after having
successfully and accurately diagnosed
her rare form of leukemia an ESET is
recommending Windows 10 anniversary
update users disable Windows Defender
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category 5 TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cat 5 TV /
gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones
of course I mean especially your loved
ones right because cap v dve slash
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you can ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices to their
cellphones you betcha
cap 5 TV slash gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those make a great gift
absolutely from high tech watches to
action cameras headphones even virtual
reality headsets cat5 dot TV / gearbest
has you covered they literally have it
all Jeff literally really it's like a
super store right from the comfort of
your own chair at your computer through
the interweb yeah I there's no way they
have it all it's true that's just a
bunch of random electronics test me what
about clothes yep both men and women
fashionable apparel at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping a cat5 TV slash gear best
yeah all right you kind of got me there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff
now that the winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals on
sale copters oh my goodness well check
this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again well you're gonna
find gearbest on our partners pages for
any of your favorite category 5 TV shows
like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest
see that's easy cat5 dot TV slash
gearbest that's right
happy shopping I'm Jeff lesson and here
the top stories from the category five
dot TV newsroom torrents dot-eu one of
the world's largest torrent sites has
announced farewell to its millions of
users the Meta Search Engine which
hosted no torrents of its own but linked
to other sites including the Pirate Bay
has decided to cease its operation the
surprise shuts that shutdown marks the
end of an era founded in 2003 torrents
has been a stable factor in the torrent
community for over thirteen years with
millions of visitors per day the site
grew to become one of the most trusted
torrent sites but now this rain ends as
the popular Meta Search Engine has
announced its shut down on Friday and
without warning torrents disabled its
search functionality and at first sight
the main page looks normal but those who
try to find the links to tor - torrents
will notice that they're no longer there
instead the site is now referring to
itself in the past tense suggesting that
after more than a decade the end has
arrived torrents was a free fast and
powerful Meta Search Engine combining
results from dozens of search engines
the text reads the site's user has no
longer is no longer available to log in
either instead they see the following
message torrents will always love you
farewell torrents itself never hosted
any torrent files but did have a take
down procedure in place allowing
copyright holders to take down
infringing links now not all right shal
rightholders were happy with the site
though both the RIAA and the MPAA have
reported the site to US government in
recent years which repeatedly placed it
in the annual out of cycle review of
notorious markets now with torrents EU
and kickass torrents both shutting down
the torrent community lost two of the
largest sites in a period of three weeks
something tells me the whole kickass
torrents getting shut down may be the
reason why torrents died you said
I'm out of here I think they're packing
it in I think so I think it's they just
don't want to get caught and not that
they're doing anything wrong they're
just providing links but yeah getting
caught up in the airport move they've
been really careful you mentioned that
that they have never hosted Torrance and
in but act when they first launched I
remember that they did and then they
realize whoa we need to stop rework this
because we don't want to be breaking the
law yeah we would rather fall into the
gray than the black so they changed it
so and that happened very very quickly
so it's not inaccurate but yeah they did
at one point yeah
actually host Torrance but yeah it's a
it is a gray area and it's a tough thing
when you know these great sites and from
our screen shot even I mean you could
download things like Linux distribution
what's exactly and that's what I use
towards for a lot of times is is getting
some of that kind of stuff so it's sad
to see that Torrance is gone I love all
the time I would love so much to have
category-five season-by-season available
as torrents that would be wouldn't that
be neat what would you think of that
would you like that gonna be cool it'd
be a massive file be a lot of files all
in one Keys magnet link where's the
leader like 52 episodes that are at
least an hour each that was the math
Jeff how much would that take on your
hard drive well how big is the average
video file the average show these days
now if you were watching in 1080p HD yep
let's see if I can find a calculator on
this here blackberry z10 I think we're
probably falling about thirteen hundred
megabytes 1.3 gigabytes
times ya times 51 so you'd be looking at
66 300 divided by 102 for 64 gigabytes
almost 65 gigabytes per season times 9
so ya times 9 sees well the early
seasons weren't in 1080p but yeah you'd
be looking at 500 gigs anyway 500 gigs
half a terabyte of tech goodness you
should see our file storage online like
cuz we're hosted on s3 so we host the HD
1080p the HD 720 the SD 580 the SD 360
the LD and the mp3 all on the same
hosting package so you think you need a
lot of space for your backups Wow yeah
all right
credit card companies for the most part
have moved away from swipe and signature
credit cards to Chip and PIN cards but
by this point the technology is supposed
to provide consumers with an added layer
of security and it's beginning to show
some where according to researchers near
vault Minh and Patrick Watson
researchers for NRC Corporation staged a
series of malicious transactions in a
talk at blackhat last week demonstrating
that they could capture track 2 data and
bypass chip and pin protections now the
standards intent is to prevent the
duplication of cards and crack down on
stolen card usage but it doesn't present
prevent that card data from being used
or modified elsewhere in their first
demonstration the duel used a Raspberry
Pi to capture track 2 data packets in
real time via a passive man in the
middle compromised they picked up two
interactions from data entered into a
pin pad running flawed production
software that's currently in use at at
least one unspecified vendor now while
the researchers claimed that they had
spoken with the vendor
and ask them to implement TLS
connections they were told that it
couldn't be done as they ran old
hardware oh the two also showed how chip
and pin currents on cards aren't immune
to hacks the garbled data can be
transformed into readable bits and atom
attackers could compromise a PIN pad by
injecting a form and quickly change it
back to a customized welcome message
vault Minh warns therefore that
consumers should never re-enter their
pin as it's a telltale giveaway that a
PIN pad may have been compromised and
how many times have you used your PIN
and you've had to re-enter it because
you've hit the wrong button well that's
my fault so I know right right so but if
you enter your PIN and then it
immediately goes back and resets to the
enter your PIN prompt dots okay that's
what they're talking about because I I
mean the amount of like one is a
phishing scam and then the next one is
the real one
right and see nothing safe nothing is
safe you're all doomed so I mean it's
harder to duplicate the cards but I mean
if you can use a Raspberry Pi to take
all that information you can use a
Raspberry Pi for anything
pretty sure you want to be a hacker go
to cat five dot TV slash PI you will
instantly be a hacker Oh a good time and
thank well I wonder how that's gonna
apply with you know like the tap the tap
yeah cuz you know oh oh the tap chip
thing yeah yeah wonder if the same
vulnerabilities apply with the tap
because it's the machine itself
you don't need PIN codes for that so I
wonder if there's a vulnerability there
mm-hmm can never know you never know
folks until the next news story Oh or
not thousands of seismic sensors
monitoring geological activity are
vulnerable to cyber attack the poor
security controls around the way the
sensors transmit data were detailed in a
presentation at DEFCON hacker convention
researchers found ways to fool and
overload sensors so that monitoring
systems would get widely inaccurate
readings
the findings have been reported to the
u.s. computer emergency organization
that oversees the National
Infrastructure and Burton bonala is a
security expert based in Costa Rica who
with colleague James Jarrah carried out
the research mr. bonala said that the
network of sensors came to light during
a different project that tried to find
and map smart devices connected to the
net to create a search engine for the
Internet of Things I love the Internet
of Things the dices stood out because of
the distinctive fingerprints of data
that surrendered to scanning software
and because of their location and he
said these devices are located in
extreme environments like the middle of
the ocean and around active volcanoes
closer scrutiny revealed that it was
easy to connect to the sensors each of
which costs three or thirty thousand
dollars and see and see the data that
they were gathering and transmitting
tracing links to central servers that
collect the data revealed a series of
flaws including common default passwords
that could be exploited by attackers to
take control of the network but they
were even able to establish a root shell
the highest level of privilege on the
system mr. Bonelli said that the risks
were associated with the network and
sensors were too low but the easy access
might be of interest to particular types
of hackers he detailed that these
devices measure natural disasters
abusing them could lead to financial
sabotage for a specific company or
country nano metrics the company that
makes the sensor system that was probed
disputed the researchers finding saying
we have always recommended to our
customers that they changed the factory
default passwords and when using the
systems on real-time communication
networks they limit access to known IP
addresses and use VPN software Wow
if there's one thing I have learnt that
when you tell people to do something
chances are they're not going to do it
you'd like to think the government
employees follow they RTFM they do what
it says in the manual you fixed me when
you install a router in your this
happens with Internet service providers
thinking about home users yes you get a
new modem from your ISP what do you do
you plug it in you turn it on you've got
Internet yes yep
it has default passwords other folks out
there on the Internet can connect to it
and access your stuff yes so that's a
home user and it is true and it happens
that is not a conspiracy theory that is
truth change your bloomin passwords I've
done it I've I've moved into areas see
all these unsecured Wi-Fi from all the
houses oh sure
and I'm like oh oh but I share it with
my neighbor right
okay so you pull up so I pull up their
Wi-Fi I now have a hacker no I'm just
stupid average average if I have access
to all their files but that on top of
that I decide to type in their default
router sure yeah password for the admin
access usually admin password that's
right in google it you can go to the
login form and it'll say wrt54g right
google default password wrt54g admin
password okay let's try it
yeah and I'm in and I've got it and I'm
like oh look I have access to your
router so I could lock you out sure but
a smart hacker or prying person would
not lock out the user but instead would
install sniffing software to be able to
gain their credit card information
HAP's lured and copy all their personal
files onto a hard drive or whatever all
of this is just home networks not to
mention we're talking about seismic
reading technology and they didn't RTFM
and they didn't change the password so
the news comes out and we purposefully
ended the story with the truth yes the
news comes out that these things are all
susceptible to hackers they're all
easily exploited because they're all a
bunch of routers with admin password yep
well it's not the devices
per se but the people who installed the
devices didn't read the manual yep
didn't do what they were told which is
do not deploy these with the default
password that's there so that you can
connect to it set it up add your own
secure password strong password set it
up behind a tunnel so that it's a its
SSL encrypted make sure your keys are
up-to-date
see I can't follow it's got a fall on a
user come on and and the one part the
the news story that talked about you
know this could be particularly
interesting for attacks or profit-making
like I think of things like you know the
the San Andreas Fault
like imagine if those sensors were
hacked somebody didn't change the
password and somebody decided I'm just
gonna have a little bit of fun and set
those suckers off to say it sure is a
you know ten on the Richter scale
and all of a sudden emergency services
are deployed government funds are being
sunk into something that doesn't exist
so there's that end of it yeah you could
have bankruptcies happening from that
and then something real happens and
guess what now we've we've got all our
resources over here maybe that's the
plan or it's like a diversion tactic hey
now we attack on the East Coast
everything's hunky-dory on the East
Coast
tell them no seismic activity over there
but my you know money be damned
I mean it's yeah it's virtual it doesn't
even exist but truth is what happens if
it was used to to hurt human life you
know that's a very real tech tech is a
wonderful thing but we really do mess it
up as a human race some of us do but
then again sometimes we can use it to
save lives
sure just like IBM the IBM's Watson has
done everything from winning at jeopardy
which was so fun to watch - cooking
exotic meals I would be interested to
try those meals but it appears to have
accomplished its greatest feat yet
saving a life University of Tokyo
doctors report that the artificial
intelligence diagnosed a
60 year old woman's rare form of
leukemia that had been incorrectly
identified months earlier the analytical
machine took just 10 minutes to compare
the patient's genetic changes with a
database of 20 million cancer research
papers delivering an accurate diagnosis
and leading to proper treatment that had
proven elusive now Watson has also
identified another rare form of leukemia
in another patient the University says
it's likely to take it's likely to take
a long while before Watson and other
other AI systems are regularly providing
advice at hospitals but we can't imagine
a future where human doctors won't have
to spend ages sifting through research
to identify an obscure disease they just
plug in the right data and start the
healing process I think of the news
month and a half ago that came out about
the the robot pepper yeah imagine it's
like putting Watson into pepper sure now
you no longer have a hospital greeting
robot you now have a diagnosis and like
you walk in and you go pepper I feel
horrible tell me how you feel well
here's what's changed in my health my
goodness you have leukemia
we'd like you to go to Bay water you
deduce that from me saying hi look if
you want if you listen to stuff you
should know they talked about triage and
how that works and everything so it
makes me think about you know maybe a
triage robot would be of interest and
you think oh well Watson is this massive
supercomputer artificial intelligence
they can't put that into pepper
hold on internet of things that's right
okay cloud so it's not about training
teaching downloading all the information
into pepper but rather connecting pepper
to a Watson supercomputer back-end think
about Amazon echo yes it's not all in
echo no echo is just a simple little
device watch that Luke sorry but it's
connected to the Amazon Cloud Servers
and that then feeds echo with all the
information luke sorry can you sit up
you're kicking the camera dude sorry
is camera off no the camera is on boo
don't worry it's all that kind of show
alright yeah it's my thought anyways you
know and it's interesting thinking of
movies like big hero 6 with BAE yeah
like sure why couldn't that eventually
not to that end but why couldn't that
idea take place everybody as my daughter
calls him the squishy everybody just
want to cut along last week
Microsoft is issued the Windows 10
anniversary update which includes
changes to the manner in which security
status is presented to home users the
change does not affect enterprise users
now on the home versions Windows
Defender now displays a users protection
status as off if any non-microsoft
antivirus protection including ESET is
in use additionally Windows 10 a
defender advises the user to remove
their non-microsoft antivirus protection
now in a statement to ESET partners ESET
has recommended against the removal of
ESET security products this goes for
other anti-malware products as well
ESET will not issue a proactive market
facing statement at the time but
recommends disabling Windows Defender
product and notifications and they've
lipped together a page for Windows 10
users affected with the warning
outlining why users should not uninstall
their anti-malware product on the page
users are presented with the following
warning despite what Windows Defender
might suggest you set is still
protecting you and removing it and
removing it will make you more secure
will not will not make a secure sorry
get that one right to hear more to read
more visit cat5 TV slash ESET big thanks
this week to Roy you know me that W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
news story you'd like to send email it
to newsroom at category five TV for all
your tech news with a slight linux bias
visit the category-five TV newsroom at
news
category 5 TV the category 5 dot TV
newsroom I'm Jeff Weston thank you Jeff
I am on cottage time still folks and I
know there are some things that we
didn't get to tonight first of all we
want to be looking at how to restore our
LVM back up we're gonna be looking at
that on episode number 465 rather than
this evening because we're out of time
and also we've got some viewer questions
are you here next week
I think I am here next week there were
some viewer questions comments you
mentioned one about Plex on a Raspberry
Pi 3
we've got your questions sorry we didn't
get to it tonight folks but I hope that
you'll join us again next week and it
will be right here the category 5 TV
follow us on Twitter follow me on
Twitter if you like at Robi Ferguson or
the show is at category 5 TV and I
always post just before the show so you
know what's going on and how to get to
us
but check us out at category 5 dot TV
but that's all the time that we have
this week folks I good to be back it's
good to have you back
thanks man how about two weeks off I was
like that's pretty awesome
see you folks we're good
