welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 245
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the 29th of May 2012 huh ladies and
gentlemen crystal wells he peeps how you
been I i I've been good this weekend
yeah school bell all right uh yeah yeah
I just actually started the new class so
I knew so far it's good but the last
class I'm almost done it's almost done
like the whole thing that's keeping you
away from us damn it is almost done okay
except it's on Wednesdays now so I'll
get some wins don't come anymore I
promise alright sounds good so what do
you what what's the new class what do
you trim it's called advanced web
designs so you went from like rookie web
design to afghan i went to HTML hmm too
no problem cool awesome i'm ready to
learn some CSS some xml some XHTML if
you throw that X at the beginning it
makes it even more advanced yeah and
with that Twain that's how I went into
it I went into it with a twang I came
out of it with note wing that's really
weird right is that really when you go
away to Kentucky things happen you may
be that no doing this once you get good
at it you don't know how to say XHTML
without the twin today yeah let's go
have you been nice to see it hey tonight
we've got those eco alkalines batteries
to give away a full year supply stick
around we're gonna be giving those away
in about 10 minutes time also we're
gonna be telling you about how you can
win free long distance calling free
phone service for an entire year from us
here at category 5 TV
learning all about that in just a little
bit if you missed the announcement last
week and of course the giveaway is going
to be next week so stick around we got
all the information for you and tonight
is very exciting we're going to be well
Krista's here now that she is
progressing into advanced web design and
and all that kind of stuff we're going
to be looking at some pretty cool tools
looking we're kind of breaking into my
online tool box and some helpful
resources that are available for you on
the world wide web to help you when you
are developing a website so we're going
to crack into that toolbox look at some
of those those helpful tools and I'm
going to provide that toolbox for you so
that you can refer back to it in future
as well so if you're at all interested
in web design this is the episode for
you if not then hopefully you like to
win stuff oh just like to attend stuff
yeah I I do I like to win I don't you
winning stuff is cool John what do you
think great to see everybody mm-hmm well
hope we have a look at what's new and
happening and you know can you say that
what you know I could but I'm scared it
might come out like like irishers yeah
anytime anytime I I do the twang it's
like I got to be careful that I don't
offend it's got a sound fake otherwise
exactly somebody out there actually
speaks just like that and and they're
like hey what's he saying what's he
talking about yeah yours sorry huh sorry
about that Oh non Twain version of
what's coming up in the news let's have
a look extra stuff let's see coming up
in the newsroom a set-top HD DVR that
skips commercials is sparking some
lawsuits from cable TV companies whoa I
know I'm excited the free flow of
information and Google search results
are being influenced by Microsoft new
laws in the UK restrict what websites
are allowed to store in cookies
dna-based rewritable storage is being
developed in the US and Kodak's efforts
to enforce one of its patents has failed
oh oh stick around these stories are
coming up later in the show all I heard
was cookies I know I heard that too I
was the keep chocolate chip
bring along rainbow sprinkles excellent
stuff I can't wait I'm hungry yeah sorry
to do that to you have a drink of water
hi gasps that's quenching water break
holy water was a sponsor I will work and
we're working on that yeah we have to
come on the set drenched every episode
but it gets their point across and it
works you know hey we would love to
receive your questions email us live at
category five dot TV Chris just been
away so long like you do you remember
like our website address and everything
to tell it out and oh this is what show
is this this is this is the the good one
that happens on Tuesday nights that you
keep missing has he been at school yeah
yeah oh I remember I remember no problem
okay category five dot TV get on to our
website and we've got our chat room
there love to have you join us there
we've got the community forum and all
these things are available for you 24 7
so even if you're catching this after
the fact you'll be able to check out
those features on our website people
hang out in the chat room all throughout
the week and I try to pop in every now
and then of myself as well and a new
feature that is available through our
chat room and it's coming on the new
website that's launching on july first
but available to you now is photobooth
dot category 5 TV have checked that uh I
had a look at and I was like I'm in
sweats and I just I don't know head on
over to photobooth dot category 5 TV if
he's not got his hands full of eminem's
right now Garvey's going to type that in
for you and post that into the chat room
right there at category 5 TV basically
what it is is it allows you to use your
webcam to be a part of an ongoing kind
of time capsule of little tiny thumbnail
photos of you resist there watching the
show so that's people yeah and we submit
some from here at the studio as well and
so yeah it's a lot of fun gonna be a
part of our new site launch which I'm
very excited about we're looking at this
before the show yeah it looks really
great really great folks you heard it
right here from crystal wells
less mm-hmm it's a good source
apparently yeah she's trustworthy I
guess when it comes to great designs
looks good be excited Christa we've got
to take a quick break we're gonna be
right back after this and we've got
those batteries to give away so don't go
anywhere we will be right back at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV and as
promised we have a year supply of eco
alkalines batteries to give away we've
got the draw going right now and it is
time to find out who our winner is
cycling through well over 200 entries
ballots people who have followed them on
on facebook followed them on twitter
like them on facebook always get those
repair that's what you got to do head on
over to cap 5 TV / eco and go to the
very bottom of the page like them on
facebook follow them on twitter and you
will definitely be eligible for the next
contest as well but tonight tastic here
we go ladies and gentlemen the winner
tonight of a year supply of
is Bill Haggerty okay bill we're gonna
get in touch with you eco alkalines is
going to get in touch with you through
facebook and congratulations you are
going to be receiving a year supply of
these batteries eco alkalines of course
are environmentally friendly their
carbon neutral landfill safe batteries
which is great yeah i know i have a
little baggie at home that batteries
like you can't throw away and you forget
done you want to recycle them right yeah
I suppose you still on recycling but
it's great to know that I still do safe
I still recycle these but the fact is is
that they they do end up you know
batteries end up in the landfill it just
happens and and they will typically leak
chemicals into the earth and these
batteries will not do that if they do
end up in a landfill there's nothing in
here like mercury cadmium led anything
like that that is unsafe for the
environment it will biodegrade so
they're also manufactured with
ninety-eight percent recycled materials
so you know we love to find products
like this that are doing their part for
the environment and Bill Haggerty
congratulations again on your year
supply of eco alkalines batteries please
find out more about them on their
website cap 5tb / eco official battery
of category 5 technology TV go we've got
ya awesome so please we've got a ton of
your viewer questions we're gonna hop
right into yeah alright I'll your
questions the first question coming in
here I should just say if you if you
wonder how to get your questions in I
don't mean to interrupt you didn't wanna
I was all ready for it as excited as I
should have waited until she was halfway
through the sentence yeah go ahead no no
no please start I don't want to
interrupt you no no please please okay
by all means email is live at category
five dot TV you can get on to our
website as well great way to to get your
question into us is through our website
click on interact and you'll see ask a
question reason for that is because that
way it comes in to us not from your
email account comes in through a
protected mast kind of thing so it helps
to protect your your privacy as opposed
to just sending us an email because
sending us an email of course it
could happen we try very very hard not
to let it happen but if we have it up on
the screen for example it may show your
your email address so using the form on
our website category five TV that's the
best way to do it click on ask a
question by okay now yeah oh also huh
first question here oh she's gonna start
getting good one yeah it's from Louie
hey Louie whoa sounds awesome cool all
right it's not only like I haven't been
away from the show for a while it's like
Robbie hasn't been on it it's like I
didn't I didn't even know that the CGI
was turned on you know there's the
transition effects huh we can
interesting homes but we didn't intend
to you really don't hear this question I
loved it you're Louie's question come on
okay we come on why does she keep
stalling your question dude hardly think
that's my phone I'm gonna jump right
into it yeah you going from Louie he
says I'm a hi Robbie hey I have ubuntu
10.04 desktop pc running as a basic
server here's the problem i can't seem
to access any services on it Apache ftp
for example from the network I don't
have any firewalls turned on and i'm
using a regular 5 port gigabit switch
which is then connected to linksys
router i do a ping test and hear the
results okay oh so you're getting
replies I see on the screen here okay
let's see yeah I was told oh I just had
to go after the garble okay I always
took garble the ping replies is cursed
so five friend that a linux machine
should get a TTL of 64 okay by the way i
also or i can also surf the web on the
server without any problems I'm over to
any suggestions or ideas you have enjoy
watching your show and keep up the good
work hmm ok can you so is my first
question would be based on what is being
said here is it a physical server with
the native operating system or is it a
virtual machine if it's a virtual
machine then it's it's a whole different
ballgame if it's under virtual box for
example you'd want to make sure that
your your network adapter is set to
bridged mode and that you have it set to
allow all as opposed to NAT which is
like a it will have its own firewalled
kind of network that you can get out but
you can't get in so if it's a virtual
machine you want to double check on that
kind of stuff let us know kind of the
full details there because I'd love to
be able to you know it's a whole
different ballgame if it's virtual
machine otherwise okay you're able to
get out but they can't get in no ufw
running the the firewall and linux on a
boon to know no firewall that you know
of so what could it be IP address
something wrong with the hostname check
your IP address go to your terminal so
accessories applications accessories
terminal and once you're there just type
in i F config and your Ethernet adapter
eth0 in my case I'm assuming that you're
using hardwired not not wireless
otherwise it's going to be like W LAN or
something like that ok so my address
here is 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot 70 you want
to check what your inet abb our address
is make sure that it's on the same
network like let's say that was coming
up at 192 dot 168 dot something dot
something meanwhile my internal network
is actually a 10 dot 0 block so in that
case I wouldn't be able to access it
from other computers because it's on the
wrong block so just make sure you know
basic networking and make sure that your
IP address is correct try accessing it
in a couple of different ways using the
host name which in Linux you will get by
actually typing I believe the word host
name yep so my computer is called demo
so if i wanted to access it on the
network of be on a Windows system I go /
/ demo on a Linux system I would go SMB
colon slash so if I go up here hit ctrl
L
SMB colon slash slash demo or if that
doesn't work because say my dns isn't
working or the name server 10 dot 0 dot
0 dot 70 that would be this computer
okay so just check on the way that
you're connecting but you're saying that
you also don't get a patchy that's odd
because that's going to be port 80 and
I'm really curious if it's a virtual
machine or a physical machine but I
would double check that IP address
that's probably going to be what it
boils down to if it's a physical machine
make sure it's on the same network can
you let us know Louis I'd like to know
more information if if I haven't gotten
you there because it there's there's so
many variables when it comes to
networking the fact that you don't have
a firewall tells me that it's probably a
networking issue or a virtual machine
network adapter type issue so let us
know okay Louie thanks for the question
well we just happened to have another
question another question mm-hmm I know
I think I did there ok this question is
from Ronald hey Ronald hi Robbie thank
you for answering my question on the
last show about adding a second hard
drive I googled you I DD and found how
to use it on in my fstab okay yeah that
should be a uuid in his FS town a tab
file okay I got a name you know God says
you I so that one was it my fault that
through yeah I know uuid is like the
unique identifier of your hard drive
peripheral kind of like the equivalent
of like a mac address for like a network
adapter I get that yeah yeah she did she
get stuff that has the word mac in the
name he's put an apple in front of my
god oh right yes Oh instead of using a
SB one for the drive IG excellent that's
good that was able to add the second
drive that way very good and I'm sure
that you understand why that's important
with regard to you know if you change
drive orders or add another hard drive
all of a sudden sda1 is now sdb one and
everything all your mount points are
gone so using the uuid avoids that
a situation so very good glad you got
that figured good oh I was able to move
my download folder to my second drive
he's in the commands you showed
excellent but but dig but I was on a
Gallardo fig what I had to do it she
just said big but it just Oh Robbie
anyways it's unable to move the virtual
box and v's folder in the same manner it
said virtual box and v's no such file or
directory so I edited the hidden file
dot VirtualBox / VirtualBox dodge XML
instead I changed the default Pat do you
want me to stop there you just sounded
no but I think I'm following the oven
was trying to create a symlink on an on
a different hard drive to move his
virtual box virtual machines over to so
that they're on a separate hard drive
didn't work so instead edited the xml
file and pointed it there I see so okay
a bit of a hack around I'll almost
guarantee you what I didn't cover was
how to create some links with a space in
the name I'll bet you that's what I
didn't do hold the note i am holding out
well would you like me have finished the
the question Justin yeah well I'll prep
myself here while you're while you're
doing ok so I change the default path
for the directories to the new directory
/ mount SD be 140 bucks mvs I have to
reinstall miss exactly what's happened
yes but I copied over the drive image
file and reuse them during the new
install so it is not as bad as it sounds
I hope I explain this right and you did
because did you see the light bulb go on
over at Robbie's head just a light glare
me okay I'm just gonna prepare myself
here for this I'm creating an SD be one
mount point and we're gonna call this
one okay virtual box
envy's is what he's called it mm-hmm I
think you probably meant VMs virtual
machines but just because of the sake of
the question I'm going to use exactly as
he's written in the email so as per the
email now I've got / MN t / st b 1 and
if i do an LS I've got this folder
called virtual box mvs I should probably
i'm going to close the stuff that's
happening in the background here just so
it's not so distracting on the screen
there we go okay so if i want to create
a symlink for that it's going to work a
little bit differently Ln dash S and
let's see here MNT /s db1 / watch this
virtual box now hit tab I just type VI
our tab notice what it did is it created
a slash here because you have to have an
escape character before space so if you
were typing this like this okay slash
home slash demo / vm it'll say
oh is that the same error that he was
getting uh no such file or directory is
not a directory okay pretty close as far
as the arrows go I think that's probably
what's happening to you huh I may have
my command backwards as a matter of fact
I think it should be target sorry
here we go okay let's try that one see
if I can yes sorry that was my mistake
what I did there folks is I I had
reversed the target and end esta nation
so so what I have done there is to test
that Ln dash ass that's where I want my
new symlink and here's what I've typed
okay so that's probably what you've
typed and then I get the no such file or
directory however watch what happens if
I now add a slash just before that space
okay now if i hit enter it's done no
error because what I've done is I've
escaped that illegal character okay
alternatively the other way that you can
do this is you can go ln dash S if you
want to type it out in full form and
just put this part in quotes because it
has a space okay so that's the other way
that you can do it okay and that's going
to do the same thing two different ways
to work with filenames folder names
symlink names things like that that have
a space in the name under linux a little
bit different than you're used to but i
guess windows will be pretty much well
they use the like progra tilde 14
program files and stuff like that so
things are a little bit different there
as well so tab is your friend you type
the first couple of characters of a
directory name and it automatically
fills it in as soon as you hit tab just
like I was showing you there and it
automatically escapes the spaces and
things like that so give that a try my
friend I hope that that works real well
for you sounds like you did hack around
it so you found a way around your issue
but hopefully that will help some other
people or yourself in the future so
Cheers thank you for the question good
oh here's an hour question fine I don't
know from from dynamo damn mm-hmm hey
Dad I says you mentioned show cast as a
way to listen to radio on ubuntu but I
can't find it in my repositories I used
here's Elena used tapped cash search
shout aha but came up empty could you
explain how to get show cast running I'm
using X boon to 11 point 0 for 64-bit
mm-hmm Krista are you familiar with
shoutcast at all no do you listen to
music oh I yes what kind of music do you
like I'm country music for music and all
these I love elysée would you be pleased
to hear that I've been listening to
country music going it's really gross
and yeah are you sure no well I've been
watching the voice and I love I mean
Blake Shelton is just he's such an
awesome guy and hearing his music and
his new single and stuff and it's like
everything's really catchy and I kind of
feel like I know him a little bit
because he's on this is such a
down-to-earth guy on the show and so you
know this is actually my leg it's kind
of drawn to happen allowing me to
appreciate the artistry a little bit
more so oh yay I know it's so dirty and
disgusting starts with rain came from
earlier last where came from folks there
you have it yeah not so quickly I know
but anyway I thought I'd mention that so
you love country music yeah there's not
a lot of local country stations to
listen to it kicks my shoes yeah yeah
down Aurelia what else have you got 89 9
which is actually just a radio station
from it's like 96 something from Toronto
yeah yeah okay it's like a repeater or
something like that so the neat thing
about the world today is that you can
actually pick up internet radio from
anywhere in the world right you can get
radio through your internet connection I
quite often listen to a station called
live Ireland which is broadcasting live
from Dublin and it's it's very genuine
authentic Celtic music and and so I love
that and when
we're tuning in to country music or
whatever John where you want your eyes
when you say country music just don't
they kind of like go like that no these
please sparkle like you're thinking
you've had like tea I don't want people
to lose respect for me though so I got
it country no so shoutcast is the kind
of back-end development of a company
that developed a age-old software called
winamp okay which most people have heard
of it's a fantastic player but the the
developers who created it also created
this shoutcast which is an online
delivery system for radio oh look and it
was you know at the forefront of you
know mp3 technology it was it became
this massive huge database of online
radio and they're not just terrestrial
stations like you know like kicks 10 6
or whatever down and really it's not
just those it's also want to be
broadcasters or oh look at stations that
can't afford to set up a tower and pay
the huge bills to have a you know an stl
going across to the tower and they can
broadcast in much the same way that
we're broadcasting here from studio in
my house they can broadcast from the
studio in their house music and an audio
so shoutcast became and is this huge
network of radio stations so when you're
asking Dan about how do you install
shoutcast show cast is actually a
service it's not a piece of software
it's agnostic of what software you're
using and that's why when we
demonstrated it on this set top box and
where we were listening to some music
there we said that it also can be
listened to on ubuntu because it's it
doesn't care it could be windows it
could be Mac it could be Linux it could
be anything because it's a service so
Christie i'll show you how to do this
and Danu you watch this as well I'm just
going to bring up my web browser and go
to shoutcast com all right right here
this is the the service this is the
service itself so first thing I want to
do is want to point to help honestly
this is the first thing you want to do
help
settings especially if you're on Linux
ok and Windows users to pay attention
because you probably don't have a show
cast compatible player out of the box
you need to download and install win app
or something like that okay or you can
use their web player but I prefer to do
this this way so I've gone into my
settings there I'm on Linux here's what
I want to select play shoutcast stations
in my default media player for example
winamp itunes windows media player okay
so I've selected that scroll down a
little ways tell it you want broadband
or land version that's going to be the
highest quality all right save settings
done down the left-hand side choose your
genre say you want country okay over
here hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
of radio stations all broadcasting with
high bit rates okay 128 bits kilobits
per second basically to the untrained
ear that's CD quality mm-hmm there's not
a whole lot of difference between that
and CD quality 192 to 256 kilohertz
kilobits per second is like identical as
far as what your human ear can hear 128
is very very close to CD so here's a
station that is broadcasting from who
knows where click on play it's going to
download that file and now i'm going to
open it ok and go open with me movie
player and you can set up these these
preferences i'm not gonna break down and
call you Lou
paid over drums a dream and tomorrow
so that just loaded that pls file so you
need to have a pls compatible player ok
which totem is which is included in my
linux system so you can actually set it
up so that your browser is going to
always open files of that type so for
example here i am in chrome click on
there and go always open files of this
type on the pls file ok so now if i find
the station i hit play and now chrome is
a little bit weird but so i had to
double click on it but essentially there
you go so you've got that station you're
able to listen and I know Firefox at
least if you tell it to always open it
it doesn't just open the folder it opens
the the pls file into the player so once
you've established what your favorite
stations are their web lengths so you
can just create bookmarks and then you
can you can easily listen to your
favorite stations so I actually have a
in my bookmark toolbar I've got one
called radio and I've just dragged some
of those shoutcast links up to that
toolbar you just grab that play button
and add it as a bookmark oh so you can
just click on it super easy exactly
anytime you want to listen to kicking
country music and who doesn't who
doesn't yeehaw cool that's show cats my
friend and it's available on any any
platform at all I listened to it even on
my ipod there's a show cast app which is
great i mean headphones i've only got an
eight gig ipod and ipod touch and i
listened with my headphones to shoutcast
all the time because it's radio from all
over the world any genre that you feel
like I'm sick of country for some reason
to know and are some reason I want to
listen to hip-hop or rd right all of a
sudden you can just flip over to you
click on hip hop R&amp;B bluegrass
that one was for you Thanks show cast
calm the place to go mm-hmm anyway dan
did also ask actually um does Eric play
anybody guy tunes so if eric is watching
you should play somebody guy tunes buddy
guy hey buddy guy that sounds like what
you call a guy if you don't know his
name hey buddy guy buddy guy hey you got
your name but I don't want to be rude
and just say hey you so a buddy guy it's
really real guy Italian all those that
is the boat that's what that sound like
something rude now I've offended the
Italians I'm so sorry folks control no
that was just saw I was just some
country guy oh that was country well
would you add a mystery hey buddy guy
but a guy over here let me buy you beer
see oh I think we should just you know
yeah what's going on in the news and
stumbling plan oh you Ravi in his
sorrows
yeah okay so and I'll write a song about
it on to veteran awesomer because that's
where things so top stories in the
category 5 TV news room a legal row has
erupted in the US over a set-top box
that lets viewers skip over adverts in
recorded TV shows three US TV
broadcasters FOX NBC and CBS have sued
the maker of the device Dish Network in
a bid to ensure viewers see ads Dish
Network has filed a separate lawsuit
which asked the court to declare that
ad-skipping can go ahead the network
fears that if viewers choose not to see
ads their main source of revenue will
dry up hmm why do they charge like 80
bucks a month for basic cable I don't
know I need these ads so badly I don't
know I don't understand it I think no
ads on TV cuz there's like a million
yeah but yeah it's me so anyways hmm we
are the ads here at category 5 oh don't
don't delete those no they're good
because it's like one or two sweet it's
not like cable companies we don't charge
you to watch and it's also not like your
commercial time is the same as your TV
viewing time like you know that's
ridiculous ridiculous mmm anyways
continuing on Google shared some
statistics as part of its efforts to be
more transparent about what influences
search results and it shows that
Microsoft has asked Google to remove
more than 500,000 links drumettes index
it just in the last month what goodness
the vast majority of the links in
question were once which took people des
cités connected two parted Microsoft
software Microsoft requests dwarf those
of the British Phonographic Institute
which represents record labels it asked
for 160,000 links to be removed again
because they gay people access to
pirated content in a blog post
explaining its decision to share the
figures google said it had revealed the
figures because it believed there should
be transparency when something gets in
the way of free flow of information
that's it sounds a little fishy to me
yeah like Google knows something that
they're not allowed to say
if it's affecting the free flow of
information I can understand if it's
pirated you know if people are
distributing a little copies but
Microsoft Word then sure I mean shut
them down but obviously if it's the free
flow of information that's Microsoft is
using abusing some power and some clout
well I owe thousands of UK websites are
expected to be in breach of law that
dictates what they can log about
visitors European laws that define what
details sites can record and cookies
came into force on Saturday cookies are
widely used to customize what repeat
visitors see on a site and by
advertisers to track users online the
Information Commissioner's Office said
it would offer help to non-compliance
sites rather than take legal action
against them mm-hmm well I like cookies
this guy likes cookies right he does
like okay researchers in the u.s. I've
demonstrated a means to use short
sections of DNA as rewritable data bits
in living cells the technique used to
proteins adapted from viruses to flip
the DNA bits though it is at an early
stage the advance could help but pave
the way for computing and memory storage
with in biological systems the team from
Stanford University's bio engineering
department has been trying for three
years to fine-tune the biological recipe
they used to change the bits value after
some 750 trials the team struck on the
right recipe of proteins and now have
their sights set on creating a full bite
eight bits of DNA information that can
be manipulated using parts of a virus
who the senior author of the research
paper drew endy said one of the coolest
places for computing is within
biological systems and that they plan to
create scalable and reliable biological
bits as soon as possible that's kind of
interesting that's interesting but my
first thought was oh that's amazing yeah
and then I started thinking oh what's to
stop somebody from you know putting
something in your salad that
guys information with it right it's like
a new age way of hat lands bringing
illegal data or information or something
across the border or whatever I mean mmm
scare so the moral of the story is if
you take a salad cover it then you're
good just so you bring your own dressing
if it tastes a little off if the if the
nanos seem to be flipping then you know
and if it says we are Borg then
definitely don't eat it and this is the
kind of information that you can always
rely on getting from category 5 it's
very accurate dear Kodak's efforts to
enforce a digital image patent has been
dealt a blow by the US International
Trade Commission kodak filed for
bankruptcy protection in january and is
seeking to sell many of its patents to
secure its future a preliminary ruling
by the body recommended that claim
against apple and blackberry maker rim
should be ruled invalid because of the
innovations obvious news mm-hmm the
patent submitted in 1997 relates to a
way of creating image previews the
firm's had a plan to appeal against the
ruling but its share price fell more
than twenty-five percent after the
announcement huh well you get the full
stars at category 5 TV / newsroom the
category five TVs newsroom is researched
by roy w Nash with contributions from
our wonderful community of yours if you
have a news story you think is worthy of
on your mentioned email newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I am crystals crystals thank you
this is category 5 technology TV you'll
find us online at triple w category five
dot TV and tonight we are brought to you
by garden gate farms com for sure to
grow a certified organic broccoli sprout
and wheatgrass juice visit their website
at garden gate farms com also we're
brought to you in part by quarter e
electric the official electrical company
of category five technology TV quarter
eee electric com and thanks to them we
weren't nervous about the thunderstorm
that is around us tonight there's a
thunderstorm tonight that's what they
said yeah I didn't know that I didn't
even know cuz we're here quarter ease
got our electrical all worked out not
even a flicker not even nope that's good
mm-hmm reliable now just before I move
on do we have I don't don't necessarily
know that we have the time but do we
have more questions I think there are a
couple floating around yeah okay hmm all
right first of all folks I promised it
at the beginning of the show we want to
give you free phone service for a year
okay go to cat five dot TV / magic jack
and when you're there you're going to
learn all about this product I encourage
you to give it a try there is a 30-day
free trial right there you can actually
get yourself free phone service and and
it will set you all up you get 30 days
to try you can send it back if you're
not happy and you no harm done but that
said starting next week we are going to
be giving away a couple of these devices
as well and they're going to include a
full year service and these are the
magicjack device the magicjack plus
which we reviewed recently on the show
Hillary and I had a look at the the
device and they're fantastic you go
check this thing out I did I actually
looked and I can't believe it works I
know I was so I was skeptical and and
for for fear of sounding like a like
like a sales pitch had got to be careful
but really I was skeptical from all the
ads and stuff that the look too good to
be true and then tried it that's now
we're using it right here yeah that's
awesome at home and it works once once
your free year is up you you pay thirty
dollars a year which is there's nothing
that's less than what we pay in a month
for phone service I was paying 60 bucks
a month just for the phone service
somewhere around there so it's fantastic
I mean even if you don't win go get
yourself one right at cat5 TV / magic
jack but in the meantime starting next
week we're going to be given some away
so in order to qualify for that magic
jack plus device all you have to do is
give us a call at our cat phone our
magicjack it's 25 452 to 85 88 that's 25
for
at five TV and that's going to ring here
at category 5 technology TV leave us a
voicemail tell us why you would love to
win a magicjack plus think about the the
the fact that you're going to be able to
call anywhere in Canada or the u.s.
absolutely free you're going to have a
local calling number you're gonna have
911 service free voicemail three-way
calling we call forwarding the magicjack
app that gives you reread it to your
smart phone or iPod or any device that
has the ability to install the app so
give us a call to 5 45 228 588 Lev us a
voicemail letting us know your name
where you're from and why you think you
should win a magicjack plus cool lots to
cover tonight I don't think we have time
for any more questions I really want to
get your questions in folks but Krista
is like I want to learn more she's like
going to school if she's obviously
obsessed with London I know or obsessive
being a student maybe that's it students
don't have responsibilities not at all
mon-sun none sure Boyle how you been
finding it it's it's different going
back I guess hanging uh well I seem like
the old person there really yeah because
sometimes I'm with like the class of
like full-time students and they're like
I'll sit in there you know like look at
this oh you're the mature one it was
actually they're gonna happen yeah
spitballs passing notes oh my come on
guys come on just listen smarten up yeah
and up didn't your parents ever teach
you to study well learn stuffin I give
them all peppermints at the end of class
though so I think they like me
that's how you keep them keeping their
good bucks get invited to all the cool
parties yeah let's generate hey I do
remember when we start when you first
started here we looked Rhetta dealt
right into web development and we
started with the website template and
and built that thing from the ground up
and built a website well now at Camp
five dot TV / web dev we've added some
things there I'm going to bring it up on
my screen here bring it up on your own
if you like and right there on the
website is this really cool new thing
Robbie's web toolkit that I've created
just for you we've got graphic creation
tools for you we've got hey do it with
CSS instead of images which we're going
to talk a lot about make things faster
how to test your site and some security
stuff as well awesome just a little tool
kit with online stuff you don't need to
install stuff that you can just use
online for the most part and make your
website better question came in from
Andrew Jameson couple weeks ago and he
had a template that was created in
Photoshop sitting you know how can I
output this with all the image slices
and things like that I said well it's
best to actually use CSS now now that
you can do gradients with CSS and things
like that so I passed along this great
tool up here under do it with CSS
instead of images the CSS radiant
generator and Andrew said in the chat
room just following the show well all
these things are for the background how
do I make it for example for a div yeah
right and so I thought well what a great
opportunity Andrew to to help you
understand kind of the the way CSS is
interpreted on in the browser CSS of
course refers to classes IDs in order to
assign the values so when we look at the
fact that yeah it looks like it is going
to assign a background that's really the
command the CSS CSS command we're going
to tell it where we want that background
to half
going to create a folder on our demo
server 0 13 so demo cat5 TV / 0 13 and
we're going to create a quick file in
their file 1 dot HTML let's call this
one and I'm going to upload that into
there so if you go over to that website
let's see here demo cap five dot TV / 0
13 there it is file 1 HTML so right now
it's just an empty HTML file let's grab
that and here's the thing Andrew what
we're going to do okay one of the things
that we have on here that is just a
fabulous tool for you to get you started
is this blank index dot zip that gives
you that starter file I don't know if
you remember that one crystal but it's a
it's a file that is already laid out for
you it's got HTML headers and everything
else where the browser's ticket there it
is here we go
and that file is all laid out set up for
you so I'm going to paste that
information into file one dot HTML just
gets me started Andrew and now what
we're going to do is we're going to
create a file style.css that's the style
sheet that's being referred to by this
file okay and within that file is where
we're going to paste our gradient from
that CSS gradients and this is this
pretty cool stuff because i'm going to
show you how we can move that around so
you've learned a lot about mm-hmm ids
and CSS CSS 3 as well there yeah
excellent so so if you have anything to
interject then at this point it's it's a
good idea for you to do so ah that's
cool that you're learning all that stuff
I know very good thank you wouldn't
Robbie mix me yeah no actually I really
like it's not that I'm cool it's that
the technology has changed so much yes
it's like I say on the site in the
toolkit when you CSS now instead of
images hey we can expedite the delivery
of our websites we can lower the amount
of bandwidth at our website takes we can
make it so the loads faster all because
we're not having to tap into little
images to make a rounded box mm-hmm you
know things like that so let's get back
over 20 I'll just click on it here do it
with CSS instead gradient generator here
we go I'm gonna use let's see let's grab
what color do you like green green okay
let's grab a nice green gradient there
we go I'm going to copy that one to my
clipboard
ok and I'm going to paste that into my
style CSS now you see here Andrew that
here's what Andrew was saying well this
is all background background background
that's because we haven't assigned it to
anything yet this is just the code ok so
what you can do here is we can say okay
well body ok now let's put we need to
have a CSS assignment here this is
telling it ok this is going to put this
stuff on the body of the website ok so
now because style dot CSS is loaded
through that file and if all goes well
here we are
see that we've got this weird kind of
thing going on but it's loading and you
want to know what's happening there is
that our body doesn't have a height
assignment and nor does our HTML this is
stuff that you will eventually need to
understand okay so now if i refresh that
the gradient will fill the screen
because I've now told it that HTML and
body is one hundred percent of the the
page height so okay so now what we can
do though is say well I didn't want that
to fill the whole thing this is what
Andrew saying I want it to fill just a
little box right so let's get rid of
body will first get over here to our
website and we're going to create a div
and we're going to call this one a class
of green be G for green background and
we're going to go hello there within
that div and we're going to close off
the div and indent that just for
stylistic reasons so now that we've got
a class of green BG go over to our style
change body to dot green BG because dot
represents the class if it was an ID
it's going to be a like a pound symbol a
number sign so dot green BG has now
taken that away from the body and
assigned it instead to this div which
just simply says hello there so it's
just a tiny little div we haven't
specified any proportions I'm going to
get rid of height equals one hundred
percent just to to actually be truthful
in that statement refresh and now we can
see this a div by default it's going to
be a hundred percent with so that's cool
and that's exactly what's happening
there let's actually tell it ok well now
we want this box to be a little little
square alright
we're going to specify pixels height 150
pixels overflow hidden so that if
anything goes outside of that it's going
to just hide it okay refresh now we've
got this box let's cut our text inside
the box and that's how that is okay so
Andrew just to answer his question about
how to assign that around you can see
that I've now put that into that div
because I've got a class and I've
wrapped that class in the CSS around the
stuff that i copied and pasted from that
one tool box item which creates CSS
gradients so now I don't have to have
this gradient image for for Latinos for
backgrounds that I need to repeat acts
and you know and it's going to take up
page load time it's going to be a little
bit larger it doesn't make a huge
difference if it's just one little thing
but when you have you know 30 new images
that you could have done with CSS all of
a sudden those are each one of those is
a file that has to be accessed from the
server hard drive so it's it's like a
hard link to the file so it has to get
that file and it slows things down and
it can be substantial so let's go back
to our toolkit and see what else we have
here there's some pretty cool stuff a
fav icon generator fav icons are cool
for your website if you ever go to our
website you notice that up in the top we
actually have our logo there so what you
do is you create a proportional file you
know it could be 32 by 32 pixels and
then you upload it to this service and
it's going to actually create a fav icon
for you really really easily that's a
great tool
more tools for you can play around with
these creating your own QR codes for
scanning barcodes with your cell phone
but really what I want to look at
tonight is the ability to do all this
CSS stuff because css3 takes us into a
whole new realm and and that's what's
really exciting as a modern web yeah
it's really just so cool it's it's that
we can do graphical things things that
used to have to be done in photoshop and
then exported as JPEGs and piece
together in tables or divs now we can do
it all with CSS so now what I want to
show you is this first tool here CSS
border-radius generator and the only
reason I'm showing you these tools is
because I want to give you a toolset
you're eventually going to learn these
commands and you're not going to have to
use these tools but I want to give you a
starting point so you don't have to go
out on the web and try to figure it out
here's a great set of tools to get you
started so that you know where where you
can get it from cat5 TV / web dev and it
just gets you started on the web design
things so here what we're going to do is
I'm going to set a border radius of 15
in the top left here okay and it
automatically creates them around here
and I can see that it's now rounded this
box if I set it to 150 we'll look at
that as crazy right so let's do that
let's set them all the same 15 15 15 and
copy that now I'm going to go back to my
style sheet pardon me and that's
actually going to go into green BG
pardon me green peachy as well save that
upload and now watch this
now our box who has that kind of thing
going on yeah its prequel yeah and
something that used to have to be done
with graphics so now what I want to do
is I want to add some padding to that
box I've just added a border of 15
pixels so I'm gonna be cutting off 15
pixels on each corner I want to add
padding 15 pixels which is going to
basically Pat the inside of that div so
that nothing is now getting cut off it
doesn't have to be 15 it can be less
than that I wanted to go kind of uniform
seems easy easy peasy start hmm sent me
you're gonna get you can get really
difficult very very challenging you can
even get into advanced HTML which we're
gonna learn all about once you've
started your Wednesday course I have
stated the patient don't good yes good
so we're clear do you know any other
stuff that we might want to add to our
div using css3 any other cool stuff yeah
there are some amazing things that we
can do without graphics now box-shadow
oh that kind of stuff yeah text shadow
text oh I didn't know about text shadow
oh this is new stuff folks I don't know
not really i mean people said no it's
been around for three years just finally
making this way to the browser
absolutely but now it's now that yeah we
can forget about ie6 who can move on
with our lives let's check out the
toolkit text shadows I want to see that
alright see how it actually looks okay
so there's my text okay so we know that
we've got a background that's like dark
dark green so let's let's set that just
so that we have a bit of a preview text
color let's make our text white and now
watch this I'm going to drag this slider
and I'm actually moving a shadow I'm
gonna try to make it a little more stark
so that you can really see it
bring up the green okay now now you can
see that shadow fairly well I can
position that using these sliders it's
as easy as that it's a very you know GUI
kind of tool there you go so now I've
got this beautiful looking text what do
you notice about this it's still text
it's not a graphic this way we're able
to create kind of nice visual stylings
on our text but it's not affecting our
search engine optimization yeah our text
is still text looks great on buttons
looks great as h1 tags headers and
things like that you don't want to have
your full body filled with shadows that
might look silly but certainly your
headers things like that so now what do
we do again copy the code go back to our
style and within green BG I'm saying
okay well within that make sure you add
a semicolon if it doesn't have it within
that box the div let's add a text shadow
of black that I just created on that
site here we go but remember my text is
still black there we go okay so now we
want to change our text color to white
within that same CSS declaration here
for green BG color number FFF and this
doesn't have to be that doesn't have to
be 60 s it can be three in CSS there you
go so we've got a nice text shadow
that's finally yeah it's not a great
feature else it's really cool about that
too is that on even if you do know the
code off by heart eventually I know so
many times I've gone back and forth just
because I'm so finicky like yeah like
two pixels rise okay like yeah you can
test it right there it's good you got it
copy paste yeah I can tell you what else
is really great about using these kind
of online tools is that for example if I
do let's go back to the border radius
generator here's a good example and I go
15 pixels what do you notice it's
created compatibility see because I
would probably just use butter and
border radius but it has also added
compatibility for Mozilla and
compatibility for WebKit so that because
we're still in a transitional phase
right where a lot of browsers are still
adapting into the new css3 this kind of
tool is not just giving us the border
radius but also the compatible ones for
gecko and and WebKit and apples Safari
and things like that mall in a couple of
clicks cuts down on your typing time big
time Big Time so finally the one thing
that I do want to show you as well as
the box shadow because that is just a
beautiful effect as well here's a great
tool see the box move around your shadow
change how much of a kind of blur that
there is to it move its positioning
place it where you like okay let's say
we're just absolutely happy about that
you'll notice that the coloring is RGB
that can be a little bit tricky if you
if you're not familiar with it so here's
a real quick way that you can get your
RGB colors bring up the GIMP it's free
tool you can also do it in Photoshop at
GNU image manipulation program from
gimp.org use your color picker choose
the color that you really really want
okay and then up here you see 68 3333
those are your numbers so i'm going to
right click up there go always on top
and just enter those numbers 68 comma 33
comma 33 hit tab and now the color that
I selected in the GIMP is actually the
color that's there if you don't believe
me I can move it out there there it is
okay so there we go once again is
created WebKit gecko and the css3 so I'm
going to copy that
paste that into my style sheet indent
because we like to keep things nice and
neat upload my changes and now refresh
that and we've taken that right outside
of the old style of just a square div
and we've gotten started with actually
creating something that looks really
quite good so we use that to wrap our
website so that we've got a nice
background that you know is centered in
the screen and has nice rounded edges
and a nice kind of subtle blur around it
like a drop shadow kind of thing the
gradients for backgrounds on menus are
fantastic look through the tools that
are at cat5 TV / web dev and you'll see
that there are many other ones that
we're going to be reviewing on on future
shows as well and give you a bit of a
walkthrough on how those work so how's
that sound cool it was good i like to
know i'm excited to see ya future future
advancements I guess cool and I hope
that maybe you'll find some of that
stuff like the text shadow mm-hmm
awesome see I didn't know existed let's
go some stuff we're going to talk about
in future episodes as well taking the
the google web font api and using that
alongside of some of these things web
font api allows us to now use fonts that
are not traditionally available as web
safe fonts because they're loaded from
the Google content distribution network
and they're they're done through CSS so
we're able to get really really fancy
like hand hand written scripts as our
headers with a bit of a subtle drop
shadow everything looks like an image
mm-hmm but it's not it's not it's still
text as a graphic designer first it's
amazing i love it yeah and and it for me
as a programmer i love it too but for a
totally different reason i do love the
graphical end of it I love that its
search engine compatible the search
engines pick up this text if it's a
graphic not so much looks it as an image
now you're able to use your headers you
know welcome to category 5 TV is now
text as opposed to a great big image
because I wanted it to be a nice
handwritten font
right makes sense cool well thank you
very much cat5 TV / web dev folks if you
want to check it out and that would be
fantastic at your questions in this week
live at category 5 TV well pleasure town
center the time i'm asleep at a show
yeah just flew right by mm-hmm can't
believe that always does I'll look
forward to having you here with me next
week Krista I'll say when are you gonna
be back because I like to put you on the
spot oh wow then you can say oh yeah
i'll be back on now that i have to
because you know the viewers are
watching yeah so we'll talk about it out
for the show and we'll figure out a time
absolutely a day that that works so
check out our Calendar it's cat5 TV /
calendar if you like to know when Krista
is gonna be back and it's been good
having you here no it's been good to be
bad yeah hmm school goes well for you
yes thank you thanks everybody a great
week
Bobby
