on November 21st 1995 I was but a wee
lad to uni students decided hey
Photoshop is expensive let's make
something better and make it free I'm
I'm pretty sure that's how they yeah
your great idea it would become the GNU
image manipulation program it's an image
editing suite a software tool that's
available for Windows Mac and Linux now
20 years later here we are
20 years holy-moly 20 years has gone by
Tom's and they still have an incredible
roadmap of features that we are to
expect I mean they are at two point
eight point one six I believe they are
working on 3.0 and they haven't even
brought out two point nine yet and then
they are excited that they are going to
be working toward taking things like
non-destructive editing making that a
part of the GIMP that's something I'm
excited about that's something to come
like they are still developing this
thing that's 20 years later and it's
absolutely free it has become a robust
complete suite of software for doing
image editing color correction cool
graphic effects did I mention it's free
you can get it at gimble dot org GI NP
dot org download it for your platform
right there do it so I figured because
the GNU image manipulation program has
given us 20 years of free image editing
software why don't we take 20 weeks to
give you GNU image manipulation program
tips so beginning tonight we're gonna
kick it off with number one we're gonna
learn to change the color of any bright
object in five seconds flat
what
I'll probably take a little longer to
explain I fetch it out Robby we got a
for the rest of the show once you once
you've got it down once you've got the
process down that's all it's going to
test okay we're gonna get online I need
a picture to work with we are taking
this right from the scratch we're taking
this right from scratch we are going to
do this like we were doing it at home
and in real time no post-production
editing or anything like that this is
the real deal folks I'm gonna head on
over to Google and go to image search
cuz hey it works yes pretty decent find
us a pic here let's find us a picture
okay so in Google Image Search I'm gonna
type in blue car blue car alright blue
car alright that's a blue next step
because we're we're broadcasting this on
the air we're going to go search tuples
usage rights and if you're using this
for your website or anything any kind of
presentation you want to do this labeled
for reuse with modification that means
that this image is licensed for me to
use for free and I can show this to you
on the air and it probably won't get
sued
and if I do it's okay because I've shown
that we have the rights to use it that
way yeah okay so hey there's a blue car
that's sweet cool alright so attribution
what are we looking at as far okay the
author of this image is Patrick no hi
error and I appreciate you putting up
this image and allowing us to use this
Patrick thank you yes okay so we're
going to grab this picture here look at
it full size let's save this to our
computer I'm just going to drop this
into a temp folder /tmp I'm using the
GNU image manipulation program tonight
on a Linux computer again it works on
Windows it works on Mac so I don't care
what platform you're on it's about
freedom you can use the GIMP
on any platform and that's that's the
deal because that's how we roll no pun
intended because we're working with cars
oh okay our pen master oh the pun master
I'm sorry but we just got banned in
China oh I can jump into the temple
where's my blue car there it is all
right right-click on it open with the
GNU image manipulation program here it
comes
let's get out of that give
two-point-eight now I don't even have
the latest and greatest version that was
released earlier this week I'm gonna
convert the colors alright so first of
all I don't like oh oh dear I just
locked my whole system out oh I'm so
kidding I accidentally this is why we do
things live on the air to show what I
hit ctrl ctrl Alt L because I am also a
Photoshop user and so that's that brings
us to something about all dear you got a
I got a learn I have to learn you have
to learn to that there are different
color different key commands but it's
okay what I wanted to do is set up
levels of course if you're a top user
you know what I was looking for
okay colors levels does it tell me what
it is
colors levels don't worry that's going
to be one of our features is key
keyboard shortcuts for GIMP
I can just improve this a little bit I'm
going to bring that up these are the
highlights right there and you see how
they drop off right there he'll that
means that there it's that's kind of
where the the highlights begin in this
picture so having the the little
triangle there right bringing it in is
going to brighten that up a little bit
shadows are starting at about the right
point but now I want to just brighten it
up a little bit this is with the levels
tool see how much of a difference that
makes to my image beautiful okay so we
want to take this car and we want to
make this red how would we typically do
that like we will be paint it seems like
too much work
oh it would be a huge so am I gonna go
through here and like this and how
cheesy is that gonna look
oh and I'm and covering it up and this
oh I just colored outside of the lines
no way that ain't happening watch this
let's make a new layer Kate all right
it's a transparency layer so we can put
anything on here and then when we turn
off that layer it goes away disappears
like it good job do you love it it moves
all right down at the bottom there's
this hidden little tool that allows us
to toggle quick mask mode first of all I
want to select none everything's a
right-click select none because I had
accidentally selected something there
okay so by clicking on that toggle quick
mask which it shows the command is Shift
Q okay so I can do that that way as well
so shift Q and then grab your paint
brush and start painting in the car
that's time-consuming it's going to take
you forever right so we're gonna I can
show you how we can do this really
really quick what did I say how long is
it gonna take you said five seconds yeah
I believe you we shall see if you could
pull it off in about to blow your mind
all right so I've got this new layer
here watch what I can do now I can
change the layer mode to hue okay mode
hue and I've got that transparent layer
highlighted I've cleared it it's blank
now I've got red selected I can click on
any color I can make this yellow I can
make it red I can make it blue and then
I can change the size of my brush
because I've selected the paintbrush
tool here and as I change the size of my
brush look at what happens to my marquee
to show the size of that brush the scale
it's pretty big ready now the color
there you go all right I see something
how am i doing
something's going on I have I have a
selection yeah I look at oh there we go
hey that's that I had a selection where
I had dragged my mouse over see trouble
try a trial and error live television
unbelievable look at that okay a new car
I don't believe it
there we go how crazy
alright so now that's what I've
activated its a hue layer so it recolor
eise's that so what we need to do is now
right-click on that painting that I just
created and
Oh alpha to selection and that shows me
where I painted outside of the lines
okay so I'm going to grab the eraser
tool right here make it a slightly
smaller brush it how big it's going to
be is going to depend on the resolution
of the image and I'm going to zoom in
here and I'm going to simply delete from
my red now see if I go over the line
watch what happens it turns back to blue
so all I'm doing is I'm just removing
that little bit around the edge where
I've gone over there's a little bit on
the bumper see that there shouldn't be
any red on the bumper so I'm just going
to kind of remove that although there is
a little bit of a blue reflection but so
I can touch that up I can clean it up
don't need to color the wheel and you
notice that it didn't really do anything
to the wheels because they don't contain
a bright color okay so if I want to
color any object and we're using cars
here is the example it's a fun little
way to do it it could be a lamp it could
be anything we use this technique if for
example we're selling product would
teeny drones is a good example so we
take a picture of a red one and we make
it blue and we make it black and then we
didn't have to take a whole bunch of
pictures it's just nice quick yeah dirty
way to get pictures up of their various
color so there you have it there is a
red car let's change this you select or
is it a blue car I don't know how quick
was that okay you don't believe me yet
let's start with a red car cuz we all
like red sports cars right yeah hello
red car is my search and again search
tools usage rights labeled for reuse
with modification let's find the coolest
one that we can find I like picking one
like I could go with something like that
but you know what it doesn't have it
doesn't have a background so I'm not
really demonstrating for you how
effective this method is I really want
to show you that hey we can we can do
this in any scene do you see one that
really stands out to you hell I'd like
to find I'm gonna say
don't even you know car names yeah I'm
like old pick the red car oh they're all
red all right all right
okay well let's jump back up to the top
here don't want to get into anything
obscure and let's just say I guess this
one is here that one's pretty decent eh
okay so let's visit the page and let's
see what this is Creative Commons free
for personal and commercial use no
attribution required so to the author of
that thank you for providing this image
nice Audie a read Audie we don't have to
attribute and we don't know the
attribution but it's not required
because of the license and Google helps
us to determine the license and that's
really helpful
Thank You Google okay so this is a red
car again ah I did it again
oops I'm such a nerd I'm such a bald man
he's a vulner right click I'm gonna
figure it out and I'm gonna we're gonna
cover it in a future show levels because
I know Anthony's wondering hey what are
the hotkeys okay so I'm just gonna fix
up the levels a little bit here okay
looks good
I don't want to go orange want to stay
red it's just got a little bit too much
shadow at the front that's a photo flaw
and so we're just kind of touching it up
a little bit
okay so let's create a new layer notice
I'm not going to create any marquee
that's going to make it not work now I'm
going to choose what do you want to do
let's do yellow let's take this
beautiful red car and make it yellow
okay I'm going to change that blank
layer mode to hue I'm going to change
the brush size to something that seems
reasonable for this size image and I'm
going to start painting I can go outside
the lines okay love that I'm not having
to be precise by any stretch
bapak de ba did it dude did it do
do-do-do done okay so now turn off that
layer to see what I've painted I missed
part of the grille doesn't really matter
because it's not got a color notice that
it didn't change black to yellow because
it doesn't do that it looks for color
and changes it to a different hue so now
I want to add an alpha to selection to
see where I've gone outside of the lines
and then use the eraser tool with a
smaller brush size and go around the
edge and delete any where where I've
accidentally colored things yellow that
shouldn't be so I'm going to go around
here I do not have to be precise you'll
be able to gauge this and it's going to
be different on a per image basis and
that's done I can pull some of the
yellow out of the window yeah see how
the window got tinted a little bit I can
pull that out because that doesn't make
any sense to the image there we go and
that's Rhett I got a little bit on the
mirror there we go
okay so select none there's the image
that's what I've come up with and ready
for the original well there it is a red
car turned yellow and again we're using
cars as the example tonight so I thought
it'd be fun but you can do this with
anything that has bright colors your
prom dress there I wish I had a gray or
is it purple you be the judge it'd be
fun ah there you have it folks this is
category 5 technology TV that's how to
colorize a bright object change the
color of a bright object in about 5
seconds doesn't take any time at all and
you will ruin your friends and woo your
customers as you are able to change
things on future episodes of this series
this is 20 tips for the GNU image
manipulation program 20 weeks of tips at
that we are also going to be covering
how to remove things objects from images
actually pull them out of the image
while retaining a background but how's
that possible how can I take out a sign
from a field and all of a sudden it's
filled like you see the field that was
previously blocked by a sign I'd like to
know how to do that how do you remove an
awkward boyfriend from a family photo or
something we're gonna cover it all yeah
I'm gonna cover it all folks so don't
miss the series tune in again next week
and we're going to have
more tips for the GNU image manipulation
program thank you to the developers for
bringing us such a great tool is
absolutely free get it at gimp.org
