here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom and
what could be called a major design fail
a proof-of-concept has shown that a
compromised charger could be used to
take control of a modern laptop a
software bug that a large US bank has
resulted in hundreds of people losing
their homes Nintendo is suing retro game
of wrong distributors and Patrick
Stewart is returning to Star Trek with a
new series focused on the next chapter
of Captain Picard's life these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere Geoff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what aren't you you're terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap v dot TV slash
DreamHost to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this leak a neat
feature of many modern laptops is the
ability to power them up through the USB
port
unlike the rectangular USB ports of old
the newer type USB C can carry enough
power to charge your machine that's
great news it means you don't have to
add a separate port just for charging
and when the USB port isn't being used
for power it can be used for something
useful like plugging in a hard drive or
your phone but while you and I may look
at that as an improvement hackers see it
as an opportunity to exploit a new
vulnerability one researcher who goes by
the name mg has demonstrated how a
macbook charger could be booby-trapped
modified in a way that it would be
possible for a hijack to hijack the
user's computer without them having any
idea what's happening this is a massive
concern since the abit ubiquitous
chargers for mac books are seen in
offices and coffee shops the world over
they're borrowed lost and replaced on a
regular basis mg gutted the inside of
the charger and filled it with small
components that are powered up when the
unsuspecting victim connects it to their
computer it's extremely hard to detect
especially since it's still charged the
laptop as normal the hijacking device
was able to insert a fake login screen
into a website he could use this method
to scoop up whatever data the user had
entered into the fake site mg said in
the demo we're just capturing a username
and password but this could also inject
malware root kits and persistent types
of infections that could be malicious
well early in the testing phase he
predicts the attack would likely work on
any machine that uses USB C to get its
power saying in this case it's an apple
but it works in HP Lenovo and a lot of
others yikes right so really like common
sense would say if you know that this is
happening the power is with you now cuz
knowledge is power
you keep your charger with you all the
time you do you don't use anybody else's
right you it just it has to become a
protected piece of equipment for you now
but how many times have you gone into
places and seen like charging stations
it's like hey George
everywhere like how do you know that
what you're plugging into is actually
legit safe right so here's the thing in
my mind it's the spot that plugs into
the laptop compromised I know exactly
how it happens now I've just I had to
get on here right I'm on Apple calm okay
well that's a whole lot of white us know
we'd see it USB C power adapter $79
right
what yeah that's G ask in the mall
fifteen dollars yeah that's how it
happens exactly some obscure Chinese
manufacturer on Amazon $12 free shipping
yep
and your firstborn child
that's frightening so we understand how
this works I mean a USB port is multi
did you never cyl serial bus that's what
it stands for you can plug in a printer
you can plug in a camera you can plug in
your phone you can plug in your charger
and now charge your MacBook or
presumably a desktop very a laptop
computer yeah
now install something in there we've
heard about devices that you plug it
into a USB port and it will fry the
whole computer yes what if they did that
yeah so you cannot ever at this point
choked on air
I know it's tragic man how can they
charge $79 for these darn things you you
cannot ever buy a cheap charger that's
it now and you have to keep yours on you
you can't use one that somebody just
gives you lends you if it comes you know
yeah but how would you know my question
really to you masters is can it be on
the other side right so this this here
plugs in yeah right but the other side
you know how they have the ports in like
the bus terminals and they have them and
can it be on the other side too yeah
so in wall outlet that is USB that you
can plug your charger into so everything
it can be
malware can like this is the this is
what's happening and this is the fear
because these are exploits that are in
the while now people are saying do you
know if you see a USB port in a wall at
a coffee shop do not plug into it so if
I used an external battery like one of
those but remember I have yeah those
like a 10,000 milliamp hours battery
that you charge at home and then take it
with you and charge your device I to be
the safest that yeah but who's got like
long as it's I mean it could be a device
that's easter-egg Daz well sure unless
you built it yourself yeah like it's
it's all because of the USB connection
next we got we'll be building our own
well that's well so that's what I'm
wondering is is there a way of somebody
creating a like a little dongle for the
edge of the connector before you plug it
into your device it's like
something that checks to make sure that
no feed gets through what if we designed
and we can do this right now right here
an adapter cable 3-inch little dongle
yeah do you plug your USB C or maybe you
plug it into your charger and then you
plug your USB cable into that and it
only gives you the two outer right and
there's no data transmission there's no
data something outer terminals on USB is
power five five volts power right but it
would have to be on the end that goes
into your device because if you go to
like a charger station you don't
necessarily see the end or where you
would plug in the US because some of
them have cables built-in so you just
stick your device there yeah so I think
it could be done Goodman we could
actually create a device that allows you
to know that you're safe
yeah right which you know maybe someone
is already doing that but we need to
patent this now well we've already
mentioned it garbage garbage mentioned
it first What did he say
you can get a USB condom between the
coal and whatever you're plugging into
it filters connection to power I can't I
came up with the idea I didn't think to
name it a condom okay so they have a
data protector condom huh come on now
it's seven bucks plus shipping perfect
seven bucks for a data protector condom
which could in itself be an easter egg
it's on eBay ah I'm just I'm playing
with you don't do that when you do a
search you also get directs and loot so
that's interesting so the the device
actually already exists and it makes
sense we could just pull those in or
write in report but the fact the fact is
that when you look at that device it's
still USB so it's added well that could
still very much transmit data you're
trusting the manufacturer right if you
made it yourself you know that hey
there's only two contacts 5 positive 5 -
you did link one that he likes oh yeah
thanks Garvey we will we'll take a look
something like this this is judge safely
ok so they've got them here so we've got
all kinds of neat little nifty things
thank you that's the one I'm talking
about right there going into the side of
the map Jeff is pointing to this little
guy over here yep that's the one I was
thinking something like that there you
go that is obscene huh
that's not a condom that is like like a
wall
yeah that's massive ridiculous I'm
thinking more like a little yeah that's
what I had pictured yeah but still this
would be a great gift for anybody sure
what yeah and that's a prototype we'll
say yeah
thinner have you know so we've had a few
good ideas on the show that people just
happen to get to just before us I know
we need to really stop talking about
things and then time-traveling I know
it's true it's a good idea I'm still
convinced that that one hack where
everybody had the same password I'm
convinced we figure that one out
all right it was like two years ago you
remember that one I don't remember
anything where everybody had the same
password like the number three password
in all the world yeah it was like oh
yeah what we can't yes yes give us lunch
that back that was really interesting I
thought I still think yep can I
interrupt you for a second for the next
news story perhaps do you wanna do you
want to actually do the news Sasha do we
need to like stay on track here flaw in
a US banks computer software led to 625
customers not receiving government loan
assistance to which they were entitled
and 400 of those lost their homes as a
result the government scheme was
designed to help people struggling to
pay their mortgages Wells Fargo which is
the third largest bank in the u.s. said
that there was no clear direct
cause-and-effect relationship between
the error and the loss of homes however
compensation is being offered negating
that claim the bank has set aside eight
million dollars to compensate those
affected by the software error which
existed between April 2010 and October
2015 Wells Fargo revealed the
information in its latest quarterly
financial report and said that there
were continuing efforts to identify
other customers who might also have been
affected in April 2018 it was fined 1
billion dollars by two US regulators to
resolve investigations into car
insurance and more
blending breaches okay that is bad
what is $8,000,000 gonna cover it no but
let me get this straight let's just back
up just for one second we didn't do this
thing but here's eight million dollars
to sweep it under the rug and we're also
investigating to see who else is
affected yep exactly we're just as a
bank doing charitable efforts to help
things if they apologized and they're
accepting responsibility if they accept
your sponsor or corporately apologizes
an hour so just throw money out there
and put a gag clause on it I don't
understand how a bug like this like how
this happened when people should be late
I am a programmer for a living and I do
not want to be that programmer right I
have made mistakes that have resulted in
you know minor issues and maybe a site
going down or something that I can fix
within a day and nothing like four
hundred people losing their homes but
here's this poor guy has turned to the
bottle but four hundred people and
they're putting up eight million dollars
yeah but they don't have it they're just
if that's charity four hundred people is
not going to be able to take that eight
million dollars and recover right not
gonna happen
I just my heart goes out to the people
who lost their homes yeah because of a
flaw in programming right right like and
you say you say well I don't know how
this happens so thinking about the
actual happenstance yeah government
funding comes in and says you can buy a
home mm-hmm we have the funding for you
mm-hmm here it is
right go put down your deposit go buy
your home yeah get yourself moved in and
everything will take care of the rest
then the bank after you've done all that
just oh we have no record of that
we don't don't know anything about that
uh I will say though I'm a little bit
shocked that there wasn't some sort of a
paper trail well who knows Geoff
everything's digital these days but
whether you hand I go to buy a house
there's tons of paperwork I know I know
there's something that we don't know
here yeah there's a lot that we don't
know here but what we're not responsible
yeah and I've had things happen where
you know I've I've had like service
disconnection for example right for an
invoice that I never received right okay
which is infuriated and else okay if you
had it just let me know right I'll pay
the bill and I'll pay the I'll even pay
the reconnection fee because I'm just I
I'm not dinking around but make sure I
have the bill and don't just cut me off
if I you know like do your due diligence
to oh you didn't hear from me or I
didn't pay like I do every single month
something obviously is up to it so if
these people have now bought a house and
they've got their bill and they're
defunct on it and they're waiting for
the check from the bank or you know who
knows how it went down but if that's the
case a slight example that has you know
everything's fine but just an example of
how the government and things can screw
up category five was audited during our
tax season this year right during during
that process they held they withheld my
personal income tax return what because
category five was being audited right so
does that mean so do you see what I mean
okay yeah something that's completely
unrelated to my personal life in that
you know the from a financial standpoint
is now affecting my personal life right
and we're waiting on that and we know
that okay this is going toward this but
it took four months to get here when it
was supposed to be four days that's the
kind of scenario so now good news for
those of you who are well why did
category five get audited there was an
error with our accountant they fixed it
and we actually got a return awesome
because the government audited us and
saw oh we owe you money which yes that's
that's wait and story what's I've never
yet been audited where it hasn't turned
out that the government owes me money
that's fantastic really yeah
audit me every year got like I've I'm
gonna say I've locked out because I
think I've got really good records but
yeah that's just my my little scenario
of how my personal life can be affected
by right government screw-up right and
that ended in a positive note and but
four hundred people it did not yes
because I I wasn't relying on that tax
return to pay my bills right
I have income yes we're now these are
low income housing right so these are
people who don't necessarily have a lot
of money to like needing this this is I
need this money to pay for this house
that I just got the part that breaks my
heart about it is that yeah they're
people with stories and now they're
without a home like who knows what
situation they're in now and my mind
goes to these crazy places and here's
Wells Fargo saying like hey it wasn't us
here I have some money yeah a little bit
late cuz these people are probably
homeless could be in a lawsuit filed in
late July by Nintendo of America against
to ROM distributing websites the company
states that the sites are built almost
entirely on the brazen and masculine
Freedman of Nintendo's intellectual
property rights those who run the site's
they'll have a different story by law in
Tendo is well within their rights to
defend their property when someone else
is distributing it without permission
what the lawsuit doesn't touch on
however according to those who run the
sites is that the value that they have
when it comes to the preservation of
older video games a ROM is essentially a
copy of the video game software that can
run on a computer with the help of an
emulation program emulators like those
provided in retropie are legal as long
as they don't actually offer the games
themselves just a way to play them
people can also legally dump their games
in order to play them on the emulator as
long as they own a fizz
a physical copy distributing those
dumped roms however is the illegal part
the lawsuit which asks for one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars for each game
the ROM each game ROM that was hosted on
the site and two million dollars for
infringing on the trademark has caused
other sites to disable access to their
ROM library one such site is emu
Paradise founded in 2000 the site's goal
according to the founder has been the
preservation of old games to give people
the opportunity to enjoy the favourites
of their youths the site's founder who
goes by the username of mass J says the
consequences now far outweigh the
benefits when it comes to hosting roms
video game that preservation has always
been a tough beast in the night early
1980s there were more video games than
people playing them causing a crash in
the market a large portion of the games
released at that time were lost as
companies folded and their archives were
deleted now when a copy of an old game
is found people upload the game data to
sites like emu Paradise to order in
order to preserve the games on them
video game companies have begun to copy
the Netflix formula for retro game
preservation though it's a slow process
for example PlayStation has begun to
make older games available through their
PlayStation now streaming service and
Nintendo will soon to be implementing
Nintendo switch online which will open
up a library of retro games to stream to
the switch console sad day it's a bad
sad moment so we you know if you watch
episode number 569 of category 5
technology TV we talked a little bit
about the whole scenario with retro
gaming and the problem that this raises
but when you have a preservation that is
being attacked by the copyright holders
of something that's that old like 330
years and plus right it's like nobody's
gonna wanna play Snooki
oh um I have with this is it's not the
idea that you know Nintendo saying hey
you can't do this it's the fact that the
numbers are so outrageous the fact that
they're saying 150,000 per wrong like
I'm sorry there's no way you can say
you've lost out in a hundred and fifty
thousand dollars in revenue in that one
game when you haven't made it in 30
freakin years right like there's no way
they could justify I mean I read I don't
get into this realm but there's no way
they could justify loss of revenue don't
get us wrong we are all for protecting
copyright oh yeah intellectual property
and you know I understand that but these
are things that are considered by
society as a bad yeah this is it's like
I think about music from hundreds of
years ago and you know like happy
birthday was ridiculous that people were
getting sued for singing happy birthday
like and that's no longer a thing but
doesn't that just make you go crazy yes
I can't help but wonder though if the
only reason they've done this is to get
the site's the the site that's lights to
our UK viewers I am so sorry I will rip
them in the to get the sites shut down
simply because they've released these
games on their on their units if they
hadn't have released those units say
like three four years ago they didn't
care sure we're looking at it this is
why they did it this is why they brought
it exactly yeah any ask minis so then
what it should be as a cease and desist
order not a lawsuit last yeah yeah like
you want to protect your stuff
fine go for it you're totally entitled
to that but go about it in a way that
doesn't make you look like the big bully
on the block that's my issue that's my
biggest issue with this it's not like
Nintendo with some little floundering
company that's just trying to just make
its way in the world you have enough
money right you don't need more your
you're gonna be a one selling
console you're gonna be okay I have a
switch I like it but I also have a retro
pie and I love that
don't take that away from me let's see
how it would like what happens to EMU
paradise they shut down yep this site is
still up but you can't download any roms
what if Nintendo is taking an approach
of let's play the brute force come in
with ridiculous lawsuits right - because
they know maybe this is just a theory
but what if they know that emu Paradise
would just stop operations and then it
would trickle down and other sites would
go oh no I don't want this to happen to
me well because then I'm gonna get hit
with this billion-dollar lawsuit case in
point Napster gonna say yeah the same
impact hopping with Napster yeah Napster
got sued by the music industry's and a
lot of those sharing sites gone yeah and
then suddenly you've got the rise and
like Apple music and all that so and it
from that a new story it appears to be
the case so Nintendo if you're watching
I want to see like the app stores $0.99
roms sure I want to see a repository
that has a thousands of them
yeah just make them available and where
you haven't you don't care about them
yeah come on give them out for
ridiculously cheap and they will sell
absolutely totally buy Rob's at 99 cents
each absolutely yeah don't be a jerk
don't be a jerk Nintendo we love you and
please release Dark Souls come on over
personal requests from Sasha Sir Patrick
Stewart will reprise his iconic role as
Captain jean-luc Picard in a new Star
Wars Star Trek series so show's over
folks just say the Gandalf is coming
back to Star Wars oh my goodness okay on
behalf of category finally I would like
to apologize to all viewers everywhere -
Patrick him
sir we apologize there are some no knows
in life and that is what a votive record
I love Star Trek you don't even you just
had a Freudian slip of Star Wars
I only saw Star Wars I should be crying
I only said it's fresher for me God was
true that was that travesty you know
listen Star Wars is fresher for me cuz
only just watched you last year all
right listen up kids
I think the point she's trying to make
is if you're familiar with Star Wars and
you like Star Wars you will love Star
Trek that's right
cuz it's better go ahead can you rewind
a little bit
gotta go back okay I just want to say
okay okay you owe the viewers an apology
Little Miss I am sorry I am sorry
they're both good but but Star Trek is
better you don't say I'm sorry but I'm
sorry and I'm a plug in my mic I'm Don
Patrick Stewart is reprising his role
he's like carnac role as Captain
jean-luc Picard in a new Star Trek
series yes CBS all access Stuart made
the announcement at a Star Trek
convention in a Las Vegas Stewart noted
that when he filmed search mekin emesis
in 2002 he felt that his time with Star
Trek had run its natural course in a
follow-up statement he said it is
therefore an unexpected but delightful
surprise to find myself excited and
invigorated to be returning to jean-luc
Picard and to explore new dimensions
within him Stewart first took on the
role of the iconic Star Trek captain
captain in 1987 and remained on the show
over the duration of its seven-year run
through 1994 and starred in the four
films that followed in Star Trek
generations Star Trek first contact Star
Trek insurrection and Star Trek nemesis
Star Trek The Next Generation was the
long-awaited follow-up to the original
Star Trek series of the 1960s and set in
2364 99 years after the adventures of
captain james t kirk and the crew
the enterprise this new show will be a
reboot but an exploration of the next
chapter for cards life at the convention
Stewart indicated that none of the
scripts for the show have been written
yet and that it will be something very
different but it will come to you with
the same passion Kurtzman will oversee
the show and will be assisted by Star
Trek discovery executive producer James
Duff
former discovery executive producer
Akiva Goldsman writer Michael shavon and
discovery writer Kirsten Bayer no word
yet on when the new series will begin
make it so number one yes this is
unexpected and wonderful and wonderful
and every Trekkie
in the world and maybe it's new to you
you need to learn who this character
John Luke Picard is yes and so the what
has been blowing up on Amazon and Barnes
and Noble and everywhere else and maybe
the timing is wonderful but they've
brought out the autobiography of
jean-luc Picard also not a Patrick
Stewart no now so this is written first
like as an autobiography by the
character lovely
so they've you know we're talking 300
pages nearly two hundred and seventy
some odd pages in an autobiography
format you can get it at cat5 dot TV
slash Picard I'm just going to start
this it just arrived and this will get
you up to speed on kind of what has been
going on for the past 20 years with the
cards life
okay so we're having a bit of it like
while you're doing the news we're having
a bit of a debate in the chatroom
yes what do we think his role is gonna
be I'm saying he's gonna be an admiral
an admiral I don't think they're gonna
make him a captain he oh please give me
an admiral an admiral is very much a
desk job though and so I picture him as
more of a like he is a first contact
kind of guy he is why not a diplomatic
Admiral / like on a sure on a ship a
diplomat who is yeah like not a desk
diplomat right somebody who is like yeah
wouldn't it be neat if he was on a ship
I would love to stand
him sitting down at Starfleet
headquarters exactly being and having
the like that internal debate between
she's got to be the Admiral and so it's
not his ship but he wants to call the
shots mmm like what if it's Beverly's
ship
oh yeah cuz they got married mmm oh this
is gonna be who knows theories comment
below it's gonna be the best Star Trek
hey well that's gonna be amazing
big thanks to Roy W Nash Orangemen and
our community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with ass white Linux
biased and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha I'm Robbie
Ferguson
I'm Jeff Weston it has been a pleasure
having you here with us this week we're
gonna brush Sasha up on her Star Trek
knowledge and we will again be back next
week looking forward to seeing you here
take care
[Music]
