hi and welcome to new everyday on
category 5 TV my name is Carrie and my
name is jen and today we're going to
talk about friendship
so yeah yes Carrie how are you making a
friend speaking of friends yes having a
good week yes okay sorry I'm yes I'm
having a good week and I think as we are
beginning the show we've been getting
some feedback you want to just go right
into it yeah well let me first say yes
something that I was not very friendly
towards yes we have to we put our
garbage outside and we've got a bit of a
raccoon problem and they just keep
knocking over our garbage in our compost
we're trying to be friends towards the
environment and I'm not feeling that
friendly towards it yes anyways no
that's something I'm working through but
anyways on today's show firstly new
everyday if this is your first time
tuning in it's just a show with Jen and
I and we're just chatting about everyday
issues encountered by followers of Jesus
Christ so we are Christians and we're
just we're just talking through
different subjects looking at the Bible
what does God have to say about those
issues we're getting information or
ideas from viewers such as yourself and
from our friends and colleagues so if
you actually have any ideas that you
want to hear discussed on the show then
feel free to go to our website new every
day all one word TV and you can leave a
message there or you can email us or
there's a link to our facebook page from
our website that you can get in contact
with us we'd actually love to hear some
of your feedback but anyways do you want
to share why we are going to talk about
friendship Jen like how did this come up
because we had a big fight that's why we
just arm wrestled it out pretty much and
that's what happens well what's
interesting is we had said as people
were messaging us in messaging into us
yeah we said you know thank you very
much for your response if you have any
ideas like you just said yeah
the snow and what came up was
relationships in a couple different
spots so we thought okay well let's talk
about relationships and and it's not
just like the girl guy rightly romantic
relationship see but how do you actually
get along with people like how do you
had how do you if God has called us to
love him and love others how do you do
that I guess is when it comes right down
to it as how how do you do that because
God created man right in the very
beginning and he looks at him you're
good but it's not good for you to be
alone and so God created even so you
have Adam and Eve in the garden and
fellowship and it's good and so yet it
wasn't like God said he looked at me
said you can't be alone mm-hmm and we're
not meant to be Hermits we are not meant
to be Herman's and what what's really
interesting is I am working through like
classic children's novels okay and I'm
listening to it yes Winnie the Pooh this
week she's a youth pastor okay it's okay
and the line that piglet says he's all
by himself and he's thinking about
Winnie the Pooh and he's like alone
would be so much better if there was two
mm-hmm it's just like yeah we were
simple but so true but so true that
we're created to be in relationship were
created for friendship for fellowship
like that's one of the major purposes
for coming together ya in church you
know the classic why you come to church
mm-hmm image that youth pastors pull out
is like imagine a fire and look all the
pieces of wood together make a flame but
when you separate out the pieces of wood
the flame goes out yeah that's so true
and if if you are trying to have a
relationship with God one of the joys of
being a Christian is being able to
experience God through other people in
the sense
that I see God's grace shown towards me
through gen or in my church family I see
how he works in providing for our needs
through my church family so being in
community is is so important I remember
actually when I was in high school my
mom went away for a year she was having
to take care of her mom who was sick so
it was actually a really wonderful time
and seeing God take care of us people
from our church family would show up
with meals because while I couldn't cook
I did learn and my dad couldn't cook one
night he said Carrie what would you like
for supper I said he said how about some
french fries I said yes and gummi bears
he said no problem so anyways I guess
maybe people were concerned that I'd get
scurvy or something anyway so people
would bring meals and and there's been
lots of other times and lots of other
events in our lives that I've seen the
church family common and step up and
show love and that's been a really
amazing way that I've seen the provision
of God yeah I know it's from him and I
think my church family as far as
applying into my life they confirmed
what my parents believed okay like eat
get ya raised in a church home and it's
like oh yeah my parents read the Bible
my parents go to church my parents don't
lie cheat steal look as my parents but
that says mom and dad and then even when
to somebody else's home yeah and all of
a sudden they're honoring one another
right and they're not lying and they're
reading their Bible and they're singing
I remember this one family that would
babysit for often and the husband would
come home and he would be whistling and
full of joy and you could see he treated
his his wife with respect and honor and
he he listened to his kids and I'm what
I'm like they believe the same thing and
I remember going to another church
family home and there would be the Bible
open up or they would be getting ready
to have a Bible study in their home and
I'm like okay like his mom and dad
just women who believe this and that's
white like it's so important to have
like church to be a part of a church
like it's so important and you know one
of them one of the one of the calls that
came in or calls as if we really call
each other one of the responses that
came in was how do you deal with hurt
inside the church hmm good question
because they do become like your family
so it's a it's a different kind of wound
when wound when you're hurt from someone
that you really care about right so
that's a really good question because
hurts don't only come from just your
family but also your friends in close
friendship you said yeah and so I think
one of the reasons why when we get hurt
from church family yeah is because we
have them at a higher expectation you're
not supposed to treat me that way you're
not supposed to talk that way you're not
posted gossip aren't you a Christian all
right yes why are you judging me just
because you don't do it that way doesn't
mean that I can't even like it yeah and
so you have all this hurt inside the
church because we have this expectation
that you are not supposed to behave this
way like it's like as soon as you step
inside that church door or you take on
the label of Christian well then all of
a sudden you're smoking perfect hmm like
you're not like you're supposed to treat
each other with kindness you're supposed
to prefer one another or you're supposed
to extend to me for friendship and
hospitality and forgiveness and because
that's what God's working inside of you
right so why don't I feel welcome when I
am with you or yeah solves and it's like
blame blame the other person and and so
a lot of people get hurt and then leave
the family and then they leave with your
family yeah without even telling why or
being willing to work it out
and I must say as a pastor I get really
sad inside dad inside will say sad
frustrated the sad like oh why are they
leaving yeah because who did they tell
did they tell anyone that they were
upset did they tell anyone that they
were offended did they tell anyone um
that they didn't feel welcomed mm-hmm
and like I've always said ask God where
are you leading me to are you leading me
to this church are you leading me to
this church and if God says yeah I want
you to go to this church then he wants
you there and you have gifts and talents
and abilities to offer that church right
and it's like being a family and you're
you know you just expect your family to
do everything for you you don't help
with the dishes you don't help with the
meal prep but you expect the family just
to do everything for you and that
doesn't make for a good relationship
either no yeah and often I have had
people quietly exit well maybe if I just
leave nobody will notice and and then
they get offended when nobody notices
mm-hmm and yet they didn't want anybody
to notice it so they get a fit and and
so the spirit of offense where the enemy
just loves to come in with a spirit Oh
because then you build up walls right
and you have to and it's easy for me to
say this from this chair but ask God to
help you take down those walls and have
a heart that's open to receive love from
people yeah yeah there's a verse I can't
remember it's a dress but we will find
it and put it at the bottom of the
screen category fought Robbie from
category 5 will do that for you yeah
about an offended brother is always like
an impassable wall or something like
that about an offended brother yes and
so what's our responsibility then
when we have offended somebody yeah I
think you know well let's uh Scott in
Philippians mm-hmm chapter two oh god
Paul is telling us to put others
interests above our own and to consider
others better than ourselves I'll find
it here before the shows through I'm
sure or we'll put at the bottom of the
screen and maybe that's where it starts
jen is one may be asking God like show
me what's my responsibility in this
relationship first yes has there
actually been a cause for a fence and
then to ask God to help you to put the
other person's interests above your own
and if it's okay that we share Jen just
even about this morning we were we sat
down to start talking about okay you
know how is this show going to go what
are we going to include and just felt
that we needed to clear the air between
us and say is there anything have I
offended you have you offended me and
just ask those honest questions and be
at least open with each other if we're
going to talk on the show about being
vulnerable and yeah and having a good
relationship a good friendship then we
better do it and it's something that we
pray and ask God for help with because
we're human and we need his input in our
relationships whatever that is because
he is he is the the author of these
relationships and we are supposed to
have the type of relationships with
others friendships marriages families
that are exemplary in that we over the
first to show love the first to show
forgiveness the first to show grace but
we cannot do it without God and I know
that so we just could we just sat down
here and you said is everything cool
yeah
have I done anything to upset you and
and that's a great way of just opening
it up like clearing the air and so often
and I feel like we've transitioned into
church life wait I don't know but so
often we just don't clear the air we
don't ask the questions that are hard
and that's something um in becoming
friends with Jenna she was definitely
better at than I was because I'm more I
would just kind of withdrawn like what
they are clear it doesn't matter what I
don't care you don't care just carry on
but that's not always the best way
because then I don't learn about what
actually upsets Jen so in my withdrawing
and just saying I don't care let's get
over it I wasn't actually showing you
the kind of love and respect that you
deserved but Jen help me understand that
ok when we have some tension it's better
if we sit down and talk about it and
then she was had that has the courage to
ask the questions and then I can hear
okay well actually when you say this
this and this it's hurtful because and
then I'm learning that if I'm going to
be a good friend to you than I better
change a B and C or a Scott ask God to
help me see things in a different way
you know because we're learning that um
we agree on the major things okay yeah
we agree on the major things like we
like to be neat and tidy and clean
uh-huh we're not like freakishly clean
but we're clean and like when we first
moved in we sat down and we said okay
just before we begin what are some basic
rules like boys don't stay overnight if
the both of us aren't here that's a
no-go boys don't go in the room and the
door shut that's just a no-go because we
want to set up boundaries for each other
to keep each other accountable but also
like how do we want
to live and being open enough to say we
want to live in a neat and tidy
environment so like basic things we
agreed on but it's the little things
that we get tripped up on yeah I did I
reminded me of a verse in song of songs
or song of solomon and that it's a where
it says catch for us the little foxes
that ruin the vineyard and I often pray
that I ask God excuse me to to catch the
little foxes so little foxes are the
ones that are hiding under the brush but
you don't see but they're actually
spoiling the vine they're spoiling the
garden but you can't see it happening
it's like this insidious disease that
moves in mm-hmm and it's the little
foxes in relationship that I think start
to wear it down towards the little foxes
in your relationship with God that I
think slowly start to degrade it for
example excuse me if I don't make the
priority to actually stop in the morning
and give thanks to God and open the
Bible and read it you know say I sleep
in one day I'm late for work okay I
didn't read it but then the next day you
know say I stayed up late and then snows
news news oh man I'm late for work again
and it's just that the little fox that
starts to degrade that relationship or
maybe it's I don't know a little piece
of gossip but yes I'm just going to
share because i'm going to share this
with you because i want you to pray for
this person but wait to hear what she
did yeah shouldn't we pray for her you
know and that's the little foxes and it
spoils the vineyard you know so anyways
you're ready so it's the little details
that kind of get you well it is and it's
like hearing you how stop and say does
this really matter yeah and to actually
make a choice make a choice does it
matter if there's a peep I tend to like
a clear countertop that's just the way I
am and Carrie doesn't carry functions
differently than I do so so the major
was yes be clean the minor was I'm clean
but I'm not always tidy and so Jen shows
me a lot of grace
and so and that's just it's learning to
if there's a piece of paper on the
countertop does it really matter and I
think that's the question don't even ask
ourselves sometimes does it really
matter because rather than just pushing
it away because that's not acknowledging
it yeah that's like well it doesn't
matter but you're destroying whatever
that's just the way they are rather than
saying Jennifer does it really matter
that this piece of paper is here how
does it like is it going to affect your
sanctification is it going to affect the
way you go about today or are you taking
it internally like she doesn't care she
doesn't listen right now it's all about
so and this is I think the wrestle yeah
which is like the little fox right it's
like even though a little piece of paper
on the counter you know can just you
know some people would be like why you
just move it oh but she put it there so
technically it's not mine to move right
so I want to be honorable to you because
it's your Spacely I've found things I've
left things on the counter for a long
time and thought well one of us will
disorder or I just don't even think
about it and such as it's a perception
thing yeah it's a personality thing yes
right and so it's so easy to read
between the lines I think this person is
is she deliberately trying to offend me
or just be lazy or she knows that I like
it this way so why is she not doing it
yeah when really and that's where the
enemy wants to him in the end overlook
it loves to come in with the little
foxes and says see that she doesn't
really care mm-hmm she just is like
brushing you off it doesn't matter and
then if you're having a bad day if you
haven't slept right if you have it eatin
right then the enemy comes in and he
stirs it up and he makes what was once a
little recut on your hand like this
gaping sore yeah and it's like and
that's where all son that little fox as
he has become a monster
yeah and it's like oh boy she and we get
angry and upset and I think that's where
division starts to happen yeah and the
enemy is like I'm winning here and so
like you said are we willing to actually
sit down and go is everything okay and
to be willing to say well you left the
piece of paper out and and in most cases
is like once we talk about it yeah so
it's like we've now taken the monster
out of the loop Fox and it's like it's
it's okay because we've talked about it
you would normally say oh I didn't I
didn't know I literally did not know and
that was offense and that's part of the
learning process of friendship yeah it's
like lord I want to be a good friend
mm-hmm how do i be a good friend to
carry because we share this space how do
i be a good friend hot how do i love
well how do i encourage and I don't want
I don't want pride to come up home uh
wow I see it but I'm not going to say
anything because you know it's wrong for
that's pride that wants to come up and
it's like that's wrong that's not godly
because then I'm gonna think I'm the
better roommate because I'm extending
her grace because I'm not saying
anything yeah and that's like uh-oh I
think that's another little fox at the
enemies like he's right because then we
can go our separate ways like to work or
whatever and be like well yes because I
did this and I did this right and it's
like she'll just get over it or whatever
yeah yeah and it's like and that's not
how it's supposed to be no yeah and
there I think there is a time where we
need to choose not to be offended yeah
and that's where maybe the Bible says to
take every cat every thought captive and
so you know for example Jenna's very
organized and she often like plans out
her day and um like I'm not like that
but that can be misinterpreted as you
know I'm not valuing her because I'm not
I'm not prioritizing the same way about
valuing her time
whereas like that as an aside but we
need to choose to take that that thought
captive like okay you know is she
judging me because I'm not that
organized you know as you start to
internalize it but taking the thought
captive and then submitting it to Christ
and say like give me a new thought
replacement lot and you know we talked
last week about reading your Bible and
what's so cool is that oftentimes it's
the Holy Spirit who will help help us to
realize those thoughts that are
destructive yes and then we need to read
the Bible because it's the truth of
Christ that pushes out those lies and
then all of a sudden they'll think of a
scripture verse and that will be the
truth that will wipe away that lie and
help me to have a better perspective on
whatever the situation is yes and it's
usually a life-giving perspective yes in
the sense that it can restore
relationships yes gives you the words to
say gives you the time and when to say
it even yes and the method of going
about it so I found that really
liberating sometimes sometimes I don't
listen as well as I should but then I
trust that by God's grace He will give
me another opportunity you know and in
the end of the day it's not about you
it's not about me like we're on this
earth to glorify God and live for him
and that means loving other people so
sometimes you know what I just got to
get over myself just get over it because
it's not about you yes it's about other
people and that yeah sorry for
interrupting I think part of it is
saying what is my responsibility in this
right because it's I am responsible to
love you to love other people yeah and
so okay Lord what is it in me that has
to change hmm so I can love Wow hmm so
it really can get to the point of that
doesn't matter yeah that that doesn't
matter and I think so often we bring
were our bags into the relationship so I
come with my own mindsets and like you
said you I you could say something or I
could say something but because of our
our backgrounds and our mindsets we you
know you say something I can take
offense at it mm-hmm or I say something
you take offense at it and that's where
the word of God says like don't let
there be like as much as it depends on
you yeah viet peace yeah it means I'm
responsible then for there not to be an
offense I am responsible as much as it
depends on me so how God do you want me
to be carries friend yeah that's not God
you need to change Carrie you need to
you know get her to do this and you need
to get it like because all of a sudden
that makes it seem as if I'm all that
and a bag of chips and you're the one
that has to change yeah and that's not
what God calls us to write God tells us
God doesn't say service for under your
your friends so that they can change and
bless you God says surrender yourself to
me yeah so I can work through you as a
blessing and I think so often we go into
relationships friendships especially
because you know I read on facebook all
the time well where were you where were
you where were you like you know my
friends let me down my friends let me
down it's all about out there out there
out there but they're gonna let us down
they've all gonna let us down right I
think in friendship we just have this
expectation that they're not and then
when they do there's the shock definite
I can't believe they let me down there's
the offense they let me down I can't
like and we're hurt but then there's the
breach of trust right I don't know if I
can trust them again rather than coming
into it and saying I guess that's that's
part of the vulnerability yeah am I
willing to be in a relationship in a
friendship to be open and honest enough
they could hurt me yeah and I think yeah
vulnerability is important and I think
for me it's easy for me to have lots of
superficial relationships I liked people
I liked to be with them at fun whatever
but um sometimes to struggle with like
opening up and sharing one because they
used to think well what I have to say
isn't really all that important so why
would they want to know you know but I
found with a couple of my friendships
that where I started to share about
things in my life or even how I feeling
or my opinion about something the people
who really cared about me they wanted to
know and it really helped my friendship
or as I didn't I didn't think that was
important as long as I was open to
hearing about them but they want to hear
about me too yeah oh yes cuz I remember
um I'm so used to listening at to two or
three different conversations at once
that I brought that home with me and
Carrie was telling me about her day and
I just started going about doing my in
my head I'm listening to her and yet
what she didn't want my ear she wanted
my Thunder fan I want that she I want to
look at your face when Ali and that's
what's important to me and I remember
you know I know she really wants to
listen to me archon really wants me to
listen her when she starts me
around just go to her now and and I
remember that time where you said I
really want you to listen to me but you
were thinking I am and and literally she
would come back out of the room and she
was right there in the conversation but
I interpret that as you don't care
because you're not sitting down across
on the table and really caring like
hearing what to say and I was like but
I'm not just talking about what I want
you for supper cuz will yell that across
the room yeah i was talking about i just
took care of this patient and they like
died you know and this
really hurtful and whatever but she was
genuinely listening and you had good
questions afterwards but I came out of
that was the exact exact topic but it
was very important to me yeah and I
needed your face yes and that's that's
part of what being in friendship is like
am I willing like and I think it starts
off as this makes Carrie happy when
right so we do things because it makes
people happy but then as we grow in
friendship we do things for the other
person because we genuinely want to make
them happy like it i think it starts off
as well this makes her happy right then
as we grow in friendship and respect and
honor and preferring which is only an an
act of the Holy Spirit coming through us
yeah then I think we genuinely you want
to move in that way yeah which I
remember um I can't remember what pastor
said it but basically especially when it
comes to moving in relationship with God
yeah get your actions going in the right
way and your heart will catch up okay so
does that mean if you are living with
someone or if you have a colleague that
there there is a fence or you have
negative emotions towards that you just
actually start putting their interests
above yourself and then eventually
you'll start liking them like what give
me a sample like have you had to do that
yes so I'm going to look at the time see
if I have time to talk about it well
golly okay okay cost ah I'm just I'm
spurt a moment it's true it's like I
have met people that I do not like don't
say their name on the show okay ooh
alright so I've met people that I
genuinely don't like but because God
says
love one another and the Jennifer
paraphrase version is don't be a taut
with people which basically means don't
have discord don't have like you know
how you kind of void people you can't
have people that you kind of avoid jesus
never kind of avoided people so because
jesus never kind of avoided people you
can't kind of avoid people but that
reminds me of when he just fed 5,000
people or just healed a bunch of people
was tired went across the lake and then
everyone was there again yes and he was
on again and it says he looked at them
and had compassion on them I know so
there's no room to kind of avoid people
and so I had to say dear Lord Jesus you
love this person yeah I don't really
like them these are i actually have said
to the Lord these are the reasons why I
don't like them oh really they offensive
their offensive there they might be too
loud um maybe they have a strong
personality i'm kind of like I feel
inadequate right around or even if
afraid well what if they what if they
say something I don't know the answer so
makes me feel stupid so if I don't go
near them right but that's that's not
what God calls us to the enemy rises up
and says you don't need to go near that
person because I'm going to make them
make you feel stupid and uncomfortable
and you don't like that so we pull away
and I've just had to say okay Lord I
don't like this person or I think I
don't like this person because maybe
they're smarter than me maybe they're
mean maybe I feel so inadequate around
them or maybe I feel better than them
and I have to just give that to the Lord
and say God you love this person right
you have called me to love this person
there is nowhere in the Bible that says
you can love this person this person but
not this person um lets you know the
passage that says you know in Matthew 18
and once again paraphrased
when you're a taut with people go to
that person if they don't receive it
take someone else go to that person then
take the elders go to that person and
finally it says if they don't respond
treat them like a tax collector and you
know what I say to that I say and Jesus
ate with the tax collectors so like
that's a cold able thing like like
culturally avoid them and yet Jesus
welcome I never thought of that cuz
whatever it says that throw them out
like a tax collector I'm like Jesus did
one of your disciples was yes collector
yeah Zacchaeus was up in the tree and
you're like come down cuz we're gonna
eat together Jesus didn't throw people
out Jesus does not throw people out so
we cannot throw people out and so I'm
like God you have to help me love this
person yeah cuz I cannot love them
without you and so true um often I'll
pray lord help me to love this person
what is it in me that that happened that
needs to change you know just this past
Easter I was thinking about how at the
last supper before Jesus served them
communion he washed the disciples feet
and Judas was part of that group yes he
washed Judas his feet it doesn't say
that he skipped over he doesn't say the
one who will betray me I'll skip over
there washing yes he got down the Lord
of the universe caught down on his knees
and washed Judas feet knowing full well
but this would be the man who would
betray him to death and if the Lord can
do that then he can sure help us gen
diverse I was thinking of as you were
just sharing their the 2nd Corinthians 5
verse 14 and it says for the love of
Christ compels us because we were
convinced that one died for all and
therefore all died that those who live
should no longer live for themselves but
for him who died and was raised again
and I think that you know when when we
think of that first it kind of sums up
how we need to deal with other people
we're convinced that Jesus died he died
for Judas he died for me he died for you
and I'm convinced that he died and
convinced that my old ways died with him
and that by his grace I can be a new
creation and start new every day and he
can equip me to actually work out these
tough relationships yes yeah so why we
take a moment and we'll pray mhm and I
don't know what maybe as we were talking
a name came to mind and you're like oh
if someone had just can't yes God what
he's saying about this person so we're
just going to pray and we're going to
ask God to speak to you as he speaks to
us and and teach you how to navigate
navigate so let's just pray all right
dear God thank you so much that you are
God of the universe and yet your word
says you are also our friend and that
you teach us you set the example of how
to live in friendship how to live in
relationship with one another so father
we come before you as people who are on
this journey and we say help us in
relationships help us to love one
another help us to prefer one another
help us to grow in the fruits of the
spirit of love and joy and peace and
patience and kindness and goodness and
faithfulness and gentleness and
self-control help us to treat each other
with kindness and Lord for those that
are listening as those names are coming
to their minds of of people they are at
ought with our people that they're
avoiding because it might be difficult
or friendships that have been fractured
Lord God through the power of your Holy
Spirit I ask that you would meet with
them and that they would turn to you for
strength encouraged to make things right
and Laura that they would ask you what
it means to make things right
so father today as much as it depends on
us through the power of your Holy Spirit
help us not to be a taught with people
and help us in our relationships we
asked us in the mighty name of Jesus
through the power of the Holy Spirit
amen amen well thank you so much we're
so happy to be able to do this and spend
this time with you on new every day so
please visit our website and there's a
contact us button there button button
you can click it so it must be a button
and you can contact us through email or
through facebook and I think that's
pretty well it it's new every day TV all
one word new everyday TV and just wanted
to say thanks to eco alkalines those are
the batteries that are powering the
camera and the microphones that we're
using so we just want to say thank you
for your sponsorship that we can have
batteries to power this show and thank
you also to Robbie and the category 5
team for making this show a possibility
he is the producer and the bacon eater
we go for breakfast with him and talk
about the show anything any bacon and I
think that's a gin so we'll see you next
week right here on category 5 TV no well
it's on there change channel ah nuts
you're gonna watch us on new everyday
top TV yeah cheers sub I
that's one thing that Robbie said yet
right today get your tech words right
noon every day TV on category two so I
said then I'll talk about the batteries
because that's the most dekhi thing we
have to say it's like anywhere we were
found
you
