hello my name is Kari and my name is Jen
and today we're in part three of living
in the danger zone the stoning of
Stephen so stay tuned
[Music]
hi and welcome back to new every day
we're so glad that you've tuned in I
know I say that every week but really
we're so glad that you've tuned in and
Jen we are in part three yeah living in
the danger zone yep we're talking about
Stephen we're in Acts chapter seven and
we've looked at the setting leading up
to Stephen giving his sermon yes which
is like a synopsis of the Old Testament
and how he highlighted the faithfulness
of God the rebellion of people's hearts
and how they believed that the temple
was extremely significant which it was
in the Old Testament but he's kind of
turning that on its head and saying no
it's not it's actually about the Lord
it's about the Lord and it's so
interesting because we can allow our
religiosity the way we go about
practicing worshiping God to actually
become greater than God itself and
that's what and that is what this whole
passage is about is that they had
allowed that the act of worship to
overshadow whom they were worshipping
and you touched on that verse last week
who is greater the temple itself or the
one who created yeah right the people
who created the temple and and people
don't like to hear that
because they like their own little boxes
they you know I want to show up Sunday
morning 10:00 a.m. we are going to
welcome one another we're going to sing
some songs we're going to pray we are
going to have a sermon we're going to
have a response and we're going to sing
we're gonna go home I'm gonna feel good
about it the rest of the week yeah and
you know what I'm gonna be honest I've
been in that camp I've been in that camp
when I felt that I've been too busy to
do other things but it like but at least
I showed up yeah yeah it's good to show
what and that's not to say well if
you've already messed it up then really
what's the point in going don't bother
going Church or like you've already
muffed it up this long then don't bother
reading the Bible you know might as well
start fresh on Monday yeah but that's
not the way and every time every time
Jan I've felt oh I'm just like I mean
I'm spinning my wheels and you know what
I'm just gonna I'm gonna get it all
together
then I'm gonna sit down and I'm gonna
start feeling good again I'm gonna be
honest I was there yesterday right but
thank God that today is a new day and
His mercies are new and I don't have to
wait to get to that place Jen no no and
that's just and that's what this whole
thing I keep coming back yeah
I keep touching the Bible because it's
like this is where it is and that's
what's what Stephen is saying he's like
you don't well he didn't say you don't
have to have it all together you don't
have to come to the temple to worship
God he's already leading there leaving
you guiding he's there and I just I'm
gonna put in a shameless plug for one of
our partners this is from audible.com so
if go to our partners page check them
out if you want to support us in any way
you everyday that TV yeah Laura story
wrote a book called when God doesn't fix
things okay and and she's like I thought
my story had to be perfect before I
could share it she said God called me to
share my story in the midst of the
brokenness and she's like but it's not
finished yet it's not all shiny and
glossy and he's like no I want you to
share it now cuz this is where people
are at yeah and like like you said
sometimes we think well I'm just I'm
gonna put it in or I just don't feel
like it and and Stephen is like he's
calling us back to it's not about you
don't have to have it all together but
know that God is the one that will help
you get it together or to worship Him
like we think you have to get it
together so we can worship God we have
to get together so we can read scripture
instead of saying I know I just I have
to get together so I need to work read
the word I have to get it together so I
have to you know get involved in a
smaller group or go to church or find a
Christian person to talk to I want to
get it together so I got a seat God
rather than I have to get it together in
order to yeah and and I always come back
to that verse that it's the love of
Christ that compels us because we're
convinced that he died for us that we
should no longer live for ourselves but
live for him who died it was raised
again yes I think that's just my might
go to like he's already done the work
the striving is done I need to walk in
the identity
of who he's called me to be yes that he
does live in me and this is how I act
because I am yes
and they didn't like it and they didn't
like it because that means full
surrender that means looking that means
that life isn't gonna look the same
every day
that means I'm willing to do what God is
asking me to just like Abraham and just
like Moses are we willing and they
didn't have the temple and so they
actually worshipped God wholeheartedly
before the tabernacle and the temple
were even created and that's what Steven
is saying he's like it's not about going
to the temple
it's about having the relationship with
God so we're going to read if you want
to read from verse 54 - so this is 754
it's a verse 8 verse 1 in the book of
Acts in the book of Acts
so here's 54 the Jewish leaders were
infuriated by Stephens accusation and
they shook their fists at him in rage
but Stephen full of the holy spirit gaze
steadily into heaven and saw the glory
of God and he saw Jesus standing in the
place of honor at God's right hand and
he told them look I see the heavens
opened and the Son of man standing in
the place of honor at God's right hand
then they put their hands over their
ears and began shouting they rushed at
him and dragged him out of the city and
began to stone him his accusers took off
their coats and laid them at the feet of
a young man named Saul as they stoned
him Stephen prayed Lord Jesus receive my
spirit he felt his knees shouting Lord
don't charge them with this sin and with
that he died Saul was one of the
witnesses and he agreed completely with
the killing of Stephen
yikes it feels like uh like the end of a
story you know like he told the story
and now it's like his is done yeah it's
interesting because it says when they
heard this they were furious and gnashed
their teeth this is NIV version and I
thought how often has somebody said
something to me about God yeah and I
haven't liked it and I've actually
gotten angry at them in my spirit and I
got I chose to get angry before I was
willing to listen yeah yeah and it
happens all the time
like it happens all the time in our
regular life like we get a like somebody
says something and we get angry first
now why do you think that is do you
think it's it you're actually angry
angry because the nature of God is not
what you thought or because you wanted
your way to be right yes and yes because
we don't actually know God like we don't
surrender because we don't trust him you
don't trust because we don't know God
and so so the way I understand God I you
know because some people think well God
is a good and loving and kind God who's
going to look after all of my needs and
that's and we think well yes that is
true but the flipside of that is but he
works all things together for the good
of those so am I am I willing to think
that he can work all things together
including my hurts and my pains in order
to bring people to God well Noah loving
God wouldn't allow that to happen but
this is where we don't understand the
fullness of who God is we only want to
pick out the certain parts of who God is
so as soon as you know somebody
challenges us in the way that we think
about God we get angry because I think
sometimes it can there's fear associated
yeah well they're gonna change in my
life what your changing my customs yes I
think sometimes we can feel a sense of
pride yeah totally
like I know who God is God like I know
God it's like well if God could be fully
known then he wouldn't be so awesome and
amazing and so I think there's fear
there's pride there's you know an
ungodly independence that just says oh I
know how to worship God rather than
actually surrendering it and that's
where it goes back to the Isaiah 66
passage where it says but a humble
person you know are we willing to
surrender that to God and and in this
passage in the previous passage that we
read last week it says you are
stiff-necked people and they get angry
because he's calling them out he's
living in the danger zone
yeah and we don't like to live well some
people like to live I don't like I try
to avoid living in the dangers
all cost it's not a comfortable place to
me some people just think it's wonderful
not me
and so here they are
and he's standing now because he could
have relinquished at any point but he
didn't so why didn't and we'll be back
right after this Jeff Weston Jovan
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name route so your own comm dice
to put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't put the head of the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost hey everyone
welcome back thank you for staying with
us and Jen what was the question you
posed right for break is why didn't he
relinquish his stance even
well because you know what if you were
looking at this remote a worldly
perspective it might make a sense you
know what Stephen just just say yeah
yeah okay okay got it and then take off
and keep doing good work and keep
spreading the word yeah a B and C yeah
yes that's you're still gonna be alive
to do the work of God which makes total
sense I know there's that version the
balance that's like who can praise you
from the grave God like you sustain us
you give us life yeah it doesn't make
sense it does not resent you know die so
then the question is but why did he then
because and this is it people always
have a choice when they stand be sucked
before their persecutor they have a
choice to either give in or to stand
firm yeah and it's interesting how many
times throughout scripture beginning to
end that G that God says stand firm in
Old Testament Moses he said stand firm
and I will fight for you yeah and then
in Ephesians when he's talking about the
armor of God which is also a battle he's
like and all you need to do is stand and
so Stephen is not worried about he
defending himself
no and it's interesting as soon as he
starts off his sermon I mean he could
have he talks about God he says listen
to me our glorious God mmm-hmm
it's right back he has his eyes on the
prize yes he's looking unto God and he's
sharing the perspective that that they
really need because if he had taken a
step back and defended himself where
would that story end like if he doesn't
say oh well this man is always speaking
against the holy temple well if he said
well no I'm not because I say this and I
did this but he's dead saying instead
God said this and God did this and God
will do this yes and that's when you
hear apologetic apology to cysts people
who do apologetics they will often say
you cannot dispute the Word of God you
have to keep going back to the Word of
God because that's the foundation like
Billy Graham will always say go back to
the just yeah apologist go back to the
Word of God because that has the
foundation like don't defend yourself
let the Word of God defend you and so
and that's what Stephen did he just went
right back from the very beginning
declared who God was and walked them
through Scripture he did not defend
himself at all he was just putting out
there what God said for him to put out
and then let God deal with the outfit I
think that's one of our you know there
he is standing the into the danger zone
in between literally in between life and
death because they're gnashing their
teeth at him and I don't know about you
but as soon as you start like grinding
your teeth at people and clenching your
fists like it takes a lot to actually
unclench your fists like because you've
that adrenaline has started going and
like it's hard to sort of yeah or if
you're on the receiving end and
someone's doing that you can you're
either gonna fight him we're gonna take
off yeah there's there's no other option
and you're not gonna hug it out and then
he says full of the Holy Spirit looking
up to heaven he saw the glory of God and
Jesus standing there and then he
actually declared it which made them
even more mad because he wasn't backing
down he wasn't willing to come under
what they thought or how they thought
they should worship God he was like no
like this is what Jesus said we should
do and so often we back down we sort of
just go okay and we just turn away
rather than standing for him and saying
no like this is what the Word of God
says but that's the fear inside of our
own heart and and that's probably one of
the things that has challenged me from
this passage is that Stephen had a
choice to back down and he didn't
because he wasn't going to deny Christ
she wasn't going to deny the truth that
that God had put put and put in his
heart and Paul went on to say and we're
gonna get onto Paul in a little bit but
for me to live is Christ and to die is
gain what does that really mean
yeah and Jesus jesus said unless a
kernel of wheat falls at the ground it
can't yeah you can't be multiplied it
essentially right like and that's
exactly what happened yeah with Stephen
and and just to draw a similar
comparison like when Jesus was on the
cross he he knew in Philippians it says
but for the joy set before him he and
the cross yes he had his eyes on the
prize and as they stoned Stephen he
prayed Lord Jesus receive my spirit and
Jesus you know he said the same thing he
knew what he was going for and Lord
don't charge them with the sin and Jesus
also said Father forgive them and it's
so awesome to see the children of God
like to see Christians emulating what
Jesus did for his glory
yes so we're just gonna say thank you
God for your glory and your grace that
can help us stand firm so when I end it
there we're gonna finish off the story
next week because you would ask the
question what good is it that he would
die cuz right you know he could tell so
many more people and that's the question
we're going to answer it next week so
we'll see you then
you
