fall in the category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson and thanks for
coming along tonight what we're going to
be looking at is some of the latest and
greatest technology for windows XP and
you've been watching over the past few
weeks we've been looking over some of
the technologies coming out from the new
ubuntu operating system that comes out
this thursday we're all super excited to
get a copy of that gutsy gibbon from
ubuntu but as we've been looking at the
spinning cube and the you know the 3d
based operating systems I know that
there's a lot of Windows XP users out
there who are just thinking you know I'd
love to be able to use those features
but I don't have the ability to switch
or you know I don't want to go through
having a reformat my computer and learn
a new operating system let alone you
know the potential hassles that you
would have to go through by switching
operating systems maybe you've been
using windows for a long time maybe all
of your computer life and you don't want
to make the switch so today we're going
to be looking at a software product from
otaku software and what that does now
they've got two products essentially
that are going to give us some great
three-dimensional features for the
windows XP desktop one is called top
desk and top desk is basically going to
give you the task switching features of
that are very similar to the windows
vista operating system and i'm sure
you've seen that with the flip 3d
effects and things like that so we're
going to be looking into that and the
other program that they offer is called
desk space these two public programs can
be purchased together and you can save
some money it only costs about thirty
dollars us and now desk space is going
to give us that 3d cube but here's the
kicker it's going to work on your
Windows XP operating system if you have
questions for me today and they don't
have to be directly related to what
we're looking at here today this is an
interactive show and I'm here to answer
your questions that's what this program
is all about regardless of what your
question is if it has to do with
anything technology give me a call at
seven oh five seven three nine 1056 you
can also email or msn me and that
address is TV at Robbie F com
we've got lots of questions coming in
today
we're going to just take a look at some
of those right now first of all we're
looking at okay I've got some questions
coming in about using a digital camera
and how can we import our pictures and
convert those over to CD so we can take
a look at that and this is going to be a
little bit different for different
operating systems but essentially I mean
most digital cameras these days are
plugging black a lot of them will
actually show up on your computer as an
external harddrive when you plug them in
which is great because you can then use
them for copying files as well I just
got a simple HP photosmart camera it's
just a basic digital camera but it gets
the job done six megapixels it's just
the standard the norm over the counter
kind of digital camera so I'll just take
a quick photo of us right here there we
go so we're going to import that into
our computer so and I'm actually okay
what I'm going to do
is we're going to take a look at how
this is done on ubuntu of course windows
XP is going to do well let's do that
first because I've already got to boot
it up here because we're going to be
working on that so just looking over
it's a windows XP here and all I'm going
to do is just plug in my USB cable if
you've got a card reader you can pull
the card right out of your digital
camera and just pop that right into your
card reader and that will just show up
as an external hard drive windows XP is
going to detect this USB device in just
a moment here comes my camera lens is
just closing
there we go so it's going to prop me if
I want to use the scanner and camera
wizard I can just do that just the first
time I've connected the the camera so
it's going to bring me through the setup
that's a picture of my hand that I
accidentally grabbed as plugging in the
camera so here's the picture we just
tuck and I'm just going to highlight
that one make sure there's a check mark
and click Next type a name for the group
of pictures if you'd like and it's just
going to save it into my pictures and
then the name of the folder whatever you
put here if you'd like to delete the
pictures from your camera but as it's
imported you can check off this box
that's a great idea because you're going
to be you're going to want to reuse the
camera and this is your way to keep your
camera clean because if you keep on
taking photos after photo after photo
your camera is going to fill up
eventually and then you're gonna run out
of space so by checking that box off to
delete the pictures you're going to be
able to clear that off every time you
copy your pictures to your computer and
once they're in your computer you can
then copy them back to your computer if
you like so I'm just going to now in
this instance because we're going to
also do this in ubuntu I'm going to
leave that turned off we want to leave
this on the camera so we're just going
to go next that's going to copy my
picture into the computer and then it's
asking what I'd like to do if I want to
publish these via website I don't want
to do anything i'm just going to hit
next and then i'm done so there we go
there's our picture imported into
windows XP and now if we want to put
that onto a CD windows XP makes it
fairly easy and that well i'm going to
take up a CD that's in there right now
just like any like if you were going to
send something to to an email recipient
you can right-click on the file send to
an email recipient in this instance we
just want to send it to our CD burner so
back at our windows XP desktop
we go so we're just going to right click
on that file name send to and then you
can see my DVD RW Drive right here I
know it's hard to see because of the
small screen but you'll see that if you
if you bring that up on your own windows
XP computer you'll see DVD rewriter or
your CD rewriter and then it just says
you have files waiting to be written to
the CD so then if you click on that
that's going to bring up your folder
that has all of the files here that are
going to be written to your CD but
they're not written there yet so what we
need to remember to do is pop that blank
CD in there and then over here you see a
button that says write these files to CD
that's going to finalize everything that
we're doing here and then that's going
to create that disc for you so that you
can share it with friends so that you
can take it to to a photo finishing
store if you'd like again if you have a
digital camera card though you can take
that in as well if you'd like to create
like a slideshow there's products that
are available that will do that for you
wonderful products one that definitely
comes to mind is from cyberlink I can't
think of a name of the particular
product or what I'll do though well I
can look it up right now I know that
they have power director and power
producer those are both excellent
excellent products but they're probably
a little bit too vast for what you're
wanting to do here if you're wanting to
just create slideshows let's bring up
cyberlink here
we're booting the other system into a
bun too so we can import from our camera
in that operating system
here we go cyberlink media show so i'll
give a link to that on the website as
soon as the show is done tonight so that
will be in our episode index on TV ravi
f com so it's called cyberlink media
show 3 and that that's the current
version that's a windows XP application
it's also compatible with vista so it
won't work if you're using the bun too
but there are other products and of
course if you go back to some of our
earlier episodes in particular episode 2
of category 5 you'll be able to see how
we can virtualize so you can install
windows XP into ubuntu and and this is a
product that will work in a virtualized
environment just fine so you'll be able
to do that so now we're over at new bun
to hear I'm just going to bring that up
on you on your screen here and I'm going
to do the same thing we're here we are
in ubuntu gutsy and i'm going to just
turn on my camera it's already connected
into the USB port oh no it wasn't it
fellow so okay I've plugged it into the
USB port now my camera is a little slow
here but there we go ubuntu tells us
that a camera has been detected again
just like windows there we didn't have
to install any drivers or anything like
that it's very straightforward with move
on to we just go import photos it's
going to tell us the name of our camera
HP photosmart in five to five and then
it gives us the thumbnails of all the
pictures that are currently stored
within that camera only want this one
pardon me so I'm just going to highlight
that but if you'd like you can control
click to click multiple photos and then
we're going to drop that into our
pictures folder if you want to give it
names that's fine again here's that
option delete imported images from the
camera and again that's going to help
you to maintain your camera so as you're
importing them they're automatically
being deleted you never have to wonder
whether the photos have been imported or
not and then there's another neat option
to rotate images physically so what that
does is it looks at the EXIF information
the orientation tag in your camera so if
you're holding your camera sideways when
you take the photo this product is going
to automatically recognize that
because of you know as long as your
camera supports that and i'm just going
to write the image for you so i've
highlighted that image there that i want
to import and i'm just going to push
import and that's as simple as it is so
that's going to draw it right into my
computer there it goes and now I've got
that image in my computer and I can look
at that any time I can throw that up and
I can do with ubuntu right out of the
box I can do some pretty great slide
shows and things like that we're not
going to get into that today but there
are screensavers even the GL
screensavers that allow you to do 3d
rotating image screen shattuck screen
savers and things like that so I hope
that answers your question well and
again look at our website after the show
at a triple WTV are a BF calm and I will
have a link to that cyberlink media show
for you and that's a relatively
inexpensive product they have a free
trial program so you can test the
product before you before you do
okay if you'd like to ask any questions
all you have to do is either give me a
phone call at seven oh five seven three
nine ten 56 it's a free call however
long distance charges may apply but the
support itself is absolutely free we
help call coming in right now thanks for
coming into category 5 your live on the
air with Robbie okay sir Sir I have a
couple of questions that I got your back
by a show sure who's this bet they'd
been where he's gone from I've gone from
very nice to have you on the show what
can I do for you letting your show over
the last few episodes to find it help
solve some of my problems grief I've got
a couple here waiting a file or a
document or a picture to a folder but
when after it created a folder and went
back to the owner which i have named say
George's pictures I see that nothing say
of the father's not saved okay landing
in an extension to create that folder of
subject with operating system you really
meant yeah I'm operating at a bunch you
want to okay when you're about creating
the folders how are you going about
creating the folders are you doing that
through like your places and then your
home are you creating them on your
desktop or how are you doing that when I
go to say that it will bring me to the
area where it says select the area that
you want to save it so I click home and
then I look into documents but then I
want to create a folder to specifically
named those pictures or okay file I do
that and then I click Save yeah and then
when I go to the back to the form of
documents
it and I can't if there's not being safe
okay can I get you just turn down your
computer speakers for me then we're just
getting a little bit of feedback there
now are you booking the screen right now
can you see I'm going to put up an
ubuntu window here okay so when you go
in are you actually bringing off your
documents folder like this and you're
right clicking and going create folder
like this all right so that's how you're
doing it so you're creating a folder
here called George's pictures chicks
okay so we've made a folder and then
you're going into that folder and it's
empty and then where are you saving what
program are you using to save the images
into that that folder are you saving
them from email and you saving them from
a veil all right an email ok so now I
don't have an email address set up on
this computer we just installed it but
let's just do that really really quickly
are you using evolution or using hood
river you're using evolution or
thunderbird have a look with the
calendar and everything right so let's
just set that up real quick my
resolution might be low on that but
okay did you have any other questions
while we're on it yes one more I believe
it was if I want to copy a same picture
into and I want to use this as a desktop
background yeah okay see I'm not going
to be able to sit unfortunately because
my resolution on this this is screen
capture device it's nothing let me
create an evolution email account let's
is there so you're saving from just back
to your first question you were saving
from your email all right and you're
specifying to save it in George's pics
all right I know with sometimes what
what might happen have you got one of
those emails up on your screen right now
that you can try it on your screen I can
do that okay just let me know when
you're up
ok
in the meantime while Ben is hitting
that setup if you have any questions for
for me tonight all you have to do is
just go on to our website at TV at Robby
or TV Ravi F com you can also email or
ms MUTV acts Robbie F com you all set up
there ok so I've got a picture ok ok
what format is that picture in città jpg
or how could I help is it show the
extension like jpg validate how to fly
ok so it's a PowerPoint presentation oh
ok so in your PowerPoint presentation
you're trying to save it from the
powerpoint presentation all right oh I
see so you're trying to export from
PowerPoint so you're bringing it up out
of your email it's coming up in two we
are in ubuntu so probably on
presentations openoffice presentations
or yeah what I wanted was a segment from
from that presentation powerpoint
presentation to to a file ok you're
wanting to export just I when they go to
0 from father say that but you're
wanting to export just the one slide ok
is that right all right you want you to
export the one slide yeah ok can you
what I'll get you to do forward that to
me is that email private or is that
something you can forward to me just
that I can bring it up on my main back
to have it oil ok whole picture forward
that over to TV at Robbie f com I'm
going to watch for that right now and
I'm just going to bring it up on my on
my main system here because i do have
evolution and all that set up on here so
i can i can walk through this with you
on that computer
okay so KJ at Ravi Ravi esscom short for
Ferguson yes got it okay and you're
waiting for that okay is that sin okay
okay there's an email document right yep
the time to send us and like just
forward it right like just the entire
email is fine okay bye Francesca cannot
attach the file oh it's just just
forward the the original email then okay
so just grab that original email that
same coming to you the one that you're
opening up and just is forward that ok
that way I can see exactly what you're
seeing
I'm a little salt on that time that's
that's why invest time
that's why I got a one hour show instead
of a half hour or so
how's that been for that away it's a way
okay great
okay so while we're waiting for that
file to arrive if anyone else has any
questions all you have to do is get up
onto our website at wwt vref calm and of
course you can also msn or email me at
the same address TV at Robbie f calm and
I'll be happy to answer any
technological questions that you may
have
you sent that off to TV at Robbie f
combat all right okay I'm just waiting
for word is this it in your head box
that came to go rather do this again
okay we'll watch for
those TV Robbie FF gone closed set it's
TV short for television get at this is a
symbol oh I understand paving at rocky
I'm sorry that's right all right Robbie
nasscom no problem we'll get there all
right
you should be really ok
so let me know when that leaves your
elbow box there been ok
flat okay thank you I say blah blah blah
all right we're going to get this okay
okay what I'm going to do back I don't
know just excuse me one second I'm just
going to get your email address off of
you here and I'm going to drop you an
email just so that you have my email
address right away
all you have to do is just copy this
email address okay there
okay gonna put you back on okay so i've
sent you an email you can just copy my
email address directly from that rather
than verbally trying to take it okay all
that come through ok all right all right
so you can see my new my email address
there just so you know where to email to
all right it's gone now
still not getting that done yeah my
favorite problem with my sister into the
technical work go yes sir okay well what
I'll get you to do okay so you want to
export your and I don't have powerpoint
up on that system but I do have it on or
not PowerPoint but open office let's
just pull up open office here
presentation I'm just going to quickly
pretend I'm making a slideshow here and
there's other ways to do this I mean we
can certainly we can kind of bluff it
using screen shots and stuff that there
isn't an export feature but i'm sure
there is and there's going to be a nice
board so what you're seeing in your
slideshow is at you're actually seeing
pictures yep so he's placed pictures
within the slideshow that's right okay
so what I'm going to do I knew um just
quickly create a slide here on my own
computer and I'm sorry I can't show you
what I'm doing it doesn't it's not
really relevant I just want to try to
emulate what you're seeing
it's ok this time like a wallpaper or
something on my system that i can save
in here here we go
okay so when you're doing this Ben are
you actually pushing file and then save
as kind of thing is that when you've got
PowerPoint up or I'll protect when I do
that OpenOffice impress is bringing up
their presentation impresses bringing up
your profile i'm using the powerpoint
now the presidential was just coming up
and I want to say that what laughing is
the name is coming up and is telling the
name of the photograph and says save in
folder so i would select either a folder
from that area or well for other haulers
okay what we want to do then let's bring
up this line on your screen that you
that you want to use right all right so
tell me when you're there i have i've
got the fight up okay so you see that
graphic there so you see the picture
yeah I want you to single click on it
just one click and then you're going to
see these greenboxes that go around to
each corner oh right on OpenOffice
impress yeah you're all I have to bring
it over to that yeah we're going to
bring up the document by up to export or
import it will just open it in power in
impressed okay like Phil put on the
attachment bad so I go file or no no
just open it all okay all right
and my screen comes up places desktop
file system sloppy my pictures okay so
you've got an email attachment as a
PowerPoint document and when you open it
you can see the slides right I can have
a fight okay I want you to get to that
point where you're looking at the slides
I look at it the fight ok so now go to
the slide that you want yeah and then I
want you to just click on that picture
just once one point is you're like I see
is that when I expect on it if I live in
a bar that's right okay now right click
on that right click hi fight or coffee
that's what you're seeing yeah
you see here
up at the top of your screen does it say
the document title and then openoffice
org impress what does it say right there
listen even wear my top of my screen
like the long sides of it says open an
office or fresh it does a brand only
okay when you right click on the picture
not the small picture the big one I said
alignment arranged flipper convert oh I
arranged look for comfort or favorite
picture that is oh that's that just
happens to be hiding in there ain't cut
right now that's act behind that picture
see that's what I was waiting for you to
find I followed it okay so that's what
we want is safest picture I knew that
was going to be in there my friend yeah
so you click on that one see what you've
been doing is you've been going file say
that I got a bike box at night yeah so
now in name give that picture a name but
make sure you end it with dot jpg that
would be called an extension that's
right so so whatever it is like if it's
a picture of a field you can call it
feel jpg and you can put spaces in the
file name okay okay so I would name it
for instance i said earlier George got
que ya go Jamie kate is that jpg okay
hip hip a jpeg jpg yep right if you're
on msn been it would be a lot easier to
like I can send you these kinds of
things just okay ms ND it doesn't favor
the folder yeah and i want to select the
folder Jepsen huh bring up the folder
save it in there you know what you like
on say a document that I want to put in
and click
saying that as long as you've given that
dot jpg name is all right now I'm going
back there no then we're gonna
accountable got it okay solve that
problem thanks lindo the next time to
install maintain that desktop background
okay so we want to add that so you want
to set that as your desktop background
yeah ok let me boot back into a bun to
on this other system here I've got a few
other questions here so I'm just going
to look at I'm just going to watch some
of the messages that are coming in here
and if anyone does have any questions
very busy show today I'm happy to answer
any questions we're on for another half
hour and this is a live broadcast and
you're welcome to just give us a call at
can also msn or email me at TV at Rodney
f TV at Robbie f calm
that's almost looted there been ok
now I've got a question coming in from
Carol about PowerPoint Carol what
version of PowerPoint are you using it's
kind of ironic that we're talking about
openoffice impressed and then we're
getting questions about PowerPoint maybe
this was sparked a conversation piece
design I'm going to be jumping between
Windows and Linux here back and forth
from different products
I
okay so i've got ubuntu booted up here
for you then okay so what we're going to
do is let's just no I don't this is a
brand-new fresh system so I'm going to
have to you're going to have to use your
imagination here because i don't have
the images that you're looking at but i
did create that George's pics folder
here and in documents so let's let me
just put a picture in there I'm just
going to grab something off the web
who's going to jump over to interface
left check favorite place to get
wallpaper for my computer and I'm just
going to download an image here
I'll say that one's not coming through
it's always during the live show that
something goes weird and for some reason
when you click on an image it's not
coming up
and I've never had that happen well you
know what i'm going to do i'm just going
to we're just doing this as a
demonstration for you then so i'm just
going to save the thumbnail it doesn't
matter that it's low resolution at this
point because it's just for a demo so
i'm just going to drop that into my
George's pics folder so now what I've
done is I put that picture and it's just
a little thumbnail but so it's going to
look granular once I've load up full
screen but that's going to be we're
going to pretend that that's the picture
that you just saved ok alright so that's
in my documents George's pics and then
there's my file so all i want to do in
ubuntu is go back to my desktop here
okay and just right click on your
desktop one time and down at the bottom
you're going to see a button that says
change desktop background alright so
we're going to click that nice and
simple then we're going to because this
has never been loaded this picture
before we're going to have to add it so
there's a button right here that says
add and I click on that and I'm just
going to go into I see documents over
here George's pics and there's my
picture so now I open that and now I
have the option do I want to zoom do I
want to scale it do I want to fit at the
screen and you can play with those
different options each one is going to
look a little bit different on your
screen you can see my phone nail up here
shows me kind of how it's going to look
ok so I want to just soon I just want to
zoom that and it's going to allow it to
fill the entire screen so boom now I've
got that image set as my desktop
wallpaper ok unclear ok I've done the
right place I've gone to the change
background young and the screen comes up
with the difference that background ok
how do I find my you press the Add
button AB AB wallpaper wallpaper yeah if
you're using feisty it will stay hat
wallpaper then go with poop and find it
into wherever I put it in ya
I it and voila and there you go oh okay
all right Oh chemical thank you well
thanks pretty cold in alrighty the arrow
can any watching your show and they have
more questions later on great like thank
you too bye take care bye bye okay back
at Carol's question here she's looking
at PowerPoint she was putting together a
PowerPoint presentation with about 50
pictures and these days I mean even your
over-the-counter cameras six megapixels
they're going to build up pretty large
files so what's happened is that file
that PowerPoint file became a hundred
and seventy three megabytes and it
started to crash the computer that they
wanted to run it on so so she's
wondering about compressing those those
images resizing them down without having
to recreate the PowerPoint slideshow
you'll be happy to know Carol that that
is absolutely possible she's saying that
she has version 2002 and that's a good
thing because as of version 2002 and
beyond Microsoft has implemented the
compression and resizing with ratios
into their software so all you have to
do and I'm going to you know i can boot
up my computer here in the window so i
can show you but it's pretty
straightforward and i can forward you
the information right on msn but
basically you're going to right click on
the picture and choose format picture
and then in the format dialog you're
going to push the picture tab and then
push compress and that's going to allow
you to you're going to apply that to the
image you're going to be able to make
the picture a lot smaller and you can
select multiple images i believe as well
so you can play with that that's going
to use JPEG compression for your images
so that they're you know if they're
larger images there
to be able to be a lot smaller but then
the next thing is that we want to change
the resolution because if those are you
know let's say it's a mega 6 megapixel
or 10 megapixel image that's meant to be
massively huge when you know PowerPoint
typically is going to be running at 800
x 600 or 1024 x 768 if it's running off
of a good laptop or you know pretty but
it's going to be based on what your
projector is so you look at your
projector that you're going to be you
know doing the presentation with and if
it's an XG 8 projector I think that's
800 x 600 for a VGA and XJ is going to
go up to 1024 x 768 and you know just
look at the the proportions that the
resolution of your projector to
determine how you know what the smallest
is you want to go if it's an if it's a
1024 x 768 projector you don't want to
go down to 800 x 600 because then you're
going to get some granularity there so
the other the other tab that you want to
choose is change resolution and then
there will be some different options
there to allow you to change the
resolution so see if that helps you care
and hopefully that will make that file a
whole lot smaller for you so let us know
drop over to triple WTV Ravi F com once
you've given it a go I know you probably
won't have a chance to do it during the
show but but certainly that should give
you a lot of helps
at the beginning of tonight's show I
promise that we're going to be looking
at a new program from otaku software and
I definitely want to take a look at that
right now what this does I'm just going
to bring up windows XP over on my other
screen we've been looking the past few
days or the past few weeks rather at
software from ubuntu barrel project
compiz fusion all this really great 3d
desktop spinning and how productive that
can be it's basically like having you
know if you've got four cube faces you
basically got essentially like four
working spaces so it feels like you have
four computers if you're a power user if
you work in an office where you're
constantly you know opening tons and
tons of things and you're filling up
that windows taskbar beyond measure and
it's becoming hard to keep yourself
organized and define the programs i mean
when things start ripping together you
can't remember okay if I've got 15
Internet Explorer windows open what am I
you know which one is which so having
that cute the four faces on your cube is
going to make things a lot more
productive because you've got four times
the desk space and then of course
there's other options like tab browsing
with multi love firefox internet
explorer 7 and things like that but not
to get into that looking at the
three-dimensional because there's also
the coolness factor of when someone
walks in your office and says hey how
did you do that so tonight we're looking
at a product for windows XP from a boat
a couch software called top desk and
desk space now you can see this is just
a typical windows XP installation I've
dropped my interface lift wallpaper on
the background there and this is just a
straight windows XP professional install
this works on any version of windows XP
but I just put this on here just to
demonstrate that you know if you don't
if you can't make that move into linux
and you want to try you know the 3d
desktop operating system well guess what
here in windows XP we can do pretty much
the same thing I mean this is a an
incredible piece of software from otaku
software and they're offering this for
thirty dollars us and you can get this
on your computer windows XP now
you two have your four cute faces so you
don't have to switch to linux to get
that feature if that's a selling point
for you this doesn't have some of the
advanced features that you come to love
from Linux for example the you know the
wobbly windows just aren't there it's
just straight windows XP with the fact
that you've got these extra features no
but there is a cool feature that comes
from basically from Windows Vista and
that's your flip 3d kind of task
switching that that this system includes
now these are two two different products
that you have to either purchase
separately or together but they are you
know they are two separate installers
two separate products and they may
eventually migrate these two things
together but essentially now the cute
face is called desk space and then the
flip 3d interface or the task switching
that I'm about to show you is called top
desk so we'll just switch right back to
that and I've just brought up a couple
of windows here just to show you quickly
my task switching features so just like
Windows Vista here i am on windows XP
being able to you know still have that
kind of cool kind of motion and and very
visual task switching features and not
only that but we've got some buttons
that that the top desk is placed down
here we've got hide visible windows
which just kind of throws everything
down out of your way so you can see
what's on your desktop this is going to
instantly give you the task switching
which is also the same as pushing pardon
me your windows button and the tab key
and then another cool feature if you
want to kind of tile things on your
screen is just pop this button right
there and that fits everything that's
open onto one screen and then you can
just click on the one you want to bring
to the forefront so that's top desk
and this is desk space the two products
are from otaku software and they're
available for windows XP at otaku
software com and we're going to actually
put up a link to that software I think
it's a great product and it's an
excellent way to give yourself those
great features that that people have
come to love from ubuntu and from linux
and from barrel project and compiz
fusion and compass but being able to do
it to some degree anyways on the windows
XP desktop and again you're not getting
all of the same features that you would
get from barrel project it is a
completely separate project and of
course being for windows there there's
certain things that it can and can't do
it's it's an excellent product and I
recommend and you checked out it so
looking at some of the questions here
that we have coming in a couple of
questions about actors product here
cut a question from Ashley it out in the
UK and she's asking about how to do live
preview with with death space i'm just
wondering actually are you did my
demonstration thereof topdesk did that
already kind of answer your question is
that when you're looking for the kind of
flip 3d style past switching
ok Ashley the guy sorry about that
one of those universal names you know
if you have any questions all you have
to do is drop me an msn or email at TV
at Robbie f calm you can also phone me
up at seven oh five seven three nine ten
56
so the question just coming in oh and
just receiving a response from Ashley
there
okay actually just going to explain what
he's asking about there and I'm going to
go back to this this question mr. is
coming out about how to use a USB card
and in brackets says mini drive so I'm
expecting that you mean a flash card or
flash drive something of I'm just pull
mine out here so I've got this little
guy here Fitz you know pretty much
anywhere and easily lost you got to be
careful with these things this carries
four gigabytes of data so basically you
know almost the size of a DVD I can fit
onto this one little chip and it's
extremely handy you look at this and you
think that there's not much of an
interface but you basically just pop
that right into the USB port it doesn't
need to have you know the full USB kind
of connected you know connector because
that just puts right in so at first I
was reluctant because it looks so small
that you just think it's flimsy and
gonna break but it's not an now this is
from King max the thing that got me to
buy this was the fact that it comes with
a lifetime warranty so that you can't go
wrong so with this product I can carry
four gigabytes of files with me anywhere
I go so you know as a technician I carry
you know device drivers and freeware
software to carry always carry a copy of
openoffice.org on here and Firefox and
just the generic stuff that I'll ever
you don't have a client that wants
something installed I can do that here
and I'll carry around antivirus products
installers and things like that so that
I could just call out my suppliers and
and just obtained license keys from that
so it's perfectly legitimate to do it I
just carry the setup executive holes and
then obtained the license keys by phone
and then
a way to very very quickly install a
product if I am working in a client's
and you know they've got a virus i can
install the product get the virus off of
there register it to them then send them
an invoice and we're good to go so just
looking at how this is used it's pretty
straightforward i mean i don't really
need to get into a whole lot of you know
show-and-tell here but i'm just going to
pop this right into my USB port whether
it be windows XP or ubuntu it doesn't
matter what operating system you're
using you're going to get it's just
gonna there's my drive so as soon as you
plug it in you get a you know removable
disk or whatever and that's going to
give you access to that drive i blanked
it off just because there was some
personal things on there with business
and things so just so i get down and
straight i'll just go over to let's just
go over to my pictures and grab that
crazy picture of me from earlier tonight
and I've just copied that and I go over
to my removable disk and go right click
and paste and now that's copied onto my
external USB drive in windows XP you can
just close this out and without having
to do anything extra you just unplug
that drive and we're going to go back in
that we plug into any computer usually
these are like fat32 so they can be
plugged into Windows you've onto any
operating system whatsoever Mac OS even
and you'll just be able to write and
read from this drive so you don't have
to you know worry about compatibility
issues between pcs just watch out for
viruses if you're sharing it between
Windows PCs because that can become a
problem but so now this has that image
on it in ubuntu and several other linux
operating systems some you don't have to
but some of them don't some of some
linux-based operating systems rather use
caching so it makes things faster so
when you copy something through this
dried it's not actually copy right then
and there but that sometimes that can
take some time if you've ever done a big
coffee and windows XP into one of these
flash drives you'll know that it can
take a long time because there's no cash
Hank that's what allows you to just
unplug it and you're good to go with
ubuntu on the other hand
because there's cash and it makes it a
lot faster seeming to copy because you
know it will go through that progress
indicator like that but what you don't
realize that the boom then that thing
disappears and it's actually still
copying the background but using you
know idle CPU processes and things like
that so that it's not taking a long time
so so to you it seems like it's copied
it almost instantly but if you unplug
back it's going to say unsafe device
removal and you might lose some of those
files over being copied so first what
you have to do in ubuntu is right click
on the drive which is going to show up
on your desktop because it's mounted in
your media folder and then choose eject
or unmount one of those options that
will allow you to safely remove that
device so that's going to force writing
of all the data that's still pending and
then you can eject that safely
okay going back to Ashley here when you
open the top desk the Vista thing and in
the tab you go to windows and in the
middle of the page
actually do you mean seeing like live
thumbnails during flip 3d so that if
there's a movie playing and you do click
3d you can actually see the the
animation at the same time that's okay
that's what I'm gathering so let's let's
give that a go I tried it a little
earlier today on ubuntu that's that
works like that on on vista I'm sure it
does as well I'm not too sure about
topdesk but let's give that a go so
let's just drop over to you know what we
don't even need to do that let's just
let's click on me all right did be weird
if I actually launched the livestream
one that that would be like
this computer you know what maybe it's
that I don't have flash installed and
this is Windows XP so it's not there
something I'm don't want to play around
with it too much but
they might not be able to launch the
broadcast just as I said I haven't
installed anything on here yet ok let's
try youtube
all right this will at least get me the
flash player so I'm going to go through
the flash installation i just installed
windows XP honest this morning for
today's show so i'll have to go through
that they won't take long obviously but
that will allow me to do that test for
you ashley
lots of questions coming in i'm going to
try to attend to everyone that's coming
in within the next nine minutes or so of
the show if you have any questions give
me a call 705 739 1056 or you can also
email or msn me a TV at Robbie f calm
I'm just installing flash on this
windows XP system so that we can try to
answer this question for for Ashley I'm
just being prompted a bunch of times
with protection and things
okay well that's a song I'm going to
look at tylers questions here says I
have a VMware and gaming question i'm
running windows XP in a vm to play some
lightweight games such as counter-strike
I saw the VMware tools it comes with
VMware application which improved mouse
support but now when I go into my games
my mouse is pretty much useless to aim
my mouse runs fine in any other
circumstance I played with settings in
the game itself but I'm wondering if you
ever had this kind of issue the helpful
thing that happened when i installed the
vmware tools is that when i have my vm
not at full screen i can run the mouse
off of my vm XP desktop and onto my
regular native desktop seamlessly I've
never had that happen Tyler just I tend
not to really run games in VMware that's
just my own preference but just
wondering that now vmware tools is not
just your mouse obviously that's
probably one of the most significant
changes but it also has your video
drivers for the virtual video card and
things like that your sound drivers and
things but as far as losing control are
you like unable to make aim is it kind
of jumpy and like jerking around the
screen kind of idea
this is it jumps to aim down if I
struggle with it aim straight up that's
pretty much it so it's like it's on like
an access like that like just kind of no
matter what you do it's just jumping
around up and down well I've never
unfortunately I've never encountered
that Tyler and let's see I'm going to
load up my windows XP virtualization
here on my main system and just see if
see if I can try to emulate anything
that you're experiencing or see if we
can find a setting that will take care
of that
when you hit a scape you're getting
regular mouse control you mean your it's
restoring it back to your host operating
system or
it's restoring regular mouse control to
the vm so on a layer above the game are
so you're not actually able to control
oh ok so it when you're when you're
actually in the like shooting kind of
end of things that's that's when it's
not working but if you're using the menu
within the game at the same time it
works just fine is that what you're
saying
yeah okay let's see if we can emulate
any of this I've got about five minutes
tonight I'm going to see what I can do
for you
okay just as we're waiting on that I've
got last week's video here up on our
windows XP using the top desk
application
so it looks like Ashley it seems to have
frozen the video as soon as I as soon as
I did that let's see what it does to the
audio oh I'm not getting any audio this
is Windows XP I'm gonna have to install
the drivers so yeah it's it stops the
video that's that's playing there and
that's just a flash video as you know so
it doesn't seem that that just yet they
implemented the feature to have it
continue on I'm sure that's something
that they'll take into account it's no
top desk has been around for a couple
years they tell me the the other product
that they have desk space is only fairly
new and they're bringing up new version
fairly soon so you want to keep an eye
on that and see what what comes out but
as it is right now it doesn't look like
they support that unless there's a
setting that we're missing or something
like that but
I'm just going to look just in case
there's something there that's a
just go into topdesk options here
well I think I might have found it
actually actually
okay let's let's give this a go let's
see if this resolves that let's go back
to our windows XP here and if this fixes
it I won't tell you what I did until
until we know if this works or not so it
wouldn't really be any point
there we go so now you can see that my
first assessment was incorrect but they
do in fact support this feature is just
not activated by default so what I've
done there is within that application so
I'm going to my Start menu and then all
programs top desk top desk options and
then drop over to windows and you'll see
the update method and what I did there
is i changed it to update window images
continually after tiling it was default
set to update foreground window before
tiling all window images once after time
so of course it was just basically
taking a picture of the window and then
leaving it at that picture so by
changing it to update window images
continually after tiling you're probably
going to be using more CPU you resources
but if you have a fast enough computer I
don't see that that would be a problem
at all and you can see it worked just
fine there so you'll be happy to know
okay just jumping back I've got my
windows XP virtualization open here
Tyler color just before I get into this
because i know that you you do know
enough about computers to know your way
around have you looked at the vmware
tools options and things like that have
you gone through those already because
that's you know that's the first thing
i'm going to check knowing that it's
probably a VMware tools issue
yeah he says that they're fairly limited
yeah they certainly I'm just looking
here yeah not a lot of options but look
at your take a look preferences
well unfortunately I think Tyler just
because we're nearing the end of the
show and and I don't have a ready answer
for you it looks like we're probably
going to have to deal with this another
time or perhaps in the forum if you want
to post your question just at triple
wter ovf com certainly a bike on across
it i'll i'll definitely be willing to
help you out but we do only have
technically we have a minute I know
we're going a little bit over time
tonight but I'd like to be able to help
you but unfortunately it within the time
that we have left I'm not going to be
able to do that so okay do you have the
option of dual partitioning like I know
you're trying to do this through
virtualization but what about dual
partitioner one of the advantages to the
dual partitioning system is the fact
that we can utilize your sound hardware
if you're using 5.1 or 7.1 really nice
to have that
oh you're using a partition but you're
virtualizing access to the partition
okay but yeah if you get true access to
that windows XP just for gaming I mean
then you'll be able to have access to
you know you know that problem will be
gone I know that that's not a solution
that you're looking for you're looking
to do it the way that you're doing it
but at least that will you know that
will work
ok well im just looking over the final
questions here I know that I've got well
we're just a moment over time tonight I
appreciate everyone's questions tonight
it's been a great show and it's been
wonderful having you along make sure you
check out otaku software com for this is
great product for windows XP your top
desk in your desk space that's
definitely something that you want to
look at if you can't make the switch
over to a bun to get see this thursday
look forward to that make sure you get
that as well and in the meantime post
your questions if I was unable to get to
any of your questions please go on to
the forum at triple WTV Ravi f calm and
I will be thrilled to help you through
that medium and of course we can also
answer some of your questions next week
on our show and again thanks for coming
along and that hope you have a great
night
