so can get started with that and of
course if you'd like to drop a phone
call just give me a call at seven el5
739 1056 so I'm just going to boot up a
new computer I just threw something
together here for us tonight and we're
going to just demonstrate kind of the
linux operating system how we can
install this and eventually what we're
actually going to do is next week we're
going to actually add windows XP to that
linux desktop operating system and
create a virtual environments that you
can be running the two operating system
stimulant aeneus late so if we just fire
up this computer here there's currently
nothing on the hard drive
and i'm just going to boot directly from
CD first thing that we want to do when
we're doing this kind of setup is you
want to go into your bios make sure that
your boot device is set to your cd-rom
drive get that set you can save those
settings and you're good to go so now
we're going to be booting directly from
we're going to be working with pc linux
OS today pc linux OS is a debian based
operating system very similar to you by
to or who bun to its a free operating
system you can download it a pc linux OS
com the reason I've chosen to go with
this instead of a bun to today is
because the fact that integration of the
nvidia drivers ati drivers proprietary
drivers that that aren't distributed
directly with linux is very easy to
install in pc linux OS as well as that
it includes the barrel project so it
gives us a chance to very quickly
install the operating system get things
set up and up and running in in such a
way that is practical within a one hour
show so that's just booting up we'll be
able to install this operating system if
you can believe it if you've ever
installed windows XP you'll be shocked
when i tell you that in about five
minutes we're going to be booting this
computer up and we'll have this
operating system completely installed on
the hard drive which is currently blank
the initial boot up process takes a
little longer because we're booting from
a cd-rom and of course that's quite a
slow medium
we can see that that's just continuing
to low that's going to take us right
into a live desk time in the meantime
you can look at a couple of questions
that are coming on our website and of
course if you're having gone to the
website yet it is simply ww TV Robbie f
com that's Robbie F short for Ferguson
calm one of the questions that I've
received just through our website people
posting there is from lower lady and
she's asking what she needs in order to
start an internet radio station so
that's a good question and of course
it's a very vast question I don't know
if you realize the the size of that
question of course of certain levels of
internet radio and every single one
requires different things essentially
when you're looking at in and out radio
you need two things you need a source
stream and you need a server the server
is what's going to actually distribute
the stream out onto the internet so that
when the listeners connect they've got
something to listen to however the
source is actually sending the screen to
that server now we've got this I'm going
to come back to this question lower in
the meantime I don't want to waste any
time with this we want to get this
installing so the first question we're
getting here honor our new pc linux OS
computer is what kind of keyboard layout
we have which of course is going to be
the US keyboard layout if we're just
using a standard 101 key keyboard then
is asking what time zone i am i'm going
to choose toronto which is the eastern
time zone automatically synchronize my
time with the web server and then it's
just asking us to quickly configure our
internet connection all very
straightforward you can see I'm just
pushing next a whole bunch of times
essentially there's nothing that I
really as a user have to configure here
it's asking me if I want to allow users
to manage the connection because this is
a we're going to say this is a home
computer not a business computer I can
allow my users to manage the ethernet
connection
so essentially that's their internet
connection they'll be able to change
their IP address and things like that I
don't really want to restrict my users
because just going to be used for home
so we're going to hit start do I want to
start the connection now I'd say yes and
pretty much instantly you're going to
see that we're now I'm just hearing the
cd-rom spin up so again the only cause
of that delay was because of the cd-rom
and it says congratulations the network
and Internet configuration is complete
so now i have finished just have my
mouse cursor and we're already into the
bootable version of the CD now you can
see two user accounts here if you've
ever used linux before you'll be
familiar with the root account root is
essentially your administrator account
that allows you to configure the
computer as a guest user you're not
going to have any access to configuring
the computer settings you'll be able to
use the programs that are already
installed but you won't be able to
change system settings and that's why
there's a root user account and this is
one of the reasons why linux is sewn on
susceptible to viruses whereas windows
as a great example always gets you know
bombarded with viruses and have we're in
spyware because typically with those
operating systems you are essentially
always logged in as an administrator or
root user with linux of course if you're
gonna be surfing the internet you're
only going to be logged in as your guest
user the reviews are account we're going
to go into because we're just moving up
from the CD our root password is simply
going to be grouped
this is different for every Linux
distribution with pc linux OS shows us
that that's how we login
and here we go our first look at the pc
linux OS desktop and again it's loading
from the CD so it's going to take just a
few extra moments longer than it would
normally i'm also taking questions by
msn TV dots ravi or beg a carton TV at
ravi f calm the website is triple w dot
TV ravi f calm going back to our pc
linux OS computer this is all booted up
and ready to go and we can again see
that there's a little bit of a lag and
that's because of the cd-rom so we
quickly just want to install this
operating system very simple button on
the desktop install pieces and xos great
thing about this though is the fact that
we can boot up the disk we can look at
the operating system see if we like it
we can surf the web with it and we're
not committed to installing that on our
computer so if i wanted to i could just
test out the operating system right now
I don't have to install it so I could do
this I could test this operating system
without ever letting it change anything
on my hard drive in this instance we
know that we want to do this so we're
just going to hit next now it's asking
if I want to install it to a hard drive
or a USB Drive I'm just going to choose
hard drive and of course erase and use
the entire disk you also have options of
doing custom partitioning but for the
sake of this show we're just going to
use the default feature which is going
to wipe out our entire hard drive so
make sure if you have anything on that
hard drive you back that out before you
do this and it's asking if we want to
it's just reminding us that we're going
to be removing all partitions on the
hard drive and I'm just going to say
next because I am fine with that this
our drive is in fact blanks so no
problem because it's mounted the new
hard drive it's going to bring you up
this window here the saying that has
found a new hard drive we can just close
out of that we don't need it and then
it's just prompting us and again hit
next very straightforward and it's just
going to go through formatting the
partition and then it's going to allow
us the chance to install the operating
system so looking back at the question
that Laura had about internet radio
there are many services on the internet
that are going to allow you to scream
your internet radio station because as a
residential user you're not going to
have the resources in order to
to stream a live web stream in that it
just to give you an example if you're
using a dsl internet account or a
high-speed cable account you may have
between let's say 256 kilobits to 1.5
megabits of upstream bandwidth and
that's at any given time and that
fluctuates depending on how many users
there are on your internal network and
how many people in your community or
using the internet on some cases like
cable so if you had let's say 15
different people listening to your web
stream and you were trying to string
that through your home internet service
you're very very quickly going to run
out of bandwidth and so all of a sudden
this is where you start to see skipping
in your music so so there are services a
good one that comes to mind is called
live 365.com what life 365 does is they
give you as a residential user a great
chance to just start streaming internet
so as radio I understand right up here
and it's just like it sounds live365 365
com and they've been in business for
many years and the advantage to them is
that they're going to take care of your
royalties for you they're also going to
allow you to set up an account you're
going to be able to download the account
and see if you like it before you commit
to buying into the service of course
there's nothing like this that's going
to be free and the reason for that is
because of the bandwidth that you're
going to be using as well as royalty
rates that have to be paid out to the
artists so if we look up here
we've got okay right here is a button
called that says broadcast so if I click
on that button we're going to get two
options here start a personal radio
station for individuals this lets you
broadcast your music very cool features
of live365 is that you can actually
upload your mp3s and it will
automatically sort of put them in a play
list so it thereby eliminates the need
for a source server that's pretty cool
if you're going to be just streaming
your own you know your favorite mp3 s if
you're going to be streaming if you're
an artist and you want to be screaming
your own music that's great there's also
the professional edition of live 365 and
this is going to cost a little bit more
obviously because it is the professional
edition it starts about two hundred
dollars but you can see the residential
service gives you a free 7-day trial and
it starts at only 995 a month so it's
definitely a good good place to get
started if you're new to internet radio
their service is quite excellent quite
reliable and like I say they've been in
the business for many many years so many
advantages to that I hope that that
answers your question Lord if you're
online feel free to msn me so that
because your question was from a few
days ago posted on our website I'd love
to know if that answers your question
specifically the question this was
pretty broad but I want to make sure
that that takes care of it great
starting place is live 365.com looking
back at our pc mac OS computer of course
that's a during my little spiel there it
is already ready to go so I'm just going
to hit next again to install and this is
just going to compute the space that it
needs on the harddrive and it's going to
proceed to install that operating system
okay so that's just going to start
copying files over the computer there's
nothing else for me to do it's not going
to ask me a ton of different questions
like Windows XP installation
okay let's see what we have here okay
I'm just looking at msn here
okay looking at rachels inquiry about
spyware and viruses if you could just
respond to me Rachel and just let me
know what you're currently running this
protection
and then there's people just sending me
random messages okay
you can see the progress indicator is
just preceding a couple more can
questions here that have been brought in
through the website if anyone else does
have a question for me please feel free
to msn me the question directly at TV at
Ravi f calm
got a question coming in right now from
Phil
so that's again another personal
question just asking if I'm involved
with Barry linux users group Phil no I'm
not technically affiliated with very
linux users group and I have been in
touch with their directors there
unfortunately my schedule is just not
allowed for it in this every wednesday
night and usually weeknights are as you
can imagine pretty hectic the one week
night that I get free I started
television program so any other
questions coming in here it's a way for
a response from Rachel
tyler is asking the question about how
he can secure his identity on the
internet tyler if you're watching this
right now view are you referring to
registering your own com perhaps
increasing your your rankings in the
search engines how exactly do you mean
with that question
okay so Tyler is asking specifically
about surfing so okay you're going to be
looking at many different different
things here obviously search engines are
a big thing these days when people are
using advanced web browsers such as
Mozilla Firefox even the new internet
explorer 7 I don't want to use that as
an example but the feature is there
where users are beginning to now and
it's been a feature for quite some time
be able to simply enter whatever their
query is almost like the old AOL search
terms directly into their address bar so
we're no longer having to remember web
addresses and whether you are else as
much as we used to because the layman
said okay well I want to be able to just
to type type in what I want so if I want
you know web hosting I want to be able
to just type in web hosting and it will
take me right to a website that's going
to help you with that so the way that
that works is essentially a lot of the
services are provided by Google of
course the the Internet Explorer side of
things tends to use the msn search
features so you want to make sure that
you're getting good rankings in both of
those search engines you want to make
sure that your keywords on your website
are very focused on what it is you're
doing and and that way you're going to
get a much better much better identity
as you as you say does that does that
help with your question at all
sort of he says okay what what more can
I touch on of course search engines are
the big thing that allow lay people
people who don't know your URL to find
your website of course people who know
your url you've already got them it's
fine but it's the people who don't
people who are just searching for
keywords session cookies
okay he's asking how about was session
cookies on various server based service
based sites you're going to have to
explain exactly what you're what you
mean there
hope you mean protecting your identity
thanks Phil
okay you said securing your identity and
so I meant I was under the impression
that you were meaning securing or your
corporate identity or your business
identity
okay so so you're you're wondering about
cookies on websites which are stored on
your local computer not necessarily on
the server is there a specific thing a
specific thing that concerns you about
surfing the internet is it your credit
card number things like that or just it
just in general
ok so what Tyler is asking about here is
he's saying that some sites don't don't
set their session cookies to expire now
for those of you who don't know what a
session cookie is that's when you go to
a website and you enter any amount of
information and that website is
programmed to save that information to
your computer directly so that next time
you go there you don't have to answer
that question again so it's a very handy
feature but sometimes it's been used
maliciously I think ty they're probably
the best thing for you to look at is of
course software protection a great
product that you can look at a panda
Internet Security 2007 now if i should
ask which operating system you're
running because I'm
the firefox plugin now I haven't Tyler's
asking if there's a firefox plugin that
would do this for him I'm just going to
take a look here I mean the almighty
google comes into play
for the most part I find that cookies
are relatively safe I mean there is of
course you have the fear that your your
information being stored anywhere is
going to be it's going to be used
against you but the fact is the cookies
can only store the information that you
give them when you surf the internet
there there is certain information about
you that is sent to the server every
single time you visit a website that
information usually it's not identifying
other than the fact that now usually
what we can see as web hosts is the
username that you're logged into your
computer as the type of operating system
what version of the operating system you
are using we can see what browser
version you're using and a little bit of
information about your connection
including your IP address and based on
your IP address we can do a traceroute
and find out where your approximately
located it won't give us your house
address of course but it will allow us
to know if you're in Toronto if you're
in very things like that so the
information that's going to be stored
there unless you're entering information
yourself into the form if you will on
the website and then storing that in the
cookie but in that case you're you're
willingly providing that information
anyways so we have to take that into
account so I'm just looking here for a
firefox plugin that will protect against
cookies
so let's just take a quick look and of
course our operating system over here if
you don't mind Tyler I'm just going to
skip over and take a look what this is
asking us now just in case you're ever
going to do the step by step it's just
going to install our boot loader and we
want to use grout the other option is
lie low grub is basically the menu that
you see when you first turn on your
computer do you want to run Windows do
you want to run linux do you want to run
it in a protected mode or how do you
want to do it so that's just it's
essentially just the menu that you see
when you first turn on the computer
windows users may not be familiar with
that because usually turn on your
computer and you just see the windows XP
and logo come up right on your screen
but this gives us the option to have a
menu when we first turn on our computer
it's great for dual booting and things
like that and then enabling acpi allows
you to use advanced power management so
that's fine to leave active on most new
computers so we're going to hit next
again I've left all the settings the
same as they were and it's asking me for
my default I just want to install
install my default as just loving the
Linux food kernel which means the
default option is going to be just Linux
we've already discussed what route is
versus the the guest user so this is
prompting for a root password make sure
this is something that you'll remember
but that's safe enough that nobody's
going to guess it because with the root
password anyone could do anything to
your computer without it they can't do
anything essentially because linux is
such a well secured environment now this
is asking me for my user account so this
is going to be my regular user so that's
the one I'm going to use when I'm I
shouldn't I can't talk at the same time
I'm finding
this is the user account that I'm going
to want to use when I'm surfing the
internet when I'm checking my email when
I'm just doing my msn and things like
that and now it's going to ask me if I
want to add another user if you have a
family and you want to have more than
one user that's great because linux kind
of puts all the users in individual kind
of groups like your user account but
comes almost its own computer so because
you can't mess up someone else's user
account if you set up your your children
is having their own user accounts if
they whatever they do to their account
will not affect the other users on the
computer so it's very great for sharing
the computer because it gives you that
you know peace of mind that the things
are going to break it one person breaks
their login so in this case it's just me
I don't need to do anything and it's
just telling you that everything is done
it's ready to remove my computer and
we're good to go so we're just going to
let that reboot and eject the CD
okay Tyler I'm just looking at a message
here from Phil and Phil is saying that
the Firefox can clear private data of
course that's and he mentions here its
tools clear private data or control
shift delete will also do it and and
that of course gives you the options
that will give you a list of things
items that you can clear out including
your cookies and I know you're I'm just
realizing you're looking at the back of
my head here how's that so and fellas
just reminding us that that within that
dialogue you have the option of clearing
out your cookies so Thank You Phil
alright i'm just going to remove that
computer here
if you like to give me a phone call
lines are open the number to call is 70
5739 1056
okay so just looking at at this google
find that I've got for you Tyler
I just drop you a link Tyler and just
see if this is kind of what you're
looking for what this is is a program
that will protect against getafe scripts
dealing your cookie information so I'm
just ejecting that CD and the computer
is just prompting me the pc linux OS
computer is prompting me press enter
once the medium is removed so i hit
enter and that's been a reboot and we're
going to vote a second we're going to be
in our brand new pc linux OS desktop and
that is installed directly on the hard
drive so now we're going to have full
speed the computer that I'm installing
this on it should be noted is a intel
pentium 4 prescott now there's the grub
menu that i was describing that's what
allows us to choose what we want to load
in this instance it doesn't really
matter to have it but if we ever want to
do with gentle blue it's very handy that
we can just select windows XP right
there so it's a pain for prescott which
is a later model pentium 4 and it's got
512 megs of ram and the key to this
computer is its video card I've put in
an AGP 7600 GS and video card and that's
basically just a relatively inexpensive
but $150 Canadian card and that card
gives us the 3d acceleration that we
need in order to do the fancy barrel 3d
desktop what we want to use ok so I'm
going to click on my root account
because I want to do some administration
before I'm ready to do anything like
surf the internet oh and i went in type
group remember that we need to type in
the password that we entered during the
installation here this is now the real
system you'll see that the system loads
quite a lot faster now than it did when
it was on the CD obviously
since the first time it's loaded it's
going to bring in all the drivers and
things like that it's already detected
all of our hardware unlike windows and I
don't like to say that but linux is
basically everything a self contained
within the colonel so you don't have to
install too many drivers if any at all
so here we are we're right under our
system we've got our base applications
including our office suite which just
gives us a ton of things including a
word processor spreadsheets basically
everything and of course Firefox and
things like that
so that's just a demonstrate that we're
online and connected first thing that we
want to do though is we want to get our
nvidia graphics card running and the
thing with video cards is that the
graphic card manufacturers don't want to
release their drivers to the public
domain to GPL and so they've actually
made it so that you have to download
their drivers manually if you want to to
install them pc linux OS and other linux
operating systems have made it quite
easy to get those drivers but by law
they're not allowed to include them
literally in their operating system but
of course with an internet connection we
can get access to those drivers without
problem
phone lines are open at seven oh five
seven three nine ten fifty six
Phil is just asking the purpose of a
three-dimensional desktop environment
and what we're looking at today is the
barrel projects 3d desktop environment
which was as you're going to see now you
can see my screens here kind of in front
of me and basically what i can do is i
can spin these screens around in a 3d
virtual world and you can see basically
I've got one desktop to desktops three
desktops for desktops and what this does
for me Phil is this gives me the
opportunity if you've ever used an
operating system with a flat desktop
like just one screen you realize that it
can get very cluttered with applications
down in the taskbar things just get
absolutely you know if you're if you're
productive user if your web developer or
programmer you know that you always got
to have a lot of programs open at the
same time that can be a real hassle if
you're running one of those desktops so
with the 3d operating system with 3d
desktop you're able to spin that around
throw something else up on another
desktop and it's basically like if
you've got for desktops it's almost akin
to having four different computers so
you can just load things up and with
virtualization technology which we're
going to be introducing next week into
this new computer that we're working on
you can actually have multiple operating
systems on the different sides of the
desktop so for example you can use the
Linux operating system for your web
surfing your email and your msn and
programs like that so that you are not
susceptible to viruses so that you're
not going to have to worry about spyware
and adware and having to buy into
licenses for antivirus products and
things like that but then you can spin
around that cube and have a nice windows
XP desktop up there so that you can run
the programs that you want to run if you
need Photoshop say for example it will
you know that can be run natively in
Linux but you may prefer to run directly
in windows so that could do that
opportunity
ok fellas mentioning here that he
actually had barrel installed for a
while and found that it did not increase
his productivity so Phil what is it that
no you're a technician do you do any
program you often have a lot of programs
open
tyler is asking if the barrel software
will work with any distribution of linux
and essentially yes tyler it I mean
Linux's is basically the kernel of the
operating system and then they've got
different derivatives from like
different desktop you've got your KDE in
your gnome interfaces and and so there's
different software on top of the Linux
kernel barrel is just one of those
pieces of software so with a little bit
with a little bit of knowledge you can
get that to work on basically any
lastest desktop operating system it just
may be a little bit of a different
process pc linux OS which is what we're
working with today basically eases the
process because it's included and
there's other Linux operating systems
that included as well but barrel can in
fact be installed on basically any Linux
desktop
Becker is asking if if she uses linux
instead of windows will should still be
able to run all of her programs and
software do you have any programs in
mind Beckham is there anything in
particular that you're thinking of just
before I jump into that question because
that is a big question Tyler is asking
if barrel works on top of KDE or known
to either barrel is like an overlay and
I don't want to use that works i'm not
going to get a whole bunch of emails and
people gonna say no it's run over there
but yes basically if gotten your gnome
environment and then you're going to be
barrel is going to give you the effects
in addition to that you're also going to
be able to use the window decorators
that barrel provide things like that but
you can still choose do you want barrel
or pardon me do you want no more do you
want KDE and I'm variables on top of
that Ubuntu is a gnome based operating
system ubuntu is a KDE based operating
system which is more familiar to the
windows users because it's got the task
bar at the bottom and then there are
some other derivatives as well
becca is asking about Photoshop
Microsoft Word Microsoft PowerPoint it
should be mentioned that Linux has a lot
of great programs that are compatible
and in some cases even superior to the
Microsoft counterparts or the counter
parts that are available for Windows and
a good example of that is the Open
Office suite if you've ever used
openoffice you know that it's commits a
word word processor PowerPoint
compatible you can open all of the
microsoft office files and you can open
your powerpoint presentations that
you've created on a Microsoft Windows
environment but you also have the
ability to open Word Perfect files open
office files star office files you get
things in addition to the Microsoft
counterpart so so that should be
mentioned that when I'm getting ok I
come back to some other people here so
you should understand that there are
alternatives and that's usually the best
way to go however there are products out
there that will allow you to install
microsoft windows applications natively
into linux and basically that means that
you can you can drop programs like
Microsoft Word or PowerPoint directly
into linux without having to use
virtualization at all programs that are
available of course the core project is
called wine which is usually
misunderstood as being a windows
emulator it's not in fact an emulator it
just gives you the layer basically like
an API to allow you to to access Windows
applications and run executive all files
like dot exe files within Linux so using
that you can usually install programs
like word and powerpoint basically like
the office applications items like
Photoshop sometimes are a little more
trickier that's really bad grammar I
understand
but but Photoshop because of just
certain ways that it uses the windows
interface it's becoming more and more
difficult to run natively on Linux older
versions such as version 7 you can
install basically very simply using
using wine there's other products like
kadaga trends gaming makes it an
excellent program based on wine as well
that allows you to install windows games
into Linux but photoshop any of the
newer versions tend not to run very well
and that's just because of the
interaction between Linux and the
windows application but most Windows
applications most as in on your desktop
applications that you'd be familiar with
are going to run just fine under linux
but again next week we're going to be
dealing with virtualization what that
gives us is the ability to actually
install windows directly into linux and
i know that sounds kind of crazy but
that actually means that we can be
working with in linux and if we need
photoshop we can actually boot into
windows without ever leaving linux and
then we can spin our cube around you're
going to get to see that next week
phils opinion is that KDE is way cooler
than known
so was I able to adequately adequately
answer your question about para-project
and I understand that you didn't find it
as productive e you know an increase in
productivity I'll be honest I have I
found the exact opposite I would never
be able to go back to just plain no more
plain KDE or Windows now that i've been
using barrel project for well i think
since pretty much since its inception
since comp is and barrel originally for
kept so that's been quite a quite a
while I found it to really increase my
productivity and I think that's because
I do have several applications open at
once so to have multiple desktops really
gives me a lot more working space
Phil is also mentioning that he's had
some problems recovering this 3d desktop
from suspend on the laptop that could be
something to do with your video drivers
most likely configuration in your
xorg.conf file
did you have your latest drivers
installed at the time fo
and by that I mean if you're using an
nvidia chipset not the envy driver but
the actual nvidia driver
oh I see okay so Phil you actually have
an intel video chipset integrated video
and you understand you are in the
understanding that it is you know if you
say it's a cheap acer laptop one thing
intel chipset is basically the you know
you're looking at great for working in
office productivity applications things
like that but when you start going into
3d you've got to look at an ati or an
nvidia chipset personally my
recommendation is nvidia i've had much
better success with the entry-level
video cards from nvidia than I have with
a TI
so that's something you would definitely
have to look at you can't you can't
really blame that problem on the ati is
canadian he reminds me yes I know but
we're interested in performance as well
as supporting our Canadian economy is
that wrong with me to say
phil tyler is asking why you feel that
the KDE is better than no
personally Tyler as we're waiting for
Phil to answer that question I started
out using when I first jumped into linux
I was using the lens fire operating
system as you know it was lindos back
then and it was que te bakes I always I
think what I what I personally didn't
like about Katie team was whenever you
click on an application you get the
loading whatever application they click
on Firefox's you know basically you're
waiting for firefox to load for just a
few moments and then it pops up I'm just
the kind of guy I like instant I like
things to be really really fast and I
don't like to see little things that
stay coming soon I don't like going to a
website and say you know under
construction I don't like when my
operating system tells me I'm loading
the program I I prefer it just the load
and then come up extremely fast with no
you don't get those little kind of
things and that was kind of why I made
this wish to know them originally and
I've just you know they both have their
ups and downs que te is a very
attractive desktop but again you're
going to be trying different things such
as the barrel project so you may not you
may not even need the KDE for the beauty
you can use gnome and get the same kind
of beauty
now I know I'm taking a bunch of
questions here but i do want to proceed
with with installation of the nvidia
drivers but before we do that i'll just
look at tether a look at phils response
here says he finds known to be less
configurable he likes the integration of
KDE applications a lot better and he
likes co peak now it should be mentioned
Phil I'm on gnome right now and I'm
talking to you on co beat and he says he
likes that better than Pig dinner game
and he likes the video and voice support
so Phil I should just remind that as
with any Linux application you can be
installing KDE applications into no I'm
and vice versa there's no problem there
so this is a this is looks like a
software preference Tyler he's saying
that he liked to contact better than
evolution those are two different
programs that are kind of Linux
equivalents to microsoft outlook
San Felix Conqueror better than Tillis
which is basically your what windows
would call Explorer or my computer the
way that you navigate your files and the
way your desktop books so those are all
you know reasonable things to say but
don't don't jump into que te thinking
that that you can don't be afraid of
known thinking that you can't install
KDE applications because you absolutely
can't like i said i'm running cokie
right now I run evolution because I
prefer it over contact so
so that is just preference Tyler and
Linux I think you know that's one of the
beautiful things about linux is that you
have so much opportunity to share your
preference and to customize your desktop
with many other operating systems don't
really get that freedom this really
gives you a freedom to configure it the
way that you would like so just going to
jump back to our pc linux OS desktop
here and i did have a problem with
samantha synaptic which is the program
that that allows us to install drivers
and programs and things like that but I
fixed that you probably want to counter
the same problem so it's not a big deal
so now I'm just going to load up this
program which is this icon down here
this is going to allow us to install our
video drivers for the nvidia chipset so
i'm just going to do a search for nvm
because that's the video card that I
have I have a like I said at the
beginning of the show nvidia 7600 GS i'm
going to look at the 97 XX driver which
is the driver for newer video cards with
the nvidia chipset you can see that this
is more for the older gfx cards alright
so this is the one that I want so we're
just going to double click on that to
tag it for installation and then apply
our changes that's going to download
directly through the internet all of the
drivers that we need so very cool
feature of basically the installation
package managers of Linux is that it
basically gets everything off the
internet you never really have to put a
disc in your drive so that's pretty
handy
Tiger is asking if you can switch
between gnome and KDE without
reformatting your computer the answer to
that is absolutely yes when you start
your computer you have the option of
load in any session that you can you've
got installed it's called a session so
katie is the session manager known as
the session manager you can use
basically any of the available session
managers I also use flexbox and things
like that so so yeah absolutely you can
do that and that's just on the fly
okay I'm just going to switch back to
the system I'm not absolutely certain at
this took but we are being prompted to
restart the computer now so we're going
to go through with that
I'm just going to hit ok and reboot the
computer
I'll have you take any calls for our
episode 1 of category 5 you can call me
up at seven oh five seven three nine 10
56 would love to hear from you
Tyler yes if you call in you'll be able
to be heard on the show
if you do call in please mute the
speakers on your computer just so that
we avoid any feedback issues of anything
like that this is a live show
and
another question here from Laura lady
with regards to PHP development she's
asking if I could explain PHP and if
there is a very basic PHP software for
beginners she says she has n view but it
only addresses changing the website
content ok so thanks for the question
i'll do my best to answer that as
accurately as i can it needs to be
understood that if you're going to be
developing PHP which is a web based
programming language people would think
along the lines of HTML and HTML is
going to be interpreted by the users
browser whereas PHP is interpreted by
the server so what that means because
it's a server-side language and I'm just
typing in my password here to get back
in now that we've rebooted ma
PHP as programming language is going to
be long basically run on the server as a
program and then the output of that
script is going to be sent to the
browser so you can't think in terms of
HTML anymore because HTML is basically
you know what you see is what you get
that's what you're getting with with n
view and you being akin to front page
Dreamweaver items like that so there's I
really couldn't say that there's I mean
other than going with cam scripts
there's not really anything that can
ease the transition from HTML and PHP
other than a lot of studying because it
is a programming language more so than
it is a like an HTML language you
basically you know would create code
that would run like a program on the
server side and then output information
to the to the user so in HTML format so
there's really not much that we can do
to ease that transition but certainly
offering can scripts by knowing good
sources for scripts is a good way to do
it as well if you you know are just
getting started but it's always good if
you have a PHP developer that can assist
you a friend who who is able to give you
some advice walk you through along the
way you can't really learn it's not like
HTML where you could view web sources
because by the time you view the page P
source it's already been processed in
this just the output at HTML so you're
not actually seeing the source of the
PHP so you really have to get down to
the code itself which creates the
the HTML output but again if you're
online please message me and give me
more details about your question if
there's something specifically that
you're looking to do with PHP maybe I
can help maybe I can create a script for
you but you have to do that okay so
we're just we've rebooted in the pc
linux OS here and now we should have our
nvidia drivers running we're going to
find out right now just by going into
our control center which is right here
and we do have a problem so and i kind
of detected this as we were doing the
install i did have a bit of an issue
with the installation itself and I'm not
because we're live on the air I'm not
really going to do too much to to worry
about that but let's see if we can at
least get this running in a 3d operating
system if programs are installed
correctly so I'm just going to end the
user session here which is basically
logging out of the computer and then
going back to the login prompt entirely
this is going to show you where you can
change your sessions as well this is pc
linux OS and you can see how now I know
that that's kind of hard to see in that
it's kind of small on the screen capture
but what I have here is my default my
custom my KDE and my failsafe so no
could be an option within that list and
if no one was an option i could actually
select a gnome then i could log in and
it would be known and i can come back
and i can select KDE log in and it may
be k ve so unfortunately my packages did
not install correctly that could be a
problem with my if my internet
connection was was having a problem
because of the fact that this is our our
first time streaming a show and i know
that i'm making a lot of bandwidth right
now so it's likely that's what the cause
is so we're going to have to come back
to this one next week unfortunately i'd
love to show it to you but what i will
do just at this instant is just kind of
bring up my screens here which i know
they're hard to see but you can see
again the rotation of the desktop now
this is exactly what we're going to have
on our pc linux OS system what I'm
running here is Ubuntu
but it's going to be identical so and
just looking at the option to run
Windows XP on one of these cube faces
what i can do is i can just pull that
right up and here we go so now I've got
my cubes and fill you can see the
productivity here where this is windows
XP loading up we can see the logo there
and then over here you know I've got my
linux desktops so this is what we're
going to be accomplishing with the with
the pc linux OS computer
and there we are so we're at our windows
XP desktop here and I have access to all
of my windows XP programs so i have FL
Studio 7 installed for when I do music
production and my audio editor Photoshop
and things like that
that just gives you a quick
demonstration of how that works
please do call me up at seven oh five
seven three nine ten 56 you have any
questions I'd be happy to answer for you
we've only got about eight minutes left
of the show
there any outstanding questions that
have not been addressed yet anything
that I've overlooked in the chat forum
Tyler is interested in the technology
behind my production of this show and
interested in me sharing my secret sauce
could that be my chicken sauce actually
I got a great deal on buffalo chicken
wings off the other day 5 99 for a great
big tub so that was pretty awesome
lower lady is asking about embedding a
music file on a website says she has a
little generic player that she's
currently using using Quicktime so i
presume using the embed tag within HTML
wondering if there's a code or a simple
method for for using a simple flash
player she says I get tired of looking
at the same player all the time I'd like
to be able to have an option of the
players appearance which is always the
same when you embed an mp3 in HTML of
course embedding an mp3 directly into
HTML is simply going to load it using
whatever program the user has installed
to to to load that whether it be windows
media player and player or quicktime as
the other example real player even but
that's not a good way to do it because
you're then basically forcing the user
to download that mp3 found in most
instances because you're not using an m3
you or a playlist which is going to
stream the the soundcloud so the
difference between streaming and
actually linking to an mp3 file or
embedding an mp3 file is it was
streaming you're actually listening to
it as it downloads so if the user pushes
stop halfway through or closes the
window you're only having a paper band
with the path of that file if you're
linking directly to the mp3 file you're
going to have to be like basically if
you've got a limit on your bandwidth
you're going to find that you know if
somebody puts on the file even if they
only listen to one second of it they're
downloading that entire file which is
kind of ridiculous when it comes to van
so yeah there are several flash players
that you can get like this just an SWF
file for find mp3's what i can do is i
have one that comes to mind on my own
website at well my music website that i
use for streaming our mp3's so what I'll
do is I'll actually pull that off of my
website I'll put it together into a
little zip package for you it's nothing
fancy it's not customizable
appearance-wise I know that that's kind
of what you're looking for but at least
it will give you a stream ability for
mp3 file so I'm going to put that
together into a little zip package I'll
put it up on the forum for this show and
and you can download that there and if
anyone else would like that that's
that's going to be available to you as
well
there's lots of commercial mp3 SWF files
as well
Phil is just mentioning that he used as
a flash script to stream online sermons
and he says that it's somewhat
configurable Phil can you provide us a
link for that application you have that
readily available if not if Phil if you
wouldn't mind if you drop over to TV dot
Ravi f calm and just scroll down to the
bottom and click on the forum and just
go into today show as opposed to be the
link there for office e that would be
wonderful
we've only got a few minutes left to the
show of course if there are questions
coming in I'm happy to say and and keep
answering them but still haven't
received any phone calls I'd love to
take a call and make sure our systems
all work being that this is our first
show it's 70 5739 1056
because it's mention again that we have
set up a web-based forum and so you can
actually go to triple wter a BF calm to
scroll down to the bottom of the page
you'll see a link that says visit the
forum that's a service that we were
providing to allow you if you're
watching this after the fact when it's
not live you can go to that forum and
ask questions specifically on this show
so there's something that you've seen on
today's show or a question you'd like to
expand on or if you want if you have an
answer for our viewers or a question to
that is in relation to this program you
can visit the forum click on to this
show which is episode number one for
September 25th 2007 and we'll be happy
to be able to answer further questions
down the road
put two minutes left to the program
anyone has any questions please contact
me at 70 5739 1056 ray can also msn or
email me at TV at Robby F calm and of
course the forms are going to be open
this evening starting at 8pm at triple
WTV Ravi F com
you don't have to register I don't
believe but you can give it a go just
give it a try Phil it's our first day so
you like on the air on category client
hi this is tyler calling in hey John uh
I don't have a question at the moment
but I do have a comment I just really
wanted to congratulate you on your first
successful show is really educational
thank you we appreciate it very much
thank static yeah not a problem I'm glad
that this is working out so well for you
yeah it looks like everything was
working up and if everyone can hear
Tyler's voice then I guess everything's
good excellent thanks for your call
Tyler good night you two bye-bye thanks
for your call Tyler and should be noted
that this show that happens live every
single Tuesday night right here from my
basement in Barrie Ontario and we're
going to be broadcasting a7 p.m. every
tuesday night and i look forward to
answering your questions in the in the
months to come and we'll see how this
goes and we're getting some great
feedback from the forums here and we've
got we got one viewer right now from
australia and the rest seem to be fairly
local good to know that the things are
working out there in australia
and he says g'day mate good day
ok any more questions for tonight
alright it looks like we are good to go
so thank you again for watching the show
and I appreciate you tuning in hope that
I've been able to answer some of your
questions will be back again next week
I'm going to resolve the issue to be had
with the pc linux OS computer it seems
to be maybe a internet connection issue
because we do download a lot of stuff
from the internet and of course we're
streaming the show through that same
internet connection so as I was
discussing about bandwidth with internet
streaming you can imagine that I'm kind
of milking it right now so so thanks for
tuning in and again check out the forum
at TV Robbie F com make sure you have
post your comments and questions there
and we appreciate you being here thanks
have a great night
