welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson welcome to episode number 251
of category 5 technology TV on the tenth
of July 2012 well anybody really keep
track well it's Kristin's birthday it's
krista's birthday today hey so it's lazy
think it's easier can't say that no we
can't afford the royalties man Oh
somebody does a little it oh they sure
do sister stop it you're gonna get me in
trouble now I am didn't more than 12
notes on the road well I don't know is
that what it is i don't know i think
that's called record his name is eric
kid he can be emailed at Erekat category
five dot TV his phone number easy now
it's being phone ringing phone should i
turn this off quick what oh your
blackberry yeah yeah you should probably
turn it off because it's gonna it's
gonna just saw a trim the sound off I
can still yeah I think all of them are
all gonna see mule taneously turn off
pretty soon and talking monday i don't
know i don't know blackberry is gonna
dust itself off do you think they are
yeah there gonna be listen they invented
smartphone technology their security is
still way better than all these guys
we're building stuff in some other
countries but the same smartphone
technology that they invented is still
the same top there we go
it hasn't progressed like the rest of
them as far as but it's still more
secure it's still more secure and
there's still better email us up there
certainly are some multimedia things
that made flight love on her yeah on
their toys I mean there are their
iphones yeah um great to see everybody
in the chat room yes John is offering
the by everyone pizza that's very very
nice I thought that was you you told me
there i told you i need to do it at this
no no no pizza no singing no sense not
tonight oh wow that's got like an
original i have lots of looks like when
the new kids did the the original happy
birthday song and it's like they thought
that was so cool at the time maybe I
should write a strong for a happy
birthday song just but you can't call it
happy birthday I can tell you like how
many songs have the same title come on
there's lots of songs not the same title
sure they're okay hey I mean what's
going on tonight did you wanna argue or
do you want to do a show I liked it I'd
like to count the show you know well you
know what category 5 is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here indeed and the international
association of Internet broadcasters the
more you'd like me tell you Wow wicked
tonight tonight on the show right here
and I'll you've got you you're in charge
of the newsroom and I'm gonna be telling
you all about the news but we're gonna
get to play with my cell phone my
blackberry we're gonna be tough I don't
know well there is a new retro style
handset for your smartphone well maybe
for my smartphone because they come a
nice color some of them cool so would
you like to know what's coming up in the
newsroom row yeah okay well here's
what's happening in the newsroom
Microsoft has confirmed that Windows 8
OS will be released in october
Kickstarter is coming to the UK a new
prototype headlight beams around rain
and snow okay real life robot avatar is
controlled by human
thought stick around these stories are
coming up later in the show Nate Wow
cool yeah I loads of viewer questions of
course if you would like to send us if
your question all you have to do is go
to cat five dot TV / ask you can fill in
the form there that's going to send an
email over to to eric here and he's got
all those all cued up for you and
tonight like eric was saying we've got
this retro handset for your smartphone
we're going to be taking you way back in
time with your modern smartphone so
stick around we're going to be looking
at that also want to bring your
attention to our mobile site cat for m
dot cat five dot TV m dot cat five TV or
you can scan that that QR code there
with your mobile device and that's going
to launch our mobile website which is
constantly being enhanced and with the
launch of our new website a couple weeks
ago we also made some enhancements on
the on the mobile site as well so very
cool to give that a go new add it to
your house add it to your home screen
very cool stuff for cut ten now actually
we're cat ten know we've been enhanced
oh it's the 501 better too okay all
right we did receive your postcards this
week love received your postcards and we
are taking qualifiers right now for a
magic jack and you've got to send in
your postcard or give us a phone call
telling us why you like your magicjack
or why you'd like to have a magic jack
plus with the postcards of course we
don't want your writing all over about
magic jack we just want a postcard and
we're going to automatically put you in
the draw so we've got a couple of
postcards here eric i'm going to kind of
hand them over to you so that you can
you can rely candy safe for people's
hands yeah yes check it out so here we
go we're starting off with one from
invincible mutant in italy Wow oh yeah
let you read that off on my left the
reasons us oh just the distance was all
right I Robbie and friends haverly okay
y'all be your friend what the hell oh
okay does it does Eric count thanks for
all the great shows Bravo this post card
is sent from Italy I just attended a
conference here and my
is to visit Venice Wow lovely lagoon
city put but the weather is too hot 37
degrees Celsius and very humid this
postcard shows part of the city bird
view Thanks invincible mutant Venice
Italy cool let's see that again what is
that actually I like the stamps on there
pretty cool you know shows that this is
why we love to receive them stamped if
you're if you're able I know sometimes
we get them in envelopes and stuff but
there's something about receiving the
stamp that makes it extra cool I've got
another one here as well two penguins
side by side I would expect that is you
know that takes me straight to linux
makes me think about linux with all the
Penguins this one comes to us on it
sorry John Zimmerman you gotta remember
most of the viewers are probably running
Linux so i know i know i need a on their
good side you know i mean you got in
here and and and rachel just what got me
in trouble and if she was moved to the
word nerdling which I really liked you
really like that word i like that word i
think that characters comes to us from
john zimmerman in in winder is it a
winter all I think of that Bieber that
that is but I'm just wonder if he's
related to hey John Bob Dylan Robert
Alan Silman and chris boom I'd say
that's winter Georgia cool Georgia
that's pretty cool hi guys hope all is
well up in Canada it is thank you so
much for asking I live down in winter or
winder yeah there you are georgia USA i
love your show and i run linux ubuntu
12.04 and open media vault on one server
ah take care of John I believe you take
her thanks John all right we appreciate
your postcard and I've got one more post
card as promised oh look at this Villa
panta piedra playa maria del
or Angelo Punta Punta Punta open that's
an a there that's a user piedra en vez
de via via via Punta pedra playa maria
del portillo Cuba till 4000 I think what
I what would I do without your hell I
have no idea but whatever eyes are very
supportive or whatever I just butchered
I apologize comes to us from our very
own from Hillary actually Oh visited
Cuba and brought this back with her hola
amigos hola her did you want to
pronounce the H all right haha full
reading from Cuba I am having an awesome
time in the Sun that's full shop I saw
on TV a Cuban news thing with a
superimposed spanish singer in the
corner interpreting for the deaf viewers
wow that technology made me think of the
show and all the viewers it was fabulous
anywho see you all soon the article
Hillary that's pretty cool i think about
the way the technology can be used to
like because she does signing for for
deaf people and so that i know how to
say hi I can't say a thing she's
fantastic at it but I think yeah that's
yeah cuz I I've had a couple talks with
her about you know what what can we do
for our deaf viewers as well the beard
doesn't help the beard does not help no
I think you'll do the moustache food
problem but yeah and look to the static
the mustache the beard and the mocha and
the mo here's a little smite to the
folks who heard hearing very well no
sorry bad that was here evil we didn't
mean we love you we appreciate you
watching the show thank you everybody
for your postcards thank you very very
much i'm going to add those to the pile
which are going to be drawn from next
week to win a magic jack and tonight as
part of our as part of our review of the
handset device for your smartphone we're
going to be talking about a magicjack
app that is going to allow you to call
anywhere in
Canada or the US for free using your
magic jack account from your smartphone
not eating up any of your minutes with
your phone call plan sounds pretty
exceptional you know what that is
exceptional except that what you're
going to say that's what I was missing
well we've got to take a real quick
break Eric and we are going to be right
back and we've got your viewer questions
after the break all right stick around
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson and I'm your co-host ur
kid yeah we're friends or sometimes I'm
Hillary sometimes I'm Kristen you never
know I'm let's see what this email has
to say should we do some question yeah
let's let's go for it this one's from
Michael Iowa hey Michael um running
ubuntu 10.04 LTS hi Robbie and I'm
co-host tonight coast I have a computer
that I am running ubuntu 10.04 LTS I
have been trying to mount my drobo FS on
my home network thanks for all your help
Oh drobo FS is a 0 but drove whoa hmm
dro it shares as a network attached
storage over the network through the
samba protocol which is like a windows
share so now I don't have one to test
with I could walk you through a little
bit of how that would be done forget the
postcards send us a i'll just send us a
robo FS and we'll show you know all
right go to places and then connect to
server in the drop-down change that to
windows share under server enter your IP
address of the drobo whatever that may
happen to be and then under share name
that would be the name of the actual
share that you have so I'm gonna so to
be dollar sign category five stuff or
something or do you need the dollars the
dollar sign means that it's hitting it
from the network yeah you don't really
need to do that of a drone most likely
it's it's a networked App Store just
probably going to be mmm a readable okay
it's not gonna be hidden unless you
created a hidden share but yeah I mean
if it is a hidden share you know like
whatever but then you've got to
authenticate with a username and that is
available and available for some
Tomatoes yeah but let's defer for my
sake here let's try this I'm going to
add a bookmark and I call the bookmark
cat5 and I'm mounting the category 5
share on my will say this is my drobo
it's actually my unraid box but both
technologies use the Windows SMB sharing
protocol so I'm going to connect and
there we go so now on my left hand side
here I've got cat 5 and any time I click
on that it takes me into my folder where
I store all my category 5 stuff so on my
network on my unraid server in your case
on your your drobo all of that stuff is
now available to you because you've
added it as a mounted server so so it's
just that he's just that easy yes that's
how you can set it up to basically
remember the connection so that you can
just click on it after a reboot and
stuff like that that's the easy easy
breezy way now of course you could use
FS tab that's another way you could do
it and then you could create a mount
point and then you don't have to run the
risk of accidentally ejecting that mount
point for example not like that's going
to happen but that points on the right
track anyways but FS tab is another way
mounting a samba share using FS tab
would be a good google search if you
want to do it in a fully permanent way
that you can't accidentally unmount but
that's easy breezy I think so good luck
all right here's another one from
from Dan hi I have a system no mention
of the co-host okay hi I have a system
lubuntu do I get that right yeah lubuntu
11.04 64bit 1 gig ram that becomes very
sluggish when i run a program that uses
four hundred to four hundred and seventy
five megs of ram according to top when
the program is running all processes are
using around sixty percent while the ram
by say i only have about 30 6 megabytes
free what is consuming the other
thirty-five percent of memory if it
isn't a process update manager has asked
me to update the firefox language pack
but the problem is I don't have firefox
installed nor was it ever does this
indicate a DNS spoofing attack with an
evil upgrade update cheers damn I
wouldn't jump to that conclusion I mean
unless you have some other kind of
symptoms that are causing problems but I
mean that can happen you've got package
dependencies and things like that back
to your first question about memory I
think it's not you know unheard of that
you're you're using a rather modern
operating system with Lubuntu and it is
fairly lightweight the the L being the I
guess that's lxde I believe so but there
is a certain amount of overhead in any
operating system basically the operating
system has to be running on that
computer so with only a gig of ram and
you're using an application that's going
to use a minimum of half of that there
are there's constant information flow
between applications between the
operating system and the applications
and I don't think it would take long to
realistically fill up a gig of ram
that's as far as I'm concerned that's
below minimum for pretty much any modern
operating system so you probably want to
I would say like a bear absolute bare
minimum of 2 gigs of ram but I wouldn't
even bother to start with anything less
than four gigs with the fact that you're
running one you're going to expect to
have that kind of performance that kind
of behavior from your memory it's not
that there's any one task that's using
up all that ram it's that it's not a lot
of ram
you've got a certain level of overhead
with applications that are running I'm
not sure if you're running top as the
superuser and you're looking at all
users tasks or if you're just running it
as your user in which case you're not
seeing all of the system stuff as well
so I would recommend in that case that
you upgrade your RAM plain and simple it
just doesn't sound like enough yeah i
remember back when I had four mega RAM
that was forming for me that was that I
doubled it in and then I quadruple 816
megrim on my 486 no yes and then I
upgraded the hard drive 360 make like it
was cool all those were the day yeah
when my first one gig hard drive was
atrociously expensive julia just
unbelievable i was even looking at my
flash drive i still have my first flash
drive around here somewhere i was
looking at it the other day i'm thinking
about how it's 128 megabytes and i paid
over a hundred dollars for it it was
almost dollar for dollar for how many
megabytes you got at that time when they
first came out so if you wanted a 256
meg card you're looking at like 200
bucks actually the folks at some
semantic gave me one leg about ten years
ago yeah and it was like I think it was
oh I'm thinking 256k now that couldn't
be it was small but they still have it
somewhere and Carolee do don't have much
on it but I love it yeah these days I
mean I'm I've got them in the shop and
they're like six dollars for an eight
gig yeah card my buddy in just got a 32
gig for like twenty bucks on my yeah
yeah it's crazy crazy yes awesome though
so now what about the update manager
well I don't I don't think it Firefox
just think it's yeah I don't know about
what packages you have installed or
anything like that there there'd be some
tracing involved in figuring out what is
depending on those packages that's
possible you're using you know Firefox
is a mozilla product it could be that
you're using thunderbird and it's
sharing the language pack I don't know
you'd have to look at maybe their
community and talk to them about
and I hate to I really don't like to
answer questions with oh just upgrade
your computer but look is that you know
I it's not a cop out that's
realistically I think what you need to
do when you're running a program that's
easily pushing sixty seventy percent of
your overall total resources for one
program you know that you're you're
pushing the limits of that system it's
like if you'll want to use photoshop CS
whatever you need a little more
horsepower you absolutely needed back
when you were using photoshop 7 or
something well if I'm working on an
image in the GIMP and it's a you know
it's a four gig uncompressed image yeah
and that's going to be using easily for
six gigs of RAM plus my on dues yeah
shelled out no let me digress is a
little bit um I was wrong about solid
state hard drives that's just about as
fast as RAM is it huh um i don't i'm not
sure the actual spec it is it as fast as
ram i'm not sure that it's that fast I
mean there's still time on the drive ya
know the drives are faster than any of
their borrow your virtual you're still
limited to your SATA bus the open right
so if you plug it into sata2 just for
the general term that it's been given
you're looking at three gigabits a
second as far as your bus transfer
versus your your actual ram chip which
would be quite a bit faster than that i
think so but now with SATA 3 as its
nickname that you're looking at six
gigabits a second so i would think that
you get some pretty awesome yeah seek
times for sure well maybe we'll go and
try that okay we have another question
oh alright I got a question from gym not
on childhood yet here question need help
adding virtual users in vsftpd got
vsftpd installed on a blue to 11.10
desktop PSP you know you're gonna make
me say that a lot of times right vsftpd
is working and i can connect to it by
using the
two computers main owner account and
peak password but can't set up virtual
users aha need to add two virtual user
accounts and restrict them to a specific
directory / folder very new to linux
i'll gladly donate if you can figure
this out LOL well then community let's
all come to know is that laughing out
loud or lots of love oh well see if you
solve the problem or not okay come on
community let's get together on this so
that so that we can get some funds going
you know wink wink no I'm kidding okay
we don't do it for that but I mean we
appreciate every donation that comes in
big time and it helps us to progress
with the show we do have some expenses
Eric and I are getting excited to be
doing a remote on location video shoot
and there are expenses that are
expensive we're going to have to you
know get my fishing license thats just
gonna need yeah oh we need to buy beer
this is that ice there are electronic
modes as well yes actually there is the
whole business of getting this show out
onto the get onto the internet yep
sponsored once again this year by still
really parking and antenna somewhere up
a maple and brilliant okay so to your
question vsftpd yeah i know where wanted
to say i wanted to say it at least one
more time yeah i think because you're
you're saying that you're fairly new to
linux i think that the best thing for
you to do would be just to create a
linux user that is a member of that
group and that's just going to be so
much easier than trying to create
virtual users as a novice rookie linux
user I wouldn't overcomplicate things
that the reason that you're you know
your main system login is working is
because it's a linux user who has access
to that group so why don't you just
create another linux user and and then
give them access to the v SFTP group
let's see what I can bring up for you
because there there's some reading
involved when you get into setting up a
server of course it's not something that
that we can just magically give you all
the answers to your magic Roby come on
let's see I've got
cat five dot TV / vsftpd it's going to
take you to a forum or a thread here on
that Linux home networking com which I
thought might be good for you there Jim
because it's got a lot of you may not
like this but lately good for you yeah
well I think I think well I can you
reuse it explains some of it you know
you can skip over some of the basic
stuff if you want it gets into what ftp
is and how vsftpd works and blah blah
blah and then it but then it does get
into some user related stuff differences
between debian and ubuntu when it comes
to vsftpd how to create users how to
create virtual users but i'm still kind
of the conviction that it might be
easiest just created a linux user just
as you normally would and and then use
them to login they're going to be locked
you may lock them into their home folder
so if i create a user on my computer for
eric and it's got the ftp and damen
running now all of a sudden eric can
remote FTP into his home folder so slash
home slash eric and that works fairly
well for for novice linux user just
wanting to get a basic ftp server up and
going and then you know grow from there
learn learn to set up an anonymous login
with restrictions on the on the folder
learn to then start working on virtual
users but i would start with actual real
linux users it's going to keep things a
lot easier for you so just off the
get-go I think all right all right more
questions yeah I'll just remind you to
cap five TV / vsftpd okay i created a
short link there for you to take you
right to that thread alright thanks for
the question
we have more experience pronounced demon
actually not demon demon yeah the demon
biscayne just like that so okay we just
have to ask matt r of junk alright how
I'm not sure but decided I am thinking
then yes I am attempting to connect my
linux mint 13 32-bit dell XPS 1330 to a
TV through hdmi everything works but
audio my daughter was doing that last
night trying to everything comes out the
audio so I said you know what I've got
another set of speakers oh you know
manipulating oh yeah it was sorry oh
like i have chosen hdmi audio in the
sound preference otherwise sound comes
only through laptop speakers it sounds
like my daughter wrote this well it's
same problem exactly except i cannot
find any answer online in mint forums or
the google any ideas oh i just read the
manual ombre hair they are saying one
needs a separate 2.5 22 x RCA cable to
get audio hmm could this mean epically
mi record doesn't produce audio and why
not yeah i had an extra set of computer
speakers in the garage design pleasure i
plug my know who forget about some why I
marry into it so I can listen to tunes
when I'm wearing oh that's all right
yeah yeah and so that was the low-tech
answer okay I I would expect I mean yeah
sure you could use separate audio output
but that's not supposed to be necessary
anymore with hdmi right I can walk you
through what i would think should do it
just in case there's perhaps a step that
has been may be omitted I'm not sure
let's take a look so floor one step is
that if you don't have the speakers in
the garage Davone area well you can do
the separate audio device but you don't
want to have to do that hdmi carries
video and audio signals so should be
good right so looking at my system here
bringing up my
preferences first thing I would do is go
to my output and I would change it to
hdmi output okay so here's my analog
output which is the quarter-inch stuff
or not quarter eighth inch and then I've
switched that to hdmi digital out k ah
so it's not an input issue with your TV
or your digital box its weight loss
quite possibly the output is not being
sent out from the computer makes a lot
of sense I get the impression though
that the Rev actually did this so I
think I think you got this far if i'm
not mistaken from what eric just read so
output via hdmi this is on ubuntu linux
i'm using Zorin OS and that's based on a
boon to so you're going to have exactly
the same setup on your boon to system or
anything that's derived from a bluetooth
so now the next step okay so I've set
that to hdmi output next step here is
perhaps what could be overlooked alsa
mixer because what happens is you'll
notice that there is no mixer here for
your HDMI output so how do you know
whether the volumes on or if it's muted
there there isn't any in a boon to
there's the volume up and down and
there's no there's no real mixer so
instead we can go in here with alpha
mixer and that in the terminal just use
your arrow keys and go right and keep
there we go spdif so spdif being a
digital output is most likely going to
be my hdmi that looks like the only
digital output so that would be the one
so if it's muted you'll see that it's
got Em's there mmm so you can press m
and it will bring it to whatever volume
level it is volume up and down is just
using your arrow keys and so now I've
got my output set to hdmi output I've
used alsa mixer to unmute if it was
muted my spdif and I've turned the
volume up to
full full volume that looks good I
wouldn't it vernacular on that be spit
of yeah that was kind of cool with it
that's the communications yeah so okay
I'm not sure if that's going to fix it
for you or not but it via reticle e by
setting your output to hdmi setting your
volume output up also you could try I
know this is crazy but sometimes on
certain systems systems like hdmi will
can will detect which devices are
connected on boot now does hdmi do that
I'm not so sure sometimes your TV might
but you could try rebooting with the
hdmi cable plugged in just as a fear you
know just as kind of one thing that I
would rule out just to see if perhaps it
detects something is connected if you
know like your headphone jack if it's
not connected if there's nothing in it
it will use your speakers kind of thing
good luck I hope that helps in some some
way all right here's here's one from
Ron's yep just before we move on and run
just before we hit your question just
want to take a look at the chat room
just because people are chatting about
the hdmi issue here scorpio 55 I wonder
if is what you're saying that it could
be the cable that's what mentioning that
serve jing was saying to well they man
when he's talking about an RCA cable is
that one of those splitters like a
headphone to like going out of the
headphone jack and using a supplementary
audio I think what scorpio 55 is saying
in the chat room is that if you have a
pre 1.3 compatible hdmi cable that
perhaps there is no audio being sent out
through that cable even though your
computer device is capable of that so
check that you have a current cable now
I bought cables before too and and here
at the studio of course we've got
cameras all over and you know this is
hdmi and so we need long hdmi cables and
so I've even experienced it we're at
certain lengths you lose signal and
because hdmi is digital
you get a long cable and if it's gonna
lose signal it doesn't fade like an
analog cable no does it just cuts off so
if your audio end of the cable is too
long or something up with that cable or
something wrong with it it won't crackle
like analog audio it won't be quiet like
analog audio it will just be off so it
works or it doesn't it either works read
that with the kvm extenders and we ask
the CRTs its young you know you could
sort of push it a little bit with the
digital screens you got to a certain
distance and it's just exactly nothing
guess 6392 reiterating the chatroom the
cheap hdmi cables can be problematic and
I think that can be it can boil down to
as simple as the cable itself akimoto
recommending only 10 feet as your
maximum limit for your cable or a meters
or for most of the world screw leaders
is probe that's close yeah okay just
saying cool thanks everybody in the chat
room for your feedback hopefully that
gives you a few things rev d Jenkins to
to be able to go through d jenkins
where'd you get that I just I pulled it
off your screen there you go scroll up
rev d genk
okay yeah yeah I got that but where'd
you get the Jenkins oh well I know the
guy he's in the chat room oh well I
didn't know that I thought maybe this
was a slant in avian name and the the D
in the jna Jameis and in the chatroom
says hey and I say hey Andy then ah man
I am work that's gonna dislocated right
arm it's gonna throw you right off I'm
going back to my question from Ron Smith
wow you're really making me read run
what's going on question i purchased msi
GT 630 DX dash 8 40 US 15.6 laptop and
I'm not reading that URL oh alright ok
so you spot a new laptop cold so the
specs are all right well that's what's
the question we don't need a little bit
of terrifying bluetooth oh but it's how
we can go through it though if you want
it's helpful for us to have it i'm not
saying that it's a that it's a wrong
defendant to us Ron that's great but I'm
just saying to Eric that he doesn't have
to read that it's 802 11 b / reading
I've done Wi-Fi Bluetooth intel Wi-Fi we
don't need all that just how but what
about the Super Bowl GD will burn will
refer back to it if we need it how's
that is one version of Linux more laptop
friendly than another laptop Linux I'm
just kidding i have used linux mint and
Ubuntu with the install and windows
option on a laptop i will be using the
laptop as a dual boot until I can figure
out how to connect during my company VPN
which is the cisco pix 515 II using
Linux any pointers on setting up linux
IP SEC hips perhaps over here in clients
to a cisco pix firewall absolutely
that's backtrack to the linux question
best linux ever for your laptop I can't
possibly give you a suggestion because
what is Linux it's there's so many
different flavors yeah it's like walking
into an ice cream shop there's a mint
flow
what yeah what is the best flavor of ice
cream that you have and they'll do if
they're on and still look at you and
they'll say well I really like this one
but to be honest everybody's preferences
different and that's what ask pravi
about music and he'll give you a really
strong opinion and tell you somebody
else's absolutely didn't mention that
did I mention that Becca bought me a
Blake Shelton CD for my birthday you did
not mention i we haven't had a chance to
discuss but been thoroughly enjoying it
so so you're gonna have to take that
back pretty soon Annie which the rule is
prettiest what are you talking about I
just thought I'd ask you another
question that was sort of in the same
category good guy wanted to know oh is
this along the lines of the ice cream
exactly I got ya it with the program
what is the best kind of Linux for your
laptop so it boils down to you your
needs your Linux knowledge level do you
want to go through the process of
installing it and going you know like
where are you at so if you are a Windows
user who's experimenting with dual
booting then i would say ubuntu is whoa
be wub I makes things easy now everybody
in the chat rooms probably go no don't
recommend movie it's easy for that case
because you can install it just like a
windows program into windows and it
gives you a linux experience to be able
to experiment not a true full-blown
linux as it is running on the windows
file system but it is going to allow you
to experience what linux is like on that
laptop now what is the best linux it's
really boils down to what's compatible
with your hardware these days it's
becoming less and less likely that
you're going to have incompatibility
pardon me linux is is very very good on
on most systems these days so i would
try Soren OS if you don't mind spending
a couple bucks there is a free version
as well but the ultimate version is
quite good I really like it have you
tried Zoran you have not know ok so
we're running Zorin OS here on the
broadcast system in it really I mean it
is Ubuntu but it's it's it's just
slightly refined I think
unlike me I'm like totally unlike you so
I've really enjoyed the experience of
working with Zoran because it takes me
back to my kind of favorite days of
ubuntu when ubuntu was very you know the
barrel project and the and there was it
was so customizable these days ubuntu is
not quite as customizable as it was in
the good old days Zorin OS kind of takes
it back to that and works very very well
and it's it's got good compatibility so
a little bit for noobs well I think
all-round Zorin is is going to be a good
distro for you it's easy to install and
it works really well and we're not
endorsed or sponsored by zoran or
anything like that but maybe we should
be maybe we should be you know that I
wouldn't opposed to to finding a linux
distro that would support the show but
fact is like I run it here I don't run
it on my work computer i run debian on
my work computer because i am a bit more
of a power user at work than i am here
here i'm kind of you know i want to
stick to ubuntu branches Zorin is so
close to a boon to that when somebody
asks a question about a boon to i can
show you on zoran and it and it works so
but the operating system itself is so
sleek its it works really really well
check out their website it's Zoran dash
OS com you can go through you know even
the screenshots you can see what it
looks like but one of the things that
makes this really really good of course
you're asking about your laptop and
compatibility is the main thing and it
works really well with your Wi-Fi and
all that stuff it's probably going to
work just fine but the other thing is
that it has layers that allow you to
make it look like Mac OS or make it look
like Windows that see that has a bit of
a windows 7 look to it on that
screenshot make it look like Windows XP
even if you're just because if you're
used to it if mom or dad are used to
working on windows XP why not give them
a linux distro that feels a little bit
like windows XP it's not it's not
mimicking the it's not trying to be
windows XP it just gives you a
comfortable environment to work in so
you notice on my Zorin OS
which is running here I've got it
looking like the old style now just
because that's how I prefer to operate
takes me back to old school Linux whoa
so but there are lots of good ones out
there people in chat room mentioning all
the different ones that they would
recommend cool so thank you very much
for the question did I cover what was
the other question Oh VPN do we have
time let's let's give it a go you've got
a it was a cisco VPN all right that's
right where you go way to squeeze in
another question he wants to sneaky okay
so click on your connection icons up
here VPN connections configure VPN go ad
and you'll see that out of the box
you've got point-to-point tunneling
protocol so that's not going to work for
your cisco VPN right so no good so close
that close that bring up synaptic
package manager what we're going to do
is we're going to install the modules
for your Cisco device ok so in here what
what we're going to want to do is we're
gonna go network manager with a dash and
VPN see is probably the one that we're
looking for so we can just highlight
that network manager attempts to keep an
active blah blah this is the package for
VPN see providing easy access cisco
concentrator base VPNs so i'm going to
click on that one and mark for
installation go with that open connect
is another one did you click on the oh
yeah yeah open connect is also at like
it's for your cisco router so i would
maybe recommend adding that as well i
mean it's not going to hurt to have more
than one and when i added it's going to
automatically add the gnome package and
hope and connecting everything i'm going
to apply that and we're going to go
there we go it'll be a fast installation
because it's just a couple of modules
for network manager so there it goes
getting it off the online repositories
and as soon as we're done this we're
gonna jump into the news eric we ask
another question while we're waiting for
that it's a really short one ah let's
well here I'm done it's really sure I'm
serious it's literally at the short wash
it doesn t bits here we go look it's
done so by now watch VPN connections
configure VPN add what do you notice is
I've got Cisco compatible VPN cisco
anyconnect now the what was the model of
the router I'd know so you've got the
two options what's up p i XR 5 15 e
which is in NE no that's an easy connect
isn't it so one of these should work for
you anyways and at least that gets you
going as far as getting connected to
your VPN no thanks Eric you ready to hit
the news real quick and I'm I just want
us is one real question what is the Ares
ok this person here this is eight miles
from TJ from San Diego for ya my
favorite Lubuntu releases 10.04 are the
repositories still available yeah yes
good we'll move on now ok TenPoint 04
was an LTS LTS long-term support so that
means it's good for three years which
means it's going to be good TenPoint 04
means it was brought out in april of
2010 so we years later means it's good
until april 2013 so until april of next
year you'll still be able to get updates
security patches repository stuff and
all that now server edition is five
years so it's good until 2015 sweet deal
there you go alright that's how the LTS
works that's why it's quite often good
to go with an LTS if you don't wanna
have to update every six months alright
Eric take it away here are the top
the category 5 TV news room Microsoft
has confirmed this Windows 8 operating
system OS will launch October enough it
was made a worldwide partner conference
by Windows CFO Tami Reller for those
looking to buy a PC or laptop running
windows 7 you'll be able to upgrade to
Windows 8 pro for just fifteen dollars
wow the crowd sourced funding website
Kickstarter is to launch in the UK this
autumn according to his Twitter feed the
funding platform for new businesses has
so far been limited to us registered
projects the tweet reads people in the
UK will be able to launch projects on
Kickstarter starting this autumn more
info soon since Kickstarter's 2009
launch it was funded it has funded more
than 20,000 projects with several
eclipsing the 1 million dollar pledge
mark I want them to come to Canada like
what's this about scientists at Carnegie
Mellon University have developed smart
headlight that can shine around rain the
idea is that the headlight will be able
to predict when rain falls and adjust
light beams accordingly the smart
headlight consists of a projector camera
and a beam splitter the camera takes
images of the raindrops a processor uses
predictive it a predictive algorithm to
work out where rain will fall and then
the projector switches off light rays
that would have normally hit the
raindrops wow that's got to take some
fast processing Wow the process from
capture to reaction takes about 13
milliseconds so yes right that is
hilarious oh yeah that's pretty fast
yeah the result is a slightly dimmer
headlight but one that blocks out glare
from falling rain and so I've driven in
snow storms where why it's almost
impossible to drive because the light is
hitting every little snowflake and you
have like yeah no sense of cigarette
muskoka d in the middle of July yeah
hey hey that sounds kind of
stereotypical non-canadian talk look I
grew up there all right I'm allowed to
be a little angry mind you I've been in
timmins in August and head snow yeah
last week we took a look at a brain
scanner that allowed people to type
using thought now we found that robot
avatars have got a step closer to being
a reality opening new doors for those
who are paralyzed or locked-in syndrome
all scientists have made a robot move on
a human's behalf by monitoring thoughts
about movement the man-machine link
joined a man with a brain scanner in
Israel and a robot wandering a
laboratory or laboratory in France the
person controlling a robot could also
see through the eyes of his electronic
circuit the researchers are now working
on ways to make the man-machine link
more sensitive to let people speak via
the robot really that is well you know
what I'm dinging i don't know what
you're thinking you know what i think it
didn't work oh I eat the brain scanner I
am thinking no boat will carry on that
is probably gonna be a there's gonna be
a military application all I'm thinking
that yeah that was my initial thought
but you know beer me you literally he
literally just have to thank just think
it you know as long as we're in the
special helmet no oh you get the full
stories a category 5 TV / newsroom and
the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Eric Kidd
hey thanks Eric tonight's show is
brought to you in part by guarding game
farms com certified organic broccoli
sprout and wheatgrass juice available on
their site garden gate farms com and the
official electrical company of category
5 technology TV is quarter e electrical
contracting inc you can find them at
quarter eee electric com this is
category five technology TV
I'm Robbie Ferguson American or co-host
our website is category 5 TV we're
talking earlier about you sending in
your postcards we'd love to receive your
postcards please send the Merrick how
can they send those in well they can
send them the category 5 technology TV
post office box to 9009 a berry Ontario
Canada l4n as in november seven w as in
as i pointed out last week whiskey seven
so L for n7w seven so keep those cards
and letters coming in yeah thanks Eric
I've got the coolest thing here is that
coolest thing well it's the coolest
thing for somebody who's into nostalgia
I mean I walk into a store and I see the
first Mario Brothers 8-bit for nintendo
nes and I think that's the coolest thing
oh I'm a little bit into the nostalgia
I'm a little bit into retro and so when
I see retro stuff I think that is the
coolest thing oh that's yeah I'm okay my
mum was an antique dealer you know so
okay well serial killer runs a lot of
revenue she'll appreciate what we're
about to do somebody who had seen myself
and Hillary talking about the magic jack
said wouldn't be neat if you had some
way to dial your iPhone and they're just
using the iphone as the example wit
red-handed a telephone with the dial to
a fourteen-year-old they wouldn't have a
clue what day when the addition in the
holes yeah yeah okay come on so here
check this out oh I didn't die remember
those days where you had to okay gotta
get all the way to the thing right there
we go okay so this is a part of
something called I retro phone oh and I
retro phone is actually a device it's an
attachment for iphone android and your
blackberries and we're going to test
their yeah we're going to test it on
your blackberry cool since you know
probably the the service is going to
disconnect at any time we need to do
this
it's still possible but it will work on
any device that has the support of like
two and a half millimeter jack or
three-and-a-half millimeter
three-and-a-half millimeter that's
famous three-and-a-half millimeter like
quarter inch stereo 8 8 inch kind of
deal did I gosh a thing sorry i meant
that there it is that's the one right so
if you've got that on your phone this is
it fits it's got the three rings because
it's got basically the microphone and
the headphone so now one of the things
when when I got the the magic jack I
immediately installed the magic jack app
because isn't it cool that I can
actually get my magic jack calls which
is my home phone number or the studio
line on my ipod touch over Wi-Fi I don't
have to have a data plan you can get it
on an iPhone or wherever unfortunately
so you're saying iphone and you're
calling this wherever whatever note that
one you got to pay for magic jack is
available on the iPhone and then you can
get it a cat five dot TV / magic app
okay ma GI CA PP I'd like to see them
bring out an android version as well
that would be cool that would be very
very cool for iOS users though on
iPhones ipod touches mine's just an ipod
touch so i've got Wi-Fi i can make calls
with this so it because i have a magic
jack it actually lets you use my magic
jack phone number so if i call people
it's actually calling from my magic jack
if people call my home phone it rings on
my ipod touch okay what matter where I
retrosound did you pick roll no idea if
it'll here's the thing is that ok I
thought that was super cool retro right
but no free phone calls from my ipod
touch over Wi-Fi from no matter where i
am as long as I've got a Wi-Fi
connection but try to figure out a way
to speak on an ipod touch right so i
ended up i started going like this and
i'm talking on the phone like this
and I can barely hear them because the
speaker and an ipod touch is extremely
quiet just didn't work then along comes
I retro phone cat five dot TV / retro
okay and this device is it's it seemed
valleys in more than one color comes in
many different colors to suit your color
desires hilary picked this one yeah it's
very much like an old retro phone like
it feels like yeah hold that up to your
ear it seriously feels like a real retro
phone oh there's buttons on there's a
lot to do with the volume control her
hangups right on there yeah so it takes
it into the next level right you didn't
have buttons i wanna i wanna i walked
somewhere too yeah hang it up okay you
don't know yeah it feels just like a it
feels a lot like a phone so i'm gonna
take that okay and we'll just pop that
right into the headphone jack of my ipod
touch and now let's call egg a modem
anybody I could you know I'll call the
studio line to your father your answers
that when i call no no unless i'm like
it eight seconds to show to him they're
wondering where I am all right there we
go okay so I've dialed my magicjack now
Eric's actually got this thing up to his
ear so I can walk around with this in my
pocket it could be an iphone remember i
have a couple of new messages be ok
because it's my phone number but so it
works pretty good yeah so now with my
ipod touch i've got free calling
anywhere in Canada the US so here I'll
give this to you let you plug that into
your blackberry because we're interested
to know if it actually is so you know
with this this is much easier to hold
with your shoulder than oh yeah than an
iphone or a blackberry oh this is
littles it does a bit of a okay well
let's see if we see if you get like out
here in much do I have Robbie's number
and your I don't have your 7050 let's
spare I know 25 45 is gonna cost me a
long-distance call let me call you here
punch it in okay
because I have free outgoing calls for
my photo any to the one here no it's not
long distance for magic jack users and
then call yep
great I'm not sure this actually got in
for her yeah well that's a little bit I
think it might work do you hear I'm not
hearing much of anything k oh so can you
hear me on the low hello no I'm not
going on here I can hear you just fine
what caught no I believe there's a
little oh there I'm getting something no
I'm just kidding myself is it it's not
working on the blackberry oh I am
pairing you though oh ok oh there you go
I'm locking rough edges on the on the
shoulder he's confused because I'm
sitting right next to him there is a
little bit of a latency single I'm on my
ipod on the same network broadcasting
from there so it's a lot of fun and you
know like if the viewers get bored they
can talk amongst themselves just like
we're doing they sure can patna hey know
why rare so now you've got the chance to
throw your phone like your actual
blackberry in your pocket or a carrying
case with everyone Walker feel in your
ear you might not actually walk around
with it on your ear but actually right
you know I can you know stick that my
pot in our driving it's
hands-free nas officer is hands-free oh
that's fantastic I still have another
hand for the beer in the surgeon may
mokona I gotta admit though it does work
really really well for me I love the
nostalgic feel of it sadly I just phoned
my son when I turned in ink there you go
he's gonna call bags at what what is
what this accessory the I retro phone
which you can get at cat five dot TV /
retro it's only twenty-nine ninety-nine
so Wow and it works great it works with
all the devices that that have that kind
of interface so you can't go around it
fantastic i love it yeah i think it's
cool it is as a gamoto says it is a step
up from the shoe phone yeah you remember
get smart that was that though now that
was a show that was a shot
oh my yeah I'm going back to the chat
room so we keep in mind we're giving
away a magic jack the the plug device
the magic jack plus next week so the
17th Tuesday night make sure you tuned
in make sure you call me up to 5 45 cat5
TV this week tell me why you think that
you would love to have a magic jack plus
that is the device that lets me do what
you saw me doing from an ipod touch
let's say you have not even a phone this
is not even a phone that's not even if
all this is over Wi-Fi so now you can
you can install the app if you've got an
iPhone or whatever without having a
magic jack but then you don't get your
own phone number no you don't did you
say there is there an Android there is
no I wish there was i'd love to see that
okay i'm sure it's coming but the
disabled the advantage to having a magic
jack plus and then installing the app is
that i get the same phone number on my
on my device as i have on my home phone
if you just get the app you get some
random number it could be somewhere
halfway around the you know it could be
in the states from your in canada so
when you get the device you actually
choose ok i live in barrie ontario so i
chose a Barrie Ontario phone number so
now this is also associated with that
same number all of my devices are so you
could give your kids you know on their
ipod access to magic jack and they could
be answering the home phone on the on
the magicjack through there on but we're
not quite at the point where i can have
my number my home number ported over to
the magic no unfortunately not not here
in canada in the states yes here in
canada it's they say it's here it's not
really none of the voice over IP style
services are able to do that or just yet
yeah that's an unfortunate thing but but
then again the cost savings at two
dollars and fifty cents a month when it
breaks down with unlimited free long
distance I think I didn't mind changing
my phone number I'll tell you that
yeah he never has phone anyway at least
when I call so matter I always do we're
in move mode I've been packing up and to
be honest my phone was unplugged for a
couple days there because we would
totally ripping apart the place we've
got a we have to move a studio while we
broadcast so we have a broadcast on
Tuesday you can tell there's gonna be a
show there might be hiccups there will
be the show will be shown to do a road
show we're gonna be in the u haul it's
gonna be tough it's gonna be tough the
transition means doing a show on the
Tuesday moving all the equipment on the
Saturday building a new studio before
Tuesday and being live on the air that
following tuesday so literally we have
like three or four days to build a
studio we're just going to be exciting
so what does moved it we are going to be
in our new studio on the twenty first of
august i believe is the date well it's
on the calendar let's see here i'll
double check though yes tuesday the
twenty first of august we will be in our
new studio in our interim studio because
it's a two-step process Fellaini good
yeah so join us for all the excitement
as i said we do appreciate your
donations which are all unless you
designate them otherwise if you want
them to go to air kid for example for
supporting his musical career that's
cool oh that's right we have a couple of
tools available very sure do yeah i'll
send you that his music we should do
some more music we should when I enjoy
that but in the meantime any donations
that are designated wherever it's needed
are going to go directly toward the
mobile studio which we're trying to put
together as well as our month to month
billing you know the bills that we have
to pay to keep the show on the air so
thank you everybody for your support
thanks for watching tonight Eric good to
see you hey at this age is good to be
seen if y'all gadot was pointing out
that eric is so old that walking around
with the phone on his shoulder is a
normal pose for him young folks don't
actually understand that post what is
that thing right here that's a bit harsh
but accurate
yeah all right gang take care have a
great week i'll see you next Tuesday
gonna be joined by Hillary rumble and
we're gonna be celebrating both of our
birthdays let's the rumble begin sorry
yeah get ready to rumble I handy then
I'll see you in a couple of weeks yeah
well the Monday 31st Eric's back on the
air yeah I expect me to talk that night
because we're at a cottage and you did
promise beer sorry about that okay take
care of buddy see you
