welcome to category five technology TV
episode 561 if you had to think about it
because last week was weird that's right
if we had no power say almost at 560
without who knew and yeah but welcome to
the show Jeff you've got a cool device
you're gonna be showing off tonight I do
yes Oh member just messed me up
yeah I know it's it's great device can't
wait to show you it's gonna be good and
also we're gonna be here we're gonna be
hearing but another device is gonna help
with hearing I love to bees and they've
brought out a new hearing apparatus that
doubles not just as bluetooth stereo
headphones but an amazing hearing
apparatus oh yeah you've gotta see this
stick around this is category five
technology TV
[Music]
our live recording is a trusted only the
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash ia IB well hello and
welcome to the show I'm Robby
I'm Jeff I'm Sasha and you're you how
you been look that's like yeah I see rev
DJ there's the whole show we're just
yeah it's nice to have you here so
thankful to have you here now we have
had quite a couple of weeks last week
Asha last week was basically the closest
we've ever come to not having a show
which we technically didn't have a show
they'd have a full complete proper show
it wasn't our doing we were here we were
here Jeff didn't come in because Jeff
knew that there was a problem and he's
on his phone going ok is the power back
yet do I need to make the trip and
finally we said nah don't don't even
come it's there's no power there was no
electricity for the entire afternoon
into the like middle of the night while
for half of our city for no apparent
reason like I never even heard what
happens well that's the funny thing I
mean if you watch the one ten minute
video from last week between my clip and
like that's about Dedmon we had to do
some yeah but if you look at the clip I
mean I'm in my backyard and there's no
power lovely this crazy storm oh yeah
and I show the sky and it's blue sky ash
and I we're in
the because it was pitch black in here
we have our windows all boarded up but
so we went out into the foyer and it was
like blindingly bright Sun at one point
and I edited it out but I actually
turned the camera around to show
everybody what it looked like outside
and the camera was like white with yeah
it was a beautiful day so so that's what
we were up against last week and you
know so we've been here for 561 weeks
yeah faithfully every single week and
last week was the first time in all that
time where we couldn't actually provide
a show just because there was no
electricity uh uh our UPS's became
depleted like we've got it right really
big honking ups but we've got a lot of
equipment here and and viewers like
Michael are suggesting hey why don't you
get like camping power and stuff like
that so that you can power a laptop and
a camera and do a show that way but the
fact is like there's a lot of equipment
here to do the show right and yeah we're
video sources are 4k and what that means
is that you have to have a very powerful
computer to process it and not to
mention you've also got to have a 4k
input which I don't know of any laptop
that has that maybe a USB through device
yeah it's probably be like three or four
thousand dollars for one yeah so it's
it's not possible so but that's the
first time we've not had power so I'm
not overly concerned but the one thing
that I am concerned with because it
happens too often is our internet yes
Internet during a live show on a regular
week where Internet is doing well
viewers who are watching live know that
sometimes the show will drop once twice
sometimes on a really rough night three
times right and then nights like this
when we're recording where the internet
is completely down non-existent
non-existent so you notice we have no
laptops in front of us because there's
no purpose in that Sasha does have her
phone and so she's communicating with
the chatroom live that are here to watch
live but unfortunately not gonna see
this until it's available on demand you
know what you should Sasha just messing
with them in the chat room be like oh my
gosh you missed the biggest announcement
ever an axis
he's gonna do this and you guys are
gonna see this order so it's like time
travel through user so I finally now why
is this is because we're using cellular
internet here at the studio yeah we have
to do that we have to use some form of
wireless because up until just a few few
months ago there were no other options
that's right we're in an industrial area
of Barrie Ontario and unfortunately none
of the ISPs have brought their cabling
up our way so we're just kind of in a
pocket where there's no high-speed
Internet so but we're right in town so
weird it's weird I last I checked it's
1993 so you think that we would be able
to get ten over ten or something like
right so that they did bring in fiber
but it's like because it's brand-new
they're trying to offset their costs
installation is very expensive you've
got to go on a three-year contract and
it's very expensive per month not an
option for us as a bunch of volunteers
doing a show that we offer you for free
right so I got a different ISP on the
line and I said like what can you guys
do to help us it's still a wireless
solution because that's really all that
we can do here rather than the new fiber
that's ridiculously expensive there
there happens to be an isp here in town
who has a tower up the road from us oh
they have bought the fiber connection no
way they have a fiber connection at
their Tower they're willing to put an
antenna on their tower and beam a link
to our roof oh my goodness and they'll
do that they'll install it for us for
250 dollars Canadian and they will give
us unlimited bandwidth and they'll do it
for they're working out the numbers but
they'll do it for between one and two
hundred dollars a month that's way less
than we're paying right now and it's
gonna be faster more reliable it's still
wireless so I know that it's it's still
susceptible technically to dropouts here
and there and everything but it's not
LTE it's not cellular it's line-of-sight
Wow like not air fiber but it's it's one
of those kinds of things yeah it's a
line-of-sight point-to-point connection
so with that it
could be a much better solution for us
excellent to them hopefully we won't
have this happen so I want to go forward
with that
what we need to do as a community I
mentioned that we're volunteers I
mentioned that we do this and we do it
for free if you're watching this on
cable TV you're used to that you're used
to turning on your cable TV and there
are shows and you're just channel
flipping and not a lot of them ask for
money and it's it's freely available
when you tune to that channel right but
what we do is a little different because
we are a volunteer group that broadcast
pay the bills based on viewer
contributions and it's not like a public
broadcasting channel or anything like
that but what we do we do for free and
we give it away for free so we need to
have some form of revenue in order to
offset those costs so that's where
patreon comes in we've got things like
the links on our website that help us
when you shop through Amazon or
everything but I'd really love to see
more of our viewers viewers like you
come together and say like I really love
what category-five is doing what's new
every day is doing on category 5 all the
other things that we're doing and that
we're providing family-friendly clean
content you never have to worry about it
hopefully showing you some great fun
stuff as well and having fun together
can we get some more folks to take that
on and say I want to be a patron it only
costs like you can do it for a dollar a
month that's it so you know dollar a
month what can that do but think about
if so we get 12,000 views a week right
if you imagine if have like like that's
that's far out there but what if half of
those people paid a dollar a month just
think about that for a second it would
be super helpful I mean we'd be able to
really provide like over-the-top yeah I
mean I can you know that's true if we
had that kind of support coming from the
community yeah we would have our bills
paid on the 1st of the month for the
following month we'd have better
internet we'd be able to look at things
like the fiber internet and things like
that but we'd be able to do more and do
better and you know any complaints that
I ever really get or like why don't you
guys use wireless mics and as well
that's another $500 that's right
we don't need to go that route so maybe
you would like to take us on it can be a
dollar a month some people are giving
$20 a month and saying you know I really
want to back this thing up and that's
fantastic because that gives us a better
you know bigger boost per person but if
you want to be just one of those people
that says hey I want to be one of those
half of the viewership that wants to
give a dollar a month and support what
these guys do we would greatly
appreciate that and I would love to come
back to you in two weeks and say we did
it yeah you know wouldn't that be
amazing so please help us get there go
to cap five dot TV slash patreon and the
link is below all right so enough bacon
for your money
- folks I hate it - but all the topic of
free stuff mm-hmm
we have been giving away copies of debt
effects yes VR we're free you don't have
to buy it right but you got to do
something for us yeah handstand that's
it no do they really have to do they
have to email contest at category 5 TV
that's all you have to do brother well
you have to in that email tell us who
you are and we'd like to know where
you're watching from how you're watching
let us know you we have a winner
are you ready well here we go okay are
you ready I'm ready
okay wills ballot that is cast all right
I am an 82 year old retired programmer
no way how's your heart
dead affect to is a frightening game yes
maybe we should just hold off right
there no no okay you think you handle it
yes okay William I got my first
programming job in the 1960s Wow how
things have changed since then after a
stint at being a high school physics and
math teacher cool I now live in
Huntsville Alabama where I work for a
large US government contractor and after
being retired for 20 years I've started
to relearn my electronics and coding
skills with small
single board computers SBC's arduino
type microcontrollers right some of the
things that we're showing here on
category 5e raspberry pi's pine 64 the
xu4 at remote roy yeah all that kind of
stuff we love it that's a great way to
relearn man I love it I'm in the process
of converting my Raspberry Pi to network
attached storage device over to open
media vault on a rock 64 SBC whoa so
we're going from arm 64 to the rock 64
that can be a little bit of work for
sure cool stuff he says the time
consuming effort of this conversion is
actually taking my 18 terabytes of disk
drive space from NTFS to ext4 and he
says I'm also a Linux noob okay you're
reading all this I'm going that all
sounds great yeah you're you know 20 to
40 he's 82 that's amazing I'm proud of
you man I'm so proud like my in-laws
contact me to figure out how to do the
remote control for the TV yeah right and
there's nothing wrong with that yeah
there's absolutely nothing wrong but
they are not 82 sure so well done
William and he got a golfclap yes what
kind of TV do you have that concerns you
about burning in an image on the screen
the only screens this is William
speaking yes the only screens that have
the problem that I know of are the old
CRTs you know the deep one yeah
plasmas those are the like the big hunk
and heavy ones with the bit of depth to
them or possibly ol Ed's okay I haven't
heard of the old LED burning the screen
screen do I have you have an LCD TV so
it's fine yeah I think so I mean there
it's a whole different technology okay
anything's gonna happen you're gonna
burn out pixels I would think yeah but
that'd take a lot of time well LCD and
LED don't have that image burn to be led
yeah I have a plasma at home I've had it
cheaper
12 years maybe I've never had an issue
with burning an image in the screen on
our plasma and and sometimes we've had a
screen paused for okay an hour and a
half two hours right what happens is we
turn the TV off let it all right a
little bit
plasma things yeah it disappears and
that's it I've never had an inadvertent
so I mean you'd have to be sitting for a
long time to burn that image because we
use our TV like it's that computer that
we have that you know all about you're
thinking of the TV as a computer screen
so you think oh I need a screen saver
yeah I hear you okay how many remember
having Leisure Suit Larry embedded in
the CRT TV computers anybody anybody I
don't think I had CGA graphics we're
going back yeah I don't think I ever had
Leisure Suit Larry mmm-hmm oh you were a
good boy yeah my first like big game was
Warcraft 3 okay like before that I'm not
quite the same genre Jeff no not quite
okay will who now calls himself Bill at
the end of the email says I enjoy the
category five videos from Bill
Birmingham Burlingham sorry in
Huntsville Alabama
thank you Bill joy your copy of data
fact to VR we're gonna email you that as
soon as our internet comes online and be
prepared now that I know you know lots
of things I shall contact you with all
of my questions
okay it give Robby a bit of a repeat
reprieve okay
okay so we've covered all of like the
housekeeping stuff we've got some
reviews to take a look at but we gotta
take a break
so we'll be right back
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts welcome back to category 5
technology TV Jeff you have DJ for so
many years we've been through this
before
how's your hearing not so good not as
great not as great as it could be know
we live in an amazing time when you know
if hearing aids are quite expensive yes
yeah but we're starting to see companies
like JB's who are coming out with
amazing products we've looked at amp
sound and some of their other products
where they take like the bluetooth
earbud concept and turn them into a
hearing apparatus that also assists with
hearing impairment yeah typically
they're just amplifiers yeah it's not
like they're you know meant for like
tinnitus or anything sure but but still
they work quite effectively did they
require a doctor's visit you do those
ones require a doctor's visit and
possibly thousands of dollars yes the
the hearing aids that I require item
costed out and I'd be it just under five
grand Wow
yeah and you've got to go for an annual
maintenance and like go back to the oral
specialists and everything else
well japaese is like we love this
company they do a fantastic product line
but they're taking it further okay
they've said okay we've had success with
amp sound we've shown that there is a
market for a non hearing aid hearing
apparatus that assists with not deaf
people but people who are having
we'll be able to so let's just make it
better let's take that and let's improve
upon it the concept and Joby's is always
good at this okay so tonight we're
looking at be hearing and be hearing is
a three-in-one device so this one is
exciting not only is it going to assist
with hearing like it's going to amplify
boost your hearing as you say it's an
amplifier so it makes things louder if
you will but it also includes a remote
transmitter we're gonna look at that
but imagine imagine a case where I'm on
a date with my wife and I'm hard of
hearing I can put a remote transmitter
on her lapel and I can hear her
perfectly from across the table so
that's just one example we're gonna look
at that okay isn't that awesome
okay that is like something you don't
see in hearing aid that's right
definitely something it's also Bluetooth
stereo headphones for listening to music
watching TV that kind of stuff and it
can make and take calls through your
smart phone it's all there - it's hard -
yeah so three and one device let's get a
look at this thing okay so first of all
let's just jump right into this box I
wanted to have this one kinda on display
we know japaese is great with their
cases amazing okay let's let's pop right
in to this I'm gonna get a bit of a
close-up shot alright okay so this is
the case for the be hearing let's get in
this is your gratuitous unboxing video
of the new device from Joby's okay so
we've got a manual we've got some
various sized your attachments this is
the B hearing device itself which we're
gonna look at but you notice there's a
fair bit of accessories here Jeff which
we don't often see with these kinds of
devices so here we've got well let's get
first into here we go
they have yeah my coffee you're afraid
that I am
okay Joby's always includes some form of
portable charging unit Jeff you see this
yeah so this fits in my pocket and the
battery just snaps right in here with a
magnet just goes right in and anytime I
need to charge my my hearing apparatus
the be hearing I just simply push the
button oh my god and it starts charging
so when I want to charge the charger I
just simply plug it into USB it can be
charging while I'm using the device and
then I carry that with me okay
perfect for traveling or whatever else
then we've got here link that's what I
wanted to show you here this is cool
this is I think one of the things Jeff
this takes it to the next level okay
Sasha check this out this is it huh so
you just I would clip it here and that's
not microphone we've got a lapel
microphone okay ha now let's got an
auxilary auxilary input and for like
headphones I'm gonna just kinda I'm just
gonna point it at him and see if he can
if he can understand what what all this
stuff means receive and transmit receive
and transmit why would we want to do
that why would we want to have a lapel
clip that can receive or transmit okay
we know it's got auxilary input yeah we
know it's got a built-in microphone
right so I'm sitting across the table
from my date and we're having a
conversation she's got this on here I've
got the B hearing on right I can hear
her through the microphone but yeah are
you yeah she can yeah it also includes
Jeff an extra set of year but so away so
if we are both hard-of-hearing or if
you're both on a motorcycle right or you
know what other scenarios can you think
of I was just at a concert on the
weekend so to have that and then the B
there you're going to be able to talk to
each other I don't really need to get
into this part of the the system itself
too much you can understand that I can
plug that in there and set this to
receive mode right now it becomes
two-way communication it
wean me and the person who's actually
wearing be hearing okay so what it's in
receive mode it still is in transmit
mode also yeah we're able to okay send a
receive perfect because it's using the
built-in microphone to send
okay it's using the auxilary to receive
right now I'm going to church on Sunday
yeah where I'm watching a movie at home
on the weekend it's got an auxilary
input so now I can plug this into my TV
I can plug this into the sound board and
now my be hearing device is able to
receive the transmission from the hear
link it's become something that is
connectable yeah they say it's got about
a 10 meter range I actually set this up
in here and I walked outside I left the
studio and I went out into the parking
lot before I started losing it is more
than 10 meters it's more than 10 years
like concrete walls yeah so that is
awesome now let's get a look at B
hearing so this is the device itself
it's different than anything you've seen
as far as hearing aids go it's not a
hearing aid this is so much more I can
take the battery and just simply pop
that in there yep there you go it's all
magnets okay so that just goes around
your neck yeah nothing clips this is
gonna go around my neck anything oh
that's kind of weird that's different
right but you know I'm gonna just kind
of tuck that in a little bit right and
then yeah so this has got the receiver
it's got bluetooth it's got the
microphone it's got connectivity all
that stuff and then I've just got
earbuds right and they just look like
any other earbuds like I'm just
listening to music or whatever else
there you go right it's also I just look
like earbuds and they're comfortable
they're good they're metal no I know
that like my dad was hard of hearing and
he was embarrassed about the idea of
wearing right so he went his in tight
the entirety of his life he needed
hearing aid not the entirety of his life
but his I don't like he needed hearing
aids he would not wear them right he
would have worn those because they don't
look like hearing aids like headphones
yeah they look like headphones so that
that bridge
is that gap with people asking very good
I'm gonna get in here again I want to
show you how this works so this is gonna
go around my neck and we've got a couple
of different things here first of all
we've got bluetooth pairing and we've
got a fast forward and rewind button for
our device but also this doubles as
volume up and volume down then here's
something that keeps us from having to
go to the doctor in order to get our
hearing aids adjusted thing is is that I
may have I may be hard of hearing in my
left ear but not in my right Sasha right
so I don't want the amplification
happening in my right ear but I want it
to happen in the left ear quite a bit
more so
Chubby's has thought of that and they've
included left and right volume knobs as
well so you set the main volume here and
then you can adjust left and right and I
know it's hard to see they're just very
very tiny little dials here but you can
manually adjust like that it's gonna do
up to a hundred and twenty-five decibel
gains so Wow you've got a pretty
significant gain on the on the audio so
yeah the room noise ambient noise so I
put this on like this with nothing else
attached I'm not I'm not gonna worry
about any other part of the device and
just wear it as earbuds right so it's
just like a phone hearing like Bluetooth
headset right it has the inline
microphone and the inline microphone
actually doubles as the ambient room
microphone for when I switch it to
hearing mode like so the amplification
mode one time so if I don't want the
Bluetooth mode I can switch on the
hearing mode right over here yep so we
just power is over here and hearing is
over here I hear power on and then
amplification and it's incredible Wow
well yeah just all of a sudden yeah boom
is rocked at doing the amplification
yeah yeah that's cool that's almost
trippy because I'm in the room with you
so that's cool I don't have to do
anything else
to make that work okay incredible now I
can sync that to my phone yep I can also
pair it to this that's what I meant by
sync like a parrot I can pair it to my
phone I can pair it to this as well the
interlink and so if
having that conversation across the
table you and me because it's a very
romantic date right and somebody rings
my cell phone it will automatically
switch over to the smartphone mode allow
me to take bottom I'll automatically
they're paired and connected to both
devices at the same time okay and then
I'll take the call and then once I'm
done
they will switch right back over to the
microphone or the aux input okay so it's
kind of a crash course on B hearing I
wanted to cut to you I wanted to tell
you that this thing exists because it's
it's really quite exceptional the
quality is is very good I mean it's
you've heard hearing aids I'm sure it's
it's got a like that amplification it's
got that kind of it's not like a digital
sound it's I wish I could let you hear
it but it kind of it brings up the audio
it brings up the travel you don't get
any feedback from them like you do with
traditional hearing aids right but it
just enhances the entire room work in a
situation and in a school or a teaching
auditorium for any student this on the
teacher exactly and give this to your
student who has trouble hearing exactly
or who's at the back of the room yeah
you know if you've got a student who's
having trouble sure why not okay what
else do we got to cover with this that's
really yeah it just works really great I
love it it's sure if it comes in a nice
case yeah you kind of like you've
covered it all no just like that is
there is there an app no need it's
Bluetooth mm-hmm okay just a Bluetooth
headset so okay so I can simple enough
so when I when I mentioned that there's
a switch here for the amplification mode
so this is an amplification mode switch
here so if I turn that off now I'm just
in Bluetooth mode so they operate just
as if they're just a standard jobbies
bluetooth stereo headset so listening to
music watching TV and I mentioned
watching TV so plug this into your TV
it's got a headphone let headphone jack
style input and Jovi's is in fact
included the cable so that you can plug
it into the headphone jack of your TV
and then sit back wirelessly and be able
to hear it much better
for older TVs they've even included an
RCA adapter oh yeah so they've thought
of it also this is going to work on your
TV what else can you I mean yeah I think
it kind of speaks for itself right so
these for itself and we'll be able to
hear it hearing aids are so expensive
and as Sasha mentioned they're not
there's like a stigma with them and
especially with especially I think with
young people but I sure I don't think
only with young people but certainly I
mean think of if your kids have trouble
hearing mm-hm or if you have trouble
hearing oh absolutely
these are going to work really really
well for you I am so happy with TVs I
love jubie's oh oh end somebody will ask
this so so you see these hanging down
here yeah I can adjust where it hangs
down from okay so I can actually kind of
put this behind my head by just oh okay
adjusting that see that right so then
now it's gonna hang right over by my ear
right do you know what the life is
battery life battery life for the
hearing aid portion is about seven hours
you're gonna get close to that with
music or right just standard like phone
calls and things like that
okay but the the hearing apparatus
itself the enhancement is seven hours
but again you can't you carry the
charger with you yeah it also has USB
connectivity so if your charger is dead
you can plug this device directly into
USB oh and it's got a USB cable again
they thought of it also it's directly
connected and you can charge it up in a
couple of hours
super it's called be hearing from Jabez
it's brand new just head on over to cat
five dot TV slash be hearing love it
you've got a cool device that we're
gonna be looking at as well yes
we've got to take a really quick break
okay a couple weeks ago we were looking
at a tablet type II paper device that we
could write on one of the questions that
we constantly get now what if I want to
save from it yeah we've got the answer
for it for you in just a couple moments
stick around
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV a
couple weeks back Sasha you meet Jeff we
were looking at ePaper yes if you're
interested in it go to cap 5 dot TV
slash ePaper
the one that we looked at was suited to
our needs
we just want to do away with paper on
our desk for those quick one-off notes
that we just need to take and then wipe
right exactly
just just the stuff that I literally
would just write and shred right exactly
yes yeah and that's me I've done away
with the paper on my desk at work yeah
people like Jeff however and some Apple
in the chat room you have we had this
discussion I really need to be able to
save my notes that's right because I go
through a ton of paper I have I mean a
whole lot of different clients that I
deal with I've got books for each one of
notes and all that kind of stuff I mean
I I couldn't tell you many how many
thousands and thousands and thousands of
pieces of paper I go through you know on
a yearly basis I wanted something that
allowed me to safe now I do know with
the the type of devices that we are
looking at a couple week weeks ago you
can take a picture on your phone you
jerk if you needed to yeah Evernote or
something and it can convert it to a PDF
but I'm like I don't want to go through
that work because that is a whole just
play it's not worth it so I wanted
something that was quick and easy
so I did some research and I ran across
this the boogie board do a boogie board
now
boogie boards have the ePaper devices
and different sizes and whatnot like
we're talking about where you just hit
the button in erases but they have a
boogie board sink which is this device
okay so nine point seven inch and it has
bluetooth connectivity oh as well I give
you a USB cable to connect to my
computer so I can upload the files
either through bluetooth or I can do it
through the the sync cable okay so it's
a really simple device all in all three
buttons you have the power button and
then you have save in a race that's it
it's there's a there's a built-in hard
drive in this so that as you you know
finish a piece of paper you hit save
then it'll flash a couple times you know
it's safe to hit a race and then you
keep going Oh fantastic the meeting I
was in today at eleven pages of notes
I'm just writing away fill the page hit
save off you go and then I'm real erase
it and then just keep going now with
Bluetooth connectivity can you then say
send it to the other people in the
meeting right then and there III could
so because I would was connected to my
device it uploads to my phone
automatically not at that point I could
be like hold on let me send that to you
and then I can email to them if I want
or if their device connects to it they
would have access to it as well isn't
that cool yeah so I'll just kind of show
you how yeah okay it's let's get right
in there yeah really easy so it just
like the device that you showed last
time it's a simple screen so hi world
I'm doing this upside down there's no
judgement judgement free chime judging
that not bad for not being able to see
the screen looking at a monitor in
Reverse let's hi world so if I don't
like that I'm like I made a mistake I
just hit the erase button and it's gone
yeah that's it okay just like the ones
that we have that's right so bye so this
is the one I want to save
oh for sure so you'll see our indicator
so this is the green flashing light that
will tell you that it's saving and then
there's my flashing blue which means
it's connected to my phone so
I want to show you if you can throw
we're gonna throw my phone up on the
screen okay sure show this to you so
there you're gonna need to move over
there now oh there we go so that is the
the the app there you can download it's
called sink from boogie board okay so
I'm going to open it up now if I hit the
Save button and I'm going to show you on
the so I'm hitting save now see how the
green lights flashing then the blue
starts flashing you're gonna see under
new pages on my phone one page it just
shown way there it is that is too cool
Jeff Wow simple easy like instantaneous
and then from there I have the ability
to save it as an image a PDF a video why
I want to save another video I don't
know I haven't bothered figuring that
one out one of the other things is I can
also do live notes like I am typing no
way be bored I could do a live right
there on the screen okay I'm in love and
with connecting this to my computer as
well if I'm say doing a presentation at
work and I've got my computer up on the
screen yeah I can have the cable
connected from the boogie board into the
laptop and then I'm going okay and so
then you want to go here yeah you want
to presentation devices right over here
and then make a shot there into the end
zone right and that's it and then what
I'm done I hit a trace and it's gone
sweet like it's absolutely beautiful
well I love this device I love it
there's there's nothing bad I can say
about it and then from there if I want I
can like I could delete that I can move
it to a different folder I could rename
it to something so I'm just gonna delete
it I don't need it it's gone it's off my
device it is beautiful so yeah and if
you have multiple pages so like here's
my notes from today you can see when it
puts it all on yeah it's all organized
into one device and so that's those are
my notes so there's 10 different pages I
can open up each one see them zoom in
it's all PDF and then I email it to
myself and poof like I'm I don't use a
phone so yeah
Jeff where can we
I can't switch oh there we go I'm trying
to switch the camera and it wouldn't
work okay so you can get a cat5 TV slash
boogie
oh oh gee ie not quite not bougie but
it's an absolutely I love it I think
stunning device that is like fantastic
there's not a next level of writer right
there I'm happy with my paper because
make it really works very very well
right I can see that I would also be
happy with a boogie board so like it
showed up in the mail yesterday
yeah office yeah I was like oh it's so
exciting so today I got to use it for
the first time in the meeting and
everybody's going what are you doing
like oh type of mole all I'm just
writing out all my notes and like yeah
but I had it what do you do with it I'm
like it's all right here on my phone not
serious so there's an entire row of
people from the business I'm dealing
with in the other side
and they're all going oh that's cool I'm
gonna go back up to my office and I'm
like hey you know how you have like in
our negotiations we can have stacks of
papers notes and I'm like guys check
this out and so feel them alike how much
is that are you kidding me yeah I'm
getting that
now send them over to cap five dot TV
slash boogie yeah and a portion of the
sale goes to supporting category 5 TV
how do you like that sweet that's your
option if you want the e paper that does
the connectivity and saves it I love
thanks for going on out and finding that
no problem pleasure thanks Jeff
all right Sasha your chance to take over
the show if my cameras wid my cameras
which is working oh nice how do you like
that it may or may not last it depends
on the positioning of the moon or Frank
yeah I got to be a little closer to the
server there we go
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsrooms the inventor of
Fister cated compression technique
fights back as Google tries to patent
his work urban robots have been rolled
out in both Dubai and China a couple who
admitted to stealing more than 1.2
million dollars worth of goods from
Amazon has been sentenced to nearly 6
years in jail and a software bug meant
millions of Facebook users may have
unknowingly posted private information
to the public stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
Jeff Weston gentlemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what does where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act ok I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap 5
dot TV / dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost this is the category 5 TV news
room covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias i'm
satiric manon here at the top stories
were following this week the inventor of
a sophisticated compression technique is
fighting back as Google tries to patent
his open-source work when Jarek Duda
invented an important new compression
technique called asymmetric numeral
systems or AMS a few years ago he wanted
to make sure it would be available for
anyone to use so instead of seeking
patents on the technique he dedicated it
to the public domain since 2014 Facebook
Apple and Google have all created safe
for software based on dudas breakthrough
but now Google is seeking a patent that
would give it broad rights over the use
of ans for video compression and Duda a
computer scientists in Poland isn't
happy about it
google denies that it's trying to patent
do his work a Google spokesperson says
that Duda came up with a theoretical
concept that isn't directly patentable
while Google's lawyers are seeking to
patent a specific application of that
theory that reflects it additional work
by Google's engineers but Duda says that
he suggested the exact technique Google
is trying to patent in a 2014 email
exchange with Google engineers a view
largely endorsed by a preliminary ruling
in February by European Patent
authorities the European case isn't over
though and Google is also seeking a
patent in the United States so we are
the legal guy like how do you feel about
this well I mean I don't deal in patent
law but in I mean just on the surface of
this this guy's got a great case the
fact that he the idea with Google that
he put out software and then Google is
using it with some of their enhancements
and they're trying to patent the whole
thing imagine like you know I mean so
you've done NEMS
yeah I was just thinking that it would
be like somebody going oh I like the
idea of nums but I want to do nems with
some flair to it and them's already has
Flair jab no I understand that you know
and then they patent it and you're like
really thing yeah right I don't know how
the UK rules work like the European
rules as far as patents go but on the as
far as court of public opinion I had
100% side with this guy right he needs
to win this because of the the Microsoft
buying BitTorrent totally brings that to
mind so he needs to win that that so
that people who have contributed to
github can also fight if the Microsoft
situation tries to patent Microsoft
aggregating that I did make you know I
mean this would be a this is a different
scenario but it's it's not unlike the
details of this
right it's and so I I hope that I hope
he wins and I hope that actually at the
end of the day I would love to see a
settlement where Google is able to use
the software or the the compression
technology he gets credit and he gets
royalties off every time it's used I
like the way that way right Google could
do with what they want but he gets a
kick of the money that will continue to
provide income for him for now on the
rest of his life that to me would be a
win-win scenario sure gets what they
want and it supports it supports the
whole premise of open-source look here
we're paying into open source so and you
bit with NIMS you deal with open source
imagine if you went up in a legal case
up against Google I'd be done their
lawyers would bury you financially in
preliminary objections and all this kind
stuff a no doubt that's what Google is
probably gonna do here yeah so I hope he
settles get some royalties out of it
his name on it and then off he goes that
would be best case scenario alright
thank you both Dubai and China have
rolled out urban robots it's a
terrifying vision of the future a robot
police officer with dark eyes and no
discernible mouth that can identify
criminals and collect evidence the
Robocop complete with a police hat that
to give it that eerie uncanny valley
feel was shown off into by last June but
since then what has it done pal robot
robotics the company behind the robot
shed some light on its duties which
makes the robot seem more like a tourist
guide than a police officer this robot
joined the Dubai Police to help citizens
in an innovative and engaging way and it
is located now in tourist attractions
and shopping malls while describing the
robot as a means of citizens to contact
police the company points out its
current capabilities the robot can
provide useful information in multiple
languages thanks to its software and can
also guide people to requested points of
interest the robot is a part of a wider
move to make the region's police
services services smarter which will
include many more computer-controlled
unstaffed police stations the Dubai
government wants
police to make up 25% of the force by
2030 I don't like this you don't like it
I don't like this you know what guiding
me here's what I have to say about this
I also don't like it oh yeah I know when
have you ever agreed on anything just
now that has to do with robot and here's
why
now the reasoning will be completely
different right I am Pro robot like all
the way but when do you need the police
you need the police in times of
emergency and in times of emergency what
if there's a power outage or what if
there's a some sort of crash
technologically and if 25% of the police
force or perhaps more by then is a fried
robot or a bugged robot where do people
go for help they they don't have a
person to help them one robots can see
in the dark so power outages don't
affect them okay human police officers
cannot see in the dark that's true too
robots are omnipresent police officers
are not they can put robots everywhere
yes they don't get tired they don't take
a salary they don't need to eat they
don't need to take a smoke break or a
pee break right and they can then call
on that police officer the human police
officer and bring them to the scene
should they be required right so I do
like the idea in regular policing I
don't like the idea in like a tragic
occurrence where all of a sudden we
actually need real help and all we have
is robots and what if they are part of
the problem that's like saying oh I need
a police officer but all we have as mall
cops no offense to mall cops but a
similar kind of scenario like I don't
carry a gun I don't carry a weapon of
any sort I have no power I have no
jurisdiction beyond I can say you're not
allowed to leave them all but if you
choose to you can because I really can't
tackle you or anything like that legally
right
I mean this is really actually no
different than like the CCTV I think in
Canada it might be different in the
United States they're all carrying guns
I know that in in countries that have
like a lot of CCTVs like I'm thinking
like the UK has a lot well this is
similar to that in that it's probably
just a robot that's recording things
that probably gets fed back to hopefully
a person watching there we go what Big
Brother that's my issue oh you don't
like the privacy thing the Big Brother
effect that's what I don't like it
happen okay so first off I want to go
back to something like the two of you
were just debating on robots being able
to save the day
r2d2 mic drop okay so but as far as
sorry now I want them to look like r2d2
all the time even in an emergency oh
yeah exactly
who would ever do crime if there's a
r2d2 walking around
I know it's rolling around let's be
clear well he doesn't walk you know
there's the one series I can't believe I
just did that
no my issue here is privacy so it's one
thing to have a walking kind of humanoid
type directional map device that says go
here I mean you can just do a sign and
it'll do the same thing that you could
talk to it what I don't like about is
the fact that this will have
connectivity to the police station which
makes it sound like I'm going down you
know to be able to commit crimes it's
not the case but if you don't have
proper regulations and oversight on how
of the data that is collected by that
robot is used and stored you could be
Joe Blow citizen on the street and
there's the potential that anything you
do could suddenly show up and burn you
like maybe it's sitting there helping
somebody out and you happen to jaywalk
not a big deal to jaywalk but if the
visual the video feed of it goes back to
the police station catches you on next
thing you know you got a ticket showing
up at your door by a robot delivery bot
and then it goes off to do as pizza when
you got a ticket for jaywalking I
I realize this is kind of like a
far-fetched example but what kind of
dystopian universe do you live in Jeff
no this is the way this is the potential
we have to go look at these bad with
Facebook would it be it every if if you
drove past these robot Robocop's and
they could tell if you were texting and
driving that's perfect that's a
life-saving sure at the end of the day
let's be clear your phone can tell you
if you're texting and driving but you
have to at least officer catch you but
they could change the rule so that your
phone automatically tickets you would
that be cool I know now I'm like totally
on phones yeah I know I'm like it's got
a GPS chip if you're traveling more than
ten kilometers an hour and texting it
should set off an alarm shirt should
turn off its own screen sure yeah but so
but my whole issue with this feeds of
privacy certainly comes with it and what
I mean yippeee that Jeff what if the
robot rather than giving information in
a will yeah rather than giving
information to the police was able to
access the police database and so now
that robot is able to spot a criminal
that no human has been able to track
down like it's now tracking every
person's face already that hasn't
stopped it Jeff but this that's my
concern I'm not saying we could stop it
I'm just saying that's my you I like all
of the things that are your concern my
concern is that we're gonna rely too
heavily on them and then they're gonna
fail us but it's one thing to have this
as a tool it's another thing when it
becomes abused and that's my concern is
that it has the potential to be abuse if
there's not proper regulatory oversight
right technology is a wonderful thing I
like robots I don't want them to go
dealing with grandma's recipes in the
kitchen but there needs to be proper
regulatory oversight before we lose all
individuality and having your own
freedom and privacy
your thumb but Jeff have the last word
on this one because we're moving to
another a couple who admitted to
stealing more than 1.2 million dollars
worth of goods from Amazon has been
sentenced to nearly six years in jail
Aaron and Leah Finan had previously pled
guilty to charges of pros postal fraud
and money laundering and we spoke about
them back on episode 525 last October
here's an updated warning to anyone who
thinks that they can scam Amazon the
couple exploited Amazon's customer
service policy by claiming electronics
that they ordered were damaged and
receiving replacements at no charge
prosecutors said that the sentence
should serve as a warning to others US
Attorney for the Southern District of
Indiana Josh Minkler said consumer fraud
is not only unjustly enriching the
perpetrator it causes all of us to pay a
higher retail price he then reminds
people to those who seek to exploit the
convenience of online shopping through
fraud remember this case you will be
caught you will be prosecuted and you
will go to federal prison for a long
time and then we presume he dropped his
mic and walked off the stage the couple
used hundreds of fake identities in to
order gadgets from Amazon then reported
fake issues with the devices that led to
replacements being sent out which they
sold on for profit and they were due to
be sentenced last November but it was
delayed after they were accused of
defrauding yet another Internet retailer
so whoops yep don't do it yeah you know
it yeah I don't in any way condone their
action but I have been bothered by this
because it's a policy of Amazon what a
not all products have to be returned so
we okay our dog had you just expect
people are going to exploit that because
nobody you're making it too easy so I
purchased something off Amazon for our
dog we're trying a natural homeopathic
remedy to address a health issue
and what I bought I think it was about a
sixty dollar bottle of oil okay and
Amazon sent the wrong one oh but it came
from the warehouse just down the road in
Mississauga like it's an hour drive from
my house but when it showed up it was
the wrong device were not device but it
was it was the wrong product within the
same product line but the wrong one so I
contact them and said you sent me the
wrong one I can ship this back and they
said don't worry and the advice that
they gave me from the agent was just
pour it out we'll send you a new one I
was happy to put it back in the mail and
ship it to them because it's a $60 item
but Amazon they didn't care and I'm
thinking I I work not far from you I can
even drop it off at your where's that oh
right the fact that that was their
policy and that was their response
the reason for that is just that they
would have to pay to get it picked up
brought back and then they would have to
pour it out right so it's like they
can't resell right it still had that so
you know that you know that you could it
was wrapped in like that plastic shrink
wrap right so you could you see that it
wasn't used you could have tampered with
that you really could have I guess if
you were a bad person which you're not
so you're accusing Amazon I'm gonna take
it back to tylenol in the 1980s okay
like people tampering with packaging has
changed a lot of the rules and a company
like Amazon needs to make sure that
customers are satisfied and if you went
through a frustrating process to get the
right product you're never going to
return and sometimes Amazon and any good
business will will take the cost of
business as okay I need to the
customer's always right that's what you
hear right so if a customer is upset
about something and in my case I do
service so the worst case scenario is
I've done a lot of hours worth of work
and I build a customer and they don't
want to pay for it
customer's always right I can fight it
or I can
yeah keep them happy so that so there's
a real fine line absolutely and I mean
in this case 100% they were wrong it was
fraud sure yes yes there's a part of the
policy that they exploited
I think if Amazon just close that
loophole yeah Amazon doesn't ask for
picture evidence because they used to
have a firm case that that was lifetime
warranty I've changed phone since so I
don't have it but it it ended up with a
defect on it and I called them because
it was lifetime warranty and they said
take a picture of it send it to us and
we'll send you a new one right that
makes sense right prove that it doesn't
work I can't even log into Facebook
because I rights right yeah that's wrong
but you know what it really just it
hurts everybody to defraud the system
like that and you feel like you are not
stealing from anyone when you're
stealing I guess from the computer but
you are everybody pays higher prices
there there are real companies that put
their products to Amazon they're losing
out everybody yeah now they're gonna use
delivery robots so that if you try to
rob them I shoot you I think they
shouldn't shoot you in the face maybe
with a picture they should take a
picture of your name and send it back to
the grid how do we do it how do we do it
a software bug meant millions of
Facebook users had may have unknowingly
I can't I don't have a clue unknowingly
posted private information to the public
the glitch sat on a user's post to be
shared to everyone even if a user had
previously chosen a more restricted
option such as friends of friends users
who may have been affected will be
notified on the site's newsfeed here's
what Aaron Egan Facebook's head of
privacy said to be clear this bug did
not impact anything people had posted
before and they could still choose their
audience just as they always have we'd
like to apologize for this mistake
the glitch was active between May 18th
and 22nd but it took the site until May
27th to switch posts back to private or
whatever the user had typically used
before the bug became apparent while
relatively minor compared to recent
issues facing the company the glitch is
another embarrassing slip-up for a firm
already under heavy fire over privacy
concerns that is troublesome because I
use those features just to make sure
that my public persona is separate from
my personal persona right in
communicating with friends and family
that you know are in person so if I post
things about my kids or you know if they
do a concert and I'm putting pictures up
of them at their school those are things
that I wouldn't want to be publicly
accessible right right but yet I would
post on Facebook knowing that they are
in the public but at least I've got them
set so that only my mum can see them
right exactly and I mean if you work in
any sort of law enforcement field you'll
know that a lot of the employees will
have super secure profiles because they
don't want their you know clients to be
able to look them up so you could have
any four-day window here where all of
their public information is out there
and I mean from a personal example I've
experienced this I used to be a crotch
officer working at a jail I had my site
locked down super tight and I didn't
realize that Facebook at the time I
don't know if they still do have a thing
where when they update the privacy
policy everything goes back to public
access and I had one of our clients
contact me after being released and the
message was you have a beautiful family
and my client
you mean prison inmate yes somebody had
served their time that did not like me
so that right there says off red flags
I'm going okay I need to talk about you
know physical safety for my family like
police were involved in everything but
at least this made you move to Barry and
so then you cannot change your name and
that's right
yeah no it's not actually a redhead do
you know I'm not actually here believe
it
telepresence but in a situation like
this where there's been a big screw-up
if you have somebody who hasn't got a
lockdown profile when also and this
information is out there you could have
a potential security breach oh yes it's
true it's you have to just always
remember that if it's online it's likely
not private well that is true yeah
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman I'm Robbie
I'm Jeff it's been great having you here
this week folks don't forget to head on
over to patreon cat5 dot TV slash
patreon and see if you'd like to support
this broadcast on what we do we'd love
to have you as one of our patrons oh and
there are perks but there are perks yes
we'll see you next week have a good one
bye
