hi welcome back to new every day I'm
carry in my name is Jen and on station
we're wrapping up our life in the desert
las vegas california trip with the
morning breakfast so come and join us
we rented this hippie van we traveled to
Red Rock Canyon across the Death Valley
than women we went to LA we went to an
amazing church in LA went from LA to the
coast back to Joshua Tree National Park
drove through the desert last night
slept here at Circus Circus downtown Las
Vegas and here we are in the parking lot
making breakfast is it that khabar pea
so as we roll just a couple of slips of
our trim we're gonna heat up some toast
and we'll be back with you in a moment
so stay tuned hey there it's jen and
we're just heading into vegas i know the
lighting isn't that great but we're
heading into vegas and carrie has never
been here before and so we thought we'd
just I don't I 15 North we thought we
would just record her reactions to all
the lights and the experience of the
strip and then we're going to talk about
it afterwards so stay tuned for more
with Jen and carry on new everyday
pyramid hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I
love being a vimeo pro member as a web
broadcaster i need an affordable video
hosting platform that's as flexible as
me a pro membership lets you upload up
to 20 gigabytes of HD video each and
every week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads
in multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category 5 TV network will receive a
whopping twenty-five percent off the
annual price all you have to do is go
through our link cap five dot TV / Vimeo
and sign up today for your twenty five
percent discount to top it off you get
30 days to try it risk-free if you're
not happy with Vimeo Pro you pay nothing
the deal is only for a very limited time
go to cap five dot TV / Vimeo a lot or
building
I'm practically a suntan
these white
all right cancel it is it's a castle
okay you let me don't forget to crash
Jen okay okay all right in and out
burger yep
that looks yummy oh that looks
inappropriate hey there's worse it's big
a point nine mile exit 39 so
in point eight miles take exit 39 online
Nicki yeah welcome back new every day
jen and carry on the road we are in Las
Vegas and we're going to go check out
the downtown strip I've never been here
before not quite sure what to expect
only heard rumors I just went into a
hotel called circus circus and it was a
circus indeed so we're gonna go check it
out fan is on parking brake is off
signaling now Jen I feel like I'm going
to make a laugh I would probably yes
yeah I would make a left Hey look at the
RV park well Drive point too long Bieber
is one Buccaneer Boulevard past some
highly inappropriate signs it's not even
subtle it's just like wham bam in your
face crazy you can indulge any sense you
want here
and they say what happens in Vegas stays
in Vegas so it's like a lighter doing
you nearby levar then turn left
your Boulevard this has left this says
go here we go ok oh oh ok you want to go
straight ahead no you want to go
straight ahead like you want to sorry
report we're my wife and I can't get ok
where are you so we need to say go left
or go right all right we're going left
we're going left we're on Las Vegas
Boulevard i don't know if i zoom in on
this we can see it there we are los
vegas boulevard so we just passed the
Trump Tower the mirage
there's the palazzo palazzo that what is
that a hotel hotel casino by golly wynn
encore all right Wow how do you drive
down this thing there's just so much to
look at you're not supposed to have your
DVD player in the car and yet they're
playing movies on every side of the road
very hard to drive
and watch what you're doing
that looks like the CN Tower but I know
it's not look you can pull in here
they'll buy gold you can get a tattoo
and you can fedex a parcel oh my
goodness
there's our hotel circus circus my
feeling good I was just oh my I was just
here but on the other side I'm all
turned around
movies palm trees so beautiful
oh boy
watch out people there's that Tower that
looks like the CN Tower on a v CN Tower
SLS Hotel and Casino
everything's a hotel and casino
it's like after you're done gambling
just go sleep you wake up to go down and
keep him bullying
wedding chapel look here's Elvis
weddings
yes Elvis weddings
that big Tower is called the
stratosphere
Jen's a great navigator ok this is
exiting i'm hearing the wrong way no m
viewing this way yet you're going all
the way here stages that's right i know
you said go to the lab sorry I'm sorry I
said left and I meant right ok there's
Caesars Palace tip 3 miles fu I don't
south las vegas boulevard all right
we're gonna do this again keep writing
over yeah i feel like there's the
Bellagio there's and valleys nope that's
Bally's ok slowing down slowing down
stopping hate did you know that you
can't turn right on a red here did you
know that because I learned that really
quick all right here we go I feel like
the lights were getting closer we've had
a few mishaps we're good with Jesus it's
all good
gen only says that when she thinks she's
going to die it's not reassuring don't
worry Kerry don't worry Kerry we're good
Jesus we're good
you can see Nelly live dolla dolla bills
what's the difference between delhi and
50 cent hey the same person
you ask that question again except
what's the diff between le and bitty
thin I'm positive there are two
different people positive
I'm so tired they're the same person in
my mind I'm like they are not the same
person how do you know that um pretty
sure Nelly oh I thought Nelly was a girl
yeah Nelly Furtado is a girl it's a girl
but Nellie is a guy yeah got it at drais
nightclub that's right there there's the
Bellagio right there where right there
oh right there yeah but there's no
fountains this is sad they may be they
go off at midnight I can't imagine that
they go off
great if they came on at any point in
time
that's sad there's no fountains at
bellagio so they usually spring up from
them oh yeah that holy water in front
arriving at the lake pelvis paper so you
could kind of pull in front of cookie
this car smoking it's okay go really
slow
whoa
did you go forward I just a tad better
behind a tree there we go it's to music
yeah so there you go Wow
you see
so here we are in the back of our camp
Prince how he'd start off every morning
with carry on the side cooking me on the
side making coffee being her sous-chef
and it works out quite well oh yeah we
would get up we could have breakfast
done made cleaned up 15 minutes 15
minutes so that's why we've invited you
along that so you know we were going to
go to McDonald's or something for
breakfast me that you know what you got
a little bit of food left which is going
to save the money cook it up in the back
of her head in the way we go so when the
parking lot filming is really strangers
people watch it with us okay they can
watch there's more of a show going on in
vegas or have going on right here that's
so true and if they want to know then we
can tell them what it is new everyday
calm speaking of that or they got TV oh
I always get that right no new everyday
TV please go to our partners page and
check out our partners if you would like
to support us we would just love it go
check out the pages lots to choose from
we've got so many people supporting us
now so you sort of thank you so much
last night we drove down the Vegas strip
it's hilarious clearly lights if you
wouldn't believe I felt like such a
country bumpkin
we had just spent you know days in the
desert yeah and the contrast was so
incredible let me just check out my
toast here and there are so many signs
here that say what happens in Vegas
stays in
come indulge yourself and it's called
Sin City for a reason yes and I'm just
only putting my mic here because I gotta
go find my coffee cup which we will both
benefit from oh I put on the it's on
them you got it there she got it yeah
it's called cinchy and it just blows my
mind how people go out Phil indulgent
night and then there's the grisly
morning after and that's what you said
right you said probably the biggest word
for the morning after is regret regret
the door I can excuse me one more time
can I just people wake up with a lot of
regret here because of what you're
encouraged to do at nighttime and it's
really sad and I think of all the people
who are working in the entertainment
industry and how their life
at nighttime it's all surrounded by
being exploited and manipulated and the
pressure to perform and Carrie and I
were talking about that a little bit and
just that pressure to always perform
because as soon as you have like one off
day one off day one off show then it's
like you know it's all over social media
like people go home and say oh sones oh
really suck your show was awful and the
pressure to perform yeah so it's just
craziness it's a sad place and I said to
Jenna I don't ever want to come back
here I just don't want to come back
she's like I don't have any desire can
we land in Wyoming next time haha any
point there yo I got a good one yeah it
I knew what to expect I mean there's
people at the street corner giving you a
parts whoever passed by for escorts now
would you just call them up and it was
like a younger woman giving out the
cards it's like oh ho ho here and never
seeing her own kind your signs
everywhere the said gentlemen's club and
largest gentlemen's club in the world oh
and Darcy I said to carry we're gonna
have to get back to our hotel and just
say o Lord forgive us for where I what
our eyes have seen and just like the
billboards are very explicit and it's
easy for it's easy to point fingers at
what at once in
people in dolton and then you know look
in your own part I look at my own
pirated what's the diff between that and
no feeling hatred towards someone or
looking Leslie at someone that know when
I was it goes on in my own heart yeah
this is just on billboard so everybody's
doing and everybody knows it yes but God
sees the heart God knows what's going on
it and I think of that verse in Romans
gen Romans 7 I believe where Paul says
you know what I don't want to do the
thing I do the things that I don't want
to do and what I don't want to do I do
and then these talks about the wrestling
between light and darkness and our life
but yes um he says you once were
darkness but now you are light now you
are our identity has changed and then he
ends it with praise God through Jesus
yes was rescued me from this body of sin
and I was just thinking um when you know
if you come here with your friends and
you're like oh let's just go to this
gentleman's club or let's just go see
this show and it's like you get sucked
in a little bit and you're kind of like
okay well you know what could one show
and could possibly have you know lead to
what could one drink possibly lead to
you know cuz when you get in this
environment and we were staying at
Circus Circus and it's so easy like we
walked through the casino and it's so
easy to think well what would be likes
to put in like one token like what but
just to feel ya the whole environment
the slot machines poop earning it's okay
the slot machines the colors it's all
designed to pull us in it's almost like
oh yeah like qualities not yes but the
draw is there the colors the last
address Jonathan
and that's exactly how slippery slope it
is a slippery slope and go with them and
we have talked about that whole idea of
slippery slope and what is the balance
between you know I've always said I
don't want to be a prude about things I
want to have an open mind with God being
my filter the Word of God being my
filter just watch your cord because I
put the cups down there because we got a
home yes there is may I just put this
over here oh yeah no no that's okay Oh
charming the butter okay it's a bit of a
dance like ah yeah wow that's really hot
this morning all those ways are that to
cool down we were hiking at nighttime
actually in red rock canyon and we're up
on this kind of mountain yeah yeah and
walking along this road and we couldn't
really see we did have our headlamps but
we decided to turn them off just so we
could hike in the darkness and find out
where the Big Dipper is and the small
Dipper look we gotta know where the big
difference I don't think Jenna's okay
talk about it we'll talk about her
anyways as we were walking along I
thought you know this seems like a path
but I'm not really sure let's turn the
light on for a minute we turned the
light on and i will show you a picture
here turn the light on and right in
front of us like two feet away was a
barbed wire oh yeah like right there
right there and they have a lot of
burrows and I guess those are like
donkeys right they go through that area
and so they try and keep them away we're
using these fences and great so they
don't cross roads but there there was
the barbed wire fence writing firms that
we did not know until we shun the light
on it engine i think that is analogous
to how our life is sometimes yes Paul
said the word of god like illuminates
our lives if the schoolmaster to lead us
to Christ he said I wouldn't know what
coveting was unless the Word of God
unless the law had shown me yes the law
doesn't save you obeying the law doesn't
save it shows you the sin in your life
so if you can be led to Christ he said I
wouldn't have known what coveting was no
until I actually read it we wouldn't
have known that the barbed-wire fence
was there until we turned the light on
and actually saw yes and that's just it
cuz we could have gotten into so much
like we could of herself so badly was
cactus oh yeah so it's like this is why
it says your word is a light unto my
feet and as a lamp unto my feet and a
light unto my path psalm 119 105 and
it's it's so important that we know the
Word of God so we know where God is is
leading in us and what is right and what
is wrong and so when we see something we
can go no that's not the word of God and
I've often they say that people who
handle money like at the mint who make
money who they never touch a counterfeit
bill ever ever ever so that when they're
actually when when they come across the
counterfeit bill they no immediate snot
it they know immediately yeah this is
not study the good stuff so they can
identify the bat yes they never they
don't study the bad stuff which is
interesting because I Cameron roars
found by think it's Ephesians versus
we're not even to look at the stuff that
the ungodly do and and I'd get
challenged that because I'm like okay
we're surrounded by ungodliness and I
remember it is interesting that we're
standing here in Nevada and I'm going to
tell the story but I remember Thursday
nights it was survivor and then CSI and
then another show but you'd watch that I
would watch every week and and I started
discovering that they on these shows
they were telling me stuff that I really
didn't want to know that was not pushing
me on in my spirituality was not pushing
me closer to Jesus was actually filling
my thoughts with other things think I
like even to the point of oh maybe you
know maybe I don't know enough maybe I
should study that more and it's like so
it's actually the study yeah just the
stuff that was happening on the show so
I could you know speak more clearly into
people's lives and and when it comes
down to is like we are not to fill our
minds with the things of this world
weird to fill our minds with the things
of God and it just so finally just ok no
more survivor because it sucked me in to
the next show which sucked me into the
next show which we're not promoting any
sort of godliness at all yeah it's hard
to turn it off it is so hard turn it off
um I'm just going to ya okay maybe okay
do you want to actually we can just do
that after we're not scared so oldest
you who this okay and she's going to
there we go yeah just move slightly over
and I learned a bit of a different show
today on the road
no it's funny when I was a kid I used to
pretend that I was on a show
I said I had my own radio program and
they're talking to a fake cameras what's
so funny so yeah yeah interesting
interesting week the the contrast and
experiences from being you know on top
of the mountain and join just the beauty
of it and then coming into sin city
seeing all that's on the strip quite
striking quite striking
and it was interesting because we were
in one of the national parks and we're
talking about copycat plans oh yeah so
we were we were with a ranger we were
walking along this path and then there
was pickle weed I will show you a
picture of pickle weed and he said oh
yeah you can you can taste that you can
eat it and we had there were an apple
and another novel another guy with us on
this little hiking tour and it was like
all I haven't tried pickle weed let's
give let them try pick a weight and we
tasted it it was salty and good but then
he said oh did you hear about that guy
who was on into the wild and yeah and
this guy he was like an adventurer was
he ate the wrong plants even though he
was super savvy and then he eventually
he died because he eat the wrong right
and it and I said well I think I can see
how that could happen even if you're
super savvy because there's so many
copycats right there's things in nature
that look like an insane haha good
morning have a great day good good good
we're in the parking lot we're in a
parking lot I thought they're coming
over to shut us down I know cuz they're
all wearing black but it's okay because
we're beginning in tattoos really shut
down the show anyways so yeah they're
copycats in nature that looks like it's
good to eat but actually can be really
harmful and even the animals they
pretend some tend to be really ferocious
or have some kind of markings or
colorings that make them look more
frightening and less appealing to
predators to eat and vice versa a little
seemingly innocuous frog can be
poisonous for the person and it actually
kill it yes and so and that just
reminded me of you know some things can
just seemed so safe or well it's not
actually it's not safe that's not that
bad that is what we put on the spin me
put well you know going reading this
book or watching this movie or whatever
isn't that bad I'm just gonna read Fifty
Shades of Grey so I'm knowledgeable
about it and I know what everyone else
is recess talk about it and say that's
bad yes and what's interesting this okay
so I've at the airport and this was when
Fifty Shades of Grey it come out and I
was like looking for a book to read and
and no and I had no idea I just knew
that it was on the 50 you know top 50
best sellers and so I picked it up I'm
like okay like I do with most books I
start reading the first page say okay
can I get into this and I was like wow
there's so many swear words on here I
can't read this and I put it down right
that's all I needed the first page was
there's way too many swear words and so
I'm like I can't put that in my mind I
cannot put it in my mind
and so I often I remember going to
someone saying oh you know I picked up
this book and just had so many swear
words aren't really do you know what
that book is about I'm like no there was
too many swear words for me to get into
the book I said that's why I put it down
I had no idea what the book was about
and it was interesting is the number of
kids who know what Fifty Shades of Grey
is the number of parents who know and
I'm just like okay I'm hoping that you
haven't read the book and that you have
just heard from the grapevine that this
is what it's about but it would have
been so easy it's like oh it's just a
few swear words and we've sat in movies
like we've actually turned off movies
because we started watching something
and not that it was a bad movie it just
had swears in it or just some sexual
connotations where we just looked at
each other and went that's not that's
not only one
and there are resources available
something just happened on the screen
I'm not quite sure okay what that was
okay I'm flattened walk towards the
screen doesn't walk towards a screen
we're all good yeah there are resources
available like focus on the family that
can provide you information about media
yes plugged in online yes he's a great
resource if you're not sure if you're go
into a movie or like quite sure if this
is going to be good then check that out
they can really give a good overview of
what's what the content is yeah yeah and
don't like I've had to throw out movies
where I've bought them and just went oh
this is not good and I just thrown them
out because I don't even want it in my
house I'm sorry no go ahead so many
people say well how do I know if the
Holy Spirit talking to me how do I know
in a couple times on this trip Jan and I
will have felt that we should have
brought something and we were like a
but yet we invite the Holy Spirit to
tell us you don't even help us pack up
us know what what to be involved in our
every step who we should talk to what we
should share and so when those little
thoughts come to mind it's good if you
act on them and don't shut them down and
sometimes maybe if you're if you're
watching a movie in a conversation is
that little prick yes it's a little
prick of your conscience that little
twinge in your spirit that says you
probably shouldn't say that and I've had
that and I've gone ahead and said it
anyway and I'm like
yeah and more you should say that and
then you walk away and you're like I
shoulda thought that but that's where
the grace of God comes in and yes some
people can feel so down when they and I
know this for me too i really struggled
with good guilt a lot mm-hmm and shame
especially like after I came to Christ
even before I came to Christ I struggle
with that but after like so much more
rated look at God who loves me and I
want to love him and do what's right and
so I would feel so badly when I would
make a bad decision Lord be watching
something and then feel guilty about it
and then I wear that guilt even though I
may have made the right decision to turn
the movie off or whatever or not have
the conversation and we're the guilt of
the fact that I was going to do it or
whatever and then I realized that I
should be praising God that he's given
me the Holy Spirit that allows me to see
that that bad yeah definitely obedience
comes when you actually listened to it
and I've just been so grateful for the
times when I haven't and God's giving me
another chance mmm I just celebrate the
fact that you know what he's not done
with me amen he's not done and so maybe
maybe you've experienced something this
week where you just about the Holy
Spirit like know what you should really
call your sister would you really call
your brother you should really call that
friend you're like oh I just I've just
been putting it off and then you feel
guilty for not calling and keep putting
that off or whatever something could be
something totally small yeah stop
celebrate that God has chosen to not
just because he loves you he loves you
he wants you to be formed into the image
of Christ because he loves
and that's what's best for you yes and
that's toy changed my thinking yeah and
on this trip you know the Lord has has
guided and directed us as far as like
how do we like you said how do we pack
where'd we go who do we talk to like a
couple times I I went to pay for one of
our sites and I overheard this guy
talking about his friend who had been in
a motorcycle accident and everything
within me was like you need to pray for
that man I'm like okay and so I just
went up to him afterwards I'm like I
sorry I overheard your conversation you
know what happened I'm a pastor can I
pray for him and he's like yes and we
prayed right there yeah in the parking
lot which was like yay God and then we
were Santa Monica Boulevard we wanted to
go out to the pier and just check it out
and be you know in the Pacific Ocean and
literally we were in the Pacific Ocean
and we saw this homeless man and Carrie
looks across and she's like oh he's
setting up shop for tonight and I said
oh
helicopter and and they said oh are you
going I can't even retarded like were
you going to give him up oh you were
going to take our garbage out oh yeah
cuz he was being picked through the
garbage and then he kind of set up shop
and so I was like you know why we got
lots of food left so we just took him a
snack and I out and then he was crying
and saying I'm a veteran I'm here on the
street and he's like to have a blanket
and like we rented this thing so it's
rental blankets I'm like oh sorry man i
get i don't know i can't give you
anything else and he was crying I just
felt oh so conflicted and felt bad and
like uh yes it was very sad and I said
you need to go to the dream center and
that's the church hole we went we went
to Angela's temple which is the Church
of the dream sentence or the dream
center was started by Matthew Barnett
and it's a huge hospital that they
purchased and that we talked a little
bit about it in a previous episode but
anyway we went to the church and they
have if you need groceries on a Sunday
you go there and you get groceries
homeless you go to the Dream Center and
they give you a place to stay and
there's all these programs helping
people get freed from things that are
keeping them in bondage and not letting
them live a free life and God no and I
said to this family have you heard of
the Dream Center you gotta go just go I
said just get ahold of them call them go
to a shelter get ahold of them and they
are gonna be able to help use like no I
got stuff I gotta deal with in my own
life right now we're just so they're
gonna help him deal with him and I gotta
go what is she wouldn't talk more but I
had to leave and so that's where you
know we we asked the spirit bring to us
the people you want us to talk to right
and we went to him and we gave him
something to eat and you did give him a
way out and then it was up to him to
make the choice because it's and that's
one of the things as listening to for
the Holy Spirit like the Holy Spirit
convicts he doesn't condemn so we felt
convicted so now the holy spirit needs
to convict him to actually you know go
to the dream center to reach out and and
to get help and there was just yeah been
so many things that we've come across on
this trip and we've talked about and a
lot of it has been focusing on the
desert life in
desert and the fact that stuff happens
we don't understand why and yet God is
there to lead us to guide us to help us
the Holy Spirit is there and just all
along the way God you know as we journey
through this these last few shows I've
just been reminded know what life in the
desert is ok because God is there exotic
he goes before he comes a font behind he
provides we've had a place to stay we've
had great conversations we had good food
and it's just been really cool to watch
how God has provided for us in the
desert so we want to encourage you today
to just believe I know and I know that
sounds so trite just believe take God at
His Word you really will provide for all
of your needs according to glorious
riches in christ jesus that's williams
421 we want to encourage you to believe
that God really can provide
you
