have you seen Star Trek discovery yet uh
no have you have you know here's the
here's the problem I can't get it you
can't get it I don't have CBS all access
or even on their website has the first
episode I you need subscriptions for
those and I don't have any you need it
on their website I think it's just
freely available the first episode I'm
sure I try to require a subscription oh
come on yeah maybe it's all accesses
five bucks a month I spent enough money
on other subscription services if you
watch if you're watching this in the US
you can pick it up on Netflix that's
right
it was on Netflix I would have already
watched it yeah so what I okay yeah so
we said this is worth getting CBS all
access for so we're gonna do it and
that's all that we've used it for thus
far well is it worth it
that's the question okay it's Star
Trek's like this is legitimate Star Trek
so it's worth it in that we feel like my
wife and I feel like we're supporting
the franchise right just the same reason
that we went to see the movies even
though they were not well received you
know what
they were okay as a standalone thing but
they were not Star Trek plain and simple
they had a different feel they were not
in line with Gene Roddenberry's vision
if you were an original series or the
next generation especially fan then it's
not in line with that at all that's true
but they had to bring in a whole new set
anyway we're getting off topic so that's
talking about your shoes so the TV show
Star Trek discovery we've been really
really excited about it and it really
does feel more like the movies than Star
Trek they've changed a lot of stuff to
make it feel like the movies Klingons
are not Klingons
there's subtitles to read in order to
follow the conversations that Klingons
are having oh okay and kind of cool I do
know Stu the actors they did a fantastic
job of carrying that but okay so when
you think about it the plotline of Star
Trek discovery though this is before
they had the University
translator so technically timeline-wise
yeah yes you're watching it before they
had the technology to translate for them
so really you're seeing it from the
perspective of the discovery crew okay
okay where they won't give it that I'll
give it that
so that's was not sci-fi and this was
not suspension of disbelief technologies
that actually don't exist then I'll give
it that right so we were looking and
hoping for a Star Trek to carry us
through because it's been a long time
since we've had a good Star Trek yeah
I'm a next generation baby
Saru up on the Starship Enterprise NCC
1701 D Captain jean-luc Picard is my dad
so you know this is this me yeah I got
genes they raised me buddy yep Wesley
Crusher well that was my first childhood
crush you had a crush on the crush yeah
oh yeah nice we had a big surprise
though when we saw Star Trek discovery
and it was not what we were hoping for
okay and then what we saw the Orval oh
we saw the Orville this is Seth
MacFarlane we're watching this which
feels like Star Trek yes it does it
feels like Star Trek we know that Seth
MacFarlane is a big Star Trek next
generation fan original series man he
made an appearance or two on the next
generation so to have him making a spoof
we were expecting is something else but
right the spoof ended up being really
good it's not a spoof no I mean there's
there's elements of spoof enos there are
quick very minimal it's almost like if
we were to thrust real people into the
next-generation universe right how would
that be would they be the stiff morally
perfect people or would they be a little
bit on the witty side a little bit
you know fun-loving and
mmm-hmm flawed slightly flawed anything
with seth macfarlane has some sort of
flaw though and that's what's funny
about it this is the guy who made Family
Guy yes and continues to so my wife
Becca and I are sitting there watching
the Orville where it sees episode four
mm-hmm there are five in total so far as
we broadcast this and I looked at my
wife and I said you realize Family Guy
is paying for this the special effects
are amazing the gifts are amazing the
costuming is amazing and the videography
and production is it outstanding even
the script was really well done
outstanding yeah tastic somebody said to
me we'll SEPA sewed three was not as
good as episodes 1 &amp; 2 and I said well
here's what here's my perspective on
episode 3 and I won't give you any
spoilers my perspective is they took a
real risk to show us that the Orville is
not just a slapstick spoof yes they
showed us that it is pushing to be
something like Star Trek The Next
Generation yes moral uprightness against
racism and equality for all people
regardless of gender or sexual
orientation or race that's what it shows
which is very much in line with Star
Trek The Next Generation and so then see
you know seeing my comment they say you
know what I think you're right yep
episode 3 they showed us that they're
not just a funny spoof it's true so we
watched the the new Star Trek Discovery
we watch Star Trek
we watched the Orville and the Orville
is coming out on top right nice I when I
saw the first episode of war Ville I was
expecting something not unlike the other
move he did thousand ways to die in the
West I haven't seen it okay and I was
like okay I expected it to be something
like that where was kind of cheese okay
well Family Guy that's what yes Jack
ting more of that yeah but I was
pleasantly surprised to the point I turn
off the episode it was one of those
moments where you sit there going I
I actually enjoyed that I wasn't
expected that would I want to see have
you seen it what I need to watch it tell
us what you think it's Orville versus
Star Trek discovery which one feels more
like Star Trek to you if you're watching
this on youtube or through our website
comment below otherwise send us an email
go to category five dot TV and you can
find us by clicking on contact us
[Music]
[Applause]
