for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 290 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the ninth of april 2013 so good to see a
290 weeks whoa whoa that's a lot of show
whoa let's focus on this week how has
your week been holistically very good
yeah well this morning Oh what happened
I was a victim victim thievery no my
ipod was stolen right out of the
clutches of my car Wow luckily it was
just the ipod yeah but it was some punk
kids in my neighborhood of course I got
through cars and they like rifle through
everything's or CD strewn my expensive
GPS remain yeah and they just stole me
why would a kid wanted GPS here cuz
that's that's how we know it was a punk
kid that's grown up would have been like
leave the ipod I'm driving the GPS so
narrow the death and what do you do in a
case like that it's not like you can
help put it on insurance yeah or
something like Christ like the scenario
when we got broken into it's like you
can't you're not gonna pay a deductible
to get it back it's like ha you just
take it and and it's not and what what
kind of ipod was it an ipod nano 4th
generation pink very Hillary yeah full
of my music so if it was an ipod touch
or something you could use iCloud to
track it down if it was an iPhone or an
iPad or something like that that not the
Nano unfortunately oh thanks dad cry a
little yeah plea to the viewers viewers
please she needs an ipod nano preferably
pink I just I feel more violated than
anything no way I'm just that's the
thing come on and normally i lock my car
but the one time the ones i didn't well
cuz they they probably check it every
day
no punks I know I want to like unlock it
on purpose and leave a nasty note or a
guilty know like right like a guilt
inducing note for them and they'll find
it or like get an ipod touch and then
like take the risk install Find My
iPhone or whatever it's called on it and
leave it on the front seat and unlock
the doors and just pray that it works
but this tractor this has happened to my
husband yeah and why asked a heist local
high school about it and he says the
kids do this all the time no way
kaleipus it's all about the kids folk
just wait look you wipe it out they
bring it to school and then sell it for
a twenty bucks no like 20 hugs not even
like a hefty thing it's like ipods are
rough like a thousand bucks since
salting I'm sorry to hear that it's okay
so we'll put a real positive spin on the
night we're gonna have a lot of fun
tonight we're gonna forget about all
your work I didn't mean to be it down or
good whatever whatever rough start of
the day any of us have had we're gonna
we're just gonna breathe in breathe out
I have no idea if that's how you do it
but it worked for me but I had a great
morning so I'm ready to her up again no
I just had to tell you guys that my
music is gone I can't listen to music
now ah I'll figure something out I just
had to tell the world so I'm over it I'm
ready to roll and excited for a good
show because I know I have a lot to tell
that's newsworthy excellent what's
coming up for example here's some proof
for you the times have changed Microsoft
is pointing the finger at Google
accusing them of monopolizing the
markets Oh skies move to yahoo and the
UK has resurrected a deleted email for
its users over and over linux is going
to space and lastly a garrn fruit juice
could have the fat of chocolate without
changing the texture half the calories
and still taste or feel the same i'm all
for it so
stick around these are coming up later
inertial awesome we've got an
exceptionally exciting show for you
tonight we're gonna be showing you a
Linux distribution that is fresh off the
press that is going to its you're going
to see I don't want to spoil it but
imagine if imagine if unity and gnome 3
just didn't happen and and things just
kept progressing the way that we wanted
them to which was the gnome to kind of
grow a realm of you know applications
menu and the way that things function
compiz and all the brilliant effects
that come with that excellent
performance stability all that kind of
stuff we're going to be looking at that
distribution tonight so don't go
anywhere we're going to actually be
installing that right here and getting
you a free copy of that distribution of
linux so don't go anywhere so what else
have we got tonight I mean it's an
exceptionally exciting show I've been
just like eager eager eager to be here
tonight so good to see you and get your
viewer questions in live at category
five dot TV I don't want to waste any
time I want to just hit a real quick
commercial break and then we're gonna
come back and we're gonna get started
installing this distribution of linux OC
round don't go anywhere at eco alkalines
we believe you should be able to trust
your batteries not just here but here
here and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance that rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
category 5 TD is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and we are also part of the
international association of internet
broadcasters speaking of being a part of
the of the tech podcast network
something that we've had on our site
this week I don't know if you've been on
to category 5 TV but very exciting we've
got live coverage from nab 2013 which is
you know you get to learn about all the
latest and greatest crazy products that
have you know like a lot of broadcast
technology is there live stream is there
there are like you know video cameras
that fly and you know they're like
remote control helicopters awesome stuff
just a lot of great coverage there you
can go to category five dot TV right now
it's not on our site because we are live
but yeah of course after the show
tonight you'll see a countdown to
tomorrow's feature starts at one thirty
in the afternoon tomorrow afternoon
eastern time and and then of course the
live show goes until eight o'clock it's
just a whole bunch of vendors and and
it's all live right next category five
dot TV so don't miss it no way are you
set oh I'm saying okay you remember last
week we were working away on my computer
and doing a demonstration here on
category 5 TV and all of a sudden knew
Boone who decided to go crazy and it was
just another one of those moments where
it's like unity come on what is this is
disunity you ask me this is disjointed
kampala lated dis unification of user
and operating system linux has always
represented freedom and not just free as
in no price but free as and you've got
freedom to make it your own really make
it feel like what you want your your
linux to feel like linux of course being
a replacement for Windows or Mac OS it
is an operating system that you can put
on your computer and tonight we are
looking at Point Linux and I'm very very
excited to have found this distribution
because it feels like what linux would
be if i decided
you know what fine I'm going to make my
own linux based on when Linux was
brilliant before all this transitioning
to tablets and stuff took place so we're
talking you know the gnome to style
interface and when I say that I mean you
know the familiar interface but working
with new technology new kernels new you
know the cutting edge stuff but with the
interface and the usability and the
freedom getting that freedom back where
you can make your system feel the way
that that it should so we're going to
start tonight by installing this
operating system and here it is we're
booting from point Linux 13.04 which I'm
pleased to announce right now on the
show is available at Point linux dot org
and that is that is new information
literally just came out when I said it
it is now avail no it's gonna right this
second so here we go I am booting up the
the live CD here you can do this on your
computer and install this brand or this
distro of linux on your computer system
and let's see how this goes I'm excited
I'm just watching this I can boom Toby
said to me in the chat room have you
been enjoying distro hopping which is to
say installing linux after box after
Linux because I'm looking and searching
for that Linux that makes me feel like
I'm in love with Linux again we've had
this discussion when when unity first
came out what do we do we took some time
and we tried to make unity linux ubuntu
feel like the old style linux now the
hands are getting tied even more and the
restraints are tighter and tighter as
far as the freedom aspect goes and we're
losing that and everything is going to
this other interface so now we're going
to get that back with point linux org go
grab yourself a copy right now and you
can download that for free off of the
website 32-bit 64-bit downloads here we
go so now we're launching into the
desktop for the first time here this is
again a live CD
this is what I actually see from the CD
it's not installed on my computer yet
but you see that there's a button that
says install point Linux and just
quickly looking at Point Linux you can
see that it is dreamy look at that looks
familiar right folks for those of us
that are a little bit old-school a
little bit nostalgic and love a system
that is fast and really really
responsive let's just click on install
point Linux and we're going to see what
happens here to see granting rights is
happening at the bottom here there we go
okay where are what language are we
going to be English Canada good call
sounds good look at that its use
geolocation to actually pinpoint my
physical location it's automatically put
in my time zone if I need to I can click
around the map or of course I can use
this drop-down to change it okay so I
just need to click forward what kind of
keyboard do you have here in Canada
defaults to French because if you buy a
computer here in Canada it is going to
come with a french keyboard which is
really quite annoying because you're at
buttons in the wrong place and your
quotation buttons in the wrong place and
your / button is in the wrong place if
you type like me right so so I'm
selecting English us because I have
actually purchased a keyboard that is a
us-style keyboard English keyboard okay
so forward okay your name Robbie
Ferguson that's easy yeah I knew it I
knew it my password what we want to call
this computer will call it point Linux
this is the hostname and I'm just doing
this because I want you to see how easy
it is to install this distribution one
of the great things about the newest
version of point Linux 13-point 04 is
that they that they have absolutely
rebuilt the Installer it's a GUI
installation process as you see here and
it works really really well so I'm going
to select my hard drive in this case I'm
using virtual machine but that's only
for the sake of the demonstration just
so that you can see it install and that
you can install this on your physical
box or in a virtual machine however you
want to do it it tells me that my hard
drive has not been partitioned yet do
you want it to automatically partition
I'm going to say yes that's an easy way
to do it that basically means it's going
to slice up the pie which is your hard
drive and put things where they need to
go one of the things that you'll notice
though now is that I've got a swap
partition and I've got an ext4 partition
but neither of those is mounted to slash
so I just right click on my ext4
partition and I'm going to assign that
to my / drive my / mount point I should
say that is how linux does things where
windows does you know c drive is your
system drive yeah / is actually your
system partition in linux so we're good
to go so now we're going to go forward
where do you want to install grub and
grub all that is is it's the menu that
you see when you first turn on your
computer if your dual booting which
means you've got windows installed and
you don't want to lose it because you do
some gaming on there but you want to put
linux on you can dual boot grub will
give you the option to select at boot
whether you want to boot into linux or
whether you want to boot into windows
for example so we're going to put that
on the only hard drive that's in my
system and that is my SDA we're not
going to put it on a partition those are
partitions that's the actual drive okay
forward lets me review the settings
there's a little check box here that
says send anonymous installation report
leave that checked what that does is it
tells the people at Point Linux very
it's absolutely anonymous information
and all it does is it just lets them
know kind of a head count of how many
people are using the distribution what
kind of architecture using whether it be
64-bit or 32-bit that kind of stuff so
it's generic stuff but it helps them to
be able to keep track of how popular the
distribution is and we'd like them to
see if you go and download it that that
there have been some installs since
seeing it on the show that's important
so leave that on and click on install
look at that it's formatting it's going
through its indexing files to be copied
and we've got a wonderful surprise
tonight I heard him clearing his throat
we in fact have the creator of point
linux on the line with us tonight and
that so we like to say hello to him
Peter it is so nice to have you here
thanks for joining us tonight ah good
evening Robbie good evening Hillary
great to see everyone Peter we are so
thrilled about your distribution because
it really feel
was like like I was saying off the top
of the show there it feels like Linux
was meant to feel when we were in that
progression going from comp is to barrel
and then from barrel to compiz fusion
and the the whole progression that was
going on there and then suddenly it was
decided for us that those things were
going to be no more so tell us a little
bit about how and why point Linux
started what is it that motivated you to
do something which is essentially now
can i call point linux a bit of a fork
from you know we're looking at
everything is kind of the way it was
with gnome to comp is things like that
well what is partly Knox first of all
foreign to Knox is a linux distribution
based on the debian wheezy and mati one
that forgot to say and it's same as
Robbie just said is to bring back the
name to desktop experience on a modern
debian platform fantastic so yep that's
right and well why it will happen so I
just when it all it all started when the
when I just heard that the the original
known to project ceased to exist so I
just decided I just have to have to do
something about it and so I heard about
the Mater you need project and I I did
some tests I just wanted to see how how
good it could be integrated in today
into the 12 how good could i recreate
the original known because I wanted my
name back yeah and so I just when I felt
that it actually works i just started
you know thinking about make
a destroyed Peter I think so there
there's this massive group of users and
I don't even know what what kind of
numbers represent them i would say that
I'm a part of this group a group that
like yourself just wants that or that
old-style gnome feeling back and it's
and I think I kind of touched on it off
the top there where it's not just about
the interface and it's not just about
the way that it runs and it doesn't
matter who makes it it's about the
freedom i think is a big part of it and
having installed point linux and testing
it over the past couple of weeks because
i've had access to some pre-releases and
things like that I've been just it's
like stepping back in time in a way
because everything's current and
everything is modern but as far as my
interface goes I feel like this is the
Linux that I fell in love with this is
the Linux that I tried to show all my
friends and that I wanted everybody to
give a try to well the thing is that it
is kind of back back to the future thing
here because you see a as they know
actually cancelled the known to project
many users felt just betrayed because
totally ah the thing is that no known to
you was not only a desktop platform it
was actually a perfect solution for
servers yep where you just II I don't
know with where you need the basic thing
yes it was it was great for the net
bucks for the well generally
speaking for things like that just so
the same thing by the way goes to unity
the unity cannot cannot be installed in
servers for instance I have heard that
people just
people saying that you know unity does
it cannot satisfy their month service
yeah so uh so now known at knowing what
has kind of motivated you to create this
you know stepping back a little bit can
you tell us a little bit about the
platform how you've gone about it and
and what what exactly like what is what
is your goal with point Linux it's not
just to create that nostalgic feel
there's a lot more to it than that where
are we at right now and what are we
going to see over the next little while
well I just wanted to make a
distribution that that could be equal
first of all I just made a distribution
to to be able to bring bring it to
people like me just register if see us
well I'm a system administrator right ah
i work with computers a lot so i just i
just wanted to give people the same
experience because by three knocks
actually has a good out of box
experience absa think i think you
already noticed that we're going to see
that in just a couple of moments here as
well Peter I'd like to see how the how
the installation is progressing and also
I'd like to note that you know with
English being your second language
you're doing very well and I appreciate
you stepping out of your comfort zone
tonight to speak with us I really do
appreciate that so the installation is
is progressing and is going through it's
at the point now where it's removing the
live configuration packages notice that
we've been discussing things in the
meantime there hasn't been a lot of
interaction there things are things are
progressing well and and I don't have to
really worry about
I'm not even really watching it right so
it's going quite well so now what about
package repositories I mean you
mentioned that you're basing this on
debian and of course keeping in mind
that debian is the base for ubuntu at
its core and many other distributions so
you're really literally kind of picking
this up where i would say you know the
big distros were about two to three
years ago and then branching out into a
whole new distro which i think is
exciting because like I say it kind of
makes us feel like we're back at the
Linux that we fell in love with so we're
what is going on with repositories where
do where does all the file where do the
files come from that I'm going to be
installing when this has booted up and
all that kind of stuff well there are
there are two active repose actually the
first one is the is the Debian repo and
the the second one is the pine tree
knocks rep oh that is hosted in Russia
actually so well but the server works
pretty good so I think that there won't
be a problem but if somebody actually
wants to make a mirror is welcome very
nice really had to say yeah because when
he we need a winning support in this
field yeah he makes me think about you
know how the cloud and things could be
brought into play and even expand that
even further but that's very cool so
you're hosting everything in in Russia
and will have access to it from here now
how old is the project how long have you
been doing this and and what is kind of
the status of the project itself while i
have started developing for for about
half a year yeah well I mean actively
because I have had a successful boonton
Deb
and fedoras beans because of that but I
have act well when I realized that the
that's going to be a separate linux
project that was half a year ago
something like that again so 13 point 0
for which just came out when i announced
it there about 15 minutes ago that is
your second release sorry yeah that's
right the first release had the devil
installer it was a text-based okay
installer yeah and it is it is actually
a great thing I love it it is absolutely
perfect for the server setups when you
just for instance when it just make a
net instance elation and you just needy
whoa it works it works fine better as it
comes to the live live media it was it
just it was not designed for for the
live media so we just actually it's too
big it's too bulky so I just I just had
to replace it and in fact the the whole
well the whole size of the of the image
is actually reduced oh yeah okay really
that's the price up well there are well
I I know it's a hard way actually right
but but there is a well I just I feel I
had to do it forget it will draw more
attention to the discharge I think one
of the things that you should be very
proud of too is that it doesn't feel
like a new distro like it really does
feel like a mature project as I'm using
it I actually have it installed on our
main system and we're going to have a
look at it in a few minutes time but we
want to finish up the actual
installation here Peter and you'll see
that this is done it's ready to go and I
can just say yes to restart my computer
so we're actually going to do that now
Peter who is your I guess you would say
your target as far as customer base goes
who is
that that you think that point when x is
for well life first of all I think it it
is for experienced users that i still
cannot recommend it to the newcomers
sure i think well bed well the
experienced user is the just small small
companies that are looking for the wall
people like you are I suppose for us
please replacement because it is a
debian proj product while it's based on
debian it is pure debian yeah it reports
that it's a debian so i just wanted to
leave it just like it is yeah because
many people actually many distributions
actually change the less be released
line well it's it's a line that actually
reports what the distro is so i just
decided to leave it just like it is
debian it is a pure debian okay now it
as you say you know you mentioned that
it's it's kind of more for the power
user somebody like yourself for myself
and maybe not the first linux that you
would want to install i don't think that
we should keep all the fun to ourselves
realistically I think we should share it
so you know for somebody you know I
think about some of the friends that we
have in the chat room that are watching
right now who maybe are more experienced
that could install this for their
friends or for their family members
because it's completely usable it's it's
completely like it's linux but it's it's
more it's almost like it's fun to tinker
you know I saw this this meme on online
that I really could relate to where you
know linux is it isn't just about the
freedom it's not just about the fact
that we don't have to deal with viruses
it's the fact that it's fun to tinker
and it's fun to break things it's fun to
fix them again and play around it feels
like you're you're kind of you're
working on your computer and actually
working at more of a
a higher level I guess then just
something that like Windows or something
where you don't have any control over
the operating system it's completely
done installing here and i've rebooted
and i can enter my password and here we
go booting into point linux for the very
very first time Peter what repositories
can we get access to hear right out of
the box do we have things like let's say
flash or the ability to add non-free
applications to our linux distro here
well it depends on what edition you
actually choose because there are two
editions the well the first edition is
the full edition of course okay which is
what I cannot hear I'll just mention
that is what I've installed is here fall
down this yeah so the full edition
actually has almost everything out of
box wonderful but it has it has the VLC
media player it has it has the Flash
plugin it has well Firefox as a browser
so yeah it is actually the the system
configured out of box you can actually
start using it in most cases it has
LibreOffice well you can you can read
the description of packages on on the
point lead oxide just in the early
release notes Franco and there is
another and there is another edition it
is for addition and it actually has
nothing it has nothing but the it's just
a blank CD I just yeah well the thing is
it fits city it fits city it can be put
on a CD it is good for the
I thought people that love to you know
just make it from scratch just and also
it is good for the in cases where where
a computer has no has no DVD Drive and
okay you can't boot so basically looking
at core is available for cd-rom verses
which may also do well for you know like
a USB flash drive or something like that
or you've got the DVD is the full
version which most people I think these
days are gonna go with the full version
anyways I guess you would know that
better than I because you watch the
downloads but i think you know typically
you kind of want everything out of the
world yeah i would go for a full version
actually so what with all of the stuff
that comes with it and you know how
great it is and how it installed so
perfectly and just easy breezy is there
any cost or is there ever going to be
any cost or how can we i suppose and i
know the answer is that there there is
no cost is absolutely free to download
and install this so how can i put some
money into your pockets so that we can
support the development of this project
that as far as I'm concerned is exactly
what we need it and when I say we I'm
talking to Linux community how can we
put some money in your pocket to make
sure that this thing keeps going well
there is on the website there is a
donate page where we can just select the
payment system that you would love to
use and well there are there are only
two systems supported at the moment but
i will add more later well it's paypal
newspaper actually i think so the
donations are welcome of course because
the project actually needs the nations
to draw 2-2 2-2
just may make it easier for us to make
new versions it really it really feels
like all around it feels more like Linux
was three years ago like what is this so
you know you're doing this work for for
free for the community and you're
accepting donations to to continue the
the development of the project and and
you're doing a wonderful job Peter I
must say and I'm loving the distribution
we're going to take a closer look at it
is there anything else let's say I'm a
user with a little bit of programming
knowledge or maybe I've got a web server
at my business or something is there
some you mentioned repository mirroring
is there something that I can do if I
don't necessarily have the finances to
send you is there something that I can
do to assist you with this project what
what can we as a community do for you
well there are many ways to actually
support the project you can while I'm
just looking to build a team so okay I
really need helping hands now well
that's the point when I when I need
helping hands because I need well the
things that I could myself but now I
just I just I feel I need to expand the
project and so are the helping hands
would be very welcome actually so are
the fightin programmers the I don't know
the PHP programmers just English PA
speaking people that can actually that
are not afraid to write dogs you know
would be very welcome yet the ordinary
users can can help also they they could
actually spread the word you know about
the project just to help it ah yet there
is another thing that I would
to ask please if you have if you
download it through the torrent please
don't remove it after after a successful
download you want to see that for a
little while yeah yeah well that that's
about it very good so for those of you
who aren't familiar with torn what that
means is as you download the program as
you download the this CD or the DVD it
actually then shares it through your
internet connection with all the other
people who are downloading it in such a
way that it it takes some of the costs
off of Peters servers because you are
actually you're downloading it and then
you're sharing it out from there it's
like peer-to-peer kind of sharing in a
very sophisticated way so that's a
that's a good suggestion as well Peter I
would love to take a little bit of a
closer look at the distribution itself
okies gauges interesting I'm going to
take a look at the distribution itself
now we were talking a little bit about
non-free packages and you'll notice that
it as you I'm just going to go into
synaptic package manager here look there
are some interesting packages that I
notice here one of them is called point
Linux repose and non-free and this
actually automatically adds your non non
free third-party repositories the gpg
keys automatically does all that so
we're going to add that into our system
that's going to give us access to now
what does that give us that gives us
virtual box and all those things Peter
well uh well you can install the package
and it will give you the it will
automatically install the repos that
that actually will then actually have
the these packages sex acts again it is
google chrome opera than VirtualBox the
the virtual box that comes from Oracle
right and the drop box it's a great
thing I use it so I think it should be
there very good all right so let's put
that in there all right so of course I
want compiz
oh do I want kompis look at that all
right so I'm going to mark that for
installation now let's do a quick search
for comp is and you know users of who
have used compass will probably want to
do this because you weren't going to
want to add things like fusion plugins
extra that gives you some extra cool
effects and things like that you may
want to now it installs kompy's config
settings manager so that's good emerald
is a window decorator that's kind of
cool you see what's happening here is
where we're getting back into what linux
was fusion I grown if you want to have
it yes sir I'm sorry a man just break in
well there is a very handy package you
haven't mentioned it it is called partly
knocks dash companies it actually
installs the basic functionality of yeah
so you just have to install the package
and then just reboot / you get a basic
comp base all right so let's let's take
a quick look at how this ends up looking
on our system now this is my the one
that we just installed so I can apply
that and I can allow it to go through
the installation or we can in fact get
that off my screen and here we are
looking at Point Linux this is a fully
installed version on my computer and all
I've done is I've gone through the
repositories here Peter and we've added
a couple of things just like I was just
showing you how to do one of the things
that I did have to do was figure out
which kind of graphic driver to put him
for my nvidia card which was I guess
that would be where I would say maybe
not so much for an like a brand new
linux user what you could do is go into
synaptic package manager if you're if
you're using an nvidia card and do a
quick search for nvidia dash detect and
that will give you a package that's just
a simple little command-line tool so i'm
going to install that for ya
nice and quick gonna go term ah yes well
uh that's why I would not recommend it
exactly sorry hey partly nice different
to the arse because there is no driver
detection till like me having Boonta so
you have to install well in fact the
many non free drivers are already
installed on the on the full edition
version but if you actually are looking
for nvidia drivers installation you'll
have to do it yourself so there is
anyone attacked it so the package is
called nvidia dash current as far as i
can remember okay well what we can also
do is like CC what I've done here Peter
I don't know if you can see my screen
but I've done a quick pseudo nvidia dash
detect and it shown me that there is a
package called nvidia glx that's
available for my particular card right
and with that particular package you can
just find it right here there it is
you'll see that i've already installed
it and that's in fact given me all of my
nvidia stuff so all that to show Peter
that it's really not as complicated as
we would make it out to be we can use
tools like that to determine there's the
package name that I needed to install
and what did it do but it actually gave
me a full and video driver for my for my
card and it works great there it is just
as you would expect so brilliant job
that you've done with that with point
Linux is there anything else that we can
that we should mention as we have you
here Peter point linux org get over
there download the distribution excuse
me i was talking to them to the viewers
yeah looks like i have just
miss them well okay sorry I was just
just saying thank you for being here on
the show Peter and and you know I love
what you're doing with point linux i
think that the community is going to
really benefit from from your work and i
really hope that our community and the
community of linux at large will show
their support for this project and I'd
encourage you to go to point linux org
grab a download try it out on your
system do it in a virtual machine if you
want to give it a try first and and then
play around with it as perhaps your core
operating system Toby I think that the
district hopping is can you stop now
because they found one that is is
providing everything that we were hoping
for so Peter thank you very much is
there anything else that we can do for
you tonight thank you Peter it's it's
been great having you here i'm getting a
little bit of feedback now at this point
well i'm sorry i just as every bad sound
now i would better say goodbye to anyone
okay was it it was nice to just to see
you it's nice to have you here thanks
for being here thank you for your
wonderful project point linux not org
folks because i'm getting some feedback
there Peter I'm going to disconnect you
but thank you and we'll be in touch for
sure and hopefully you can join us in
the chat room there Peter and answer
some questions have we had any questions
there in the chat room as the show has
been going i'm not sure if if those have
been caught but Hillary is here and I'm
here we're going to real quickly get
into the news I think at this point I'm
I don't know if you can tell I'm really
quite excited about this dish and
thrilled to be back on a distribution
that takes me where I want to be with
Lennox so after the roof fallen back in
love with linux in general see i love it
what do you folks think if you're in the
chat room love to see your feedback
right now chat with us and and also you
know pop us an email live at category 5
TV or tweet us its category 5 TV on
twitter you can get over to our facebook
page cat5 TV / facebook or google+ cat5
TV /
gplus we're everywhere we're kind of
everywhere this it we're so social
should be able to find us yeah no prob
all right you ready I got lots of news
all right Garrity for this Microsoft has
accused Google of pushing Android
handset makers to use its application
such as YouTube and Knox along with
oracle nokia and 14 other tech firms
microsoft is filed a complaint with the
european commission the group known as
fair search our Juice I google is
abusing its dominance of the mobile
market is crazy so backwards is
Microsoft's Anna does it make any sense
yeah in response to the filing google
said we continue to work cooperatively
with the european commission thomas
vinje is the brussels-based council for
FairSearch he says we are asking the
Commission to move quickly and
decisively to protect competition and
innovation in this critical market he
goes on to say the failure to act will
only embolden Google to repeat its
desktop abuses of dominance as consumers
increasingly turn to mobile platform
dominated by Google's Android operating
system android is now the dominant
mobile operating system accounting for
about seventy percent of the market
that's amazing I kinda know that it was
that high I know I didn't either and i
think that i find it like i'm kind of
rolling my eyes over here I know you
can't see come off camera but yes
seriously Microsoft is complaining that
someone else is monopolizing the market
kind of funny kind of backwards kind of
like you know we were talking about kind
of going back in time a little bit
tonight maybe Microsoft should do that
and look back a little bit and see what
it was like when they had ninety two
percent share not so much anymore you do
the math if Android is seventy percent
and there are a whole bunch of other
competitors out there where does that
leave Microsoft many UK customers of sky
are being de lo de lodged what did you
write here what is that right deluge is
not a word
toluse I don't write it I just copy it
oh sorry with we're being bombarded with
thousands of old and deleted messages as
the company switches email providers in
recent weeks sky has stopped using
google to provide email services in
favor of Yahoo the switch has seemingly
resurrected many message messages users
formerly detected with some reporting
that they had to go through thousands of
messages before deleting them for a
second time someone lucky customers had
to suffer thousands of deleted messages
being redelivered several times on its
support site sky acknowledged the
problems the changeover has caused it
said the problem urged during my
migration as it was copying all customer
emails to Yahoo's mail servers the issue
should recede as mail servers were
synchronized they have said boy that'd
be annoying if you imagine trying to do
business ding ding ding ding ding all
these things yeah linux-based operating
systems have achieved great success in
many markets the open source Colonel
powers operating systems running on
million servers desktops laptops and
mobile devices now Linux will be voyage
into a new frontier space United Space
Alliance and nasa contractor which is
involved with operations on the
international space station the ISS is
migrating many of their key systems from
windows to linux this migration to open
source includes the first the world's
first Robonaut a humanoid robot which
will assist astronauts on the space
station with the mundane or dangerous
tasks way to go Lex way to go getting
out in space low fat preparations of
chocolate are well known but their
textures tend to not match the real
thing a report at the american chemical
society meeting describe a method using
the popular gelling agent agar to make
tiny sponges that displays fat
university of warwick researchers said
water fruit juice or even alcohol could
replace up to half the fat
after stephane mon said that when they
use alcohol they were like tiny vodka
jellies guys with half the fat hmm the
emulsion solution required that the
liquid be slightly acidic so that the
team so the team opted to use fruit
juices which dr. bond said was exciting
because it had the combination of fruit
juice and chocolate and everybody went
wild for it you can get these full
stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions from our fabulous
community of viewers if you have a story
you think's worthy of honor mention send
us an email at newsroom at category 5 TV
the category five dot teeny newsroom I'm
Hillary rumble thanks Hilary tonight
show is brought to you in part by
quarter II electrical contracting inc
you can find them at quarter eee
electric com also get your free one
month trial of netflix at cat five dot
TV / netflix and you see these lovely
devices behind us these are here to save
you money this is the nettalk duo and
net puck dual Wi-Fi net talk duo to go
to cat five dot TV / phone find out more
about this this will absolutely
eliminate your telephone bill check that
out alright we i mean i really wanted to
commit some time to peter there i loved
what i was doing and i hope that you
enjoyed yourself and that you're going
to go check out that distribution at
Point linux org in the meantime I
suppose we should see what we can do
with breaking into the mail bag and that
yeah answer some of your questions with
the short time that we do have laughed
certainly thanks everybody for sending
in your questions we love it we love it
and we got one here from Dave hey Robbie
have you ever tried any of open source
private cloud software I like the
concept of having all stuff available
from everywhere but I'm not so excited
about putting it out there with the big
brother like yeah I guess I hear ya I
found the software called own cloud do
you have any thoughts on it is it may be
worth a feature on cat 5e j haven't used
it um I'm I'm quite you know intrigued
by the cloud and then I use it like
crazy but I don't really use the google
thing except for my calendars and stuff
like that I guess not
Google Cloud I like I mean I still love
my pogoplug pogoplug calm what's
interesting about it you talk about you
know personal cloud so having the the
files yourself as opposed to putting
them on Big Brother servers pogoplug is
a device that you plug your hard drive
into so's your hard drive your data is
on your hard drive and it just shares it
out over the web in a secure environment
yeah you can you can access it but
nobody else can kind of thing I really
like that I haven't used open cloud our
own cloud I should say if anyone in the
chat room has used it would love to hear
from you know I wouldn't mind checking
out that kind of thing but Dennis Kelly
says that his pogoplug is slow and if
you're using a pogoplug and it seems
slow if you're on the land dennis kelly
like if you're accessing it on the same
network that that it is physically
connected to then it would be because
you're using encryption because if you
encrypt if you log into your pogoplug
account and you turn on always encrypt
my stuff it's great because it's
encrypted it's absolutely secure right
so 256-bit aes encryption so all of your
file transfers and everything happen
encrypted so what happens if let's say I
have my polka plug at home and I am
sitting on my home computer and I'm
accessing those files now I'm on a dsl
internet account you would think it
would be super super fast because I'm on
gigabit ethernet but because I've got
encryption turned on it uploads it's
sort of I mean it encrypts it using a
key that is on an external server
because it has to get that encryption
key and then route it back to your
computer so it's actually going out
through the modem and in through the
modem at the same time so you're cutting
it down to you know if you've got a dsl
modem with one Meg up and three Meg down
that means you're going to be maybe
getting like you know 500k a second
instead of a gigabit so very very very
slow so when you're inside the network
you can turn off encryption it doesn't
encrypt it twice it in fact encrypts it
because you've got that setting and set
up on your on in your panel when you log
into my pogoplug calm and so it encrypt
in order to encrypt it it has to use it
what does an encryption require
it requires a key right in this case it
would be like an ssl cert something like
that so it has to go out to the to the
ssl site and encrypted and back in
encrypted and so it's a little bit of a
roundabout kind of thing happening there
so that would slow you down when it's
important to have the encryption turned
on is when you're accessing your polka
plug always through the internet I have
a pogoplug here and I have a pogoplug at
a remote site that is connected to the
Internet 24-7 so that i can transfer my
backups i actually have activesync
copying the data between the two devices
so it's like a raid one of pogo plugs
but the encryption happens between those
two devices not between my computer and
my local pogoplug if that makes sense so
that would speed things up for you big
time and of course if you're not keeping
anything that's uber private on your
pogoplug then if you disable encryption
all it means it doesn't mean that people
can access it it only means that people
can intercept it if it's being
transmitted through their service so if
I'm an ISP and your wii and you open a
text file say on your pogoplug and it's
unencrypted i can read the contents of
that text file if i happen to be looking
for it if i happen to be watching a
packet sniffing and all that kind of
stuff it doesn't mean that they can
access your files it just means that
they can read the transactions between
the two devices you're still going to be
logging in through a secure connection
so you don't have to worry about your
password being hijacked or anything like
that so that makes us oh yeah good info
I like it Robbie um we have another
question if we got all the time oh look
at oh yeah Hillary's here um this comes
to us from a secret guest a secret guest
guess over 73 53 hey um how do i
configure olsr on to dd-wrt router and
three laptops to form a wireless mesh
network nice that is that even mean
some clever networking fan bangle pneus
that we could absolutely cover with the
next four minutes of the show okay not
really imagine what happens when your
internet goes down I mean I use the
nettalk duo trouble right so my internet
goes down I lose I lose my phone service
so I have to I have a cell phone so I'm
okay right most people do so that's why
that is ok if the internet goes down you
still have a cell phone you're good to
go but can be annoying that I can't take
my calls during that time where's this
also let's say I'm on the air I'm
talking on the show and all of a sudden
the internet just happens to go down
here what a pain right well there are
different ISPs different internet
service providers around town I could go
with Belle I could go with Rogers I
could go with comp Yousaf I could go
with a variety of different providers so
what would happen if I had more than one
provider scandal if cable internet went
down how could I make it so that my
computers would automatically now go
through dsl and if dsl went down it
would automatically go through cable and
if both were up it would share the load
between the two different connections
that's where this kind of networking and
mesh network and things come to play on
a consumer router dd-wrt opens up your
router to be able to do that kind of
stuff we don't have time to actually
cover that tonight because obviously
that's a little bit sophisticated but it
is in fact quite simple to do at the
same time I'll just do a real quick on
the dd-wrt website in the wiki there is
a mesh networking with olsr tutorial and
you'll notice that if you look at it
it's quite short and it's actually quite
simple now looks a little bit
overwhelming because it's like well what
is all this stuff we'll these are
plugins yeah okay so let's scroll down a
little ways and here's the actual to do
it yourself so you connect to your
router yeah we know how to do that we go
to wireless basic settings and we check
off that you know get our wireless setup
okay well we've done that so what do we
do we need to set up a well sr which is
to go into advanced routing turn it on
right go through the steps and
everything is pretty much there to get a
sick kind of mesh network going with
your dd-wrt router so that is to connect
both of those routers together so that
if one fit one connection goes down the
other one will take over for the
network's really cool stuff i'll post a
link for you in the show notes for
episode number 290 but in the meantime I
mean that's super easy to find I did a
search on Google for dd-wrt mesh and it
was the first result you see that that
okay and that is just to set up a very
very basic match network not overly
sophisticated but it gets you started
and that will help you to get going with
that I love the idea maybe we can look
at it in depth another day that would be
a cool feature I think we'd have to kind
of pre-record and actually set things up
I mean it starts with flashing your
router to dd-wrt it's like an operating
system for your physical router because
the router is kind of like a computer
yeah it's a solid-state computer and so
you know comes with the firmware that
you know it could be netgear it could be
whatever Brandi link or something like
that so you get rid of the netgear thing
putting an URT on it well maybe ya know
would be fun good good question now
thank you for the question hmm let us
know how you fare with all that and
that's pretty much all the time that we
have isn't it I can't believe it oh wow
we just learned so much but point linux
and you folks have fun tonight huh
always a good time now just a note that
we have I mean we've been working on
this and last week we ran into a Google
Hangouts it's been very complicated I
mean we've been we've been really
reaching out to to expand our kind of
reach as far as what services were
available on and we've been available on
hangouts we've been available on YouTube
live which is cool but hangouts has been
problematic because people haven't been
able to find how to get into our hangout
after the show and it's it's so you know
it's been like one or two three people
coming in to chat after the show and
it's like well where is everybody well
nobody can find the link so we figured
it out we got it licked okay go over to
cat five dot TV / g plus right now
and you'll see the link there which is
going to take you to the Hangout you
have to have a Google+ account they're
free so hey sign up and with that you're
going to be able to hang out after the
show plug in your webcam have a quick
little chat we'll be here for about 15
minutes at least I will be certainly and
you know we'll have a quick chat and say
hey and if you have any questions then
let us know it's cat five dot TV / g
plus keep that in mind category five TV
is our full website cat5 TV the short
one is our short URL redirector that'll
get you there all right I just tried to
do it right Alan that's how there you go
and it got you there and the first thing
on your screen is google hangouts I
didn't like that bring it up and John
making a good point in the chat room if
you don't have a Google+ account you can
still participate by watching and go to
cat five TV / YouTube and you'll be able
to watch the hangout live on YouTube
it's just that if you go through google
plus you can use your webcam and you can
actually talk back to us and say hi
that's pretty cool stuff everybody have
a fantastic week Hillary it's always a
pleasure having me here next week is
going to be another fun show Krista and
I are going to be showing you how to
hack step things up a little bit we are
going to build our very first phishing
site so that you can steal people's
passwords to get a bank account
information no more stealing that is an
sorry how
we're going to teach you the fish that's
gonna be great it's all for a good cause
though we're gonna show you exactly how
fishing works so that you know what to
watch out for so don't miss it next week
okay have a great week and we will talk
to you next Tuesday night episode 2 90
or 10 away from 300 yes yeah
we hope you enjoy the show Ted ago five
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven
you're watching this
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and
when you can watch live and interact in
the community chat where category 5 is a
production of charter to digital
solutions and is licensed under creative
commons attribution 2.5 canada we'll see
you next time thanks for tuning in
