welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5
now let's get here's your host Robbie
Ferguson hello everyone welcome to the
show hello my name is Robbie Ferguson
it's nice to have you here I see you
join us a category five dot TV did have
you there fantastic all right Hilary
what have we got coming up in the oh let
me tell you people lots going on the
world of tech news google sport loss
could have serious implications for
linux researchers say that car engines
could soon be fired by lasers instead of
spark plugs Google Video users may
automatic the transfer their videos to
youtube and lastly facebook is being
sued if one dollar so stick around for
these stories are coming up in under 30
minutes thanks oh hey all right so we've
got lots to cover tonight I know that
we've got some viewer questions that we
want to address off the top tonight
we're going to be going into a whole
bunch of stuff we've got the eight
segments in our web development series
and also we're going to be learning how
to run into 11.04 in a non unity mode of
course a boon to 11 point 0 4 s coming
out in just two days this thursday so
we're looking forward to its release and
we're going to be checking out how we
can make that run like the ubuntu that
you have grown to love rather than these
loom to that that we are learning to not
love ok
alright a couple of people mentioning
that we've got some sound issues tonight
and we are going to we're working as
best we can with what we have and we're
going to keep doing the show even though
we're using reduced hardware and and
having to make do with with a burned-out
microphone we've got some issues with
with some various things here at the
studio and of course we're just doing
our best to continue on even through
that and on that note I'd like to thank
personally everyone who has pitched him
towards the purchase of a new server and
a new microphone this this past week and
since since we got hit by the power so I
just want to say thanks we are well on
our way to and unfortunately it also
means that sometimes we're gonna run
into some issues over the next until
that is replaced and we're just going to
keep plugging through we're going to
keep plugging along and we're going to
do our best we're gonna make sure that
the content is exceptional won't even
notice the glitches oh yeah I'd be like
static I didn't hear any static what do
you mean the computer crashed it was so
awesome that I didn't even notice so
just happened yeah das bomber yeah we we
we got quite a surge here at at the
studio and in fact in my house we lost
quite a bit of equipment and and it
would have had to be pretty substantial
because we do have obviously you've
probably heard about some of the the
protection that we have here we have a
good solid protection on all of our main
devices so so it was a pretty good surge
so I mean took out some kitchen
appliances even so and and here we are
with a with a burnt-out server and a
microphone my hard wired microphone
which was wired in obviously got zapped
as well so but some of these sometimes
these things happen and we just call on
our community to to to come together for
us and we appreciate everyone who who
does there is still a coffee maker thank
you coffee maker made it through
you otherwise I'd be like a sleep okay
last week before we get into questions
this is this is very very important last
week we put out a call for your cardigan
pictures and there we go we've got we've
got one cardigan picture it comes to us
from Germany that is toward oh and torto
is the the winner of 100 that's kind of
weird who cool 100 viewer points and I
guess that's kind of a cardigan is it
does this count this is what I'm wearing
I I think that looks a little bit too
cool to be a cardigan it meets all the
Wikipedia specs I know but there's an
unspoken rule that if it's gonna be
called a cardigan it has to look like
something ran Lawrence would wear ah i
think that's that's kind of the rule
that's why i try to do it i got heckled
last week so i wore a car to you hey
look at you 100 viewer points there you
go if you are wearing a cardigan tonight
in honor of cat5 TV / tuesday visit that
website to find out what we are on about
and if you're wearing a cardigan tonight
send me a picture of you wearing your
fantastic cardigan and I'll throw 100
viewer points your way alright just make
sure you tell me who you are registered
as on the website and of course if
you're not registered category 5 Don TV
hey you have random viewer points just
flying around yeah just give them all to
you know oh well okay take it out man
please you know what's exciting about
the viewer points is we're getting to
the point where people are up in the 700
800 range of having viewer points and
once people hit a thousand that's when
we start to see the awards going out so
we're gonna have some cool stuff going
on after everyone hits the thousand mark
so make sure you get in on that all you
have to do is register on our website
category 5 TV gap will is going to rush
out to the store and get a cardigan just
so that they can take a picture and get
a hundred viewer points gadwal is of
course one of the ones who were on their
way to to an award at category 5 TV cool
let's hit up some questions excellent so
from Kevin he says I did not know that
you update the website so fast I was
impressed when I woke up the following
day which is five hours after the show
and found bureau had downloaded the
episode and the show notes were already
on the website love the show yeah hey
fantastic thanks for the note we do try
to have the show notes and RSS feeds
everything up to date with in about two
hours of the broadcast some of the RSS
feeds take a little bit longer than that
to do so it would be several hours after
the broadcast but you'll find that as
long as there are no technical glitches
during that broadcast then we're usually
up and running same night as early as
nine o'clock eastern time one hour after
the show ends but nice to have your
viewer feedback and I'd encourage you to
if you have comments that are you know
to that nature like feedback about the
show consider submitting a viewer
testimonial category five TV click on
interact and submit a testimonial it's a
way for you to lock in that testimonial
on our website so that other people can
see that as well cool thanks for the
note well another email from john
cottrell says i'm going to get me an
SATA hard drive and use it for windows
then use my ide drive for just abou two
how can I choose which drive to boot
from oh ok I I would expect that you're
asking from a technical standpoint not
from a do i boot from this one or
deviate from this one i would say boot
from the one that's prettier um tonight
yeah there's a couple things you can do
of course yeah that's the way to do it
you know just just smell it whichever
one smells more like flowers that's the
one to move from what you can do is
there's a couple different things now
I've done it many different ways but
you've got windows on one partition or
one hard drive and boon to or Linux on
another if you install linux as the you
know you you've got windows on the one
hard
then you've got the second hard drive
and you install Linux it will ask you if
you want to install the grub boot loader
and that's a fantastic way to do it or
you can use super grub disc i'll put
links in the in the show notes for
episode number 188 but by installing
grub you are basically creating a
bootloader that's going to at boot ask
you hey what do you want to do you want
to boot windows or do you want to boot
ubuntu or whatever else you have
installed in that computer there are
many different boot loaders akron asst
has a nice boot loader as well but its
commercial product and it works with
with multiple different systems and is
very very easy to set up a game i'll
show some links in the show notes for
episode 188 but then the other way to do
it and I've done this in the past if you
are going to be running those drives
independent of one another as in in a
case like myself for the longest time I
had two hard drives in my system and the
only time I would ever run Windows was
on the Tuesday night when I needed to
boot up and actually run the show so
during a regular day I was in a boom
tube so I didn't need to be booting back
and forth and switching back and forth
it was only a Tuesday night that I
wanted to boot up into windows so what I
did is I just I had set up my hard
drives in such a way that the windows
drive was going to be my main you know
the first drive and I went on and I
installed windows and then i rebooted my
computer and hit delete and went into my
my bios and i switched the order in
which my computer would boot the drive
so now the drive that's the windows
drive is actually the second drive the
drive that's going to be my wound to
drive is now the first so then I go
through the boon to installation and
install a boon to now in this case
you're not actually you're not getting a
boot loader that's allowing to select
which operating system you want to boot
from but every time you reboot you can
go into your bios change the boot order
and you'll be able to get that same
similar effect little less user-friendly
it's not something that you want to you
know show the kids hey here's how you
get into windows for your games because
at the same time they go and overclock
your system to 300 gigahertz and blow
everything up so that's another option
but certainly check out grub boot loader
and again links and all that will be in
the show notes for episode number 188
thanks for your question great so from d
man 810 he says just watching a past
episode 167 I wanted to say
congratulations on the birth of your new
baby back in November thank you he says
my birthday is yeah november 23rd i
thought it was cool hey Dennis Kelly
ain't going d man 810 thanks for not
nice nice to see you catching up on some
of the past episodes as well um we're
going back there always 22 November I
hope that the content is exceptional
that's not a question not just it is yes
yeah oh yeah oh it's fantastic thanks I
understand that great thanks for the
email great so continuing on an email
from Richard Marsh says hi Robbie just
wanted to point out that cat 5 TV / web
dev works fine but category 5 TV / web
dev doesn't exist not sure if this was
on purpose or not great works over cat5
TV / web dev is our web development page
it's a it's a hot link and i'll explain
that a little bit to you category 5 TV
is our actual website okay so anytime
you hear me say cat five dot TV that
means what you're actually doing is
you're going through a redirector
consider something like tinyurl
something like that or bit ly for
example so with cat 5 TV all that site
is it's not actually a website it is a
redirector so if i type in cat5 TV /
tuesday it's going to automatically
redirect to our youtube video called
tuesday if at the same time i go cat
five TV / web dev because cat five TV is
our redirector it's going to take me to
category 5 TV / features and tutorials /
web development PHP so when you say that
category 5 TV / web dev
work that's because category 5 TV is not
our redirector it's our actual website
so anytime you hear me say cat 5 TV that
means we're redirecting you to another
website when we do that for sponsors for
example it's a chance for us to be able
to keep track of how many people have
clicked on that link every time you
visit cat5 TV / pogoplug there's a
report that's generated for that for the
advertising so that our advertisers know
okay we're getting this many hits from
category five and they understand that
because of those reports because we've
redirected you too pogoplug com we're
able to generate a report that shows
okay this is how many people heard about
you through our show so so there are
many many applications for that but I
guess it can get confusing if if we
don't understand the difference between
the two web URLs so yes that make sense
make them yeah I hope so okay guys you
have time for more emails right now or I
think I think we should squeeze in as
many email as we can before before we
get rocking on on our feature tonight
great just read really really fast oh
I'm going to be quick with my answers
okay good from John privy I haven't a
sous epc model 10 15 PP that I have set
up as a dual boot windows seven starter
in a boot in 10 point 10 netbook edition
unity best of both worlds and says
honestly it's for my college classes in
office 2007 s APA citation tool is a
must buy office doesn't run well under
ubu to wine however I've noticed not our
notice that there is an issue with boo
to 10 point 10 unity specifically alt f2
doesn't work if I swap over the standard
gnome desktop it does is there a way to
enable alt f2 on ubuntu 10.4 unity first
point gnome desktop for the win another
vote I love the fact that you justified
why you're having to do a boot to
windows seven oh by the way it's just
not right don't be mad at me please
don't be mad
but I'm dual boot into Windows 7 there
was a shudder year did I meant was there
sir yeah well thanks for that that
that's that's a good point but as far as
actually getting it to go in 10 point 10
unity problem is you'll find that the
the version of unity that came with
ubuntu 10.4 alt f2 however the version
that is coming out with 11 point 0 for
does so my hope for your sake is that
you're going to receive through an
update a fix that's going to all of a
sudden open up the alt f2 so keep trying
it every time you every time you get
your updates hit alt f2 and see if it
happens in the meantime what a lot of
people would suggest that you do and
what I would probably suggest you do is
look at a tool that we've already looked
at on the show before called gnome do
and it's just like it sounds GN om e and
so everyone says good gnome come on no
dash do do and what that tool allows you
to do is you use the windows button with
a super key on your keyboard and the
spacebar and it brings up a very similar
type launcher that lets you type in the
name of an application just like you
would with alt f2 but at the same time
it opens up the features of known do or
you know do for you so give that a try
if your version has still not received
the update to get the alt f2 and I don't
know if they're going to incorporate
that in a 10 point 10 I hope that they
do for the sake of the users who are not
going to be upgrading to 11 point 0 4
but if you do upgrade to 11.4 you should
find that alt f2 has been replaced and
it's actually it's actually quite decent
the way that they've laid it out in a
graphical environment as well it has
history and and all the stuff that you
would expect from alt f2 but it's quite
different than the one you're used to in
num cool cool thanks for the question
John so from Dennis Kelly hey Dennis i
dint managed to set up my home folder on
a second partition first question is how
do I confirm that it is indeed on my
second hard drive I have my hold home
directory directory on my unraid
okay the first question enough you want
to answer that so how do we know if if
it's been moved over to your hard drive
yeah so if it's currently on your unraid
device you've mounted it probably
through FS tab or something like that so
what you can do is you can you can go
into your terminal and you type mount
and that will show you where your home
folder is mounted to so when I type
mount and then hit enter you'll see that
my / so like the root of my hard drive
is on dev / SDA for and then if you
scroll down you'll see / home quite
possibly I don't because my home resides
within this / you'll see one that says /
home and it has a different entry so it
won't be the same as your / so and it
also won't be your run your Samba share
on your unraid box so just type mount
that'll show you where where that's
currently mounted to and then you'll be
able to confirm that that is indeed your
hard drive and if you're not certain if
it is your hard drive bring up a tool
like I don't know G part ed so that you
can actually see your partitions on your
hard drive and you can determine oh yeah
that is SDA for on the new hard drive
hope that answers that aspect of your
question so second part how can I move
my old home directory to my new home on
my nude route to be able to get all the
settings back for installed applications
or do I have to reinstall all
applications to be able to get this
setting back no and that's one of the
beautiful things about about linux I'm
expecting now this is this said I'm
expecting that you haven't reinstalled
Linux you've just simply installed
another hard drive and you want to move
your home folder over to that so what
you can actually do is get that hard
drive you've got that hard drive
installed boot up from your ubuntu live
CD and through the aboon to live CD
mount that new hard drive then use SMB
colon slash slash and then the IP
address of your unraid server and you'll
see your share their that's
that's your current home folder on the
unraid server copy all the files make
sure you hit ctrl H if there's hidden
files they may not be displayed by
default just double check that your
hidden files are being displayed and
copy that whole massive thing over to
that new hard drive and doing that from
your from within like an ubuntu live CD
you're doing it in such a way that if
you're not affecting a mounted and
currently in use home folder so then you
can drag it all over make sure it's not
mounted anywhere else and and pop it
onto your hard drive then boot up and
edit your FS tab point it to your new
hard drive and you'll be able to get
everything go no problem and always you
know you want to have a backup on your
unraid server don't move your home files
right off the back instead copy them
that way you have the you've got the
option to fall back to your previous
configuration without any data loss
because I'd really I wouldn't want to
see you lose anything there okay good i
hope that hold that helps so last
question and you'll have to forgive me
if i say your name wrong sorry on your
neck 'land says thanks for the great
show i watch all the times but on video
as it goes live at two in the morning
here in sweden hmm even if we have late
nights in the summer you still need some
beauty sleep to hang on just one saying
that I keep saying that Mitra deviously
need my beauty sleep not John you've
heard me say that every night yeah me
and my beauty sleep just wanna know if
perfect perfect bhuntu is ready for
ubuntu 11.04 or if it's better to wait a
while with installing it 11.4 runs great
on my old fujitsu-siemens Simon's scale
eot sorry i'll need lingo for me than
that computer extra ram installed i'm
gonna watch the latest show from you
hope you will have a great spring there
here it is now over 20 degrees and sunny
summer woman
soon be here after a long winter yeah
what was it today I know like six and
I'm raining rain just like and it like
it just drips down this thing you know
right into my eyes and all over my
horrible terrible care of on those cool
advisors and you know yeah Oscar middle
visors like like like they use when
they're playing poker Legos yeah just
like that with with the bald spot at the
top just the book just again yeah so I
just get the sunburn up at the Talon see
with the problem I don't see my promise
okay I'm not that styling anyway ah oh
although tonight pogoplug that's pretty
styling it up tonight sure and you'd
like to win one right I heard a
resounding yes yeah i think we heard it
so people join us in the chat room
category five TV make sure you are in
the chat room make sure you are that you
set your own nickname you can't be a
guest and by that i mean you can be a
guest we welcome you to be our guest but
you can't have guests in your name you
have to but if you create intentional
death like what if they want to be a
guest you know drama bot is pretty smart
but he's not that smart ah ok so just
say you know I'm get the word guest out
of your name and then you'll be eligible
cool this is category 5 technology TV
i'm your host Robbie ferguson my crystal
will increase to wells and over there
hey yo hi everyone I'm blurry I'm here
we just wanna leave you out thank you
we're gonna be finding out what's up in
the news in just about five minutes from
Hillary there in the newsroom which is
actually a school I guess things are
going well yes all is well here in the
land of education and whatnot so I am
learning lots and getting some good
hands-on experience I'm the sake of the
viewers what is it that
you're typically doing on a day-to-day
basis okay let's rewind a little bit so
I went to school for broadcast
journalism for television news and I've
been doing a lot of on camera stopped
and anchoring creating reports going on
the field reporting that sort of thing
and actually currently i'm on a
internship placement stint at a TV
station so i've been doing some hands-on
work there and i'm working on my first
full-length feature story so that will
go to air I'm soon very cool and will
expect to be able to follow you on
twitter twitter.com slash Hillary rumble
and I would hope that I would expect
that you'll you'll be able to post some
information there when when the story
breaks yes for sure all you guys would
be the first to know so follow me on
Twitter and keep you posted cool thanks
Hilary we're going to toss everything
back to Hillary there in just a couple
of minutes but I would just invite you
to say hey in the chat room category
five TV let me know if you have any
questions there and we just love to see
everybody there nice to see so many
familiar faces and a couple people that
haven't been around for a while nice to
see you and lots of people that we see a
lot of and it's good to see you too hey
d-man 810 we were already talking to you
tonight just got in the chat room so did
I miss my question you miss des sorry
dude you'll just have to watch this on
the download watch it again yeah over
and over again on repeat I'm sure he
does what we brought watches every
episode probably does two or three times
most likely 810 times how's your week on
ah good yeah good that was like a yeah
pretty good that's figured yeah so far
yeah lots of you just got over being
sick kind of cold the flu so feels good
to be yeah yeah I saw a lot of people it
was a long weekend and everybody here
was getting sick so you know everybody
spent belong weekend sick and then
Monday well enough to know the works are
you back to work
and that's how it went down for a lot of
folks including myself so yeah ubuntu
11.04 is coming out in just a couple of
days really really excited about that
we've been waiting for it for 11 years
and four months but one of the things
that we're not looking forward to is
unity I mean we like unity and community
but not when it comes to replacing our
gnome desktop with something that's so
freakishly designed for multi-touch that
it just doesn't work with my touchpad on
the laptop I don't know it's my opinion
of course but unity is designed to allow
you to you know a lot of things are
going multi-touch and a lot of things
are you know we're getting more and more
tablets and were going to see the Linux
tablets coming out and all this stuff
very exciting stuff and I'm very excited
to see unity and and gnome 3 on those
devices but on the desktop and on my
laptop it just doesn't feel right
there's not an interface that that seems
to work for me with a mouse so what I
want to show you tonight is you're going
to be downloading ubuntu 11.04 in just
two days this thursday when you get to
your welcome screen click on your name
and don't type in your password just yet
instead if you go down to the very
bottom here you'll see that it's
defaulting to a boon to which is going
to load unity instead change that to
ubuntu classic and that my friends is
going to allow you to in in fact get
into your classic style gnome desktop
from within 11 point oh four so
definitely a definitely something that
you're going to want to know and if
you've been hesitant to to upgrade to 11
point oh four because of unity then
there's an opportunity for you to
actually run the operating system the
way that you would expect it to and it's
loading there it's all my
talk but it does load this is category 5
technology TV just a quick tip for you
oh there it is it came up it's just in a
virtual box window there but there we go
so good to know Hilary I'm gonna toss
everything over to you nice to have you
here tonight and move on yeah we're
gonna be jumping into our feature on web
development number 8 right after the
news take away he'll it's time for the
new booze I feel like there's like some
theme song or something that was playing
there is a sumac and I think you just
sung over it okay well from the category
5 Dottie newsroom a Texas jury has ruled
against Google in a suit that alleged
some of its use of open source Linux
code a match to patent patent
infringement something that could have
big implications for other companies
using Linux technology and other open
source systems in the verdict delivered
last week the jury decided that Google
should pay five million dollars for the
infringement the suit was filed in june
2009 by a firm called bedrock computer
technologies who has been accused of
being a patent troll the patent question
patent okay five million eight hundred
thousand wait eight oh dear it's just a
big long patent number let me tell ya
detailing methods and apparatus for
information storage and retrieval using
a hashing technique with external
chaining and on-the-fly removal for
expired data since the code resides in
the linux kernel itself this could have
implications well beyond Google patent
an IP activist for Ian Mueller wrote on
his blog Thursday the plaintiff
identified a portion of the Linux kernel
as part of the accused instrumentalities
many companies using Linux have already
been required by the patent holder to
pay royalties and many more will now
based on this jury's verdict elect to
pay researchers say car engines could
soon be fired by lasers instead of spark
plugs a team at
prints on lasers and electro-optics will
report on Sunday that they have designed
lasers that could ignite the fuel air
mixture and combustion engines this
approach would increase efficiency of
engines and reduce their collusion by
igniting nor of the mixture the team is
in discussions to commercialize the
technology with denso a major automobile
component manufacturer following their
mass announcement about the forced
closure of Google video last week the
google video team received many
complaints from users who post large
videos in large numbers on the defunct
service even though users have not been
permitted to upload new content to the
service for a couple of years those who
previously had uploaded much content
couldn't believe that google is giving
them under a lot to download and move
that content nor what could what could
that mean to their contents distribution
in a follow-up announcement on Saturday
google video teams mark dr. Mann says
that they should have done better and
reveals that not only has google heard
the complaints and remove the april 29th
deadline but they've also created a
handy upload videos to youtube option on
the google video status page which will
automatically transfer your videos to
youtube which google also owns while
google does hope all users will move
over to youtube quickly the impression
we get at this point is that they are
retracting their demand for users to do
so leaving the service active until an
undefined date when they were
automatically automagically haha my gate
my fear I can't read automagically
migrate your google videos to youtube
and in an interesting move to shed
publicity on facebook's contradictory
policies and lack of support AOL news
writer david fagan is suing facebook for
one dollar while at first the thought of
suing the largest social media company
in the world for one dollar seems
pointless the fact is mr. Feigin is
receiving massive amounts of exposure
due to the absurdity of this lawsuit
which he hopes will get mark zuckerberg
and company to respond to user complaint
fagan like so many other users uses
facebook social media platform to
network with users from around the world
but Facebook decided to label him as a
spammer and during the closest account
for friending people he didn't actually
know the problem is a Sagan expresses
Facebook is actively contradictory
contradicting their own policies on one
hand they tell you not to friend anyone
you don't already know on the other the
site constantly bombard you with the
names of Facebook people that Facebook
suggest you should friend huh and here's
the kicker in trying to contact Facebook
secure support department about the
issue baby was shocked to find out that
they do not have one he feels the FTC
and Congress should take concern over
the fact of the company which is now
worth more than Microsoft cannot be
reached by the very users who access
service no word yet if Facebook will
attempt to settle the lawsuit out of
court perhaps by buffing sir Fagan just
to cover coffee you can get these full
stories online at our website I category
five dot c / newsroom the category five
died TT newsroom is researched by roy w
nash with contributions from our
wonderful community of viewers if you
store you fix for the on-air mention the
Sunita and through I kind of great by
ITV for the newsroom I counted five ah
Hillary Hillary thank you so much you
made it through automagically was
actually quote so I didn't do that I
didn't do that to you out of spite I
promise you it was awesome fantastic job
Thank You Hillary this part of me this
episode of category five technology TV
is brought to you in part by pogoplug
and you'll find them online triple w cat
five TV / pogoplug and of course also by
planet calypso get involved in the
massive multiplayer online universe at
cat five dot TV / Calypso where you can
download the free game are you ready to
rock I am bad
you know what I just realized what did
you really don't know if you want to do
it now or later but we never actually
answered if you want question didn't
made fun of him mocking or you know
rubbing the weather in our faces oh
sorry what was the question well now we
don't know um sorry just so let's see so
I know if perfect punto is ready for a
boon to it boon to 11.4 for are you
didn't marry to wait oh well with
installing it 11.04 runs great on my old
ha ok yeah with some extra ram installed
yourn I is is very patient just way too
through the news and ok ok can't a
decision yeah okay well moving on then
oh no I the the software perfect them to
at perfect bloom to category 5 TV will
be released 10 days following the
release of ubuntu 10.04 and that is your
answer so it is not available yet it is
in private testing and that is because
there is the potential that something
like perfect boom to which takes your
operating system and adds a whole bunch
of cool features that there is that
potential that you can break things so
we do our best to not break things by
testing so we take 10 days after the
launch of the the new version of the
distribution and that gives us a chance
to now that their lie they've worked out
a couple of their bugs we can start
testing with the new software so check
it out it will be available soon perfect
boom 2 dot category 5 TV is where you'll
be able to get it alright thanks for
catching that OH I'm just too good
sometimes too good to get too good
always showing me up I tried I would
have just gone right to the end of the
show beyond I actually knew earlier that
he hadn't answered it but I wanted to
leave a message oddly make him look bad
yeah by the way Robbie
just so you know you haven't done it the
answer all right welcome to part 8 of
category fives web development series
you'll find it online at cap 5 TV / web
dev and we'd love to have you join us
there download the files that you'll
need in order to participate in
tonight's lesson and also bring up your
web browser and go to demo cap 5 TV /
006 and there we go
hey John nice to see you okay so you're
all set over there on the mac I am ready
too bad this all right demo cat five dot
TV / 0 0 6 is where you want to be and
we are looking at let's bring it up
we're building this website right from
scratch we started with simply mocking
it up in Photoshop and then slicing it
up in both Photoshop and the GIMP with
the earlier episodes of this series and
now we are at the point where we are
coding this thing like crazy and very
very soon we're going to actually be
ready to launch this as a website at
that time we're going to be able to do
search engine optimization we're going
to do search engine submission there's a
lot more to learn and we'd encourage you
to follow along with us cat5 TV / web
dev and of course you'll see at the top
of that page that we also have a very
special partnership with dreamhost at
cat5 TV / dreamhost and when you use the
coupon code cat5 TV all uppercase you're
going to be able to receive a free
domain registration as well as a year of
hosting for only seventy dollars us so
you don't want to pass up that deal
definitely want to get in on that cool
alright so looking at our site where we
left off last week we got our caption
done here we've got our image placed
over here so now we are in the process
of placing the the photograph within the
frame that we've created there so let's
just jump right into it and what I'm
going to do is I'm going to hop into my
source code not that one there we go I'm
going to close that all right so we've
got index PHP
and right now we've got hello world
within our polaroid div ID so what I
want to do is I want to grab that image
which is photo underscore 0 1 dot jpg
and you know what I'm just going to get
a rename and copy the file name itself
and so over here at my source you'll
remember how we added an image to recall
the tag that you use to edge hurt IMG
source IMG SRC SRC for image source
equals images photo underscore 01 jpg
and the slash is for XML compliance to
close off this tag and you'll see that
this is relative to the location of the
file that we're editing which is index
PHP so we can leave that as just simply
images if this is going to be in the
root folder of your web server you could
have a slash there and it will go to
slash images or it could be dot slash 4
from the current folder any of those is
correct but of course if we left out
images it's not going to find that photo
because it doesn't exist within the
current folder so now as we refresh it
might help if I upload see I am used to
I'm used to actually developing and
situated everything auto uploads but for
this example we are not going to do that
so you'll see that my image has been
placed on top but in the very top left
corner so we're going to position that
let's get playing first of all we need
to find out the dimensions of that image
let's right click on and go view image
Firefox is fantastic 309 by 276 if
you're using Internet Explorer you've
got to right click on go properties find
the information and retype it and this
anyway ok so taking that information
okay we've got 309 pixels wide so on my
image I'm going to go with equals
because we're not in CSS so it's not
with colon its width equals because
we're in HTML right now where did I say
309
sure 309 276 is my height so I said yes
whew I have the memory of a newt when it
comes to flipping back and forth and
talking at the same time I don't even
remember what number I just said okay so
I'm just actually listen next up yeah so
we've actually we specified the width
and height of that image it's a good
thing to do it's going to help the page
load quicker and avoid any elements
getting kind of misplaced or anything
like that okay so nothing has changed
about the location of that image so I'm
going to call this let's create a class
for this because maybe one day we'll
have more than one of these on a page
class equals Polaroid photo or you know
what I'm just going to go I'm going to
go I'm going to get even fans here I'm
just gonna call it photo okay and watch
what I'm going to do I'm going to still
accomplish the same thing I've saved
that now I'm going to go over to my CSS
and you'll see what I mean here go down
to Polaroid and just below that here's
what we're going to do we're going to go
Polaroid okay so anything that's within
the Polaroid ID div but is within the
class photo so both have to be true then
do this border solid three pics red and
let's upload and see what that looks
like
there we go so you'll see that this is
the only element that's getting that
three pixel border and that's because it
is within the Polaroid ID and it's
within the photo class but it has to be
both so I could have other things with
the class photo and they're not going to
get that attribute because they're not
within Polaroid okay so that's not
actually what we wanted to do I just
wanted to show you where that was going
to land so now what we want to do let's
try margin dash top 5 picks I just want
to see if that's going to move things
down let's make it something substantial
let's make it 15 pics upload our style
dot CSS file and that is indeed moving
down our photo exactly the way that we
want to do so we're going to move this
down a little bit further probably 35 or
40 done 35 here back at my site starting
to look like it's about position
correctly now let's position it from the
left
so I'm not actually using like an
absolute position or relative
positioning all I'm doing is I'm just
patting the outside of the image so that
it forcibly gets bumped let's try 50
pixels
a little too far and you I know what
you're thinking I knew that was gonna
take you far Robbie I deal with pixels
day in and day out and that was too many
pixels that's what you're thinking
wasn't it that's exactly here that's
wrong like she was like don't know how
you figured that out yeah by the way
you're mocking is spot on that's exactly
what I sound like exactly like that oh
good okay what do you think Kristin I
one pixel to the right well it's pretty
darn good it's pretty good eh how far be
picky I would say that the left right
and top margins should all be the same
if you were being a fatty if you were
being picky they're not gonna be
identical though it was a Polaroid
feeling Mike oh yeah at the bottom but
the visually friendly nice hoodie yeah
so if i bring this up to 32 33 and make
that 29 that's probably a little bit
closer to visually being representative
of being having the same margins around
the edge right because a Polaroid as you
know has exact margins haina sometimes I
feel bad cuz these are the kind of
things that i emailed to rob you I'm
like you know excute bump I'm doing it's
off by two pixels he has never called me
a bad word to my face yet so I wouldn't
do such a thing no I have too much fun
ok I have settled on 30 pixels from the
top 29 from the left and you'll see
pretty darn good yeah and if you
remember what we actually accomplished
here is that that image even though it's
transparent and it's floating this way
and it looks super cool the image itself
is only a combined total of twenty seven
point four kilobytes pretty good yeah so
where before it was going to be like an
absurd amount of killer
like 200 or it was like 800 on Mac
having a couple of matches one Stabbin
okay there's one thing that's been
troubling me that I want to fix and that
is that in your mock-up you didn't have
a period after the word happened so
we're gonna remove that how's that all
right so now as you look at our site
it's really starting to take shape there
we go you'd cool all right we've got our
menu system we've got our text we've got
our Polaroid we were gonna throw some
text underneath of it at some point but
for tonight we're just trying to motor
through as much as we possibly can
before we give away some polka plugs
very cool so stick around all right so
where are we app that is the end of our
header as far as that goes now we do
have the menu system this and that we're
going to add that as well so within this
element within our div header let's see
what happens if we give I'm just going
to quickly go back round number FFF with
a no let's go height or let the width
fill the entire width of the page height
30 kicks
I just want to see where this is going
to land in relation to my other elements
especially that floating image because
that's that's our an AMA list item so
that's actually going right up to the
top here but you'll see that the
positioning is good because it's within
our rapper so it is good we just need to
move it down and we can do that in one
of many ways first of all we've learned
about clear both but I think what that's
going to do is is probably going to
throw it down a little bit too far
because our element falls quite a bit
lower than where we want this to be so
it's going to see it's going to put it
down here which is not what we're
actually looking for so I think what I
would rather do in a case like this is
I'm going to go position absolute and
we're going to talk or we could go
relative as well but let's try this
first and we're going to go with the
height of the element that we want to
place it below plus the height of the
top as well so we've got 275 pixels
there say I don't know 100 pixels height
that way so let's just start with that
let's start with 275 pixels so what this
is doing is it's saying okay what I want
to do is position an absolutely position
element so I'm telling this that it has
to fall 275 pixels from the top of this
website so it's going to go down here
and let's see where whereabouts that
falls you'll see that it's not quite far
enough okay we need to move that down
even further so let's add another 75
pixels on there and you can do this by
measurements as well but it's probably
just as quick just to to guesstimate and
move things around that's getting pretty
close I'd say another what do you think
Krista we ate pixel plus a 10 but turn
that's fine let's go with what you chose
well I could be wrong well you could be
wrong but I don't want to get yelled at
but only yellow you off air I'm ready
yeah but I don't want to get yelled at
didn't say on air oh did I go the
opposite direction I did too it was 320
and I went down for 350 what did i do
their people I went down to I went down
by 40 All Right see what happens john
starts talking about yelling at me and
that's on there and look at that she's
off x 1 pixel and it was the opposite
direction of what I was wanting to do so
361 let's upload okay there we go
alright so now we want to specify the
width of that element so within our
style in the div here we're going to
move that right now it's just a it's
just for our reference we're going to do
a 100-percent width let's see what that
does hui that is the width of the entire
website so let's get the width of this
element nine hundred and fifty pixels
we're going to not use a relative width
we're going to use nine hundred fifty
pixels hard set
and then refresh and you'll see that it
falls down like that now you see that
it's covering our image so now we're
going to learn something cool that's
called the z-index and so with this
element first of all what we're going to
do is we're going to grab this style
information we're going to cut this all
out and we're going to put it into an ID
okay so I've cut that into my clipboard
ID equals what was this element for and
just like a submenu or something we have
to bring up the mock-up let's see it's
like a blue area I dashi have my mock up
up okay I'm leaving it to GIMP I will
bring it up in the game okay so this is
yeah these are like submenu say link one
link to link 3 okay so what I'm going to
do is we want it to fall behind that
element you notice that the colorization
is not what we want yet but that's
that's okay so we're going to call this
ID submenu okay go over to our style
sheet remember to make the tour
submenu there we go picks it up a little
bit
see how I was able to actually do some
testing within the browser without
having to create an ID or anything like
that now that I'm happy with it now I
can do that so when I was saying about
z-index now this is exactly the way that
it was just that it's in the style sheet
now rather than within the HT and the
HTML end of the PHP file so if we look
at our site it's still the same okay
i've refreshed but it's over top so
z-index allows me to send this element
below another element i'm going to set
the z-index of this element to five but
now what I need to do is I need to set
the polaroid to a higher z-index z-index
six and then the polaroid photo again
has to be above that think in layers
okay so this is layer 5 6 7 and that's
going to be the positioning of those
layers okay upload that and refresh
and if all goes well see what else have
I got behind there so I'm going to use
five
running so short on time I really wanted
to cover this but I think we are going
to come back to that because it's not
falling behind just yet we're gonna come
back to that in episode 9 of the web
development series I'm going to have to
cut it off right there unfortunately
because of the fact that we do have some
polka plugs to give away so get into the
chat room category five dot TV this is
your chance to get a fantastic pogoplug
pro damn polka plug is a cloud computing
device that allows you to plug in an
external hard drive and then you can
access it from your mobile device you
can stream video to and from it you can
do all that aspid enters mention oh you
misspelled D index when you're typing so
quickly so that would explain why that
was it going behind that's that's cool
thank you so we are giving this away in
the chat room right now get onto
category 5 TV or the category 5 chat
room on freenode lets you access your
files I've got one of these at a family
member's house that I can back up my
stuff too it's fantastic that way great
for off-site backup streaming ability
being able to watch your video content
listen to your music I've got an eight
gig ipod touch this gives me 250 gigs of
storage for my ipod touch because of the
fact that it it accesses it through
Wi-Fi and accesses the the actual the
content that's on the drive it's
connected to that let's see if draw bots
going to work for us tonight I really
really hope so here we go watch in the
chat room category 5 TV cooler boom to
wants to know what happens if Robbie
wins this Robbie sweet yeah it's totally
rigged oh my first winner Robbie
pogoplug second winner Christa Oh tastic
what a way to end a great show
I won't complain we wouldn't complain
her we'd be all right with that think
about the potential draw bot is given it
a go in the chat room category 5 TV
that's the category 5 chat room on
freenode here we go drama the intensity
of waiting for draw bot to grab all the
names from the chat room what is just on
the edge of the receipt I know look at
us while you wait float the pogoplug box
one minute left to the end of the show
Rob I come on dude seriously no I'll
just close my eyes and I'll fight it
those great yeah pick Greg in Texas pick
Greg in Texas I'm just waiting for the
videos of this to show up on YouTube
with a big fail in my forehead just
waiting waiting that's fantastic Robbie
the programmer and you people trust me
to show you how to program suckers Oh
serious that is unbelievable hey stick
around in the chat room after the show
and we're gonna see what's going on here
because I would love to give away a
couple of these focal bugs if I can't
get these away within the next couple of
minutes I do assure you that we are
going to give these away next week draw
a bot I am so angry with you right now
he's luring you in so you have to come
watch next week Oh drop on what's
happened here is the draw bot goes into
the chat room this is a system program
connects into IRC and grabs a list of
all the names but what's happening is is
this not its
getting connected to IRC it can't
connect a free note right now and
unfortunately that spews out a bunch of
errors because it doesn't have a list of
names to work with will you just put
them all in a hat we could do that but
yes right stick around for three hours
off condition mm-hmm one last click of
drama to see if this if this goes
through and we're pushing the time but I
really wanted to give these away tonight
come on robot cooler bhuntu I'm giving
it another go Chris Reich it's trying to
get the names but it's it's just not not
happening let's take a look at some of
the names that are in the chat room e or
two and it looks like everybody's got
perfectly fine names nothing out of the
ordinary no UTF eight characters or
anything weird like that getting I talk
to it like it's my pet seems to be
working
and now a moment of silence in memory of
draw bot who failed tonight and yet
ladies and gentlemen that's worth the
wait for to foco plugs we are given away
well one to each person ladies and
gentlemen robot has not failed us
tonight even though we're a little bit
over time it is worth it because we have
to pull the plugs to give a way to you
come on excitement the anticipation
spike I was rock gee pop virus rock and
gee pop 7
congratulations you are our winners
multiple failed attempts Robinson
bless you with pogoplug find out more
about the pogoplug device at cat five
dot TV / pogoplug check it out and
congratulations again to G pop 7 and
Pirus rock and you have a fantastic week
we are over time but it was worth it
we'll talk to you next Tuesday yeah
realest yeah
