hello everyone welcome to new every day
this is episode number 152 and we have a
fantastic show for you today it's called
what if have you ever worried well I'm
thinking of a song yeah and the you know
it's good but it says don't worry be
happy well there's something right about
that song and I'll tell you what how can
we ever get to the place where we no
longer worry but instead we are happy
and we're filled with the joy of the
Lord these are just some of the things
we're gonna talk about on this show but
we want to give a special shout out to
it that's right copy Father's Day happy
fathers happy Father's Day to you Jeff
it's a great day we get to celebrate
fathers this weekend you get to say
Happy Father's Day to all the fathers
who have given so much of themselves to
their kids we salute you is a happy
Father's Day and to all the moms who are
filling the role of father you stepped
up you take a huge challenge and we want
to say happy Father's Day to you as well
god bless you
this is new every day with Jeff Weston
and Lawrence Cruz
[Music]
welcome to do everyday episodes 152 so
glad to have you here I'm Jeff Weston
and I'm Lawrence crew every one of those
shows yes I think it might be all right
so glad to have you here with us if
you're just checking in for the first
time you know maybe you're watching us
on cable ktvd
in california television for the high
desert maybe you're watching us online
you can check out our past episodes you
find them all on a website on a Facebook
page on YouTube
basically any on-demand player you can
get it and if you've got maybe a Cody or
Rex herb Rex
Roku you can add us to your player so
you can pull us up whenever I get t-rex
whatever you want to call it so what do
we got going on today hey have you ever
worried yeah all the time I think we
might call the episode today what if you
know it was ask me what if Jeff we
considered taking the worried can I just
make a personal like that I'm so good at
doing like I've done too much of it is
what I'm trying to say and and what if
this doesn't work like what if something
goes so okay here's here's a question
what if we actually anticipated that
things we're not gonna go bad what
things actually went well okay okay all
right so it's a different spin on it
it's a whole different spin on it and
what a difference it makes in how we go
through the day and how and how we
approach people in the joy we have
inside and yeah I think it makes a huge
difference I think so and when I think
about the what if question probably the
biggest what if
ever had is what if I'm not going to be
a great father and I struggled with that
when my wife and I found out that we
were gonna have a worse child like I'm
going oh my goodness God what have you
done do you even have a clue like I
don't trust me to be a good adult let
alone to be a great parent and what do I
really mess this up yeah what if I just
don't get what it means to be a parent
what am I gonna do am I gonna ruin this
little child and what if I just need to
look at my wife and say it's all you and
how is she gonna deal with me because I
it's the fear of the unknown oh that's
real man and so yeah I think for myself
that was probably the biggest one if I
ever had to overcome you know I relate
to that you remind me of I have three
children and the youngest is 17 now so
we're just embarking on a whole change
of that potential empty nest you know
try not to whoo-hoo to my so I remember
our firstborn son his name is Jonathan
same thing you know and I'm putting him
to bed one night and he's there he's
sleeping away and man something stirs
right you see your little man there and
my heart is just melting him I love him
so much and I remember saying God how do
I pray for Jonathan like I felt so
inadequate Jeff yeah I felt so
inadequate what to do but God met me
that night okay he came into that room
and he comforted me and I was crying out
to God I said god I don't even know how
to bless my son and he very specifically
said Lawrence just pray that my will be
accomplished in the life of your son and
I'm telling you what Jeff it was
something again that changed me I didn't
know I was broken I was lost I mean it
was a tender moment and I just felt like
you were saying I felt so overwhelmed
and you know why because I was like I
don't have what it takes right and God
was telling me something Lawrence you
don't have to
what it takes if you put your trust in
me and let me do it and you cooperate
with me you watch what I will do I'll
use you you'll get to be part of it but
I'll do things in you and through you
that you never even imagined right you
know and that's kind of relates to what
we covered last week with giving God
your yes that's just saying God you've
got this under control I'm gonna let you
have it yeah you know and I think I mean
with all these what-if questions and we
live in a society of what-if and I think
I think the what-if and the doubt is a
major factor in how society moves
forward today I mean what if I don't get
that job well what if cancer comes back
what if my kids don't serve the Lord all
these what-if questions that we keep
asking that in a lot of cases paralyzes
us oh man and we can't move forward
because we're paralyzed by this fear of
I I don't want to move forward because
what if I fall flat on my face what if
that happens and you know there's a
scripture it's in Luke 12 who of you by
worrying and not a single hour to your
life since you cannot do this very
little thing why do you worry about the
rest and that very little thing is not
worrying if you can't not worry how are
you gonna deal with the rest of it yeah
and that's I mean that that's red-letter
it's it it's Jesus words in Luke saying
don't worry about it like it's not worth
worrying and so that goes to your point
at the beginning what if we switched the
topic what if it was instead of what if
that negative
yeah what about what if the positive
yeah but Jeff I'm I'm so scared what if
I asked her and she says no you're right
what are we gonna do this is a very real
possibility what if that bully doesn't
stop like you know getting after my kids
right and then there's a secondary issue
about how you want to get after that
bully and then you have to say sorry for
and so Philippians 4 is another chapter
in God's word that speaks directly to us
all okay and in verse 6 you know what it
says
don't worry right and I love it I've
learned I used to think like in my young
days that it was this you know almost
like a commanding imperative it isn't
imperative and it is an injunction and
it's a you know hey don't do this but
I've learned that it's it's such a
loving thing from our God yeah and so
Lawrence I'm talking to you about worry
in the Bible you mentioned in Luke it's
also recorded in Matthew 6 Philippians 4
says don't worry you know why God says
that because he knows us right he knows
how easy it is for me can I mean I can
make it about me and maybe you relate
like I know better and yet I still find
myself worrying sometimes and I don't
need to and yet sometimes I do and I
find much like what if it goes so right
but Lawrence you don't have to do it
because as you were saying what there's
another possibility
it's absolutely there's another way to
look at this and and it's all about
asking God and so I mean what you just
mentioned there in the scripture is do
not be anxious about anything but in
every situation by prayer and petition
with Thanksgiving present your requests
to God and that that right there is the
answer to not having to worry it's
giving it to God and saying okay God
what are you gonna do what if you take
care of this situation that I'm worrying
about and what if your plan is something
good yeah but how are you gonna know if
you don't talk to him and that's the
simple concept of praying and they're
you well okay so God says to us in this
verse hey Lawrence and the rest of the
Christian but okay all of us right
hey Lawrence don't worry but by prayer
present your requests to God like you
mean I don't have to deny it no that's
right I can tell God hey God I'm
hurry up that bully right Lord I'm
scared about not having enough money I'm
scared that cancer might take me out and
then my kids are gonna be left
fatherless I'm scared about my job
security I mean how I'm certainly we
could go on and on and on and on and yet
God says okay hey come on in sit down
tell me about it
tell me about all of these things talk
to me about what it is that's a concern
in your heart mm-hmm I've heard you and
then God goes on to say you know what I
would love for my children not to ever
have to do again is worry do you know I
was taught Jeff that if I'm capable of
worrying I'm also capable of trusting if
I have the ability to doubt about it
then that's the same place in me if I
switch it over like you've been saying
the what-if and we turn it positive I'm
actually able to say well what if God
came through and did a great work here
right what a difference that makes to
approach life instead of with a doubt
filled question but a faith filled
question same question what if but one
that's filled with belief that God who's
on our side he'll do everything that he
needs to do for his glory in us and
through our situation oh my gosh that's
a gold nugget right there I think that's
a great thing for us to consider tell
you what stay rate with us have a have a
listen to a word from our sponsors and
we're gonna be back and we're gonna be
talking about what if God comes through
for us
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today
count 5 dot TV slash shirts welcome back
thanks for joining us this is new every
day
and today we are talking about don't
worry what if and while we're on break I
say the Lawrence I want to talk about
David when I think of all the scriptures
in the Bible of the what if moment I
think of that classic story of David and
Goliath is cooking in you here and I
love this you've got this little
shepherd kid who's out there tending to
the fields there's this massive war
going on where the entire Israel is
shaking in their boots about this
massive guy who comes out every day
spitting on them insulting on them and
and and so his David's father says hey
go check on your mother see how they're
doing think of this cheese stuff like
that so he goes to the battlefield and
he hears Goliath out there just
absolutely cursing the name of God and
cursing the Israelite oh and he goes to
the battle on he's like guys seriously
you're putting up with us you are the
army of of God this is you were the
Israelites what are you gonna do about
it
yeah they were stuck in the what if on
the negative side exactly they're
they're all going what if I'm the one
who goes out there because the challenge
is one-on-one combat and whoever wins
wins everything I'm gonna take all right
and you've got the entire army going
what if I'm the guy
who loses and they're paralyzed with
fear and then you've got David who's
going what if God's on our side and he
goes I've got this like because he is on
our side watch what God can do boys and
he walks out there picks up his stones
and slang he's got nothing else to
protect him II threw off Saul's armor
because it just wasn't natural and I'll
do be like one of the brothers yeah but
who do you think you are you little punk
right don't you know I'm the king of
what if on the dark side have you ever
noticed there's always someone who wants
to rain on the party like all right and
I've been that guy like less I'm not
throwing stones here pardon me Thank You
friends listen I've been at too many
done that on like too many occasions
even in my own life but it just seems
like when we want to go forward maybe
someone's gonna nip at our heels and say
you can't but what should we do you know
exactly and in this case David goes
God's on my side I don't have to worry
about losing because I know God's got my
back and he even goes out there meets
Goliath on the line and says God is
going to deliver the Philistines into
our hands right so throws a stone knock
so cliath chops his head off and Bob's
your uncle that's the end of the story
but there was no what if I lose what if
this guy cleaned my clock David walks
out there and goes I don't have to worry
because God's got my back and that is
the absolute biggest non what if faith
story I can think of in the Bible that's
like and then you not worry that way
that's an amazing story okay that's
right on do you know I read a book this
year about this story okay about David
and Goliath and you know who it was that
that made that stone go right into the
forehead of that giant it was God
himself and you know there's times where
I used to think I'd go to this rally and
get all pumped up and amped up and say I
can do this and I can do this and I'm
gonna get the right stones and that was
but it was about at all definitely not
it was about being involved
oh yeah and David did show up to the
battle but if it wasn't God there with
him then he wouldn't have won it but
that's the whole point
God was there with him and because God
was with him that's why he won the
battle yeah we're talking about what if
and how what if today you and I we
decided not to what if and then go on
the south side on the oh the negative
what if this is gonna go bad but Jeff
what if like David we said I'm gonna
trust in God and I'm he's gonna see me
through what if the cancer never does
come back I want to speak to someone and
you worry every time there the Sun comes
out and you see something on your nose
again because you had skin cancer and
that fear comes I speak peace to you in
Jesus name and the same God who took
Goliath down because of a young man who
had faith to trust in him is the same
God even when you and I say God I'm
gonna trust that that cancer will never
come back again what if my god preserves
me I believe that when we recklessly
like abandon ourselves to belief in who
he is that he will show himself strong
in our lives what if we never lose our
job what if we what if we get a favor
from our supervisor says you're doing
such a great job I want to put you in
charge of more boy that sounds like
another Bible story doesn't it yeah
absolutely and because you've been
faithful here let me give you more and
by the way that pays you a little bit
more and you're not in it for the money
but without even asking you get what if
God did that for you what if that bully
that's bothering your kids and it's
keeping you up late at night what if God
came in and and brought someone to
protect your son or protect your
daughter or gave your son of your
daughter a boldness or move the bully
away and you could still be that
Christian person you longed to be
with grace and kindness and love but God
supernaturally took care of the
situation
what if our God did that Jeff oh my
goodness how exciting what else did we
say what if I keep my job guys what if
she says yes yeah Jeff knows how that
feels God I was sweating that day let me
tell you when she said yes
huge load off the back and what I love
about this is we've got the scripture in
Romans 15 yeah oh that's a good one may
the god of Hope fill you with all joy
and peace as you trust in him so that
you may overflow with hope by the power
of the Holy Spirit and that's what this
is about
if you don't get stuck in the what-if
from the negative side and you flip to
the what-if in the positive side there's
the joy and the hope and the peace that
God goes let me just cover you in that
and the what could he do in your life
when you're walking in hope and peace
and joy and you don't doubt and you go
on God's got my back yeah like what if
that was the case what if and that's
exactly where we want to land not just
today but each and every other day
Oh God says to me and to you hey don't
worry don't be anxious for anything and
he tells us that because he knows our
frailty he knows that we can do this and
even some of us are good at it but the
good news is he lovingly says to us hey
you don't have to live on the what if it
goes bad what if I came through for you
what if I did exceedingly abundantly
above and beyond and more than you can
even ask for oh my goodness imagine it
doesn't it even saying it I'll tell you
it excites us if there's a change in the
atmosphere when we when we look forward
anticipating
our mighty powerful gentle loving God is
there advocating for us on our behalf in
every situation what if my children
serve the Lord with all of their heart
with all of their soul with all of their
mind with all of their strength how does
that make you feel
yeah I'm picturing my kids as you're
riding this and it's just it's so good
as a father that is the cry of my heart
and every day my wife and I regularly
with our kids teaching them about the
goodness of God and faithfulness and
it's so amazing watching them grow in
their faith and you know when going back
to what I say at the beginning about
what if I can't do this as a father and
one of those questions is what if I what
if I fail at bringing them up
spiritually at the end of the day yeah
it doesn't matter what I say or do hmm
God's got them in his hands and I can
give them all the instruction in the
world I could do the best job in the
world but that's beyond my control God
has a path set out for them and I just
trust him and so I do what I'm supposed
to do I'm faithful with the gift of the
children that he's given me and I honor
God as a parent and I just said God
they're yours I have them for a short
time and I'm going to instruct them in
the way they should go yeah and when
they get old they will not depart oh I
don't believe that can I live that in
faith and not worry what if they
actually don't right live the way
they're supposed to I just right I'm
doing with the bob says instruct them
away they go and they will not depart
from it so don't as for me in my house
we will serve the Lord praise God well I
wonder what situation is it
that you've got right now you know it
you're like me and you've been worrying
about something what's one thing that
comes to your mind right now Jeff and I
would like to encourage you to do
something why don't you get a piece of
paper we want you to write that one
thing that you've been worrying about
and then in front of it say what if you
can talk about the
you've been worrying a vote and at the
end of it what if God comes through he's
faithful and you know he longs to you
know him you could believe in him to do
that for so many others and yet for your
own I'm encouraging you can I even say
this even to challenge you write it now
what if God dot dot dot and then you
fill in what it is that you want your
God to do well for David we know what he
wants what if that giant came tumbling
down and that's exactly what happened
well what if your giant came tumbling
down would you do that would you by
faith get a piece of paper just one
thing then you've been worrying about
write it down and write it what if and
then by faith with a faith field
question write down what's gonna happen
when God comes through oh isn't that
great
so good so good I love it thanks so much
for joining us again this is new every
day you catch us next week kvv be
television for the high desert six
o'clock in the morning on Sundays and
you can catch us on demand Fridays we'll
be up you catch us YouTube Kody blacks
face block all those places I betcha it
already
Ravens doves that's right I'm Laurence
Cruz catch a new episode of new every
day every Friday morning at new every
day TV we're
also on roku cody flex youtube google
play music podcasts and news book or if
you're in Southern California tune in
every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb TV
channel 33 television for the high
desert
