welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number five eighty eight
and this week we're gonna change things
up quite a bit we're gonna go back in
time we're gonna do something that we
don't normally do which is to play a
rerun but this is a special one okay
because as we celebrate Christmas over
the past couple of days and and
throughout the week we're looking back
at our episode of category five
technology TV from 2012 wow that was a
long time I can't believe it's been six
years since we did this this was a great
show
so what we did and the reason that we
want to go back in time tonight is we
actually had a bunch of the folks that
were involved in category five over the
years get together and put on a
royalty-free Christmas music call
yourself ready for some amateur singing
okay not information we were 720p back
then old studio perfectly fine in our
old studio season studio Studios studio
no it would have been Studio C okay yeah
and and there was a whole different crew
but you were with us I was there and you
and I hosted the show and you're gonna
see this in just a couple of moments
time but it's gonna be neat for you if
you're new to category five technology
TV because you're gonna get to see some
faces that maybe you haven't seen before
if you have been watching for some time
you're gonna reminisce with people that
have been on the air in the past Jeff
this was before you returned to us yes
before you joined the show it's hard to
believe six years ago that's bananas
unreal so we hope that you enjoy the
show we're celebrating with our families
today and this week and we wish you a
very Merry Christmas and we'll check in
throughout the the course of the show as
well enjoy the show and here it is
it's a very Merry Christmas with
category 5 technology TV tonight we
forgo the tech and bring you our
Christmas special starring Abigail Smith
Rachel's you Krista Wells Eric Kidd
Hilary Rumble Erica lalonde Robbie
Ferguson and Sacha derm ATIS also
featuring special guest performances by
Christina Scala and Carrie Webb and now
here's your host
Robbie Ferguson welcome to our very
special very Merry Christmas here
category five technology TV episode
number 275 here we are
Wow lots of exciting stuff planned for
tonight yeah it's Tuesday the 25th of
December 2012 and here we are we've
never missed a show here at category 5
TV 275 weeks in and it fell on a
Christmas yes what luck yeah Sagittarius
is joining us tonight how you been great
doesn't have a good Christmas so far
super great Christmas yeah yeah looking
forward to this yeah this has been like
the exciting part of my weekend this is
big anxiously awaiting all the stuff
that we have planned for you I'll just
mention we've got some amazing
spectacular prizes to give away we're
gonna be filling you in on all the
details so make sure you stick around
for the whole show we've got music for
you we've got entertainment dancing are
we dancing are you dancing we dancing
for Christmas yeah you know people are
just gonna all of a sudden start showing
up so nobody's here just you and I it's
kind of buy it
not a creature was stirring not even a
mouse that was last night
hey Ravi hey Sasha
Abigail yeah yeah good good let me get
over here
Merry Christmas kids you good to see ya
yes to know well what are you up to you
know just keep them busy working I think
yeah yeah gonna school and yes yes done
school good five years later well yeah I
actually came here because I was
wondering if maybe I could sing a
Christmas song for your country
great we'd love that do you mind if I
pick up my guitar now sure accompany you
may be great cool all right
[Music]
what child is this who lay to rest on me
Riis love is sleeping whom angels greet
with
them sweet while Shepherds watch are
keeping
the King whom Shepherds guard and angels
sing
[Applause]
bring in
the big
the son
love man
so bringing him
and schools and murder
comparison key to all
the king of kings salvation brings LED
loving hearts enthrone him
a song on high the Virgin sings her love
for Christ is born
the son of man
Christ king
birds guard and angels sing
I'm on the bay the Sun
enough man
the
bless
of men
I was beautiful thank you happy yes well
sorry - I got a cig and - but I just
wanted to come and sing a song for your
special but thank you so much to
everyone so exciting Christmas thanks
for being here all right have a good
night
yeah you too all right wow that was
awesome
that was amazing Wow now let me tell you
category five TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the International Association of
Internet broadcasters thanks Ashley
you're welcome I hear somebody else
coming in hey Robbie hey Sasha how's it
going what a surprise well I've been
doing great actually that I'm back man
yeah three months I've been stuck in my
books and now I'm back and I can
actually play Halo four looking forward
to it
what is that Oh halo 4 halo 4 like Xbox
or something Xbox it's all for the
lennox off of the computer all right
sorry we have a Wii upstairs and that's
that's fun but I don't really get into
the games cuz our kids are so young oh I
understand I'm still stuck with the
consoles like I don't know I love them I
haven't really been able to enjoy them
I've just been stuck in my laptop
studying powerpoints like now now in
university I can pretty much go online
it's all there like all my content is
there but just well hey you know what
you're here now it's our Christmas
special and I'm just relaxing and having
a nice time and you're here so what do
you say you do a song okay well I've got
my guitar right here so let's let's see
if I can play a little something for you
a deed with a capo on G
heaven and nature sing and heaven and
nature sing
nature sing joy to the world the Savior
hills and Plains repeat the sounding joy
repeat the sounding joy repeat the
sounding joy
wonders of his love and wonders of his
love and wonders wonders of his love
well merry Christmas to you guys and
you've truly been missed but I will be
back January first brand new year and a
brand new semester awesome well hey
thank you so much for stopping in merry
Christmas to you in a couple minutes of
course all right well done Erica you
know what this has been a huge year for
category 5 technology TV we celebrated
our fifth year anniversary five years on
the air I mentioned 275 episodes we've
never missed a Tuesday night here it has
fallen on a on a Christmas a day and
here we are presenting our very special
Christmas special for you that's right I
was lucky because the fifth anniversary
party I think was my second episode in
you know it was a big blast how was that
for you because like that being you were
kind of the newest kid on the block kind
of thing that's right it was
nerve-racking Stephanie though oh what
have I gotten into here that's right
live studio audience and know nothing
will faze me yeah that's right way to
initiate her that's right
I might actually even sing a song
eventually it's been an incredible five
years though I mean it's it's just been
so awesome to have people like Sacha and
Eric and Hillary and Erica and krysta
and everybody that's involved in the
show just to name a few I mean abigail
also has been on the show a couple times
we've got Rachel Shue who is away right
now but hopefully we'll see her tonight
and you know just everybody who's
involved and even Heather behind the
scenes helping out with the show five
years of doing category five and here we
are and especially I mean you at home as
well who are watching the show we
appreciate you and and you're what has
kept this going for 275 episodes
your support your feedback your support
and we just thank you so much for being
here tonight for our very crisp very
Merry Christmas here at category five
technology TV Merry Christmas from all
of us at category five technology TV
hope you're enjoying the special tonight
we've got to take a really quick break
to hear from our sponsors but we'll be
right back with more after this whether
you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo
Video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching I hope you're
having a fun Christmas with with your
loved ones and and all of those who are
close to you and we're wishing you a
very Merry Christmas here from
category-five technology TV tonight look
who it is this Rachel shoe hey ray how
you been I've been good we haven't seen
you forever yep yeah Merry Christmas
you too I feel like doing a little song
not really
thanks Rachel but she will because we
love you cuz I want a Christmas gift is
that motivation reason I got her an
Ubuntu CD fantastic
Rachel's gonna do a little song for us
now
right
see
thanks ray
so what's new I mean you pop by for our
Christmas special nice to see you not
much new no yeah well yeah
viewers will be happy and excited to
know that you're coming back to us
during season six it's been a day on a
sabbatical for a little while and gonna
be joining us again looking forward to
that to find myself on the moon oh so
you're that rover thing gotcha
well hey good to see you Merry Christmas
and you too thanks and expect the big
gift okay big pay raise in the new year
well thanks for coming it's great to see
a cheers everyone it's not filming
anymore right right oh thanks Rachel
yeah you know what along the lines of
the whole pay raise job everybody here
is a volunteer at category five
technology TV but I did get you all one
billion dollars Russell Stover oh you
lost your mic look at this hello can you
hear me now hello chocolate oh sorry
about that
I also like chocolate chocolate the 3d
printed chocolate yeah hey we've got
some amazing prizes I mentioned it at
the top of the special tonight we've got
some fantastic prizes to give away
tonight
first of all okay what you need to do is
head on over to cat5 dot TV slash
Christmas and at that website you're
gonna see that we have lots of different
prizes to give away just to mention a
couple I've got ESET nod32 antivirus
one-year subscriptions as well as
protection from malware from by
malwarebytes we've got a lifetime
license for that to give to you so
hopefully you know head on over to our
website enter your name as a ballot and
and it's hopefully awesome Christmas
swag tonight that stuff is meant to you
don't keep your computer safe so we've
got that nod32 antivirus one-year
subscription and a lifetime license for
malwarebytes so cat5 dot TV slash
christmas incidentally you can download
a free copy of all of the music that
you're hearing here tonight which is
great free but donations are also
appreciated certainly absolutely
so I want some mp3s of of the show
tonight help yourself
cat5 dot TV slash Christmas alright
sound good sounds great
hey Eric man Merry Christmas very crispy
to see you what do you do man all right
Ain a great day
are you having fun I just dropped in I
thought maybe you had talked you out of
an eggnog or something oh I can help you
there okay let me go get you one yeah
sure all right hello anybody home where
are you Christmas party at yeah Robbie
just ran upstairs it total my nigga no
oh okay Wow I still get you one too
this sounds like the perfect time for a
little singsong Bobby comes back I was
saying son okay alright alright
dashing through the snow or the I don't
want to first take a late
wake her to go thought I'd take a ride
and soon miss Fanny bright was seated by
my style horses long and lank misfortune
seemed it's Lawton we rode into a
drifted bank and then we were outside oh
boy jingle bells jingle bells jingle all
the way
oh what fun to ride in a one-horse open
sleigh hey jingle bells jingle bells
jingle all the way
so fiercely
you keep going you're beautiful so
talented
that was a fun little number should we
do another oh I think Rob is cold get
out of here yeah like he doesn't like it
when I just do sing songs Watts
okay well merry Christmas everyone
wishing you and your families the best
holiday and I hope you have a fabulous
day
get outside if you have some snow make a
snowman and have fun and I'll see you in
the New Year to our friends all over the
world bet you wish you had snow I know
you do
fire fun where's my room where's my nog
hey but I got that eggnog that you are
yeah
I I was just upstairs I heard were you
thinking falsetto or what it sounded
beautiful down here yeah yeah yeah
that's it okay we'll say falsetto that's
what I was doing okay well I'm gonna go
sit down with Sasha enjoy your eggnog
yeah I actually sorry it took so long I
had to grind the Nutmeg well that's
really nice I am just gonna have a seat
here
Thanks looks delicious oh yeah a little
bit of whipped cream and fresh ground
nutmeg on top of that beautiful there's
this stuff
this is category five technology TV I'm
your host Robbie Ferguson I am Sasha
dramatis your co-host we are stepping
right outside a format tonight for a
very Merry Christmas special here
category five technology TV check out
our website triple w category five dot
TV and for tonight's very special
broadcast we also have a page set up for
you to be able to participate in
contests download the music that you're
hearing here tonight and that is cat5
dot TV slash Christmas that's right lots
of great prizes that we're giving away
as well and you'll see all the details
right on that website cat5 dot TV slash
Christmas one more product that we're
giving away
we love eco alkaline they're eco
responsible batteries the first and as I
understand it the only carbon neutral
battery for battery that is available
and they're fantastic so you know do
something for the earth and they're
excellent quality batteries as well
we've got a couple of sorted packs of
these to send out to you so all you have
to do is enter your information on that
website to cast your ballot and that is
another one of the prizes the fantastic
prizes from our sponsors that we're
going to be giving away this week so
these are the great answer and solution
to all of those presents you bought and
forgot to buy batteries yeah we do it
because they eat up batteries and so you
want them to be landfill safe that's
right so get online all right we've also
got let's see a level 10m mouse now you
saw this on the show here category five
dot TV there it is delectable fantastic
we've got one of these to give away from
Thermaltake tte sports as well so make
sure that you cast your ballot a cat
I've dot TV / Christmas mm-hmm actually
we don't have one of those to give away
any longer
sorry about that guy I think someone
else is here Hey look who it is
guys Merry Christmas Oh Eric hi Merry
Christmas hey Krista hi nice to see you
too see you well we're gonna liven up
this joint that was liven it up let's
sing a song well what do you think we
should sing let's wish them a Merry
Christmas let's do that all right
we wish you a Merry Christmas we wish
you a Merry Christmas we wish you a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year the
tidings we bring to you and your kin
good tidings for Christmas and a Happy
New Year what are we missing
figgy pudding figgy pudding we all want
some figgy pudding we all want some
figgy pudding so bring it right here
good tidings we bring to you and your
kin good tidings for Christmas and a
Happy New Year's who's coming soon
Oh Santa is coming we all know that
Santa's coming we all know that Santa's
coming good tidings we bring to you and
your kin good tidings for Christmas and
a Happy New Year we wish you a Merry
Christmas we wish you a Merry
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year we
wish you a Merry Christmas we wish you a
Merry Christmas we wish you a Merry
Christmas nicely done kids ha
excellent no I don't know what we're
gonna do now maybe I should get back to
the show all right well great that's
great thanks actually well thank you
thanks guys we've got another great
prize for you a sentry talk buds we've
got a couple of an assortment of
different colors of these these are
fantastic they are ear buds with
excellent sound quality but also they've
got a built-in microphone so if you're
using this with your iPhone or your
let's say your blackberry or anything
like that it will actually pick up your
voice as well so as you take a phone
call you don't have to unplug your
headphones plug in the error just pick
up the phone and start talking on it
this will actually work just as it is so
this would be good if you were driving
as well then yeah I guess that would
work as hands-free wouldn't it yeah
fantastic
so those are talk about century another
great product from le I products comm
and we've got a bunch of those to give
away all different colors so make sure
you go over to cat5 dot TV slash
Christmas and we are gonna put your
ballot in for that product as well yeah
having a blast yeah lots of excitement
coming as well I heard the Kerry web
co-hosts from seasons 1 &amp; 2 that she's
going to be here tonight really excited
to see her because it's just been so
long I mean here we are season six right
she was here season 1 &amp; 2 very first
co-host on the show here at category 5
and so I'm pleased to hear that she's
going to be here tonight as well
and nice to have Eric and the rest of
the gang joining us Eric if you can
stick around because you your guitar
playing is sure you know I strum but
he's pretty awesome so you're both
better than I am
so nice - nice to have everybody
involved and thank you for singing - is
that inside of your comfort zone at all
way outside yeah like to the moon on my
comfort zone see how much these people
love you guys because you know that's
that's probably you know that's
something you don't do every day is it
maybe our up in front of this many
people and oh did you realize people are
actually watching then there's about
60,000 70,000 of them yeah I forgot to
mention that it you saw the cameras
though alright and yeah I I do hear
footsteps not sure who's coming in Eric
are you down here hello Oh Christina how
are ya good to see you I'm into the
eggnog already here except but we've
been playing some music did you bring a
cello yeah I did you did awesome I don't
see it it's in the car okay well when
are you gonna get your cello I'm gonna
get Robbie to help me move the coach and
stuff cuz you take up a bit of space
with that big fiddle don't ya yeah okay
we'll play some more tunes that'll be
great
alright well we're gonna take a short
little break move some furniture have
some more eggnog
stick around well what do you think
Chris should we play some tunes for them
sure we can try see what I have Robbie
no you don't have to respond to that
I found a fiddle I think he called the
violin I'm calling to the fiddle he's
got four strings and I've had two
lessons I won't say who my teacher is
and unless we get through this or or not
but yeah it was kind of arrogance that I
can learn how to play that thing and I
not anticipated there's no frets and
what's this thing it's gonna stick with
horsehair on it no let's play a little
Christmas tune just because I told
Robbie I'd be a good sport into a
Christmas to him
okay let's just do it Oh one two three
four five six
well I don't think I can take out the
fiddling I'll play this every week on
cat5 TV from now on great that was great
that was amazing I've always wanted to
learn how to play the violin or the
fiddle Eric said he's had a couple of
lessons with Christina only a couple and
it's a mad good that's really good every
time I hear somebody playing violin I
was looking at the the best of YouTube
this week because it's been released for
you know the best of 2012 and there's
this violinist on there and I'm not sure
of her name but I'm sure a lot of you
know who I'm talking about she's just
exceptional and she's got dubstep beats
going on underneath of her violin
planking and every time I see that I'm
like you I'm like that I want to be able
to do that I just don't want to torture
anybody through the learning process
like a definite killing cats
that's the sound but how much fun that's
that's cool and when speaking of
stepping outside of your comfort zone -
that's that's a lot of fun the things
that we do for you folks here category
five technology TV love having you here
tonight merry Christmas to you from all
of us here at category five and we've
got more music for you coming up just a
reminder that if you go over to cat5 dot
TV slash christmas we have not only do
we have your ability to cast ballots for
the drawers that are going to be taking
place we've mentioned a couple of the
prizes and the list is there on our
website cat5 dot TV slash christmas but
also you can download the the music from
tonight's show as well if you like to
add that to your Christmas collection as
well they are available for you in mp3 -
fabulous then you can play them and
listen to them on your new earbuds
fantastic idea fantastic idea
we had a printer on the show last week
you and I were looking at the new
business smart series from brother right
and I mentioned that yeah maybe we got
one to give you so I do and it's a big
there we go big box this big box I'll be
yours you see me
I feel like Wilson there you go hey
neighbor
this is the brother business Mart MFC J
for 510 DW is it did I get right yes
DW yes that's a new business mark
printer we've got one of those giveaway
so all you got to do is head on over to
camp five dot TV slash Christmas cast
your ballot that of course comes to us
from the wonderful brother Canada more
information about that at cap five dot
TV slash brother excellent stuff big
thanks tonight to our sponsors I just
want to give shouts out to our wonderful
list of sponsors tonight who are helping
us to to be able to provide you with
this very special very Merry Christmas
special here at category five technology
TV first of all teaching eSports from
Thermaltake thank you very much you can
catch them at Thermaltake usa.com
brother canada i just mentioned and the
brother business smart series printers
from cat5 dot TV slash brother eco
alkaline z' that environmentally
friendly batteries which are available
at eco alkaline is calm we appreciate
their support throughout the entire year
and right through our christmas special
as well tonight Malwarebytes we've
mentioned Malwarebytes dot org b YT e
gas as well as nod32 antivirus from
smart antivirus dot CA and of course the
the heads headphones as well from le i
products calm so thank you to all of our
wonderful sponsors tonight and as ever
you know we were brought to you in part
by netflix and you can get your free
netflix a trial account you'll get a
full month of netflix at cat five dot TV
slash netflix so we'd encourage you to
check that out great time of the year to
sign up for something like that and try
it out on the new
you know if you got a new console or
something you can install it and try it
out on the new TV or whatever yeah
whatever
but cat5 dot TV slash netflix to get it
for free for an entire month with no
strings attached
so cool stuff sound good sounds good
yeah yeah watch some Netflix sounds like
a good idea I see Eric actually has his
guitar on now so this might go well so
Eric man we'd love to hear you play
thanks Robbie all right what do you
think Christina should we play another
little bit of Christmas music I've got
the guitar the violin was fun but the
fiddle was fun whatever that thing was
no frets on it okay
and
that was nice Robbie gave me the words I
have to take a stab at you okay if I
sing one soon you just play that one
more time and I'll just sing right over
the top
it's coming around on the guitar right
now have your cell phone merry little
Christmas let your heart beat line
from our troubles will be out of sight
yourself a merry little Christmas make
the Yuletide gay from now on our
troubles will be miles
your name's happy golden days of yore
faithful Friends who are dear to us
gather near was once more
through the years we all will be
together if the fates are loved
hey shining star upon the highest bough
and have yourself a merry little
Christmas now
all those nice all right well let's see
what happens next I think I wonder if
anybody else is gonna show up you know
we're almost all right such a pleasure
to have a professional musician joining
us as part of the show I mean he
co-hosts the show but also you know
being a musician that he's fantastic so
thank you so much Eric so you know merry
Christmas to everybody from all of us
here at category-five technology TV
we've just had such a fantastic year and
with the team that we have here it's
just it's so much fun for myself and I
think you guys have a great time it's
it's an amazing fun time here on earth
you having fun and we hope that you're
having fun at home as well and tonight
is just a fun time for us to change
format you know being the dis Christmas
day so this is our very Merry Christmas
special first time we've ever had a
chance to do this so we thank you for
joining us tonight
and hope that you're enjoying the music
if you'd like to download the music that
you've heard here tonight you can get it
on mp3 as an mp3 release all mp3 files
at cat5 dot TV slash Christmas and
that's also where you can sign up cast
your ballots for all of the wonderful
sponsored prizes that we're giving away
to through tonight's show and into our
New Year's Day show coming up one week
from today as well so make sure you get
on there cat5 dot TV slash christmas a
night yeah it scary web so good to see
her coming down the stairs yeah
congratulations the shows come really
far yeah thanks it's for you I'm since
since you were here season 1 &amp; 2 I know
that's it has come a long way we're
actually we're just it's funny that
you're here cuz we're just in the middle
of shooting our Christmas special
perfect wood well I Eric and Christina
were just performing for us it was a
beautiful I I wonderfully be willing to
accompany us on a song sure yep for that
I would love that
okay let's
have you finished Sears already
holy night it is a night of our dear
saviors birth
till he appeared and the
the weary world rejoices for yonder
breaks a new and glorious
Oh
Teela
night when Christ was small
Divac
night-night
we taught us to love
his law is love and his gospel is peace
James shall he break for the slave is
and in his name all oppression shall
cease sweet hymns of joy in grateful
chorus raise me
let all within us praise His Holy Name
Oh his name
yes
me
the more propane
thank you thank you thanks Christina
it's so great to see you again great to
see you thank you for having tonight
Merry Christmas Christmas to you guys
thank you and Merry Christmas to you
what a special that was that's fun it
was a lot of fun to put together oh my
that so cool to see so many faces that
haven't been around category 5 for quite
some time it's true and for me was it
was fun kind of to watch because at the
time that you aired this episode I
wasn't watching cat 5 because of the way
my work schedule wasn't I just couldn't
tune in and I didn't think about
watching online so it's needs to be able
to see people that I had not in the past
watched and kind of grown through the
show with so it's kind of neat I knew of
them we got their photos around the
studio here but not to actually see them
and interact it's kind of fun cool what
true talent
[Laughter]
do you remember putting that all
together and how much fun that was yeah
I remember how much fun it was but like
to tell you the truth like I remember
like just little bits and pieces but it
was just like real joy to have everyone
write such a great crew it's always been
a great crew here at category 5 oh yeah
good people know Sasha for you that was
near the beginning of your tenure on the
show was it not like there was your
first year wasn't my first year it was
within the first two years first year in
the first so I can't recall exact timing
looking back on it now had we've done
something like that for this year I
think would you have still been as
reserved I would have been less result
reserved now that I know everybody a
little bit better I think I was still
quite nervous at the beginning of every
show I think Robby will remember at the
beginning of every show I would like I'd
have like a little nervous breakdown and
my hands get all sweaty and I'd be shaky
but now I probably would just sing my
own solo
so that next year sorry in advance
well everyone we wish you a very Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Year all the
best for 2019 it's been a fantastic year
having you join us join us each and
every week hope you've enjoyed the
special tonight as we looked back at an
episode that aired in 2012 so neat for
us to be able to reminisce back then as
well so we'll talk to you in the new
year and wish you all the best
take care Merry Christmas
you
