welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson it's Tuesday November the 22nd
2011 and tonight it is episode number
218 of category 5 technology TV I'm so
proud of myself i got the date right
right off the back at a promise yeah two
times in a row you notice how i just
like kind of like immediately went into
the date just stick it to put it out of
the way I looked at the calendar and
then I signed on just like that can't
fail now next challenge and you are I'm
Eric kid oh oh whoops tonight we've got
a lot going on my friends it's gonna be
a lot of fun we have well first of all
we are going to be taking a look at
Linux Mint 12 the release candidate of
their code name Lisa distribution of
linux so stick around that's going to be
very very cool we're gonna get a kind of
a sneak peek of the upcoming
distribution of linux also we've got a
brother multifunction center that we're
going to be giving away this week we
have been collecting ballots the draw
has already been held and we are ready
to announce the winner of that draw also
because it was canada only kind of
contest for the printer we decided they
will get a get a hold of our contacts
and and we pulled in two more pogoplug
that we're gonna be giving away two nite
all these folks to anyone in the world
so let's pretty much is like a giveaway
show it's pretty much a giveaway show we
might as well just get started and start
giving you stuff so you know here's do
you want that you know
no one why i think is pretty cool no one
really wants that no one really wants it
no I paid for it well some what are you
saying you know it is so much going on
tonight but hey i am i'm actually robbie
Ferguson hmm I'm Krista wells and I have
some fantabulous news for you guys let's
have a look what's going on tonight oh
we will be revisiting the fact that
pogoplug is now offering you free online
cloud storage which is compatible with
their devices just in case for some
reason you missed it last week just in
case just in case i heard it was maybe a
little inaudible maybe maybe not they
have any experience with that no and the
international space station crew
returned safely to earth more than half
of Android users are still using froyo
froyo which is a security nightmare it
sounds like one xbox live live
reportedly has not been hacked but its
users are victims of phishing scams
stick around these toys are coming up
later in the show I really in hindsight
I should have written that in this Frodo
I just just so that we could demonstrate
your lack of geek knowledge uh-huh just
like I know who Frodo is it has nothing
to do with Android watch that she would
have kept going I probably would have
yeah that's kind of Airy fine point too
yeah definitely you would have now we're
up to version four of android OS and
people still running 2.2 danger Will
Robinson we have our mobile site live up
and running go visit us there cat five
dot mobile cat5 TV that's the other
thing I got to work on right there I can
look at the screen just like the just
like you down there mobile cap five TV
I'm so used to just scanning it with my
with my mobile device scan that QR code
easy like that scan that code with your
QR reader it will launch the mobile site
and of course if you're on there in with
an iphone 4 4 s or an ipod touch 4
you'll be able to watch the show live
tonight directly from your device very
cool stuff so we've got a lot coming up
tonight lots to cram in we've got your
viewer questions and we'll be right back
after
hitting the road or the dusty trails
liquid image Canada captures the action
with a true point of view HD video
camera directly into a high-quality MX
goggle it records every bit of the
excitement exactly how you see it if my
octane isn't your thing take a relaxing
underwater adventure and capture it
forever in high definition video with a
high quality underwater camera mask from
liquid image Canada perfect for the
enthusiast snorkeler or the deep sea
diver check out the entire line of
camera masks for every sport liquid
image canada.com this is category 5
technology TV and you'll find us online
triple w category five TV got that one
right it's nice to have you here and we
do we covet your viewer testimonials and
we welcome you to visit our website
category 5 TV and send us of your
testimonial so I've got three that we
that we have to read here tonight I'll
kind of let you bring those up as well
there's one from Swiss Andy that but
I'll get get you to have a look at last
week we didn't have time to read all of
your testimonials so I got one pardon me
here from penny and cool deal penny has
actually drawn a picture of my son Zach
dancing like a Vulcan I think that's so
cute so lifelike very cool so that is a
hip shaking look at them shakin yeah
he's got the moves like a Vulcan for
sure if you don't know what that is in
reference to its cat five dot TV /
Vulcan so from penny she says to all of
Robbie's cat5 TV crew you have a
wonderful blend of technology and
interactive fun for all the viewers my
family is looking forward to the next
generation of groove maestro's live long
and prosper peace and long life penny
and that comes to us of course from
penny if you see if your when my
scrolling down there's one from Swiss
Andy that all get you to have a look at
their that we weren't able to to read
last week one below that there you go Oh
hey it says hello Robbie and cat five
Orchestra yay thank you for the viewer
points and award and for showing my
voiceover contest video on episode 2 16
you have given me so much already with
your show I can honestly say it has
changed my life during the last few
years time for me to actively contribute
when there's a chance I'm coming from
dos windows background reaching back to
nineteen eighty six my first IBM
compatible with ms-dos 2.11 working as a
Windows II admin supporter at a local
university before cat5 testing before
cat5 testing some older Suess Suess
distros su se√±or Susi yeah like a
version of Linux okay mmm they never did
it for me due to the clumsy installation
the ugly-looking desktop problems with
missing drivers and such but then came
category 5 your IRA you've really opened
my windows haha made me explore the
world of Linux more seriously and
successfully many of my machines at home
on hardware and virtualbox already run
linux travel netbook download machine
office mail pc local PHP my sequel dev
box and a storage server bean plant plus
after more than a decade i kind of fell
in love with the command line again this
time not on das but on Linux I recently
discovered many cool helpers like widget
w get yes curl and map tiny proxy that i
could even use at work so after all the
linux fanboys were right linux rocks and
so does category 5 thank you for making
the difference happy yodels and
greediness with sandy that's very cool
thanks for the for the viewer
testimonial there so sandy it sounds
like we're really making a an impact
into helping users and you'll be happy
about this but helping users migrated to
Linux I know this is your goal and you
can see my computer over there right
yeah she's got a particular laptop that
we wouldn't allow on the set tonight hmm
propped it up cycads very cool thank you
very much Swiss Andy I've got one here
as well from leland and leland says i
have seen this baby grow into a
prime-time production let's all get this
in the classrooms I am working on a
development program to get new sponsors
and to share some of the sponsors from
my other interests I foresee Robbie's
Network becoming 24-7 with his help we
could all upload through cat5 TV a
multitude of tech talent let's all work
together to get Robbie financed you
think I wrote this myself Leland I'm
kidding Leland goes on to say perhaps
one of the next moves is to find out who
does or who can do what to make a growth
plan Robbie what do you see our where do
you see category 5 TV growing and he
says and you better say to the Opera
says you're good dude perhaps after you
stop by the bank well hey thanks for
that little bit of a vote of confidence
there Leland and I'm very glad that
you're enjoying the show and that you
see potential in the show where do I see
the show going I think krista knows and
you know probably at home as you're
watching this that that the show is
really about the viewers and the viewers
being you the community I always want
category 5 to be available and by that I
mean you you notice you know we
sometimes ask for donations and that's
important because your donations do help
very very much when it comes down to
needing to pay the bills and needing to
replace hardware and buy hardware and
things like that but we don't charge and
we and our the whole idea is that we
never will charge the viewers for access
to this content it's licensed under
creative commons attribution it's free
to download free to share free to mash
up as long as you say it's from category
5 TV and so my where I see category 5
going is just continuing to grow our
viewership continuing to get better and
better as you say we try to
become as professional as possible from
our little studio up here in Barrie
Ontario and and the goal is to make as
good of a production for you who are
watching but also make this a venue that
advertisers would want to support so
that we can continue to always provide
this for you free of charge with the
exception of welcoming your donations to
assist with with our financial needs of
course Leyland goes on with with quite a
bit of interesting information
especially as connections with with a
glen taylor from CNN so you can read
that in our viewer testimonials go to
category five dot TV and click on
interact you'll see the viewer
testimonial section there we would
welcome you to submit your own and that
would be fantastic thanks Leland cheers
all right we have a brother
multifunction center printer we welcome
some we welcomed Canadian people to
participate in our draw as was sang this
comes to us from Brother Canada and
they're fantastic company you all know
who brother is and the fact that they
make absolutely fantastic printers we
had mark Rowell on our show last week to
talk about how they can be used to
organize your office and I am excited to
be able to announce the winner of the
contest which was drawn this afternoon
dhaanto and a drum roll please
it's efficient the winner that's
fantastic who says the brief description
of my office is total chaos my home
office is in a small irregularly shaped
space which forces me to squeeze all of
my required hardware that's three towers
a printer a scanner all-in-one PC into
all these odd spaces so doing something
as simple as getting a brother
multifunction Center printer which is
all in one with the scanner the fax the
printer everything built-in is going to
change to desktop footprints in 21 so
congratulations our winner tonight is
over on congratulations over on a dress
that's for shipping as well as your
phone number because the courier usually
likes to have that on hand just in case
they have any trouble finding you email
live at category 5 TV Oberon and
congratulations for winning the brother
multifunction Center from Brother Canada
for more information about brother
canada visit their website brother dot
CA and make sure you also follow them on
twitter it's at brother canada fantastic
we've got more prizes to give away
tonight and those contests will of
course be open to the world so if you're
watching from anywhere in the world
stick around we're going to giving away
a couple of pogoplug devices and talking
about what that can do for you and that
to leverage your own personal cloud so
stick around we've got a couple of
viewer questions indeed that have come
in this week and i invite you to send in
your questions live at category 5 TV and
i'll try to watch the chat room hey
everybody Smitty Smith a gamoto as7 59 g
seagull garbey previously known as
gadwal
alright we ready Rock yeah we're good
okay so first question here is from
Robert Solow first of all point 10 from
11 point 10 sorry I said 11 point 10
yeah it stands for 2010 / 2011 that's
the 1110 is October so the releases from
October to April of 2011 hi I'm learning
mm-hmm anyways recently switched to a
boon to 11 point 10 from windows 7 i'm
learning as much as possible because
because it is not a hundred percent
friendly user as is Windows OS
installing some apps are not as
straightforward as I thought they would
be however thanks to your show I was
able to install zimbra desktop with ease
following the line of zimbra i can i
import my PST files emails calendars
contacts to zimbra or perhaps exporting
PSD files to another format as to import
them to zimbra help please thanks Robert
PS Robert had such strange cheers robert
before i answer your question about
zimbra and importing your PST file i
love our chat room who just said the
drum roll is on repeat and you know what
that was done intentionally because you
know krista just deserved that from roll
all the way through her hirsch feel so
hopefully were able to hear everything I
think we shut it off just before ah was
not a way sorry about that gang the
things that happen yes the things that
happen we can't hear it right you can
hear it thank you chat room so Robert a
little boy zimbra that's the word I was
looking for I got tongue-tied zimbra has
a very cool ability to import your PST
file directly as long as you've got
microsoft office 2003 or newer you have
to have it installed here's the kind of
kicker is you've got to be on the system
that has outlook so that you can do the
import and that's because it's actually
going to tap into some of the libraries
that are included with your Microsoft
that look product so the thing to do is
get on to the search engines and I can
do a search for zimbra outlook not
connector the connector is what is going
to allow you to sync on going it's the
outlook PST import wizard and I'm just
searching on Google here and the second
one that I see here I've clicked on it
but here you go here's my results second
one that I see you see it's from wiki
zimbra com zimbra outlook PST import
wizard tips click on that that gives you
a little bit of information the one that
I'm actually wanting the one that I want
to find for you well now you know what I
think it's the first one that came up
zimbra com / docs okay is where it's
found simpler collaborative sweet import
yeah there we go here's the manual so
you start with downloading import wizard
for outlook installed program and then
go through the step-by-step this so this
actually shows you how to get it you're
going to go into your administrative
console and go into the Downloads area
etc etc i'll post links for you in the
show notes of episode number 218 but in
the meantime you can follow through with
that search yourself again i used google
and i typed in zimbra outlook PST import
wizard and that tool is going to allow
you to take that PST file on the
computer that has at least outlook 2003
and import it directly into your zimbra
account which is very cool stuff if you
don't have access to a system that meets
the specs for that or if you have any
trouble you can use imap if you if you
have outlook you can set it up to
synchronize by i'm apt but that's a
pretty tedious but that gives you
another another search query if that's
what's what's necessary good luck right
Robert cheers thanks for the question
excellent on to our next question says
hi Robbie and friends hey i'm using
banshee music player on gnome shell now
it looks good but a bit inconvenient
when it comes to updating metadata the
fingerprint look up an update from
last.fm is useful but it does not update
album info first song
my question is is there a tool that
allows me to select multiple songs and
update this update the some common info
example album album artist in badge like
the id3 tags kind of what you're saying
I guess sure is that it oh and he has a
second question okay on if we let
solution we address the first question
sure you know that would be logical but
okay logic when are we logical never
never okay let's let's take a look here
I'm going to bring up my computer I'm
going to go system administration
synaptic package manager and in synaptic
package manager because we'll use
synaptic if we want and we're going to
install a little tool that is going to
allow us to edit the id3 tags so that's
like your mp3 files or whatever the tool
that I would like to use this is the one
that I use is called ez tag just like
that as a matter of fact I even already
have it installed so let's bring it up
so you can install that tool and then go
applications sound &amp; video ez tag ez tag
is exactly what you would expect from a
program called ez tag it's a way to
easily tag your music ah clever clever
that's the kind of humor that you can
expect from us here at category 5 TV
okay or pure am all right yeah okay
music oh I'm getting some kind of there
we go I'm gonna leave this not maximized
I've got a smaller screen so that can be
problematic okay music my band okay so
here's here's one of my CDs which you
can actually download off of my band's
website if you're really keen on it i'll
put a link in the show notes for 218
basically here are the songs ok I've
browse to it in music and then soul
cleansed CDs called no matter so what I
want to do over here I've got the
ability to
modify any of the information there's
some information that's going to be
static across the whole CD right because
the CD is a CD so it's going to have the
same artist the same name unless its
various artists or something like that
so in my case what I'm going to do I'm
going to just click on any of the tracks
and I'm going to set the artist to what
my band name was swoll cleansed and then
over here see this button here that's
going to tag selected files okay so
there what I want to do I'm going to
highlight the first one go all the way
to the last one pardon me let's back up
a second I want to highlight all of them
don't want to miss that step okay now
set the band name and now click that
button okay and that's going to set it
for all of these set we're not going to
set the title of the song because it's
going to be set from their album name
right so you can go through doing it
like that now okay set that for all of
them now no matter what when I go to
well you see soul cleansed is set no
matter which one it is I didn't save it
for album I clicked on the wrong check
box but here's another thing that you
can do here this is kind of interesting
because here's the manual way to do it
okay so you can go through and you can
set up all the id3 parameters those are
tags that show up in your player for
example there's another way there's this
little tool up here at the top scan
files okay i'm gonna click on that and
what I want to do is I want to have a
general idea of the file structure of my
CD so each file falls into if i go into
music check this out I've got a folder
called soul cleanse no matter that's the
CD name here I've got the track names
and numbers okay so
% a is the artist okay so it's going to
be well zoom come kind of throws me
sometimes % a is artist so that's going
to set it automatically dis ol cleanse
now you see there's a dash there that's
because my file naming is with a dash if
that's a slash then my let's see here
it's not going to set it up correctly
what this will do is artist a CD name
and then the slash that's a new folder
you can play with this and this number
of the track so that's in the file names
it's grabbing all this information from
the file name % t is the title and again
it's grabbing that information from the
file name itself right as soon as I
mouse over is going to start playing but
so it's getting 0 1 i'll be waiting
right so now if i activate that let's
see
there we go that's what happened I
accidentally clicked out when my zoom
was in now you see what I'm talking
about if that's a slash watch what
happens to percent be right because it's
it's a dash in the file name now there
we go now if I click that watch this it
automatically filled in for that for
that particular track that was
highlighted CD name etc etc highlight
all of them do the same thing now each
one has track name as well as the track
number the CD name everything's there so
now save your changes right let's see
this one up here select all files and
save and you want to do this repeat
action for the rest of the files yes
okay so this is easy tag really really
simple way to tag all of your files now
it's saved now it's done each file has
the name of the track based on the file
name and you can add more information
there so that's exactly what you're
looking for nice to have those id3 tags
in place helps you to set it up a lot of
mp3 players rely on those id3 tags and
it's also nice for organizing your music
files as well so cool easy tag cool and
you said there was another there is
there's a part two oh um and he says my
second question is is there any good
equalizer for Ubuntu and this is from
invincible mutant oh okay hey yeah you
know your talk now I you know I hope
that helped you my friend um okay so an
equalizer mm-hmm okay so the thing that
we need to think about is that newer
versions of lenox and a boon to is no
exception are using pulseaudio used to
have alpha or jack or whatever other
things so you'd use like the alsa sound
mixer jack sound mixer in our case we're
using pulseaudio so we need to find an
equalizer for pulseaudio because if you
look at your settings here very basic
right here's my sound settings it
works and it's and it's cool whoa but
there's no you're right there's no
equalizer so fortunately for us there
there was a tool that was manufactured
and made web update published it on
their repositories it's no longer
supported it's no longer being actively
maintained but it is still available to
us so just bring up your web browser
invincible mutant and anyone else who is
interested in adding this kind of
functionality to your to your pulseaudio
based linux machine i'm going to do a
search for web up date with an eight
upd8 and it's called system-wide
pulseaudio equalizer it's an older one
but it works and i will post the links
here we go this was posted back in april
i will post the links for you to this
actual article there's what it looks
like we're going to take a look so what
you need to do it's this simple
invincible mutant highlight this code
basically what it's going to do it's
going to add the repository okay it's
going to do an apt get update and then
it's going to install pulseaudio
equalizer highlight all that copy to
clipboard me those are linux terminal
commands so hop over to your terminal
hit edit paste enter your password
because it's super user do and now let
her go there we go so now closed that
down
and go applications sound &amp; video and
you'll see pulse audio equalizer let's
bring that up there we have it okay so
let's let's go back to my music play one
of my songs okay so now what I want to
do is I want to go eq enabled okay apply
settings now play around
really something but essentially that's
you know exactly what you would expect
from DQ I would gather that's pretty
loud so that eq as you can see has some
presets you can set it up however you
like apply the settings and you're good
to go invincible mutant I hope that's
exactly what you're looking for and
again the links will be in the show
notes for episode number 218 really
improves the experience of manipulating
your audio directly in Linux it's nice
to have a software driven eq certainly
can be quite handy on your system so
check that out highly recommended as
you're using pulseaudio and now time for
you to take it away with the news here
category 5 yeah all right I have some
fabulous stories for you guys let's see
alright so here at the top stories in
the category 5 TV news room here's a
story that brought out the giggles in
Rachel last week I heard I didn't see it
but I heard it was quite it was I'll
have to go back and watch it yeah
everybody so here's what you may have
missed pogoplug the remote access
service that lets you connect to your
hardware was officially launched has
officially launched their launch their
own cloud this is a free online storage
service that offers users 5 gigabytes of
space to store whatever data they'd like
and like pogo plugs remote access
services their cloud offering does not
require any hardware components from the
user the service can augment products
like the pogoplug device and pogoplug
software for computers but won't replace
them refusers would like more than 5
gigabytes of cloud storage then they can
upgrade to paid accounts 50 gigabytes of
storage will go for 995 a month while
100 gigabytes will be 1995 a month but
of course cesar's can also add their own
pogoplug device to add their own storage
to the cloud using USB hard drives and a
high-speed internet connection very cool
and I'd like to mention that's exactly
the device that we're going to be giving
away tonight so stick around we've got
two of those two to send your way it's
very convenient yes
they're awesome the last three or
starting out the last three the three
returning crew members of the
International Space Station touched down
safely last night marking another
success for Russia's so use soils era
spacecraft mm-hmm expedition 29
commander mike fossum of nasa and flight
engineers from both Japan and Russia
landed on the central steppe of
kazakhstan at 226 a.m. after nearly six
months in space Fossum handed over
command to NASA's Dan Burbank the head
of expedition 30 who arrived at the
international space station along with
and apt and oh my goodness a natale a
vanishing you do this on purpose I know
you do i do and i must apologize to
laugh to you and continuing on anton
shkaplerov of these are names my friends
Ross cosmos they're not funny names i do
like canadians to work our way from
these words hmm okay so very cool that
time that they're up there anyways
Frost's cosmos last week also aboard a
soyuz soy jose craft the final three
members of the current mission are
scheduled to launch on december 21st to
dock with the space station in time for
christmas on december twenty third
christmas december twenty third no but
that's when they are scheduled oh it's a
grammatical error oh well I get it I get
it point in time for Christmas they'll
be back december twenty third on know
they'll be on the space station yeah
sure yeah that's what I meant oakland
aight that's what i read enough you're
gonna have to redo this story next week
no team yes okay all right by the time
we get it right they will be on the
space station good and they'll be having
Christmas yes on December 23rd good okay
that's fine got it time for everyone so
the majority of Android smartphone users
are walking around with insecure devices
running out of date OS builds leavin
personal and business data at greater
risk of attack the latest figures from
Google's Android developer website
showed that 44.4 percent of users have
the latest version of android android
2.3 or later installed on their devices
a further one point nine percent or
running developer builds that leaves
53.7 percent running older versions the
majority of which are running android
2.2 which is froyo the issue here is
that it means more than half of Android
users are still susceptible to issues
that have long been fixed or patched
such as droid dream malware which allows
hackers to root your phone this is fixed
this was fixin Android OS 2.3 like any
software it's important to stay on top
of your updates contact your phone
vendor if you need help upgrading to a
safer version of Android OS Microsoft
sources have denied a claim that Xbox a
lot Xbox Live has been hacked stating
instead that gamers said to have up to a
hundred pounds lifted from their
accounts ravick's of phishing scams
allegations that cybercriminals have
hacked into thousands of xbox live
accounts to steal millions of pounds in
the UK we're made by the Sun newspaper
based in London England this morning
however sources close to Microsoft
insisted there is no evidence that any
account has been hacked but the source
admitted that there has been an increase
in attempts to gain punters login
credentials through deception fishing
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 DVD newsroom is
researched by roy w nash and simple 10
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new story to think
is worthy of honor mention email us at
news room at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room i'm crystal
walls thanks Krista I actually received
quite a few phishing scam emails in my
inbox oh yeah on a regular basis I think
because so many people have me in their
address book and people get infected
with viruses and these are not
necessarily the legitimately sent out
emails a virus is actually sending out
in a lot of cases these emails that say
hey click here they poses like Microsoft
or hotmail or msn live or whatever and
say well you're we're going to be
disabling your account click here to you
yeah click here to authenticate your
account and you go and you click on the
link and unfortunately the email looks
very professional very legitimate you
click on the link and you get to a
website that looks exactly like the
hotmail login or the twitter login or in
this case the xbox live login and so
people enter their usernames and
passwords and then they got you they got
you because you're in a database and
guess what they've got robots that go
out there and change your passwords in
an instant or grab your credit card
information or whatever it takes it
happened recently Barry got hit pretty
hard with a Twitter worm that was going
out by direct messages to basically
everyone in berry saying click here we
saw a blog article about you is this is
this picture of you and you click on it
and it looks exactly like Twitter and so
what does everyone think oh that's weird
why do I have to log into to see the
picture but they do anyways because they
think that it's Twitter you think it's
trusted and it had like a twitter com
website address so it looks at first
glance if you don't look closely it
looks very very much like it's
legitimate so got to be very very
careful and I say this not to expand on
a news story but just to to warn you
that there are risky things that are out
there and people and we and you need to
understand that there are things other
than viruses in our world today that
that we need to protect ourselves from
because these days a lot of times it is
unfortunately user error that the
results in data collection our credit
cards being
defrauded and people taking our money
our identities and it can be very
dangerous so so be very wary of that be
very careful watch out for phishing
scams mm-hmm superantispyware is a good
piece of software to help you if you're
on Windows superantispyware CA just one
little recommendation for you they used
to be sponsors they're not sponsors the
show right now but it is still good
software and I and I recommend it so
tonight we are going to be giving away a
couple of pogoplug so do stick around
but we are looking at Linux Mint 12 code
name Lisa they have the release
candidate that was just released and
very cool stuff now Linux of course is
going through quite a transition right
now because the big players have boomed
two in particular they're really pushing
to for everybody to switch up to numb
three linux mint is what was originally
based on ubuntu and and they've really
held their own and put their foot down
and said well we're we're sticking with
gnome two point three point two 2.32
back then with their version 11 release
but there comes a point i think in any
development cycle where here's the
problem is that linux users are really
being pushed and now even Linux Mint the
developers are being pushed because if
they stick with 2.3 to the version of
Nome which is basically the classic NOLA
interface the application menu up at the
top or the bottom and the traditional
computer interface with a desktop and
things unlike the touchscreen interface
of gnome 3 or unity and a boon tues case
so their hands are now being pushed
because if they don't switch up to gnome
3 all of a sudden they're operating
system is going to stop working because
it's no longer compatible with the
ubuntu repositories which have basically
said you know there is no no more known
2.32 so here they're at a rock and a
hard place because their developer Clem
I believe his name is is is really I get
the impression that he's a little like
me in the way that he wants to hold onto
the old school
a desktop interface and doesn't like
being pushed into this unity gnome 3 and
so they've set out to do something a
little differently let's log into Linux
Mint 12 which is soon to be released
that we're looking at the release
candidate tonight which as they say in
their blog is still very young and what
you see here is not what's going to be
in the full version exactly they are
really cleaning it up and really
tweaking things making it beautiful
making it functional but one of the
things that they've really set out to do
with linux mint is to create a
distribution that is what we as desktop
users would expect from our computer not
a touchscreen interface necessarily
something that's a little more friendly
and a little more familiar to us so i've
just installed the release candidate
looks like it's coming up there we go
Dean bean now remember how to add a
default this is going to be running
gnome 3 okay welcome to linux mint
what's unique about this version of
linux mint is that they have introduced
mg SE that is there mint gnome shell
extension and what that's designed to do
is basically to bring a gnome 2.3 kind
of feel into the gnome 3 point 0 0 or
3.2 system so you are running gnome 3
but they've set it up so that it feels a
little bit more like gnome 2 which
there's a big difference between the two
and you'll know as soon as you try it so
think of gnome to as the start menu kind
of interface right like like Windows
it's got the start menu and and all that
whereas gnome 3 steps into the iOS kind
of interface where it's all touch and
it's all like big bold buttons and
flipping screens and stuff like that so
there's got to be a happy medium right
and that's what linux mint is set out to
try to create for its users is that
happy medium so that we've got an
interface that makes more sense to us
cool unfortunately it's taken its taking
this time to load here and we did have
it up earlier but I do seem to have
trouble with Linux Mint when it's
running in the gnome 3 so maybe what
I'll do is I'll kick it into a hard
reboot you may have trouble let me know
if you're running by default but I'm
going to show you how to start up using
their the mate desktop unfortunately
doesn't look like we're gonna get the
CMG se mg se is in a very young state
basically what it does is it takes the
gnome 3 so you still have that kind of
applications menu but you're able to
also have a little applications button
at the bottom that gives you more like a
standard applications menu where you can
actually click point and click on the
application that you want mate on the
other hand is a young fork of of gnome
2.3 and so it is set out to be a very
gnome 2 friendly or familiar interface
and it's looking very good they are it
is admittedly young but it's coming
together so what we're going to do is
we're going to click up here and we're
going to go down to mate now mate is
included with Linux Mint if you download
the DVD version of the distribution and
mate if we're lucky is going to be quite
a bit faster than what we just saw which
was pretty much non-operational with the
gnome 3 there we go see look at that
I've got a task bar down at the bottom
and that people are a little skeptical
about mate to me right now that looks
really familiar almost dare I say like
that's that feels comfortable so let's
see what we can do to make this feel
more like the desktop that I love which
is to right click on my my little task
bar if you will at the bottom here let's
click on move well let's see I'm going
to go properties for me see orientation
let's pop that up to the top go close
now my applications menu is at the top
ok feels a little bit more boom to ask
as of the old days but you'll notice
that the clock is not in the middle it's
in the proper spot over at the right I'm
going to right click again on my panel
and I'm going to go new panel and it
through through a new panel down at the
bottom here i'm going to go add to panel
and let's add whatever we want down
there you may want that to be where your
applications or windows that window list
is right so i could add it down there
there we go right and i can remove it
from up here so now my applications are
going to show at the bottom see that
linux mint with mate to me feels pretty
comfortable and and looks very soft I'm
surprised that they've really reduced
the amount of green linux mint is
notorious for having a very green
operating system just based on their
name and and the theme that they went
with and I never really liked that about
it but here it's really starting to feel
like it's got a very darker kind of
softer theme on my eyes it's it's pretty
easy it is reasonably attractive
considering it is based on this is mate
which is a game based on gnome 2.3
something and it looks really good mate
is meant to be fairly buggy right now at
the start I have not personally
encountered much in the way of bugs it
seems to be fairly stable even though
this is a release candidate of linux
mint it seems that it works very very
well just bringing up kind of the
applications that are included with it
libre office you'll notice as well that
it does include GIMP GNU image
manipulation program which is an
alternative for adobe photoshop so that
gives you the ability to modify your
images and things like that libreoffice
the OpenOffice fork as well as a couple
of different media players to get you
started and everything that you would
expect from your linux distribution is
here it has a very good backup tool
which is called deja dupe and what's
cool about d√©j√† dupe and the fact that
it's included with this distribution i
think is that it's going to encourage
you to set up a backup because watch how
simple this is watch how easy it is to
set up a back just show my backup
settings ryan ago automatic backups on
storage whatever blah blah blah you
might want to set it to an external
drive or a different drive how often do
you want to backup weekly how long do
you want to keep your backups forever at
least a year at least six months said it
however you like ok and it's that easy
to set up your backup I mean I set it up
I just turned it on and now folders to
backup is already set to home my Robbie
folder
click on backup now enter my password
here's what I'm going to do I'm going to
remember my password because I want my
that's encrypting my backup but I want
it to always remember the back the
password so that it will automatically
run the backup there we go backup
completed and this is going to happen
now every week it's it's done my backup
is already set now of course I'm saving
my back up to my internal hard drive so
really that's only protecting me from if
I delete a file for example that's not
going to do anything for me if I have a
hard drive crash I saw a system came in
this week where they were backing up
their data but they were backing it up
to the same hard drive that the data
resided on so the hard drive crashes and
guess what so be mindful if you're going
to be doing a backup you need to get it
onto a separate destination network
computer another computer in the house
another backup Drive something along
those lines so out of the box Linux Mint
didn't work for us using the gnome 3
interface switching over to mate however
is working fast very zippy you'll notice
that it comes with Firefox not chrome it
comes with pigeon instant messenger not
that terrible thing I can remember the
name it this is got pigeon it's good
empathy is the one I'm thinking of is
just terrible so this is nice to see ex
chat comes pre-installed transmission
bittorrent client thunderbird for your
email so there's a there's a fair suite
of basic tools to get you started with
your computer and then again system
administration synaptic package manager
is going to allow you to go through and
install just like you're on any other
Linux distribution it's got a nice
little interface for finding
applications to install on your computer
those are usually available for you free
through synaptic and you just click on
them and click on install very good
cosmetics looks pretty good i'm going to
try logging out and try attempt to log
back in again as in the gnome 3
environment to show um gse whether or
not that's going to work for us I don't
know first impressions
oh free zippy yeah with me mate looks
good to me I've read it read some mixed
reviews it looks pretty like clean and
everything I think it pretty simple
doesn't look too hard to navigate
throughout anyways yeah it feels more
familiar and you saw how customizable it
was it was easy for me to to set up it
looks like MGIC is going to load a
little bit better this time it is slow
compared to obviously see how quickly
you can change the performance of your
computer just by saying changing your
desktop environment and this is probably
to do with compositing probably to do
something with it could even be bugs
because this is a release candidate so
don't hold it against them too much
because we're basically looking at like
a pre-release of the operating system
and they do expect that there are going
to be a lot of things changed a lot of
things fixed up when the actual release
takes place so if i can get it to
respond i haven't had much luck honestly
with with mg SE and some people are
saying that it's really good there we go
there's the gnome 3 aspect of it okay
now there's a menu down at the bottom
that does load it's not running very
well though is it so i'm going to say
linux mint if you go the mate route it
seems to work really well it seems to be
zippy it seems to look nice and work
well but then using the default
interface mg se which is their attempt
to make it feel more like a traditional
interface but I think the fact that they
included mate in the DVD distribution is
is a plus one for the developers / linux
mint recognizing that yeah may be young
but it's probably going to run better on
some systems including the one that
we're demoing on tonight so you know
kudos to them for for thinking about
that so if you have trouble running
Linux Mint 12 with the default gnome
interface which is going to use mg SE
then definitely you're going to you're
going to want to try mate and see how
that goes we're going to watch for
updates as well over the course of the
next while and see how
linux mint with mg se starts to perform
we're going to see fixes coming out to
mate and nice that they are supporting
that as well welcoming York on your
comments in the chat room category five
on freenode or join us on our website
category five TV and you can join us in
the live chat room there what's going on
in the chat room a little bit of
discussion about mental yeah like
imagine in Scott oh not a lot no just
just the general conversations yeah i'm
using Ubuntu 1110 and like it ya like
that no problems with mint 12 RC you're
not having any trouble who's that it's
from garbey garbey you're having some a
good experience with mdse I'd love to
hear your thoughts about about it and
the way that they're going about it I i
think you know good for them for working
toward and it's funny because they're
really basically trying to make it so
that gnome 3 can feel and look more like
an old version of the same thing but
gnome to is just tried and true it's
stable it's good it's an interface that
we can relate to and the fact is though
everything's pushing this way
everything's pushing towards the gnome 3
and unity interfaces and it's a it's a
changing time it's a time of change for
operating systems and hardware as
Hardware becomes less powerful and
operating systems become lighter weight
we're seeing you know you see a tablet
that's slower than another one and yet
for some reason is super zippy compared
to that other one it's all about the
software now it's an incredible time I
think so
well gang login to our website category
five dot TV let's see what I have here
Oh couldn't be a pogoplug cut it no it's
two of them got to Pogo vlogs Boca plug
is a fabulous device the pogoplug is
going to allow you to basically create
your own personal cloud go to our
website category 5 TV login you can see
right on our front page there is a
button for you to click race and you're
going to have an opportunity to
participate and to hopefully win one of
these pogoplug devices we're giving away
two of them to quick that click Race
contestants right now category five dot
TV head on over to our website we are
watching for participants pogoplug
basically allows me to use my eight gig
ipod with 250 gigs of storage because i
have a 250 gig you USB hard drive
plugged into my pogoplug pogoplug gives
me access to that from any device
anywhere in the world and now
introducing the the new cloud i'm able
to leverage my device and set it up so
that now my device also has storage
outside in the boot or in the pogoplug
cloud pardon me so now i'm able to send
stuff and and save stuff and store it in
my cloud without it using my own
bandwidth too so it's very cool stuff so
we've got Dave JV SCC Emile 1976 Smitty
Smith and torto all ready for a cliq
race good luck here they go oh my
goodness let them go clicking away dave
is currently in the lead Jake
sec come up very close behind sweetie
Smith is AG oh so close Smitty Smith
looks like how about to take off behind
there
almost put a quick really put faster o
JV SCC and second place still oh and we
just got another joiner AAS 759 just got
into the race we've got a total of nine
hundred klicks now and still going
unbelievable
Go Go no tour no
the lead with 280 clicks and a half I
even see him coming up there
unbelievable Smitty Smith close behind
must be double clicking up we've got
1,500 clicks in total so far JV SCC
still holding on to the second place
dave has fallen behind
is 220 clicks dave has finger cramps
that's addict come on Dave clip and clip
the chin JV sec close behind with 430
clicks here we go for the winners of to
pull the plugs just about there click
click click damn easy baby that
connection Illyrio's he's coming up with
a venture that with a vengeance there he
is yay with 350 klicks almost coming up
come on Dave not much time left here my
friends it's almost time to announce the
winners toward o JV SCC we've got a s
759 really just clicking away there
Smitty Smith has fallen in the last
place dave has taken over the second
from last
working his way
and ladies and gentlemen the winners of
the cliq race they still have time to
take over come on Dave the winners of
click race tonight for tuvalu plugs are
the SCC congratulations you two we're
going to send you a pogoplug device this
is an amazing device I I think you're
going to love it it gives you an ability
to store your files on an external hard
drive from any device and access them
stream them to your your mobile devices
stream them to your computer however you
want to do it and share them with family
and friends recently my wife and I we
set up a video and we shared it directly
from this with family and friends and
it's just an amazing device so email us
toward ojv SCC with your mailing
shipping address and phone number live
at category 5 TV and we can't wait to
send that off to you make sure you
include your phone number for the
courier Cheers torto JV SCC
congratulations on winning click race
just to mention that torto actually
clicked 1093 times oh my goodness I
spend stretching before hand just just
about yeah I want to win this JV sec
closed in behind with 849 clicks
congratulations you two very cool stuff
chat room it's been fun tonight
I torto in the chatroom says I i broke
my mouse oh I need a new house well hey
you were gonna buy a pogoplug anyway so
take that and that and go buy yourself a
nice nice new Mouse one with rapid fire
remember rapid fire on the nintendo
controller she could buy a special
controller that had like a switch you
hold in the a button it was the laziest
thing it's like you're playing contra
and you know the other guy next to you
is going think ding ding ding ding ding
ding you're just holding it in it's
cheating it's totally cheating and I
also had a game genie take your way back
mmm penny penny penny has me thinking
about 8-bit graphics see how that works
penny oh I love it yeah G seagulls with
me they understand they remember yeah
came GE Wow good times well hey
tonight's show is brought to you has
been brought to you by garden gate farms
you'll find them at garden gate farms
com they have certified organic broccoli
sprout and wheatgrass juice good stuff
build your immunity check them out
garden gate farms com also cat5 TV /
calypso and you can download the free
online game there and of course the
dreamy device that we just gave away
cat5 TV / pogoplug go to that website
and learn all about the device that you
just won and we thank them for their
involvement in the show cat5 TV /
pogoplug hope you had fun tonight
of course how did that our just go like
that what are they always just seem as
if by I know thanks everybody yeah hey
everybody in the chat room cool so yeah
next week make sure you're here if you
have young kids we're going to be
talking about cyber bullying a very
important topic that that needs to be
addressed I'd encourage you you know get
your get your family together get your
husband wife in the room your spouse or
whoever's with you to sit down and learn
from the show we're going to have a very
special guest who is in fact whose child
was a victim of cyberbullying and we're
going to be speaking about the the
charitable organization that she found
it in order to to help make people aware
of the of the issues that that do exist
with Facebook and so that and profiles
and the bullying that takes place so I
encourage you to join us especially if
you're a parent next week if you're a
young person who is experiencing you
know at the receiving end of
cyberbullying I'd encourage you to check
it out also if you perhaps have set some
things to somebody online that maybe you
would like to take back it's a good
opportunity for you to learn about the
impact of the things that you say in
your site and your social profiles so
definitely is going to be a great show
next week and I will love to have you
here Krista it's been nice having you
here this week oh it's great to be here
you're like you know once every you look
so tall with a hat on it's like I did it
I'm gonna sit back like this so that I
look like this I look like a munchkin
and you just look like a allocate it's
like depth perception of the camera I'll
just sit back there yeah time Hillary's
on next week yeah just mentioned in the
chat room there garmi mmhmm yeah great
having you here yeah so see on like a
month so that long so like right before
Christmas right before Christmas
probably have stuff to give away
I hope so that's the coolest hope you
had fun this week everybody and I sure
did nice happening here and see you on
our website category 5 TV don't forget
to drop us an email live at category
five dot TV see you next week
