what you're a go to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 165
of category 5 technology TV you'll find
us online triple w dot category 5 TV
exactly as shown in the footer that
contains the real date the real date it
is tuesday november the 16th 2010 in
case this information seem dated you're
watching it after the fact and you
realize it's a year old for tonight we
are live well so we'd love to get your
questions in the chat room category 5 TV
on freenode in the category 5 chat room
and of course you can also just throw an
email live at category 5 TV send us some
emails yeah how you doing I'm doing all
right yeah I have not seen you look I
know literally we haven't seen you you
were supposed to come out and see hockey
sunday i go you lost actually we haven't
perfect record this season my my Sunday
morning team yeah perfect record
fantastic a perfect record of no one's
no wins that would be my perfect record
no ties her hair is consistency for it
consistency that is only distance they
hit but we are over spongebob
squarepants we are eternally optimistic
so it's okay yeah perfect welcome to
everybody who's joining us good to see
you John and nice to have you here ol
areas so there he is hey Mike just gets
better looking each day we've got Henry
who's also joining I know it's like ever
since we put a camera on this guy who
starts dressing up it's fantastic the
family retainer atasi is a cold this is
guitar so what's up yeah Lori how are
you I am fabulous and I come to you from
a bed and breakfast I am here because my
internet in my dorm room is dead turns
out when all your roommates are watching
their online TV shows it sucks all your
bandwidth up for the month so I
relocated to this better breakfast and I
will be doing the news from here Hillary
I guess at first it seemed like a good
idea to tell all your roomies that hey
by the way I'm live tonight check out
this website and you'll be able to tune
in and then all of a sudden this happens
and so it looks like you're you're on
like a kind of a slow connection again
tonight and we're gonna get some
probably some artifacts it's like
Saturday Night Live thing where they do
the remote thing yeah we're just gonna
have to wing it I don't know see it'll
be mystery it's like where will I end up
next week you just don't know because
well I go where the internet is
fantastic and we'll just see so for
those of you who are watching tonight
and when Hillary is on you may noticed
our artifacts you may notice choppiness
and sometimes people start going crazy
in the chat room saying oh the videos
lagging the videos choppy and stuff and
it's not really the video it's the
connection to a through skype video to
Hillary herself because of the
connection that she's on with the
internet connection so we're very happy
to have you here I know that it's been a
little bit stressful to get you here
tonight Hillary and I appreciate you
taking the time and finding a spot that
you can get online and be able to to
chat with us here you go so what do you
have coming up in the news for tonight
Oh people i don't know if you can handle
this coming up in the newsroom fedora
linux may eventually drop the x window
system in favor of Leyland facebook has
unveiled their new modern messaging
service and no it's not quite email but
it does include a facebook com email
address and you can block service one
pack for installing on your Windows 7
computer with a helpful tool from
Microsoft surprise surprise Linux
continues to be substantially faster
than windows in the super computer
market and now you can parallel park
like a pro
with the 2011 BMW 55 I stick around for
the latest news from the category 5 TV
news room that's fantastic because I
just happen to have a BMW sitting in the
back yeah just happened to I think
that's that was part of my signing bonus
when I came on to cut five that was that
was in the contract does it yeah yeah
you did you really I got to sign it
actually two of them actually I see
gadget wisdom guru has just pointed out
that maybe now that John's a married man
his wife has been helping him get
dressed before the show is that what it
is it could be could be he knows that he
knows that she's watching but he did
mike christie hey Christie it could be
yeah could the fact is she's not in town
no she was working hard Christie our
former yeah co-hosts here yeah good yeah
just working hard she's got it going on
all right so we got lots of questions
coming in the chat room we've got some
girls there do get your questions and I
know Erica's is looking at the email and
stuff when we didn't get a whole lot of
email this week Oh what's up with that I
don't know people I've been answering
your questions that's what we're here
for but we do have some viewer
testimonials and we love to receive
those viewer testimonials and be able to
say hey as people submit those so I'll
just bring those up on our website
category five dot TV it's a way for you
to let us know what you think of the
show what are they going on about now I
was just showing this coffee it's coffee
it is coffee you make everything sound
like it's a party though Eric so what
are they supposed to well you know
somebody was wondering if I was into the
bushmills last week I sent the guy out
to pick up some poppies from the
convenience store so that we had poppies
those those flowers that we were wearing
our
Curren of our fallen soldiers and those
who are who are fighting for our freedom
right now and that was the mission the
quest that I had you on and yet you made
it sound like I sent you the LCBO yep no
no I don't even think it was wrecking it
may have been gadwal but somebody
mentioned Bushmills and her jameson
perhaps and I said Bushmill but no it
was it was a poppy mission yeah is it it
was and yeah it was more challenge than
I sir imagine popular i just kinda
legion right yeah there's a question oh
well i got your testimonials i just
gonna hate here i've got chris is
joining us from aussie out of oregon and
gives us five out of five sons and says
eric lumen great show fellas I found you
both on at episode number 162 via Miro
internet TV now back watching all those
episodes that precede 162 I am also a
new user 20 boon to 10.04 and must say
it is a very nice OS indeed I started
out in the days of 08 e sixes and IBM
das on five and a half inch or five inch
disks remember those old bad boy don't
fold them in half you'll never get your
dad on there were five and a quarter
five and a quarter three and a half
that's right actually well now he's
gonna go back a little farther is yeah
yes when I was you REO know when I first
got to the TV station there was a couple
that I mean the disks their immigrant
else he's yeah yeah it was incredible
fantastic and they could hold an entire
kilobit kilobyte yeah not yet bite bite
bite uh goes on to say Chris here says
pc back then was a Commodore Colt and
twin floppy drives cheers from Chris
back in the days before they had hard
drives had to have the to flop yes one
to read one to write fantastic taking
one was for the OS and one was didn't
yet need another one for any of the
programs like say you want wordperfect
get everyone go if you're if you're
using basic two programs and stuff from
the one disk and that's your basic app
and then you've got your other disk is
your what you're actually saving Chris
finishes by saying PS i'll be looking
4 y-o-u solar man AK Robbie in planet
calypso CMA Chris I'll look forward to
seeing you in planta clip so i guess i'm
now known as solar man because of the
though just because they white balance
the cameras off of my head as some
people have mentioned in the chat room
it doesn't mean that that i am solar man
angel d Rodriguez from California says
thanks for your help last week you
instructed on your instructions on
installing apache to server in a boon to
to see files and folders via web browser
helped me out a lot i was stuck for a
little while until I figured out that I
needed to change the slash var slash ww
reference in two places not just in the
document root reference but also on the
directory reference your help got me far
enough to figure it out I then added a
link to the file server on our tech
support page so our Tech's can have
access to the files that they need
across campus thanks again Robbie and a
big smiley face angel I'm so pleased
that that that was able to help you and
I love what angel says there is that we
gave you just enough information to get
you started and get your feet wet and
then from there you can just take it and
go with it and don't expect to get
spoon-fed know sometimes there's a time
and a place for that but I love I love
giving you enough of a challenge that
you have to actually go out and and
figure out a little bit it's so much
better than me just giving you a command
and then you're doing it and saying oh
great that worked if you actually
understand what you're doing and you
understand how you can recreate that
should you know five years pass and all
of a sudden you need to do it again but
now all of a sudden it's becoming not
just a tutorial but it's becoming
knowledge and that's that's the exact
reason why we've done some of the gimp
tutorials we've done it's about getting
that knowledge so that when you need
those kind of tools all of a sudden you
know exactly how to use them we'd like
to give a man a fish no kind of sword i
speaking again we're going to be looking
at how to crop images with the gimp a
couple of different ways to do that
tonight taking us right down to the
basics and just something that that
we're going to be looking at also a
program called g mount iso which is
going to allow us to mount iso CD and
DVD images on our Linux system using a
you I so you don't need to learn your
mount command you don't need to know
what dash Oh loop is oh my Wow novel
idea so stick around for that also the
eco alkaline batteries your your
microphone is still working off of that
nickel metal hydride we talked last week
about about the test the highly
scientific nests that we're doing with
this microphone is to let that puppy run
until it starts making alien noises so
you in the chat room it's your
responsibility to let us know if it
starts making some noises because that's
our cue to change over to an eco
alkaline battery what are these these
are these are eco alkalines and you know
what percentage of cadmium lead mercury
I would guess it's under ten percent so
zero percent 0% so batteries as you know
are really bad for the environment in
that a lot of people even though on
every battery it says do not dispose of
you know to take it to your your city
landfilling and dispose of it correctly
I know that a lot of people don't do
that they'll land up going in the bin
and that's really really bad for the
earth and there are chemicals that are
in there that are not just precious
metals and things that are I guess what
you would call renewable resources like
things that you can reuse things that
could be reused but being that they're
just going to be buried on landfill they
aren't going to be reused right these
batteries don't contain any of those
chemicals and they are environmentally
friendly even landfill friend lisa's
landfill safe land feels safe okay yeah
well so we're going to be taking a look
at these over the next couple of weeks
not just from an environmental
standpoint but also to determine if they
are in fact good batteries because
that's really what it boils down to
right we want to know so the last like
to know do they last like an alkaline
and we are right now comparing it to a
nickel metal hydride so I know it's a
bit of apples to oranges but again it
comes to zocalo it is an alkaline is
okay but it's right but the batteries
that we use or nickel metal nickel metal
hydride because they're rechargeable and
I do that because I don't want to be
filling the landfill with batteries
right now most rechargeables I've used
seeing
they don't typically hold a charge louse
as an alkyl very well like after ya
visual so it is a bit of apples to
oranges but but if these last longer and
they're earth friendly then that's
something to think about and then we're
going to also be comparing them with
your standard like energizer batteries
as our other just to kind of get an idea
where they stand as far as our goes and
how long the battery is going to last
for and you can find out more about the
Eco alkaline I love for you to check
them out just go to cat five dot TV /
eco that's ec 0 and you'll be able to
find out more about the above the
batteries themselves and what it is that
they do with their carbon neutrality and
and more information about that so check
that out also tonight we've got a
brother mfc j 6 615 W we are giving away
very very soon we're taking more
qualifiers for that we'll have more
information for you and yeah all right
that kind of takes us into the show we
have an email everybody hey fabulous
more questions or I we love questions
yeah get them in the chat room is a
great place to meet with us and want to
say hi to everyone in the chat room I
know that there are a few people joining
us tonight for the first time I also see
people like Pyro's rock who have been
away from us for quite some time and
it's great to have you back and very
nice to see you and great to see you in
the chat room nice to have you here John
I've missed you on planet calypso it's
good to see you here in the category 5
chat room and it's certainly great to
see everybody there if you're brand new
here let us know send a message to our
attention Robbie F or Eric Kidd and we'd
love to say hello they would George
Brown has a question hey George hi
George I am having problems getting NFS
to work on my unraid server what is the
exact configuration to enter into the
drive and user configuration boxes
thanks in advance for your prompt reply
very quick figures you'd start with one
that I don't generally use to be honest
George I I've I'm gonna I'm gonna make a
lot of people very angry with me right
now well I've been just using samba on
my
under a box its work right right out of
the box that's been working fantastic
but I know that some people have had
trouble getting NFS working on the on
the data version of unraid five so
that's the first thing i would check is
if you're using the better version i'm
on four point five point six and
everything seems to work just fine but
of course betta software is a little bit
different it's not meant to be used in a
production environment i'm going to go
to lime dash technology / forum and you
know nola.com in there mr. maybe that
would help wouldn't it well I'm dad well
that's why i zoom out and why I have you
here to poke fun at my hideous ease and
he's writing it down lime dash
technology com / forum and you know me
well enough to know that I don't I don't
often just send you somewhere else for
an answer because I prefer to give you
the answer if I have it full out but in
this case because I am pretty much just
using Samba on my NM my unraid box I'm
going to go to the forum and i'm going
to type in NFS and just see what comes
up i think we're going to find that
there is a lot of help here in the
forums on getting this to go first one
is NFS and here are some people who are
talking about that very issue about the
better version having some problems
there are some there is some information
here about how to actually set it up and
there are links to other forum threads
that are going to help you out a lot so
so check out the the forum at lime dash
technology / calm / forum what are you
writing down no nothing
I can't even read it with probe do you
notice that I wrote everything in all
caps and I did you notice that yeah you
like that it's pretty legible this is
pretty fantastic I'm sorry that I don't
have a direct quick answer for you there
but I think that with unraid I've said
it before they have a fantastic
community there are people in the
community at the forum that are I don't
know if they sit there hit and refresh
or what they're amazing they're so quick
to answer my questions anytime I've had
any problems so I'd encourage you to use
that that forum get in there ask your
question if if it's not already answered
I would do a quick search make sure that
it hasn't already been covered and and
if you can't find an answer to your
question your specific problem with NFS
then i would i would post a thread and
and see if you get an answer but like I
say if you're using unraid 5 betta
version I would downgrade to 4.5 point 6
which is stable and does not have some
of the reported issues that NFS
encounters with with the better version
of the software that would be the first
place i would check okay i hope that
points you in a direction that the gets
you some help and for those of you who
aren't familiar with that with lime
technology and unraid that is basically
like a do-it-yourself drobo kind of
system it's a it's a network attached
storage server that stores your data
redundantly with that with parity so
that means if if you've got multiple
hard drives in that server in that
computer and one of those hard drives
crashes you don't lose the files on that
hard drive you put in a new hard drive
it rebuilds the array and and you
haven't lost any of your data so it's
it's a fantastic piece of software that
you use to build your own kind of over
network server yeah so that said I use
it with samba which means using and this
is why I jokingly say that some people
will be annoyed with me because that's
the windows protocol for accessing files
over on those Network and fs is is
basically like the Linux equivalent of
that so
with samba working just fine for me
that's all i've used i use fuse to mount
it with FS tab so that i have mount
points on my network that on my linux
machines that I just access my own right
computer as if it was a hard driving my
computer it's pretty fantastic I'll
check them out lime dash technology com
there you go com.com all right we have
another question here great um and this
is from Roke up north hello okay after
watching a few shows where you talked
about the pogoplug i went and purchased
one alright very happy with the device
that's the problem I'm heaven is I can't
install the drive unto my ubuntu 10.4
the tgz file and that's as far as I went
could you go through this set up with
the terminal program also a short
tutorial on how you used it to share
photos through email and other useful
tips would be helpful thanks okay we're
getting into some kind of some kind of
technical kind of geeky things there Wow
so I don't want to lose everybody so
well we'll start with that with your
your second question about hearing
photon and me no no I know if you're new
to the show or if you if you haven't
caught a show it's kind of like a roller
coaster ride here isn't that where it
certainly can be it sure can be where
you know sometimes we're talking real
geek speek and sometimes we're talking
where you know I try to keep things at
the level of the user who's asking the
questions so so there's something for
everybody here and certainly if you find
that we're talking a little a little too
geeky for you you can post in the chat
room hey what does this mean or whatever
and eric has resolution please yeah
exactly what do you mean what do you
mean by that pogoplug is another great
device that allows you to share files
and things like that through a network
connected pogoplug external hard drive
okay so you can find out more about it
on our website category 5 TV we've done
some reviews
things what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go to a fancy little website https
colon slash slash my dot togo plug com
so let's bring that up this is what it
looks like my pogoplug com I like to put
the s in there because I like to have a
secure connection to my polka plug at
all times alright so once i am at that
website i'm going to log into my
pogoplug with my polka plugs email
address and password we just had a
techno babble alert no sorry about that
put it away Robbie okay so I have logged
in to my pogoplug I'm just gonna find
somewhere here I don't know so on my
pogoplug there we are so I've logged in
I've got my folders I've got my hard
drives over here all that kind of stuff
so I've got all my folders that I backed
up files to and so on and so forth so in
my case I've got backups of my photos
and things like that so I'll just browse
those just like you just like you would
think to do let's see what I can come up
with there are family pictures from
halloween or something to be a good good
one
here's a good one
3rd anniversary show of category 5 so
I've browse to this folder these files
are on my pogoplug because I back them
up there through the Linux connector
that you're going to be setting up just
after after the news this evening or
alternatively you can actually upload to
your pogoplug using the upload files
button and that's going to allow you to
browse your hard drive and upload files
from anywhere good name for the button
it is very self-explanatory with the
pogoplug you'll see that I can change
the way that it looks just like you
would do with with your computer you can
look at thumbnails and things like that
so if I click on a photo pogoplug
automatically generates a preview of
that photo this is where it was great
John to to use the pogoplug to share
with you your wedding photos because it
automatically generates all the the
thumbnails and things like that
automatically sizes them down and make
some super fast so now as I browse
through I'm able to see all the photos
that came out poor Robbi having to take
self shots what else get someone to take
a photo of them what can you do what can
you do so these photos here are in a
folder on my pogoplug and if i want to
share them so this is how i shared the
the photos with john and christy i'm
going to click on the share this button
and all i have to do here is turn on
sharing for this folder category 5 3rd
anniversary turn on sharing for this
folder invite people and i'm going to
enter anyone's email there so i'm going
to go live at category 5 TV i can
include a personalized message so i'm
going to say ok here are the file the
photos i should say from the third 34
anniversary show ok so now over here i'm
going to hit invite thank you for
correcting but I oh and you'll see that
this has now been invited to live a
category 5 TV and that user has viewing
and download
rights I can also set it so that they
have full access so that this particular
user is then able to actually upload
photos reason I want to do that I do
that often with clients when I need to
transfer files back and forth with
clients that are too big for email i'll
just give them access to a pogoplug
share create a folder with their name on
it share it give them full access and
they can drag and drop files into that
into that share it works fantastically
so I don't need to do anything else
there that's all i have to do it's done
i don't have to save or anything i just
close that and i'm good to go so now i'm
going to i'm going to bring up my email
and we're going to see what happens here
i'll log out of my pogoplug because i
want to be want to be right out as kind
of like an end user okay and let's see
what happens when I get into my email
and this will be what the end user is
going to see when they connect into the
pogoplug so here I've got an email that
says a new pogoplug share from Robbie
Ferguson Robbie Ferguson has shared the
folder 2010 09 21 category 5 3rd
anniversary with you copy the link to
your browser powered by pogoplug all
right and then I'm going to hit that
link and see what happens this is what
the end user sees so this is what your
friends and family see when they get it
so here we go pogoplug congratulations
you've successfully received content
from a pogoplug owner etc etc it gives
you the option to sign up if you like or
close this window if I close the window
you'll see that I've got full access to
this folder in a read-only mode so i can
click on any of these pictures and boom
there it is if I like that photo which I
don't particularly but anyways I can
download the photo in its full
resolution what I'm seeing in the photo
plug view is like the shrunk down
thumbnail versions if I'd like I can
download the full ver
big enough it's going to give you the
the file that is your source file right
so you don't have to worry about
creating these galleries or anything
like that it does all that automatically
so that's that's all there is to it
really it's got the playback feature if
somebody wants to push play they can
they can view it in a slideshow type
mode they can blew it and blow it up to
the full size of the browser window for
example and all that stuff is all
included in the pogoplug that's all you
have to do in order to share that i'll
be happy to share this link with you so
that you can actually take a look if you
are watching the show right now what
I'll do is all just kind of throw
together a quick link here so there you
go pogoplug so if you go now to cat five
dot TV / pogoplug and anyone who goes
there right now is actually going to see
that share and you'll actually be able
to experience my pogoplug firsthand
you'll be able to see how that works how
that interacts with you as the end user
so this is the person who you're now
sharing your photos with your videos
with through your pogoplug device
pogoplug is fantastic you can get it
from pogoplug com do please make sure
you tell them that that you heard of
them through us we're not sponsored by
them or anything but it is a product
that I really that I really endorse and
love having the product it's fantastic
so I do encourage you so I hid look well
I encourage viewers to check them out
and if it's something that you like tell
them that you found it here because then
they know that that it that them coming
on the show and things like that we've
done a couple of interviews that it's
been effective for them to take the time
and be a part of category 5 so yeah
check that out and we're going to come
back to the first part of that message
in a little bit about actually setting
it up so that Linux can connect into
that drive okay in the meantime it is it
is time to jump into the news hillary if
you are just about set would you like
oh I'm good your gun golden I am right
for this news haha again I need my own
theme song but yeah there you go from
the category 5 TV news room when we
mention new boots inevitable shift from
the x window system to wayland recently
the chat room was abuzz with users
scared for the future of their desktop
wondering what alternatives 8 could
switch to in order to hold on to their
familiar X system well it seems
canonical is not on the wrong track at
all with the announcement as fedoras
Adam Jackson would also announced Fedora
Linux will inevitably be heading the
same direction saying let's just cut the
switch from wayland will be a serious
win for a lot of things calling the
downsides pretty negligible Tom will
word up from OS newscom sums up a long
he says a very happy fedoras looking to
eventually move to Wayland as well since
it is about time the Linux world looks
and moved beyond x2 something that has
been designed from the ground up to be
modern instead of something that
consists of layer upon layer upon layer
yeah I need to hear a lot about Wayland
us to the baby players work towards a
simple change in the desktop linux
landscape while the change may not come
as suddenly to fedora as it will to a
gun to you can expect Whalen to begin
appearing in the repositories as soon as
fedora 15 revenge in San Francisco
yesterday facebook CEO mark zuckerberg
who was shown here apparently singing
opera announced a social networking site
new modern messaging service complete
with facebook com email addresses we
don't think the modern messaging service
is going to be emailed that reverb said
instead his company's new service will
seamlessly integrate various needs of
communicating it's true people are going
to give facebook com and they're going
to have email addresses but it's not
email he said Facebook messaging service
includes three components seamless
messaging across all the way people
communicate conversation history and a
social inbox for filtering exactly the
messages you want to see zuckerberg says
their new serves is not an email killer
but
a messaging service that has email as a
part of it Facebook is rolling out the
new service over the next few months and
the first users will need to be invited
to use it Microsoft has updated the
windows service pack blocker toolkit to
include service service pack 1 for
windows 7 and X and Windows Server 2008
r2 users who don't want my sp1 will be
able to simply disable automatic updates
many businesses how I prefer to keep
automatic updates turned on i bought the
server pack itself servations first test
to make sure we're with all their
software the service pack locker will
allow them to continue having windows 7
and windows server 2008 r2 update
automatically without sp1 the tool a
solid for 12 months following general
availability of the service pack after
that Microsoft will pushed a sp1 to
everyone with a you on regardless of
whether it has been lost while the
release candidate s do you want is out
now we can expect the final release in
or around Jared January of next year you
can grab the tool by following the link
category five dot TV / newsroom and
microsoft said windows-based super
computer has broken the petaflop speed
barrier sir but the achievement is not
being recognized by the group that
tracks the world's fastest
supercomputers because the same machine
was able to achieve higher speed using
Linux while at first glance some may
think of five percent performance
difference between linux and windows is
not that big a deal you have to remember
we're talking about a petaflop here the
difference is actually quite staggering
the petaflop barrier was first broken
into june of 2008 when I vienen los
alamos achieved a long slog goal in the
Super kissimmee computing industry by
building a linux-based machine doctors
perform 1,000 trillion calculations per
second a remarkable be known as a pedal
applause so five percent in our case is
equivalent to five trillion calculations
per second more on linux than windows
using the same hardware the newest top
500 making came out on Sunday and
Microsoft still has been praised the
petaflop machine on the prestigious list
only five of the top
500 computers we're using windows while
or for 459 use Linux Microsoft officials
would surely love to improve upon that
ever but realized I guess they are
unlikely to ever catch Linux in this
ranking the 2011 BMW 550i may not drive
itself but it does have some features
that are definitely in that direction
the new 550i from german vehicle
manufacturer BMW or it's not only a
sweet design a 400-horsepower BMW
twin-turbo v8 engine but also a few
sci-fi s features as well like a
functional leave your guided cruise
control system which will accelerate and
slow down the vehicle depending on
traffic conditions unlike the
traditional cruise control which will
happily plow you into stop and go
traffic at 100 km/h that's the coolest
feature by far according to the Montreal
Gazette contributor Miranda light zone
is carpet assistant youtube video the
reality TV have caught or have taught us
that so many people have hobble with
parallel parking so why not let the BMW
do this for you by selecting the park
assistant program on the cards a drive
system the car will automatically
identify a parking spot for you that
will fit the vehicle then buckle in the
car in reverse and taking your hand off
the wheel the car will automatically
fear you perfectly into the tightest of
parking lot while you apply your makeup
or watch category 5 TV on your Android
device the BMW 550i cherries and MSRP
over 73,000 dollars but when your
friends comment about how long in parks
this will be our little secret get the
full story to category 5 gb flash news
grams the category 5 GT newsroom is
researched by roy w national car
contributions from graduates to guru
becca ferguson and our community of
viewers if you think you've got new
story that's worthy of honor mention
send us an email I'm used your nut
category 5 TD from the category 5 kg
newsroom I'm Hillary uncle category 5 TV
is brought to you in part by planet
calypso this massive multiplayer online
game is available as a free download
from cat five dot TV / Calypso now once
you've got two downloaded and installed
on your Windows computer make sure you
say hi and there's something for
everyone here on planet calypso from
hunting to mining crafting and just
plain socializing and having fun with
your friends you can download it for
free at cat five dot TV / Calypso if
you're a linux user like myself of
course this makes it worth the dual boot
cat five dot TV / calypso i'll see you
on planet calypso this is category 5
technology TV episode number 165 and
you'll find us online at triple w
category five dot TV we'd love to have
you there love to have you joining us in
the chat room nice to see so many
friendly faces in the chat room tonight
and lots to cover tonight lots lots and
lots and lots I should make a quick note
that Hillary is not using her HD eyeball
webcam tonight she's actually using an
integrated webcam with the with the
laptop so we'll just make a quick note
of that so what you got going on well
hey um somebody wondered what brekkie
was hillary was it a bed and breakfast
but okay Brekke with friends with
Trekkie is just another way of saying
breakfast so there you go um gadget
wisdom guru has a question sure alright
dear Ravi f for longest yahoo room for
the longest time what is the longest
time it's about as long as it's taking
you to read this location I have been
troubleshooting some odd errors in my
hard drives that came to a head when I
tried to add yet another drive to the
system after a lot of head-scratching I
finally came up with the theory and
opted to replace the 430 watt power
supply to a 650 watt and the problems
went away apparently I have failed to
account for my power needs how can I
adequately calculate how much power I
need okay first of all head scratching
on a hard drive as a bad
oh this kind of him okay gotcha gotcha
I'm going to tell you about a little
tool that's that's pretty neat i created
this thing because when i first built an
unraid box i decide i said like there's
no calculator out there to tell me how
much space i'm going to get what my
power consumption needs are going to be
and things like that so i created unraid
category five dot TV and this is a
calculator for unraid but what it does
let's say I've got a couple of hard
drives in there right and then i
calculate it's actually going to tell me
the power consumption as well as the
data storage but it tells me to load on
startup and the operating load as well
as idle okay so what you can do guru is
you can use this tool to calculate your
your load which is basically 30 watts
per hard drive right that's really what
you need to know on average it's going
to be about 30 watts for for a hard
drive as it runs and then the other
numbers are based on each drives
specific parameters your drives
themselves if you look up the
manufacturers website the actual drive
will have its own specs but it's on
average going to be about 30 watts so
you look at if you've got two drives
you're automatically using 60 watts at
startup plus you've got an optical drive
plus you've got them the motherboard and
if you've got a quad core processor or
anything that is going to take a little
bit of juice to get it going and and
also not just the amount of watts to the
power supply but the quality of the
power supply makes a difference too
because even with a lot of watts as far
as the the wattage rating on a power
supply it might be a 650 watt power
supply but it has a long startup time so
that's something to take into account as
well with a with a better power supply
the thing will what it will do is it'll
because the power supply won't come on
right away I'm trying to verbalize
something that I don't know how quite
divert alized but what what a good power
supply will do is it will not actually
turn on your computer until the power
supply has reached a full charge and can
give full power
so something like a thermaltake
toughpower for example what it does is
it generates the power first and then
pushes it out to the computer once it's
charged with a cheaper power supply what
happens is it generates the power and
pushes it out to the computer at the
same time so as it's gaining power
during that first boot up cycle of the
power supply the computers drain and
draining from the power at the same time
so as it's turning on there's a lull in
the power and then it gets up to speed
and so that can cause hardware damage
and it can cause problems with with your
peripherals so a better power supply
will wait and then fire it up it's a
couple milliseconds but so you won't
know it like to like visually you won't
necessarily know but but yeah about 30
watts for a hard drive look at your
different peripherals within the
computer find out how many watts each
peripherals going to use you've got fans
within that computer you've got a
cooling system each one of those is
going to be rated at a specific wattage
you don't need to get too particular but
you got to know that if you've got
multiple hard drives you're going to
need more than a stock 450 watt power
supply which basically a 450 is rated
for like your home like your home office
or small office business use where
you've got one optical drive one hard
drive and the basic motherboard with no
AGP pci express video card which is
going to draw extra power and you may
even have to upgrade the power supply if
you've got pci cards that are drawing
more power but essentially if you've
gotten a better video card than what's
on board and you're probably going to
need to go higher than that as well so I
hope that helps guru or again at least
pushes you in the right direction does
that have to happen even L stand to that
or that's that was pretty much it ok
well the question correct and it was
really hoping we got to it did he really
didn't want to have to type that out
again yeah the copy and paste it's
fantastic ok we have established a
society on planet calypso Wow so if you
are going to be joining the planet
calypso universe entropia universe
make sure you do a search at one of the
society terminals for category 5 TV
viewers or just category five and make
sure you apply for membership of the
category 5 TV viewers society what we're
going to be doing is we as a group of
viewers and myself we're going to
actually go on a couple of runs together
and I'm going to help you to learn how
to use the game effectively and how to
have a good time with and meet with
other friends and and have a good time
on the sole aim towards playlet
domination pretty much yeah we're gonna
take over the world no cliff now we're
gonna have a lot of fun okay but that is
the category 5 TV viewers society and
I'd love to have you as a part of that
it's gonna be a lot of fun share we
going a viewer and cross that off my
list yeah of yours we have some new
viewers great yes indeed we are
background 3285 all the way from the
Colorado hey there um Susan Lancey hey
Susan China hey and Joe Pearce 1988 from
the US of A and well known from Sweden
kalpen on nice to have you here I could
take another run at that if you didn't
like that I look see that that looks
right yeah okay and we have I still want
to say it and say wrong that's all you
sure we argue about such little things
yeah i was gonna go on about this one
here but i don't think we should write
um the chat room is already covered back
and sunshine 2311 from vietnam is with
us I'm nice to have you here yeah so
there so some new viewers yeah great to
see you if you'd like to be a part of
our community all you have to do is just
sign up at our website category 5 TV and
I'd encourage you to do so before
december first because on december first
we are going into new registration lock
down for 30 days though we will not be
accepting any new registrations on the
website but here's the kicker anybody
who registers before that time is going
to get a bonus of category 5 viewer
points
and those points can be redeemed towards
ballots for prizes they can be redeemed
towards product downloads all different
kinds of things so you want to make sure
that you get registered before december
first and that way when we go into
lockdown you are going to receive those
bonus points and of course that applies
to anyone who is already registered as
well even if you registered three years
ago you're eligible and you're going to
get those extra points as well that's
going to automatically happen when we
convert our database over for the new
website which lots of launches on
january first very excited about that
also we've got that brother mfc j 615 W
printer that we love to give away do
check out the details on our website
category 5 TV click on interact and
you'll see the the link at the very
bottom of that menu again that's
category 5 TV your chance to win an
all-in-one printer from Brother Canada
very cool yeah so let's let's take a
quick look at G mount iso this is a
fantastic little tool that that i
stumbled upon just in my quest to find
something cool to share with him and
this is basically a you've heard of an
iso you know what an iso images you
download when you downloaded ubuntu for
example you most likely downloaded it as
an iso and that is an image of not a
photo but an image of a CD it's like an
exact duplicate of the CD itself the
nice thing about an iso is that in every
essence is the CD but it's on a file on
your on your hard drive iran that if
you've got a nun raid server or pogoplug
you can have it stored on there if you
like and it's nice to be able to on
linux you can mount that with very
little effort as if it's an actual CD on
your computer what I did tonight just
just to have an ISO is I actually just I
just grabbed a movie that I had on my on
my shelf for your sideways and I just
copied it as an iso ripped it to the
hard drive as a DVD iso so it is a copy
of that DVD in a nice
format not for transmission but just for
my own personal backup storage so what
I'm going to do is I'm going to grab
this tool which you can bring up your
terminal we're going to do this through
terminal I've gone into applications
accessories terminal we're going to do
it this way just so that you can get
familiar with how easy it is to use the
terminal sudo apt-get install G mount
iso is the name of the program just like
it sounds g mount iso all one word
there's the command sudo makes you a
super user apt-get is a tool that allows
you to install things off the internet
without having to use a disc or anything
like that install is what we're going to
do and the program we're going to
install is g mount iso as soon as I as
soon as i hit enter on that and ask me
for my password and here we go it
downloads it off the internet for me
automatically sets it up and it's done
back at the prompt i can close out of
that window now mounting a CD or dvd in
linux is reasonably simple anyways with
the mount command in the terminal people
who know how to do that it's it's a
breeze but there are you know of course
there were times when you don't want to
use the terminal you want to use a GUI
application and that's where this comes
in handy so i'm going to bring up that
tool now it's going to be found under
system tools g mount iso very very
simple tool and what I'm going to do is
I'm going to actually go back into
terminal and I'm going to create what's
called a mount point this is where we're
going to from now on I only have to do
this once and go into my / media folder
by typing CD / media with a space
between reason I'm going to do it in
terminal is because I need to be super
user to do this sudo make der and i'm
going to call this you know i could call
this fake DVD i'm just using that as the
word that you know as what i'm going to
call it because it's going to be my fake
DVD drive it's not a real DVD drive but
for all intents and purposes the
computer is going to see it as if it was
a DVD drive as soon as I mount a DVD on
there so now in my G mount iso
application i'm going to choose my mount
point which is going to become / media /
fake DVD just like we put it in okay
reason I want it to be in / media and
the reason that I had to do sudo in
order to do that is because now as soon
as I mount a DVD iso or a CD iso on that
mount point it's going to automatically
put it on my desktop so now I'm going to
open my image file which is on my
desktop and it's called sideways I so
okay so that's all I've had to do and
then i click on Mount it's going to ask
me for my password which I enter and
boom it's done and you'll see that on my
desktop there is now a fake DVD icon
because I essentially as far as the
computer is concerned I've inserted that
disc I've mounted it it's there what's
your question I don't know if it wasn't
oh here just hounded and I was just
telling you my friend okay carry on he
does things like this wha so now if I
bring up that that disc if it was if it
was anything other than a video disc of
course here it is it's seeing the folder
structure of the video itself and I
could play that if I like also if it was
a data disc I would have access to all
the data so this is a way to keep
backups of your data disks if you
purchase software and you you know if
you're worried that you might lose the
cds or even if you don't want to or
break one yeah you might want to drop it
on a cement floor or something along
those lines keeping the ISOs is a great
way to to have a backup because you can
always burn it if you accidentally break
or scratch that disc beyond repair but
also it's a way to use that that disc
without actually physically having to
search for the disc and insert it
because you got to admit after several
years end up with a pretty big stack of
disks all piled together and not always
easy to find what you're looking for so
that's a pretty cool tool that is called
G mount iso and it's available free in
linux and you can download that using
app get or your favorite repository you
can use a yum if you're using an RPM
based distribution you can use your
repository manager like synaptic package
manager you'll find it in there g mount
iso and i hope you liked that too
somebody wanted to know why you had to
make a folder and medium
the reason we made a folder in media is
that that's called a mount point in
Linux so yes it's a folder from are you
know from the perspective of what we're
actually doing we're creating a
directory we're creating a folder but by
mounting a CD on to that folder Linux
now says okay this is this is a mount
point for the CD so the hardware or the
the ISO is now accessible through this
mount point so now / media / fake DVD
when mounted becomes an actual DVD drive
as far as my computer is concerned so I
can do the regular stuff I can install
the software from that DVD i can i can
watch the movie from that DVD I can do
whatever I want to do with that with
that virtual drive and it's probably
faster DVD absolutely you're running it
off your hard drive another thing to
think about is if you're going traveling
or whatever your your DVD rom drive to
watch movies or whatever is gonna be
spinning and using up your battery very
very quickly no could you just make that
in any folder yeah it could be any
folder so you could make fold rugger the
reason I put up for absolutely but then
it's there always regardless of whether
it's mounted remove that answered your
question here well here's the thing I
put everyone I put it in / media / fake
DVD because then when it's mounted it
shows up on my desktop oh if I unmount
it okay watch what happens I'm gonna
unmount this I'm gonna zoom out just so
you can see there's my fake DVD okay I'm
gonna unmount where to go well the
folders still there but the mount point
has nothing at associated with it so it
disappears from my desktop if I created
the mount point or the folder which I'm
going to mount to on my desktop that
folder then becomes a folder rather than
disappearing so then I might
accidentally drag something into it and
then when i try to mount something on it
it won't mount anymore because it's no
longer a mount point it's a folder
but yes if you forward fold it put it
somewhere else it wouldn't show up in
your desktop well the nice thing about
being in / media is it will show up on
your desktop when there's something
mounted on it when you unmount something
from it it will disappear from your
desktop but it still remains in / media
all right very cool give it a try and
play around with it and you'll you'll
get familiar with the functionality and
see how that works in addition tonight I
would like to look at a World War 1
memorial panorama that one of our
viewers sent in gadwal was working on
this this week and after having watched
category 5 got into hugin and and
started playing around with creating
their own panorama that was the night we
had some video occurred trouble it's
quite possible and I actually tried
recreating that same panorama and I did
it successfully tonight with hugin okay
and their day's programme fantastic
program you see how my photos get all
completely weird edges here because the
photos themselves are taking you know
I'm holding the camera in my hand I'm
not using a tripod so what I can do in
order to touch up this photo now is I
can do what and here's God wills
panorama which looks fantastic ad well
this is an excellent early attempt and
with this memorial you can see that
there are edges on the photos see these
white areas these curvatures and things
like that this is like the rectilinear
distortion caused by the photos being
placed on the image and we can crop
those out i'm going to use mine as the
example because it's so obvious that
there are distortions caused by the
positioning of the images with my photo
here and so we don't want to send it to
our friends and family like that it's
not it's not really a usable photo that
way but what we want to do is we want to
grab this marquee tool there's a few
different ways we can do this quick and
nitty-gritty ways we're going to grab
that square marquee we're going to grab
the left corner
left topmost corner and drag to the
bottom right and see what I'm doing
there is i'm putting this marquee line
so that it never goes outside of the
photograph itself so going to adjust
that in the GIMP I can drag it up and
down and i can adjust where that's
actually going to fall so unfortunately
see i'm going to lose a little bit of
the top of my subject which is the
spirit catcher at the waterfront of
Barry so I'm actually going to lose this
area of the photo because the only
reason I'm going to lose that is because
I'm having to pull it down on this side
I'm going to go up to the top of this
tree and now you'll see that I've got a
lot more space up here so no where is my
image now is my marquee going outside of
the photo and my subject is still in the
photo it looks good I can pull this up a
little bit because I really don't need
so much driveway and now i'm going to
right click and go image crop to
selection and now my photo looks like
that so now it's something that I can be
proud to send to somebody now the other
option what i was talking to gab will
about last night was when you've got
that Marky if you don't want to mess
around with your master image because
this is my master image I can copy that
Marky go copy or copy visible this is
only a one layer so i can go copy and
now right click on the image and go edit
paste as new image unlike photoshop
where you've got to create a new image
with file new image and or know the
hotkeys this is actually going to paste
that image into a perfect image that is
scaled to the actual marquee that i
created 3878 by 1264 so as you can see
it's a very high resolution if I were to
zoom in on this photo
you can see that my panorama has turned
out very very well and that I have no
auden amelie's around the edge of the
photo so it's just a real quick
nitty-gritty kinda here's a quick way to
crop with your photo we don't have a lot
of time tonight net worked out
fantastically because it is a fairly
straightforward tutorial as far as using
the GIMP to crop an image output that
edit and then edit copy or edit copy
merged if you want to copy all layers of
your amateur group and then edit paste
as new image it's a very very helpful
tool and it automatically picks the size
absolutely it creates the canvas to be
the size of the photo and in places
whatever is in your clipboard into that
area so it's it's very very good I think
we've covered everything Did you touch
John odel crop will auto promise you
couldn't auto crop is a different thing
altogether and that's a fantastic it'll
you're absolutely right reek tool if
you've got a logo that's on a white
background for example and it's got
white all around it and a lot of it you
choose Auto crop on the image menu of
GIMP and it will suck in the sides and
cropped it in pixels it's beautiful it's
fantastic for working with stuff like
that with a photograph it's not really
applicable but with a logo or something
that you want to get the edges in nice
and cleaning you've got a solid
background color that is a fantastic
tool um that image that's it that's
great picture you took by the way and
thank you and that's the spirit catcher
yeah done by campus fella Bay another
again we have a new viewer who just it's
his first time here no well in a while
and he's from berry oh so look at how
apropos that you do the spirit case well
it a tribute to Noel tonight is our
wonderful panorama of the spirit catcher
created with hugin and then cropped with
the GIMP both free tools available on
Linux all right
mmm fabulous well this has been a fun
show it's certain it's great to see
everybody more together we're out of
time we're at a time I know it flies by
we are at a time already gang how did
that have been a lot of fun Hilary did
you have fun tonight sitting there so
quietly um as always I love category 5
it's my favorite day of the week is
Tuesday hello hello you heard her people
young hello hello like let's give some
attitude no beans today no beans well no
scotchman's what I've been doing I would
like a scotch meant oh and if I had one
it would be cool bees ha trying to give
you one through the webcam here Hilary
it's not work hey I got it back in them
it's my bowl that's your candy no
fabulous all right have a fantastic week
hey you're not gonna get away have a
great week it's a nice having you here
this is category 5 TV and you catch us
online category five dot TV is our
website we'd love to see you there
throughout the week and I hope you have
a fantastic week John nice to have you
here yeah you're right here have a great
night we'll see you next tuesday night
at seven o'clock eastern time see ya bye
you
