I'm Robbie Ferguson and here are the top
stories from the category five dot TV
news room Europe has begun to roll out a
data superhighway in orbit above the
earth the first node in the network is a
telecommunication satellite that was
launched from Kazakhstan it will use a
laser to gather pictures of the planet
taken by other spacecraft and then relay
them back to the ground one benefit will
be to put information on natural
disasters such as flooding earthquakes
into the hands of emergency responders
far faster than is previously possible
currently it can take hours to get the
pictures down to earth from observation
satellites part of the reason of that
for that is because the spacecraft can
only transmit when they are passing over
a receiving dish and in a 90-minute
orbit they only have about a 10-minute
window the European Space Agency's
answers is answer is to fire the
pictures upward instead via a laser to
another satellite much higher in the sky
and that one has a constant view of the
ground station the agency recently put
up to Earth observers that are equipped
with optical transmission equipment
these will now be able to offload their
data through the new relay satellite
which is going to be positioned 36,000
kilometers above the equator at nine
degrees east with a successful
connection data will move at a rate of
up to 1.8 gigabits per second testing by
Airbus defense &amp; space shows it should
be possible for the system to put
pictures on the desk of the people who
need them within 20 minutes of those
images being acquired a British firm
that claims to have come up with a
solution to the issue of bulk password
theft has announced 1 million pounds in
funding to launch its product silicon
safe they have designed a special box
it's a piece of hardware which stores
passwords separate to the network last
year there were high profile hacks from
firms including talk talk Ashley Madison
vtec and all of those exposed millions
of users password
the founders of silicon safe dr. will
Harwood and Roger gross initially came
up with the solution dubbed
password-protect as an academic exercise
they quickly saw that there was a
commercial potential for their idea now
software is prone to bugs and flaws so
their first step was to design bespoke
Hardware effectively hard-coding a chip
and making sure that it did not run an
operating system or any other
conventional software and this design
the founders claim makes it impenetrable
via conventional attack routes the box
is designed to be secure and has only
one purpose specifically to store
passwords it runs on just 10,000 lines
of code far less than for a back-end
database for example where passwords are
normally stored there is no conventional
interface with the backend systems
although it does allow web servers to
send login credentials to the system in
order to authenticate passwords but it
does not in fact at any point reveal
those passwords dr. Harwood admits that
hackers able to gain access to the
backend database of organizations could
interrogate the box but he is built in a
safety feature after just four attempts
to authenticate the password the account
will be flagged and system
administrators will be notified the
Cambridge startup remains confident in
its solution and last year it launched a
hacker challenge inviting anyone to
steal 100 unencrypted passwords from the
system to date over 2.5 million attempts
have been made but none have been
successful could it be the answer it's
like an endpoint piece of hardware for
passwords kind of cool and just to kind
of understand how that could work so how
does it work right so when you create a
password you are sending your password
to that box and so now you've got an
account and the password says okay we've
got Robbie's account so next time I go
to login my computer then again
sends my password to that box in a
secure way the Box now responds with a
yes or no it doesn't ever send back my
password so for somebody to exploit that
I mean what could they possibly get
because it's not responding with my
password it's not saying oh yeah your
password is 1234 no it's saying yea yea
or nay is the one that you entered
correct so sounds like it could be it
could be pretty viable could be a good
idea we'll see all right a meeting of EU
data watch dogs is set to have
wide-ranging ramifications for the way
businesses handle data the EU forbids at
citizens personal data from being sent
to places that don't guarantee adequate
privacy protections in order to avoid
this restriction bogging down transfers
to the US it was decided that American
firms could self-certify that
information sent to their data centers
so that it would be is to confirm or at
least to ensure or say that that data
would be properly protected the pack
made it relatively easy for companies to
send personal information from Europe to
data centers in the US for processing
but in light of information exposed by
Edward Snowden and Austrian privacy
campaigner had asked Ireland's data
regulators to audit what information
Facebook might be sharing with the NSA
well it declined citing safe harbor but
the matter was referred to the European
Court of Justice and last October that
Court invalidated the the decision to
enable safe harbor so regulators need to
decide how to act in light of this
decision and lawmakers are still
negotiating a replacement trade deal but
their determination could affect tech
giants including Google Apple Facebook
all these whose cloud services rely on
such transfers as well as thousands of
smaller businesses who have out sourced
payroll processing for example and other
tasks to US based organizations maybe
you use amazon cloud services or
something like that well
here's the thing the data protection
authorities are expected to make their
views known tomorrow at the end of a
two-day event which is actually already
underway all right more than 40 miles of
roads in Coventry will be equipped with
technology to aid autonomous vehicles
the government has announced it's one of
the it's one of eight projects aiming to
develop driverless car technologies
which will receive a share of 20 million
pounds from the government's 100 million
intelligent mobility fund another of the
projects will focus on driverless
shuttles for the visually impaired now
that makes sense to me so you know if
you can't see and you still need to get
around kind of cool to have autonomous
vehicles for that purpose autonomous
vehicles are already being tested in a
number of areas in the UK professor Paul
Newman from the University of Oxford
co-founded driverless car research
company ox Botica sounds like a like a
bad guy walks botica watch out for rocks
Botica alright they are going to receive
some of the new funding but he says it's
part of the strategy that the UK is
unfolding to support the future of
transport the funding would support the
testing and development of software for
self-driving vehicles and it's all about
vehicles knowing where they are and
what's around them big thanks this week
to roy w nash and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to the
category 5 TV news room if you found a
news story that you'd like to send
please email news room at category five
dot TV for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias visit the category
five dot TV news room at newsroom dot
category five dot TV for the category
five dot TV news room on Robbie Ferguson
