welcome to category 5 technology TVs
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 gb or
email us at live at category 5e weeks
and now let's give here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 1 90
of category 5
but what time is it what time is in the
future jokinen camera on the show about
how everyone else is from the future
some are here you know they actually had
to travel back you know up to 12 hours
to be here with us tonight missed it on
Tuesday night so here they are Wednesday
morning in there we're checking out of
pipe Irish rock by the way just wakin up
on Wednesday mornings enjoying the show
nice to see everybody so a bit of a
shout out to code are 360 who has
watched a show numerous times but
joining us live for the first time
tonight so welcome yeah hey i am boris
karloff and dad will office and jot
house the house the sound make into
tonight we had quite an adventure last
week did we not uh yeah we did sound was
an adventure we had quite a few problems
with with some of the microphones and
you'll you'll see in my blog cat five
dot TV / blog that we've been testing
some options and i just want to make
just a kind of a shout out and a big
thanks to music pro here and bury their
on the south end of Barry on Barry view
drive and they have just been a great
help to us as we try to to get through
this audio issue and just helping us to
diagram you don't figure out okay what's
our best option also some other people
involved in that as well but tonight
they've they've lent me this headset
microphone in order to get us through
the show so really really hoping that
that works out well some people are
saying that the volume level is is a
little bit low and we can check on that
seems alright cool cool all it is so
good to see everybody alright so we've
got Hillary joining us as well who's
still at school hello it is great to see
you hey everyone glad to be here
hopefully I'm coming in loud and clear
this week and and you can hear me and
see me okay and I'm glad because guess
what there is
coming up in the newsroom the RCMP in
Nova Scotia Canada has issued a warning
about colors seeking access to your home
computer and a boon to a computer that
costs only twenty-five dollars and fits
in your keychain may be available within
a year what's next smartphones as thin
as a piece of paper yup and lastly
sony's playstation network may stay
offline as late as may thirty first whoo
so stick around these stories are coming
up in under 30 minutes Hillary thank you
so much looking forward to that uh I do
have some sad news to announce tonight
that I didn't want to have to give this
news but our good friend John has
tendered his resignation to the show
John has been our director of
videography as well as he's operated the
camera for a very long time now and as
you know he he married our news girl
Kristi Burton who became Christy van
noord and and since he's finished school
now he's decided that that it's time to
move on from category five and we do
wish him all the best and certainly we
welcome you to pop an email specifically
to to John you can email it to me live
at category 5 TV that's the easiest way
because then just say that it's for John
and I will forward it directly along
just to so that you can express your
thanks to John for all the work that
he's done for us over the years John of
course has been responsible for working
the camera and doing all that kind of
stuff everything that you you know it's
like the the least appreciated job in
the whole place because as far as you
know you don't get to see the guy most
of the time sometimes you hear his voice
in the background and stuff but he's the
guy who was who was working that and
making sure that the show looked as good
as possible so so we're gonna miss him a
lot I know we break them in and then
they leave us but speaking of missing
people though there's Eric been Eric's
been off since the power surge and every
week he's he's such a trooper he's such
a good guy I love
guy he's okay well how are things this
week well ok we're still you know I've
borrowed one microphone from the music
store to try to get through you know
because we're we're down two microphones
we had three now we're down to one so
the music store has loaned us one and
we're trying to figure out a solution
you can find out more about that issue
in my blog and then there's the server
with the server being at half-mast as if
you will it it can only have one camera
fair enough where we're at so it's this
it's this in-between kind of time where
we're not really you know it's it we're
making do and I feel bad that Eric can't
be here on account of the technical
issues that we have it's really a case
of we've got one camera to work with
we've got two microphones if you include
the loaner so we're going to get there
so so I would like to say thank you to
everybody who is who has pitched in
financially if they were able at
category 5 TV your donations are going
to go directly towards replacing any of
the equipment that we can for example
the server is our biggest expense and
that's going to cost us about three
thousand dollars to replace when it's
all said and done plus we've got that
nasty HST here in Ontario which is
thirteen percent on anything we migrate
yeah so so you know three thousand
dollars plus the thirteen percent tax
that we have to pay to the government so
not that there's anything wrong with
that yes they're watching and they good
discussion but it's something that we
have to take into account right so but
I'd like to thank everybody who has
donated and and it's it's been adding up
and and one of the things that that I
hope people understand when you think if
you think that you're you know if you're
in a position where you can't give much
and I don't want I don't want to turn it
into a you know here we are it's a we're
doing a share athan or something but if
if a very small portion of our viewers
were each to give five or ten dollars we
would have that server this adds up so
quick oh yeah be incredible so and there
have been a number of viewers who have
pitched in that way there have been a
number of viewers who have also been
able to
to support us with a with a larger
contribution and we're very thankful for
every contribution that's come in and we
appreciate that and it is working
towards being able to replace the
damaged equipment and getting Eric back
in his seat this week we have some big
news gadwal congratulations gadwal is
joining us in the chat room here as gad
will office everybody give a shout out
to him and a big congratulations he is
the first viewer ever in the history of
category 5 technology TV to surpass the
1000 viewers oh my goodness that cuz
this shirt last week wash the shirt was
you know that was helpful for sure
bumped it over it didn't it yeah it got
him awfully close I remember he messaged
me late last week saying one more day
and I'm gonna have that one more viewer
point from logging bow and and that's
what flipped the switch as far as his
thousand viewer points go so he got a an
honor metal on our website category 5 TV
and you can find out all about that in
my blog as well cat5 TV / blog and just
want to say congratulations to god will
and thanks because in order to get to
that point where you've got a thousand
fewer points you really have to be a
very active member of the community and
and it really means a lot to us and to
myself personally when we have viewers
like gadwal who are willing to put so
much work into making this community
happen and joining in the chatroom and
being a very active part of the forums
and and even to the point of keeping
those things going and being actively
involved in betta testing on things like
that so these are ways that gap will is
pitched in here at category five and and
we didn't you know we just thank him for
that and we've got a couple of people
who are hot on his on his tail their
torto if you can believe it who joins us
from germany is all the way up at seven
hundred and twenty four points so far
pretty close and right behind that is
straggler who is at 715 while we're on
the topic of viewer points though i'm
pretty certain that we've got a couple
of your points that we might be able to
award this evening as you see i am
my cardigan tonight that's very nice get
hurt again cardigan and if you squint we
actually almost lose you in the
background I know isn't it awesome it
really is still you can hardly see him
my cardigan blends into the curtain
fantastic all I have to do is like pull
my head in like a turtle all you gotta
do whoa no green screen necessary then
class we're super cool we are super cool
that it has nothing to do with my
cardigan okay okay let's see what I've
got here looking at viewer submitted
pictures for this week we've got a go
moto who not only says live long and
prosper with this photo you can tell but
also says this is his favorite cardigan
because he can wear it with neon very
cool I don't know what that means I
guess this I guess I gamoto likes to
wear neon under his cardigan and that's
cool i'm wearing kind of like green
under my cardigan that's not quite neon
bit but that's awesome and that's a zip
up cardigan and it goes to show that
once again we will honor zip up
cardigans ignoras thanks for the photo
and i will award you with 100 viewer
points for that we've also got Brian and
Marie oh I like that that's that's the
traditional kassay that looks like what
I would assume a cardigan if you saw
somebody walking down the street wearing
that cardigan you would immediately say
wow check out that guy's cardigan it's a
great cardigan I would say that's the
real deal right there I'd like to know
what the shirt says underneath it says
something about doing it with a boon to
which is I guess that's fantastic I'm
trying to get a look at that let us know
there Brian what what the shirt says
Ryan watches category 5 TV using his
boxee box on a 37 inch television set
and he says it looks absolutely superb
Wow yeah I think that's pretty good on
37 inch TV yeah life-size it's like my
glowing head just right there in your
living room that's very cool also Brian
is very generous with his donation
towards purchasing a new server for the
studio here and want to thank him as
well in addition to to everybody else
who was pitched in over the past several
weeks thank you for submitting your
viewer photos those are the only two
that I believe we got this week but if
you'd like to get your 100 viewer points
you can just send me a picture of you
wearing a cardigan and if you'd like to
know what it is about the cardigan
cardigan cardigan get onto cat five dot
TV / cardigan what are you shaking your
head at just know I was awesome I wasn't
shaking it's implying how awesome the
dance was store don't encourage him
perfect boom 26 is out if you are using
Ubuntu Linux here's your opportunity to
get some of the most awesome add-on
features directly on ubuntu and of
course it supports ubuntu 11.04 the
natty narwhal so get on to perfect boom
to category five dot TV and you'll be
able to get that free software what I
didn't say anything that's all my I
don't know enunciate your enunciation
was very good was it yes I was stumbling
over category by size about to say the
cat five dots UDC even I get stumped on
our domain names perfect boom to dot
category five dot TV that's where you
can get that song shall we jump in to
save your questions oh I think we shall
heart alright so tonight our first
question is from invincible mutants she
says thanks for the mobile site what a
quick response brilliant and you are
just adorable just miss a live show but
thanks for having a recorded version
available so quickly you are freaking
adorable well thanks invincible mutant I
think this is referring back to an
episode where we were where you were
complaining cuz no one
horrible thanks if I start getting a
bunch of emails from I do i need to give
100 viewer points for people who call me
but no that'll just go get a hand but
it'll make me feel really cute so that
question is do you have a favicon to the
mobile site so that I can have the icon
on my android huh I see perhaps Christa
could show it to your fans or audience
how to get a square favicon done for
your website as well as show it how to
stick the favicon on your mobile or web
site in general on your iPod the show
would be very interesting I think cheers
invincible mutant all right a fav icon
is what you see in your browser window
when you're on a website up at the next
to the address see how we've got that
gorgeous what a great low right there so
in order to get that the fav icon is
usually in the root folder of a website
and there it is but the problem with
this one for your purpose is that it's
16 by 16 pixels will be really low
quality there is if you go to mobile
category 5 TV now doesn't look right in
Firefox obviously because it's designed
for mobile display but it will look
proper on there but through firefox if
you hit control you you're going to see
that there is a icon dot pin that is the
apple touch icon so that's what ends up
on an Apple iOS device such as the
iphone the ipod touch or the ipad you
can grab that image and that's more what
you're looking for as far as an icon
goes so if we were to for example copy
that reference images / icon ping here's
something interesting for you ok so
that's gonna now I've pasted that at the
end of mobile cat5 TV / images / icon
pain and it looks like that so that's
what you would see on your iOS device if
you added it
your dashboard so I'm going to copy the
image location and I'm going to go to
Google but what I will do is all in fact
I know what I'm looking for so i'll post
a link specifically to this in the show
notes for episode number 1 90 but what
we're looking for is fav icon generator
and we're going to go for the one from
dynamic drive tools dot dynamic drive
calm / fav icon and what you want to do
is just browse for the file which I
haven't saved actually so I'm going to
actually have to save that to my
computer throw that on with my desktop
or something okay there we are go over
here and browse for it on my desktop
there it is and do I want to merge it
with a desktop icon and a 48 by 48 large
icon I can do that because my source
image is 57 by 57 so let's do that
create the icon there you go now down at
the bottom it shows you a download fav
icon button and it seems convoluted but
if you follow through this is really
really fast and there you go this is a
favicon ICO and it's full quality right
up to 48 by 48 so that's one way that
you can get a really good high quality
fav icon for category 5 TV and of course
a fav icon if you want to add one to
your site we will be doing that with
with our site but we'll be using the
same tool from tools dynamic drive calm
/ fav icon that's f AV I co n and we'll
we'll show you how to do that in a
future episode but in the meantime i'll
post links for in the in the show notes
for episode number one ninety great that
helps
so next question is from Roddy right
irani says how do you install pogoplug
so it works with ubuntu 11.04 hmm okay
so it depends on the nature of your
question if what you're asking is how do
you connect to your physical pogoplug
device so you've got the hardware and
you want to be able to connect to it
there's a program called pogoplug FS and
that's freely available if you own a
pogoplug you can just log in through my
pogoplug calm and you'll see the
downloads button and click there you can
also get it at poco club com I'm going
to see if because I know that we've
already done a show where we in detail
went through the step-by-step on how to
do that it was episode number 166 so I
would encourage you to check out that
episode because the the rules have not
changed as far as setting that up and
that walks you through setting it up on
the Linux operating system the episode
that you're looking for is 166 the
episode is about the dd-wrt router
firmware and our secondary topic was
specifically mounting your pogoplug
device in both Windows and Linux so I
did a tutorial on how to do that so that
said that is to mount your physical
hardware device the pogoplug that has an
external USB hard drive plugged into it
for example that will allow you to
access that hard drive through linux
from anywhere in the world using your
polka plug as to the source if what
you're asking for is a pogoplug software
edition for linux which is a totally
different product now pogoplug remember
launched a new piece of software for
windows and mac which allows you to turn
your internal hard drive on your
computer into pardon me a pogoplug like
piece of hardware so you can access your
files from anywhere the disadvantage to
that is that your heart or your computer
has to be on all the time so they the
pogoplug one of the great big advantages
of the device itself is that it's very
low power usage you've got a solid-state
device that has no moving parts and it's
on all the time but it's all it's only
using a very small fraction of the power
your computer does so the software
version on the other hand your computer
has to be on if you're using linux and
you want to use a similar kind of
software there's nothing from pogoplug
that does that it is specifically
Windows and Mac at this point pogoplug
themselves I've sent them I've got a
Twitter message here from them apt
pogoplug on Twitter they say that it's
still on the radar eventually to have
linux long term but no dates as of yet
and I think that would probably have a
lot to do with the way that the Linux is
different as far as security of the file
system goes I would think it would be
more complicated but then again I don't
know like the Mac having the software
you would think that it would be
available but i think it's just I don't
know what the reasoning for that is I
should ask and really thrilled me mad I
think that would be a fantastic feature
of pogoplug software because then I
could install it on my own rate server
and my unraid server could become this
massive massive hope of plug device
that'd be fantastic so it depends on the
nature of your question there I think
that what you're looking for is gonna be
found in 166 I'm great cool so from
sobota hey Savannah oh it says hi Robbie
I want to ask you if you could do a
series on setting up a boon to server
and how to manage it thanks in advance
sure yeah I'd love to I'd love to know
more about what type of server you're
asking about because as soon as you say
a Linux or a boon to server I'm
wondering like do you mean Apache do you
mean like a lamp server with linux
apache mysql and PHP for web hosting are
you talking about an ldap server to run
it as a domain controller on your
network or what kind of server is it
that you're looking for linux is
extremely versatile as far as what you
can do with it and Linux was really
conceived to be just a spectacular
server operating system so you have to
imagine that while it's been on it's
been growing on the desktop over the
past several years due to a lot of these
companies that are bringing out really
good desktop linux
you know he's got red hat and Mandrake
back in the day and then Lin lindos and
inspire and now we've got a boon to from
canonical and and all the derivatives of
that and debian and then it's like
there's so much growth going into the
operating system now but it at his base
was always a server operating system so
there's a lot that can be done as far as
a server goes so let me know more about
what kind of server you're looking to to
set up we did set up a lamp stack using
using turnkey Linux a little while back
as well and you'll find that in the show
archives on our website as well category
5 TV if you'd like to learn a little bit
just really quickly about how to scan
our website for stuff you'll see over
here on the home page there's a site
search and if i type in for example lamp
which is linux apache mysql and PHP
it'll give me okay time to reap and
start turnkey you see that how quick i
got 169 turnkey linux lamp stack right
so this whole episode is dedicated to
deploying a turnkey linux server in a
fraction of the time of a traditional
build using turnkey linux virtual
appliances so that may be something that
you might be interested in episode
number 169 but in the meantime if that's
not covered in that episode you can let
me know and i'd love to take it one step
further and go through a tutorial for
you absolutely Cheers okay so you are
all going to have to hang in with me for
this one so that's a doozy is from and
I'm so sorry if I say this wrong in Ken
yep and you'll have to correct me uh he
says hi Robbie thanks for answering my
question about sopcast player a question
the chat room last week was too short
and unfortunately drove into a page that
was used before the PPA was made
available I used a PPA indeed on oovoo
to natty all you have to do is google
for sopcast got her sock sorry sopcast
player lubuntu natty you will find the
PPA link on web up eight however i've
installed the successfully on one of my
machines but failed on the rest with the
following message
oh I don't know if I can play this off
unpacking lit it's an apt get error
people okay apt-get error a doozy of a
one do I have to read it all okay i
could probably summarize it real quick
okay it's going through dpkg actually
there's an error in lib STD c plus plus
five which is I believe C++ compiler
version 3.3 that's right three point
three point six to one lubuntu so that
is having trouble unpacking which means
the file must I don't know there must be
something wrong with the file or there's
a dependency issue what I would suggest
that you try there is get into your
terminal and actually do instead of
using dpkg for that particular piece of
the the dependencies try using apt-get
so type sudo space apt get which is apt
dash get I'll just
here we go okay
that's what I would do and if you run
that command it's going to try to
install that using the repositories
you're going to have to have universe
enabled which you can do in system
administration software sources' enter
your password now this is going back I
mean the version 3.3 of C++ this is an
old compiler so it's going to come from
back ports and and probably universe so
we blew two updates tell it to get it
from back ports and I'll bet you that's
where it's going to find it from and
what that'll do is it'll try to get it
out of the repositories with a tested
archive that's good to install on your
version of ubuntu 11.04 and c c++ 3.3
did come back as of I believe karmic it
might have been a little later than that
it might have been your cat I was trying
to think what was the m1 yes maverick
meerkat okay give it a track app get it
install it and then try running your def
package again for your player and do
that as well there's another error if I
may there was another package there that
I see so you got C++ and then the SP
dash off but that s P dash is provided i
think by your that's part of the package
that you're trying to install so try
that with just the C++ one to start let
us know okay and here's open because
that is a long shot but yet not so much
based on the error that you showed us
there okay so that helped you get
through that was better that was good
thanks sorry sorry for extending the
geekiness of the show therefore for a
couple minutes oh you're not sorry that
was one
once in a while I got to infuse a little
bit of geekdom into the show that was
that was it worked that happened yeah I
just lost look at that they're just
dropping off although I don't we have
like five people left in the chat room
yeah so last question of the night okay
says dear Robbie and the gang I've tried
to run programs written in studio 2008
on a Windows XP machine and come up a
fault in boo too when I try to run it
the program just stops with the egg
timer and arrow running as a boon to
need to load net framework 3.5 or higher
with wine we we are trying to develop
software to run on both windows and a
blue two operating systems the mu2
doesn't seem to like running programs to
eat right even a very simple one written
and compiled on visual basic 6 is that
problem due to wine not supporting all
the windows api's it shows great and the
content is very interesting Peter okay
the first thing that comes to mind now
of course you're trying to create
Windows applications to be compatible
with linux which it's okay I mean you're
you're trying to run them through wine
but then you're setting up a dependency
of you know that you the users got to
have wine it would be it would be really
advantageous to to develop your software
if possible in such a way that it's
actually native on each of your
environments the only thing that comes
to mind really without knowing too much
about this end of things because you
know I'm a PHP developer and and back in
the days when I was programming on
Windows it was a lot different there's a
an app script from Kegel calm called
wine tricks and it's just a script that
lets you install a whole bunch of
additional wine frameworks and you know
different libraries and things that
certainly in your case could probably be
extremely helpful and even if it doesn't
fix your existing proper like the
current problem I definitely check it
out google.com / wine / wine tricks and
that's just a script that
you can save to your computer on Linux
and set it as executive all and then run
it I would give that a try let me know
if that if that gives you the libraries
that you need it's just you know it's
just a script that grabbed some stuff
from repositories and stuff and it is it
is rather fantastic and a specific to
wine but as far as actually you know
you're programming for windows and
trying to get it to work on on Linux
there could be other issues there try
one thing that you could try is rather
than just double-clicking on the
executive all the windows executive well
when you bring it over to Lubuntu is to
load a terminal session like open
terminal and then go to the folder where
the executive all is and type wine space
and then the name of the executive all I
think that would do it or you know
follow the prompts to get it to open you
might need to put a quote quotes around
it or wine space dot slash and then the
name of the executive all done exe
something along those lines should
launch the application but it will
output the error messages if there are
any or if there are any missing
libraries or dependencies for you know
the wine needs to have in order to run
that that particular application it
should see you at an error message to
your terminal and then that becomes kind
of a log for you and you know what what
you need in order to get that thing
working on on your linux computer so i
hope that helps we're out of time for
viewer questions tonight we appreciate
your questions you can email us live at
category 5 TV we would love to get your
questions in there or join us in the
chat room category 5 TV and in the
meantime Hilary it's a it's off to you
hey everyone from the category 5 Dottie
newsroom an increasingly popular style
of cyber crime has popped up in Nova
Scotia Canada the RCMP is warning Nova
Scotian that had someone trying to gain
access to home computers a caller claims
to be from Microsoft and talks the user
through steps to fix issues with their
computer and even remove viruses for
them the person actually provides
instructions to allow them to access the
person's personal computer with which
they could access your personal files
obtained your banking information and
even install tools which will allow them
to monitor your computer without you
knowing we're hearing about these types
of scams more and more these days for
the record if you initiate a support
call with a company such as Microsoft or
another company you deal with it is
possible they may need to remotely
connect to your computer in order to
provide certain services such as fixing
your antivirus or catching your system
however these companies will never
initiate that call if someone you don't
know calls you and requests to access
your computer don't allow it David bra
Ben is well-known game developer who
runs the UK development studio frontier
developments over his career his studio
has brought us the roller coaster tycoon
series Thrillville lost wins and most
recently kinectimals in the brown
however robin has been trying to tackle
another problem getting programming and
general learning of how computers work
back into the schools Robin argues that
education since we entered the 2000s has
turned towards teaching useful skills
such as writing documents in a word
processor out of create presentations
and basic computer use skills but that
has been replaced but that has replaced
more computer science like skills such
as basic programming and understanding
the architecture and hardware contained
in a computer his solution is to
manufacture a very low cost PC that can
be given to kids for free Robin had
developed a time USB
step at pc a pc that has an hdmi port in
one end and a USB port and the other you
can plug it into an HDMI socket and then
connect a keyboard via the USB port
giving you a fully functioning machine
running a version of Linux the costs
about twenty-five dollars this time to
PC uses 700 megahertz the arm 11a rm11
processor coupled with 128 megabytes of
RAM and runs opengl es 2.0 allowing for
decent graphics performance with a 1080p
output confirmed storage is provided by
an SD card slot we can expect to run it
to run a range of Linux distribution but
it looks like a go to maybe the distro
it ships with that means it'll handle
web browsing run office applications and
give the user a fully functional
computer to play with as 6 it's plugged
in all that and it can be carried in
your pocket or on a keychain this tiny
cheap pc is going to be distributed
through a new charitable foundation
called the raspberry pi foundation
that's pikey I it also will promote
computer science studies within the
schools after when the Raspberry Pi
device will become available robin says
he hopes it will be distributing it
within the next 12 months a prototype
flexible smartphone made of electronic
paper has been created by comedian
researchers the paper phone can perform
the same functions of bulkier small
smartphones such as make and take calls
send messages play music or even display
ebooks creator dr. Robert Bertie gal
says everything is going to look and
feel like this within five years in a
statement he has said this computer
looks feels and operates like a small
sheet of interactive paper you interact
with it by bending it into a cell phone
flipping the corner in turn a page or
writing on it with a pen the paper phone
prototype went on to slay today I
computer human interaction conference in
Vancouver and more than a week after
Sony told the world to expect some
functionality to return to the
PlayStation Network it is not happened
you can't play your games online make
digital purchases or download demos the
service remains completely dead analyst
nobuo kurachi told the Wall Street
Journal that he estimates Sony could be
on the hook for 1.25 billion dollars
lost in business he says it could take
months for the security was to settle
and how this may affect consumer
confidence in sony's online services in
the long run and this is harder to
assess in the long run according to
bloomberg sony is expecting that the
service restored by May 31st keep your
fingers crossed you can get these full
stories at category five dot TV /
newsroom the category 5 bikini newsroom
is researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our wonderful community
of viewers if you have a news story you
think's worthy of honor mention send us
an email I'm news your mat category 5 TV
for the category 5 GB news Europe I'm
Hillary rumble Hillary thank you so much
no problem what are your thoughts about
this whole PlayStation thing like I'm
not too I mean it's it's all over the
news so I don't want to just talk about
that but it's unreal like the consumer
confidence is just dropping by the
minute well how long has it been now
you're saying like two three three
museums oh that long now well we're
talking about me I mean when you factor
in May 31st 21 days from now Wow what do
you do with your status seriously you
have to go outside and get fresh air Oh
which is all fine and good but I mean
we're talking about a security breach
here that is beyond the scale of you
know this is the second biggest online
gaming company in the world yeah and
this this has been breached to this
level if that's frightening that's scary
really frightening but it just goes to
show I mean you can't really trust your
data with with even the these huge
companies like
you think will has got a lot of my data
but how safe is that data it would be
really scary if that data got exposed
somebody had posted in the in comments
that to this news article that one of
the things that you never want to do and
and we know we encourage people to
register on our website of course and we
and we welcome to submit your birth date
and everything and that lets us you know
whatever it sits in there I don't know
if it asks you for that or not but
people are saying you know you enter
your credit card information you enter
your full name to register on these
services like the PlayStation Network
you enter your birth date with the birth
year all of a sudden your identity is
you know with that amount of information
about you with your your full name and
your birth date and year they can pretty
much track down who you are and where
where you're from and get your social
insurance information and all this and
that they've got your credit card
information it's like that's scary stuff
very scary stuff that's that's my finger
how about you you're just like can't
change can't say up so for am anymore
think about all the gaming companies
that develop these games specifically to
play on the PlayStation Network and
they're they're losing all this revenue
but not only that who's going to go into
the superstore this summer and say oh
I'm going to buy that game for 80 bucks
that only works on the PlayStation
Network and I know they're gonna stand
there they're gonna go you know what I
don't think I'm gonna buy that because
who's to say it's going to work it is to
say that that game if I pay 80 bucks for
it is even going to work and they're not
going to give me my money back we've
seen that historically with Sony with
the way that they pulled the the linux
operating system ability from the
PlayStation 3 for example so I think
it's a terrible situation terrible
situation this episode of category 5
technology TV is brought to you in part
by pogoplug at cat5 Don TV / pogoplug
and planet calypso cat5 TV / calypso all
right we're going to jump into our topic
of the night which is web development
part 10 awesome 10 get on over to demo
cat five dot TV / 008
that's where we're going to be working
from tonight and on that site you'll see
that you'll see exactly where we where
we wound up last week I'm going to bring
up the site here myself as well demo cat
five dot TV / 0 0 8 and then we have it
that's where we are so we talked about
lorem ipsum last week you're familiar
with lorem ipsum i like how would you
describe lorem ipsum it's like fo last
oh yeah it was originally supposed to be
based on like a Latin prayer or
something I think it's gone since then
expand into different things we use it
in development and in InDesign you use
it extensively copy filler it really is
just filler it's like material for
here's what your text is going to look
like when it's on your website so one of
the sites that I really love is just lip
some dot org l I p.s um dot org it's so
simple it's so easy to do you choose how
many paragraphs how many words or so on
and so forth that you would like you
know if I go five paragraphs and hit
generate lorem ipsum it's just going to
spew out a lorem ipsum bunch of
paragraphs that I can just copy and
paste to my clipboard and there it is
that's what it looks like lorem ipsum
dolor sit amet contact power however
that is said my Latin is is lacking
there we go so now i can copy that to my
clipboard and I've got lorem ipsum to
work with so if I bring up my index dot
PHP I'm going to paste that text in and
that becomes my filler text so that i
can see how my text is going to work
within within this site because right
now it just says test test test not
really a
valid test so paste that in you'll see
that there are line breaks so we're
going to add some actual HTML line
breaks here xml compliant of course with
the slash okay i'm sure we don't need a
full five paragraphs of lorem ipsum but
alas that's what I've got in my
clipboard refresh our site and you'll
see that based on this how this is going
to wrap now we can see that there's a
little bit of an issue here with I don't
know if that's relatively positioned how
did we position that let's take a look
but it's actually rapping in such a way
that you know we don't really like the
way that that's rapping but we can
always touch that up down the road as
well and and I don't want to get too
caught up on semantics because it's
really about learning the functionality
and how we can get this to work we don't
need two to get to particular but what
this looks like to me is that this item
here this is the Polaroid is probably
positioned relatively because it looks
like it's holding this space in which
case we are going to we'll fix that
before we finish the site but we're not
going to worry about it tonight one of
the things that I notice is that the
text is pretty much touching the edge of
the site in every regard so we might
want to add some padding to that I'm
going to look at your original mock-up
here you can get all of the files that
you see us using tonight that's our our
mock-up the actual PHP file the CSS file
everything is downloadable for free at
cat5 TV / web dev and on top of that
you'll be able to down download and view
each episode of the series okay so i can
see that what you've done is you've got
a fair amount of padding on on any of
the sides so let's let's determine how
much padding that is you'll remember
that i use my you know just a quick way
as I've used my Wow zoom really messes
with it but I've used my square marquee
to simply measure you know I'm just
going to go like that i'm measuring like
this and i'm going to go edit
copy visible or copy merged in photoshop
i'm using the gimp its GNU image
manipulation program and it is free
games org freely downloadable and I can
see that that is 63 pixels wide so the
padding that you've got on there is 60
pixels so what we'll do is we're going
to add that padding to the body area of
our site which is main body main body is
the div wrapper that is that our text is
contained within so if we open our CSS
file that's basically our style sheet
that allows us to stylize any of the
elements within our site you'll see that
main body already exists but there is no
padding so I know that the padding looks
to be about equal on all sides so I'm
going to go just padding 60 pixels if I
wanted to I could just do padding top or
padding left or padding right or padding
bottom but if I just say catting it's
going to do all four sides at once if I
do for example 10 pics 60 pics that's
going to add 10 pixels to the top 10
pixels to the bottom 60 pixels to the
left 60 60 pixels to the bottom so you
can use that to cut down on the amount
of stuff that isn't necessary within
your CSS file because you don't need to
go padding top padding bottom padding
left padding right you can you get it
all in one yeah and your semantics can
be a little more correcting then ok so
i've uploaded that CSS file and if i
refresh you'll see that the padding is
pretty much identical to what you were
going for there with your mock-up there
are a couple of things that I haven't
implemented into our website version of
the site and that again is just to try
to keep moving things along and so
that's like the arrow that is a part of
this this blue area the menu the submenu
that's going to go here the text that's
going to be at the bottom of this photo
what's going to happen is at the end of
and I wasn't showing you there but what
I meant was in this area and the text at
the bottom of the photo at the end of
this series we're going to again give
you access to the files and those files
are going to be complete
so using the knowledge that you're
gaining from this series you're going to
be able to say oh that's how I can do
that and then take that and use that
information we don't need to show you
everything on on the actual broadcast so
so next up we've got our font face for
the for the site itself what was that
was that you're pretty sure it's just
Ariel yeah they're real all right good
old boring Ariel it's not that bad no
it's clean and when you're when you're
building a website you want things to
look clean you want things to to be
easily readable and you want them to
translate across platforms sometimes you
get a font that looks fantastic on a Mac
but looks terrible on a Windows computer
especially like Internet Explorer
Internet Explorer does really poor font
rendering with its bad anti-alias and so
you know that you've got to take that
kind of thing into account so main body
I'm going to paste in font family arial
helvetica sans-serif that is I've copied
that from my menu because it's the same
font and just a recap that what that
means is if the user has the Arial font
that's the one that we prefer however if
they don't have that let's go and fall
back onto Helvetica and of course if
they have neither aerial or health edeka
then we're going to just pick whatever
their systems sans-serif font is and
that's how that works ok so I'm going to
upload that change i'm going to refresh
and you'll see immediately that look
that's the wrong website there so there
it is with default Times New Roman as
soon as I refresh there it is with Ariel
looks a lot cleaner the edges are nice
and just crisp it just stands out a lot
better font color was a black I think so
okay so
color number 0 0 0 okay just force it
just in case any other elements change
the color sometimes what you want to do
is make it a color that's not quite
black say 333 is just a little bit off
from black and I just white on or black
on white can be a little bit harsh on
the eyes so just by making it just a
slightly slightly lighter it just
lightens it up just a little bit and
that's how that's a possibility for
certain sites now in this case crystal
wanted this black so i can make it dark
great i won't i won't be angry i was
going to make it green if you keep that
up but i like green okay we just don't
want to we just don't want to anger her
so so we're gonna leave it at black
it'll be 000 and main body from now on
don't ever change it I'm so kidding I'm
so kidding he says he's kidding but
after the show we just points and laughs
it means a sucker it's pretty much how
it goes down yeah yeah okay so that is
what lorem ipsum is going to look like
within this site now beyond that is
there anything else to the to the text
formatting that you want done everything
looks pretty good at this point a gander
ah yeah looks pretty good yeah I think
we're good yeah looking at it on your
Mac which doesn't have desktop presenter
running so I can't switch over oh I
morning sorry Quinn I'm sure okay so
that is the mock-up I created you
remember from episode number one of the
the web development series and here is
our actual working website this is a
real website with actual text it's not a
graphic everything is text its search
engine optimized ready or ready to be
search engine optimized the buttons of
the menu are actually text so everything
is ready for the search engine this is
nice and clean it's nice and that you
know it's all taxes for
that way on your mark mock up that's
where it ends yeah it's got a little bit
of red at the bottom so what we'll do is
main body margin dash bottom 60 pics
remember margins happen on the outside
of the element now when i refresh oh and
it's doing it on the outside of 0
because it's it should be now you see
what I've done there is that added 60
pics to the bottom of here because I
accidentally put it on this element
which is within its contained within the
wrapper element remember that element
that we have in our index dot PHP so
what I want to do is I want to add that
margin to the wrapper instead rapper do
mean give me a modern bottom yo cuz I'm
a rapper out if there are any rappers
watching the show right now I apologize
for assistance that I would have cost
just so they have all signed off right
now hey are you God yeah that's just
this please leave that I don't want to
get in trouble alright so that is not
pushing it out so I've got to look at my
code here and see okay where am i okay
so i do have rapper there and that div
ends down here so
oh now see this is my mistake and this
is where we we learn things as we go
okay because the rapper being what's
wrapping the outside I think we change
that to paddock no I still don't have it
stumped for goodness sake just for the
sake of time I'm good at putting in a
couple of line breaks I'm so never
leaving those there this is just to
appease the the crista it's still why is
this time I've given it to me i doing it
right
like one of those movies where you build
it up so far yeah it's like I will tell
you how to do it and then I'll do Anika
suspense is killing you all and then
next time on category 5 she knows me too
well all right so i will look at that
because somewhere you know we've got
we've got rappers and and different divs
and elements that are you know what I
probably got floats that are that I've
got a clear both maybe what I'll do is
I'll create a div four footer and that
footer will clear both and it will have
a height of 60 pixels and it will fall
it will work it will absolutely work but
i'll test it before the show just to be
sure okay so what I want to do just
because we're limited for time you know
what that's that's all the time we're
going to have is to is to fix that
anyways to add that little bit of
padding at the bottom so let's let's
just give it a try let's go div ID
equals now let's do this within this
want it within our rapper
but I'm going to do something a little
bit differently because it's within that
rapper I have to actually set the
background to match the body ok
800,000 that was our nice red color was
it not I believe I think so it's still
within the rapper well so what I'll do
imagine that we're going to go back to
index dot PHP and pull that out when
we're gonna get it we're going to get it
I didn't clear both this is like a like
a marathon for me he's sweating so
what's the lights
anyway you know when they debuted
windows 98 they crashed the entire
system of the blue screen of death so to
have a little bit of padding that's not
happening at the bottom I'll just do
that me no it's not a big deal you put
anything in through perspective like
that yeah it doesn't look too bad does
crash they failed worse so you know
don't mention it don't mention it but
you know what it's all good hey you can
you can flatter us online at cat five
dot TV / FL attr we'd love to have you
flatter us so check that out and for
this week that's all we're going to do
as far as web development goes next week
it's getting really exciting because
we're actually going to take that site
we're going to splice it apart you saw
him when we took our mock up when we cut
it up into images now what we're going
to do is we're going to take the source
code and we're going to cut it up into
includes getting into some PHP it's
going to be a lot of fun we're going to
start to be able to see how the site is
going to go from an HTML and CSS site
into a real working PHP application as
far as how the the website runs on the
server and how different files are
included into that so check that out
that is next week on a category 5 TV
also I'd encourage you to get onto our
website category five dot TV if you're
not already registered there do make
sure that your register we'd love to
have you as a part of our free community
and also as a registered user you'll be
able to vote on your favorite or non
favorite episodes but definitely we love
to get your your stars you can vote us
out of 5 stars how you like each episode
of may encourage you even if you even if
you're watching this episode right now
this is 190 after the show we get it
online after a couple of hours get on to
our website and vote for it even if
you're not going to watch the game even
if you just watched it live that's you
know that that helps us to see how
you're enjoying the show how you're
enjoying the content and this is our
final week to get your votes for the
Wirecast contest so cat five dot TV /
win four win win a prize we're giving
away a free copy of Wirecast that's the
software that we use to
cast category 5 technology TV and if you
are at all interested in broadcasting I
encourage you to check that out that's
cat five dot TV / Wirecast to find out
more about the software but I'd
encourage you please get on to our
website cat5 TV / win and vote for your
favorite ballets and we're going to be
drawing that next week so cool and of
announcements vote says gadwal office
vote get out and vote we've been through
that this week yes that was fun mm-hmm
what sound what's been going on around
here lately wow there's just there's so
much as far as you know what's what's
happening with the studio and as we work
towards fixing up our issues I do
encourage you to check out my blog cat5
TV / blog it's a lot of fun to get a
little bit of behind the scenes that
info about what happens here at the show
stuff that we can't necessarily air on
the the show itself so and you're
working on a bio I understand I started
it today I started it today she's like
oh today's category 5 day I better sorry
making a bio so i can say like when you
say you started i did start it your
likes and you saved a file oh I don't
touch word okay good because i'm awesome
well you're on a mac well i use i work
because you like to spend money I no
reason I just hope for no reason have
you seen this machine it glows a lot it
has a beautiful Apple do you notice the
mug even that was intentional la Li
intentional I was reared you looked in
your cupboard you're like well we've got
spongebob but we've got her she's Annika
booty boom too that's kind of just
trying to work that in there because
eventually you know it's like that
subliminal message and it's not for you
it's for her just to you know to try to
get yeah and what are you doing with
this subliminal message of the Apple
that's not subliminal it's in your face
here it is Apple what what is it with
mac fan boys and their apple irie what
it was it's a local no I mean seriously
my ipod ipod touch it's been it's
fantastic I gotta admit I really love
having it it's been a real channel and a
really nice thing to Heidi for the butt
but I just don't understand why for one
it's got this etched like laser etched a
logo in the back but I bought a
protective case so that if the kids ever
drop it it won't break and it has a
bevel in the case you can see the Apple
yes why because it's the logo is a
damned the identification of a company I
don't get it I create logos so I have to
hide behind them ubuntu fanboys would be
that in your face with our products and
our our devices and stickers on the back
of our computers that glow you wish you
were so cool I wish I wish you were hope
everybody had a great week this week and
we'll see you online category five dot
TV been nice seeing ya and I can't wait
until next Tuesday it's always a
pleasure to be here and and nice to nice
to see so many friendly faces in the
chatroom nice to see some new faces as
well absolutely and it's good having you
here thanks for job baby here and
Hillary has left us for the evening but
always a pleasure to have her as well
and we miss Eric but he will be back so
you have a fantastic week and we'll see
you next Tuesday night yeah
you
