here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom Elon
Musk a man prone to ludicrous deadlines
has birth yet another test flights of
his Mars spaceship next year
a drone owner has been charged with
starting a fire that destroyed 300 acres
of grassland in Arizona's Coconino
National Forest a new study shows that
less than half of ransomware targets who
pay actually get the files back and
ransomware for robots is the next big
security nightmare these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on thinkgeek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias
I'm Jeff Wesson and here are the top
stories we're following this week Elon
has burst yet birthed yet another idea
test flights of his Mars spaceship next
year he told the audience at the South
by Southwest festival in Austin Texas I
think we'll be able to do short flights
up and down sometime in the first half
of next year he put a dark spin on it
though saying that it's vital that
humans reach the red planet before the
next world war and saying that a Mars
colony would reduce the chance of an
extended new Dark Age if a nuclear
conflict were to wipe out life on Earth
but we'd rather keep things optimistic
so enough about that after a string of
failed rockets and near bankruptcy
SpaceX wowed the world with this Falcon
Heavy flight in February a highlights
reel of the event soundtrack to David
Bowie's life on Mars was shown to
attendees at the festival the ultimate
goal of the mission of course is a Mars
colony
the event musk painted a picture of what
he felt such a society would need to
look like in order to be a success he
said he was excited about the potential
for launching new industries from a
completely fresh starting point
Mars will need pizza joints and one day
people will need a Mars bar he said
congratulating congratulating himself on
the dad joke regardless of our
individual opinions of Elon Musk the
prevailing mood here is that he is a
visionary of the highest order and if he
doesn't try to get us to Mars
who will I like this idea of going to
Mars I do it's it's something that we've
never done I mean we've talked about
yeah how many things can you say that
about it I know I mean we've reached a
time in in our society and our global
everything where we just I feel like
we've done everything yeah you know
we're reinventing the wheel on some
things but it's but have we got LTE
internet on the moon no that's next year
okay yeah but I mean the question for
this one becomes is it gonna take the
six months to get there is Elon gonna
have some faster process for forgetting
to Mars yeah you know I know he's been
working tirelessly with at building new
forms of propulsion yes and things like
this so where that's gonna take us I
guess next year we'll know when he
starts the test flights I guess that's
when we're gonna really know what
they've accomplished so far right and I
mean with the payload size that the that
his Falcon Heavy X I think that was
called has it won't be enough to set up
a full colony so you're gonna have to
probably send me multiple you know
flights never think yeah plus SpaceX has
reduced the cost of space travel
absolutely so that's their goal is an
exploration multiple flights at the same
time and hey here's our people pod and
here's all of our right I mean who knows
you know what happened exactly they'd
have to have fail-safes in place that
you know each ship would have a certain
number of people a certain number of
supplies mm-hmm so that if one didn't
make it
that people who did make it aren't
without water for all sampler as long as
you've got Matt Damon to poop on
potatoes you're alright is that real
life well that's what happened in the
movie okay but scientists have said that
that is probably the most realistic way
of actually getting potatoes to grow on
Mars Wow yep
interesting Jeff I know you just kind of
threw that in there folks so if you were
wondering pooping on potatoes is the way
to go wonderful okay
of grassland in a National Forest in
Arizona a drone reportedly caught on
fire after it crashed igniting dried
grasses in an area called Kendrick Park
near Flagstaff about 30 firefighters
were able to bring the blaze under
control within a day now if found guilty
the drones owner could face a fine
community service or even a jail
sentence while tackling the incident
last week firefighters preemptively set
light to the grasslands surrounding a
local landmark the Chapel of the Holy
dove to ensure that the small church was
not threatened by the flames warnings
were issued to drivers in the area as
dense smoke from the fire made driving
conditions difficult on roads through
the Kendrick Park region now while it is
legal to fly a drone in the US National
Forest there are strict regulations
governing when and where they can be
flown drones must not be flown in
wilderness areas nor over areas where
wildfires are active in 2017 helicopters
helping to tackle fire in the very same
forests were hampered by a drone taking
pictures of the blaze now the pilot of
that unmanned craft was not identified
and firefighting planes and helicopters
helping to tackle seasonal fires in
other regions have also been temporarily
grounded for fear of a collision with a
drone it's unfortunate that recreational
drone use has come to this level where
people are not aware that they're
actually hampering you know emergency
situations oh yeah like be smart if
you're gonna fly a drone
I mean I get sure it's great cool
footage to film a forest fire but if
you're preventing people from being able
to put out that fire that's not cool
or if you're creating the fire well that
too no I mean in the case of this drone
flier it's not like he intended to crash
and make it burn so should we be setting
up like a drone insurance industry well
I think that is so if we back up and
think about and I don't know the whole
you know the details about who this
flier was but first of all his drone
caught on fire so that tells me it's
probably gas-propelled right I would
expect it's not a battery-powered drone
no and if that's the case then this is a
commercial flier like this is not
somebody that's just a hobbyist like me
with his electric drones that right you
know I'm flying around over the trees
and safely bringing them down and if
they crash they get stuck in the
branches and I cry because I just lost
$600 in drone hardware right that's how
it goes for me but so we must have they
must be a consumer flyer a commercial
flyer or be serious enough about it that
he's using it for commercial purposes I
would expect like unless you're just
filthy stinking rich and you own a
really big expensive gas-powered drone
not anymore but there are regulations
and there are laws that say that if you
were flying commercially there are rules
and yes you have to be insured okay so
if he was flying if he was flying
without insurance that's an F because I
don't know then you know who is liable
for that who pays for that who pays for
the damage yeah that's the question
it'll be very interesting to see how
that one plays out anymore I'd like to
know more about who he is why obviously
they they found him yes so he fessed up
because the you know the other person
who was flying a drone and hampering
emergency services they never found them
right because a drone can be kilometers
away and again
these are these are not your average
consumer drones these is right
these are big heavy drones that can be
flown from kilometers away using 3d
goggles and virtual reality yes yeah
that's true nobody how that one shapes
out mm-hmm all right in a shocking
revelation criminals proved to be
untrustworthy Oh a new study shows that
pay up actually get their files back
paying off ransomware demand is a great
way to end up losing both your money and
your files this according to a study
from security company cyber edge which
found that those hit by ransomware
infection the best bet is probably to
just restore from a backup the survey
based on a poll of information security
professionals found that less than half
of those who pay a ransom end up getting
their data back the report says that 55
percent of people who surveyed reported
a malware infection hitting their
systems in 2017 Spain had the highest
rate with 80% of respondents malware
followed by companies in China at 74%
and Mexico at 70 1.9 percent in the u.s.
50 3.8 percent of respondents were hit
by ransomware while slightly under half
of those in the UK forty nine point five
percent were hit
overall seventy two point four percent
of those who were infected with
ransomware were able to get their data
back most of those however were
companies that simply ignored the ransom
demands and restored their systems with
uninfected backup copies the study found
that eighty six point nine percent of
those who refused to pay the demand
ended up recovering their data of those
who cave to the demand and paid the
ransom forty nine point four percent
said they did recover their data while
50.6% ended up losing it anyway the
nutshell shocking conclusion is that
criminals don't always stay true to
their work good to hear that so many
folks have reliable disconnected backups
yes this is one of the fears with and
the dangers with ransomware is that it
doesn't just encrypt the files on your
server and your computers it encrypts
the files on your backup that's right so
what happens if
you don't have a backup and you don't
pay the ransom is there a third option
or you don't have a backup you pay the
ransom as a last ditch effort and they
don't come through yeah
like is there another way to get this
data back that is a really you know my
answer to that would be very iffy okay
b-but you might be surprised to know
that my answer would be maybe okay
perhaps perhaps there's an option
because what happens with these with
these types of things ransomware and and
and things the there are often master
keys these are keys that the hackers
create in order to be able to recover
the files and once those master keys are
deciphered by security engineers tools
are released that help people to recover
their files using the master key
okay so ESET is one of those companies
that has worked really hard to release
tools to decrypt files and there are
there are actually a number of security
research companies security like
anti-malware companies that have worked
together to create repositories of their
tools so that people who are infected
with particular types of ransomware
infections can recover their files right
so again it's not a guaranteed you're
going to get your data back if you run
this free program it doesn't work that
way but to know that there are people
and companies out there that are working
hard to combat this issue is is a really
encouraging thing and I'll actually show
you the website it's I believe it was no
more ransom dot-org no more ransom dot
org no more ransom or I must have
mistyped it but it didn't redirect it
anyways so here we are no more ransom
org and you see that there are a ton of
folks that are involved in this you've
got you know the main associate partners
BitDefender Trend Micro is a big
I've asked we've got law enforcement
agencies that work with them other
partners which is where we find ESET for
example who've contributed some code and
they also distribute their own tools so
here's what we do
so decryption tools now there's other
great information here so check it out
but go into decryption tools and you can
find all these different ransomware
decrypt errs right so these are all
ransom ransomware viruses or malware so
if I'm for example infected with the
crisis ransomware there are two tools
one of them from Kaspersky Lab and one
of them from Trend Micro and these two
tools are designed specifically to
decrypt the files that are encrypted
using that particular malware oh so if
you're fortunate yeah there may be a way
to recover those files even if you don't
have a backup and even if you don't have
if you haven't been able to recover them
by paying the ransom but that is not a
fail-safe that is not a reason to not
protect yourself that is a last-ditch
effort of security engineers to help you
the fact is you need to have a good
backup you have to have a backup that is
disconnected from anything that this
kind of infection can touch so
air-gapped unplugged taken home rotated
every week and never touching the
network while ransomware is a thing yes
okay
researchers have found that they were
able to infect robots with ransomware in
the real world such attacks would be
highly damaging to businesses if robotic
security isn't addressed ransomware has
long been a headache for PC and
smartphone users but in the future it
could be robots that stopped working
unless a ransom is paid researchers at
the security company ioactive have shown
how they managed to hack the humanoid
NAO robot by Softbank and infected one
with custom-built ransomware the
researchers said the same attack would
work on the
pepper robot as well after the infection
the robot has shown insulting the its
audience and demanding to be fed Bitcoin
cryptocurrency in order to restore
systems back to normal now while a tiny
robot making threats might initially
sound amusing if a little bit creepy the
proof-of-concept attack demonstrates the
risks associated with lack of security
and robots and how organizations that
employ robots could suddenly see parts
of their business grind to a halt should
they become a victim of ransomware
Caesar sir odo CTO at i/o inactive labs
said in order to get a business
ownership to pay a ransom to a hacker
you could make robots stop working and
because the robots are directly tied to
production and services when they stop
working they'll cause a financial
problem for the owner losing money every
second that they're not working now
taking what was learned in previous
studies into security vulnerabilities of
robots researchers were able to inject
the right code in pepper and nao robots
to make to take complete control of the
systems giving them the option to shut
the robot down or modify its actions the
researchers said it was possible for an
attacker with access to the Wi-Fi
network the robot is running on to
infect malicious code in into the
machine unlike computers robots don't
yet store vast amounts of vulnerable
information that the user might be
willing to pay a ransom to retrieve but
as companies often don't use backups to
resource systems from if a robot becomes
infected with ransomware it's also
impossible for the user to restore it to
normal by themselves so if we have the
ability to have our robots hacked you
knew it was coming guys you knew it was
coming would it be done in the same way
that they could be hacking autonomous
cars hmm like you know I'm thinking of
Wi-Fi exploits and yeah you know
obviously you know going to the
Hollywood side of things I'm thinking of
the movie I Robot where you've got one
mainframe that's running all the
computers if somebody found a way to
hack right you know like I think I think
it was peppers running in a hospital
there's a pep yeah yeah you know could
somebody hack that
to hurt people potentially yeah I guess
you know right I mean theoretically they
could and but you know they they're kind
of the story says that you know your dad
is not a problem but any device on your
network is an entry point for attack
right so if a robot were an entry point
for an attack and now that robot is
infected that robots on the same Wi-Fi
as your server mm-hmm and now all of a
sudden the robot can use the code to go
out into the server and start encrypting
files there right I mean I'm thinking of
production companies you know so
literally so many on industries yeah
they use robotics and I mean if somebody
hacked in there and say shut out entire
facility yeah I mean imagine that the
productivity and the financial impact of
shutting down an automaker for one day
even or you could take it one dark step
further and look at military right right
because military is working toward using
robots more and more to carry heavy
artillery and carry even the you know
this the just essentials and things like
that so you know what would happen if
their network of robots were debilitated
by ransomware during during like during
a war or something
so what you're saying is that to bring
this news to full loop we go back to you
on musk and we should just set up on
Mars colony it might be the next it may
be necessary I know what are your
thoughts folks I mean what what risks
are there and is there something that
needs to be done I think the answer is
clearly yes
if these robots can be exploited in this
way I can't imagine that more security
has not like I'm a little blown away
right now that pepper is vulnerable to
ransomware I how is this possible does
she run Windows well you know it's it is
a great point because I mean we use
robotics to assist us on a daily basis
and if you don't think about these
things it does become a problem and you
know with pepper being in a hospital
there is the potential for storing data
of you know somebody walks in or
stealing data well exactly yeah so you
know somebody walks in they talk to the
robot say here my symptoms and pepper
does a quick triage and send you over
here send you over there you know if
that's what it turns into but all of
that information is stored somewhere and
then because it would have to then go to
patient files you do have a storage
issue and a connection there's a
connection obviously to the central
database yeah so I mean there's a lot of
potential problems that come with us and
I would hope that developers of these
robots are thinking about security
minded you know protections rather than
just hey look at these cool things we
can do yeah like I'm thinking of that
about two weeks ago I think there's a
YouTube video of a robotic dog that
opens doors
yeah mazing yeah which is cool but what
if that dog got hacked and it was used
to pick locks and open doors now
suddenly you've got a robot fro and you
would just build a big strong robot that
just bashes doors down okay so Robocop I
think my concern is that more care
hasn't been spent on the security thing
and we saw the same thing with
automobiles yes with hackable systems
how can we be bringing out technologies
without understanding the underlining
security how can that not be our
priority to make sure that hey if I'm
bringing out robots that are Wi-Fi
connected or we've heard about Bluetooth
children's toys that can be hacked and
compromised yeah from you know the the
house next door and and you know these
are concerns children's like baby
monitors yes being hacked because when
we built this device we thought only
about the video quality and the stream
and did not put any work into the
security how is that possible there
needs to be some kind of I hate to say
regulations no I don't want to say that
but who there needs to be accountability
absolutely I think
is what it boils down to hmm lot of
things to think about comment below let
us know what you think that's right
big thanks to Roy W Nash the Albuquerque
turkey and our community viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux' bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom on
jeff weston
[Music]
[Applause]
