everybody welcome back to the studio I'm
Robbie and my web show is triple W
category 5 TV this is the studio that we
produce category 5 technology TV in and
we are in the midst of setting up an
HDMI clean output on a d50 100 that's a
camera that's available quite cheap 350
bucks kind of thing on the cheap
so you definitely want to check this out
if you're looking for a cheap solution
for good quality video now just so you
know we've got it working as you know
from the last time that we that we were
talking I'm going to show you all about
how we do that now I I'm gonna be
putting together a show I just wanna let
you know right off the bat we're putting
together a new show called the show show
and the whole purpose of the show show
and the whole play on words there with
the dual use of the word show is that
it's a show about how to create web cast
how to create your own show it is
applicable to churches it's applicable
to to small businesses it's applicable
to teachers and students alike I mean
anyone really who wants who's got
something to say and wants to create a
show the show show is definitely gonna
be for you so if you haven't already got
it make sure you install the
category-five TV roku channel on your
Roku device a quick link for that is cat
v dot TV slash roku channel and of
course if you already got it awesome
because that's where you're gonna find
it category five TVs branching out into
a whole bunch of other shows not just
category five technology TV but also the
show show try it buy it we've also got
the nature to the nature sounds of
Ontario Canada there I mean some
interesting stuff and it really helps us
to branch out into new areas so that
said this is backstage passes is behind
the scenes so I'm allowed to take you on
a tour of you know you can see how
things happen backstage and we're very
very casual because I'm here my kids are
here you can't see them on that camera
but if well there you go you know that
it is in fact a DSLR there they are
if I can focus hey kids turn around and
wave hey yeah they're playing Sega
Genesis
because it's awesome that's our cross
promo for try buy it
Sasha show she's doing a review on a
Sega Genesis unit that has a whole bunch
of games built in bringing back the
old-school retro game and I love it
so the kids are the kids are actually
really really enjoying some of those
old-school games so I love that it takes
me back okay so today this is part 2 of
our DSLR series really really quick
backstage pass stuff and again this
stuff is going to be covered on the show
show as well so we're gonna do more in
depth and show you how it works but I
want to give you a sneak peek because I
know you've been following on YouTube
and through the forums over at
Telestream so and I appreciate your
interaction as well it's been nice
talking to some of you and and learning
kind of what you know what you're gonna
be using this for and and a couple of
you have already bought addy 5100 reason
that I've chosen this camera is because
it is so cheap and because our friends
at Nite con hacker have already cracked
a lot of the stuff that has to do with
the firmware so that opens it up to
doing some things that are not typically
available on a cheap camera so you see
that I've got HDMI output this is that
25 foot cable that we had in the first
part of this this segment and on there
I've just got the consumer camera so if
I want to show you what what I've got
going on there's the camera that I'm
actually on right now and then this is
the D 5100 how am i pulling it in
alright so we looked at it last week you
know that it was stretched out I talked
to Simeon pilgrim he's one of the guys
at the forefront of the Nikon hacker
group and they create the hacks the the
firmware that allows us to break some of
the stuff in the camera not not in the
traditional sense of breaking it like
you dropped it in it's shattered but to
crack the the codes that allow us to do
clean hdmi output for example you notice
that all the on-screen stuff is gone
yeah you can't normally do that right
you plug this in and you're gonna have
you're gonna have all that stuff on the
screen so okay you got a little bit of a
glimpse there but just to show you that
is Telestream Wirecast okay so I've got
Telestream Wirecast version 6 and you'll
see what I'm talking about with
autofocus my autofocus is going crazy
right and you also see that with the
Nikon hacker firmware I'm still
stretched out now Simeon commented on
our YouTube channel
Linux tech show that that's in fact
because the camera sensor grabs the
image a little bit differently than say
a camcorder would because a camcorders
going to capture the 1920 by 1080 and
send it directly over the HDMI now this
they're trying to pull as much data from
the sensor as possible and then give it
to you and it's not a sixteen over nine
true frame so that's why I end up
gaining twenty pounds on this camera I
look much better on this camera thank
you very much Simeon Pilgrim trying to
make me look fat I say if I wanted to
gain 20 pounds I would do it by bacon
not by firmware okay so what am I gonna
do well you heard me mention a couple of
times that we're using made well cards
and that there is good rate good reason
for that
first of all okay so this camera is
going into a Blackmagic intensity Pro
that's what I you know have been using
previously to picking up a mage well
card so and it's an okay card but to be
honest it's very very limiting I don't
know if you've used one I'm gonna pull
up Telestream Wirecast on the screen
here I'm going to pull up my settings
for that particular card so let's bring
up my intensity Pro so here we go and
you can see all the different capture
devices that I have so here's my
intensity Pro looks fine right you've
really just got you know the ability to
set to specific resolutions which is
fine but the problem with that is that
if you step outside of that it's gonna
just give you a black screen so that's a
problem now this will pull from the D
5100 however you notice what do I got
I've got the ability to change the
resolution frame rate I've got the
ability to deandre lace or not and to
apply that's it that's lame then that
sucks I want to show you why the mage
well card
blows black magic out of the water okay
so I'm gonna switch shots here to this
camera yeah okay so see I'm stretched
out I'm gonna switch over to Telestream
Wirecast I'm gonna bring up the source
for this particular camera and this is
on the the mage well card now I've put
in the 4k capture card that's the X I
100 de and it's HDMI video capture
using yeah it's over HDMI let's see what
what's going on there yeah okay so I've
got frame and yeah let's see if I can
bring it up here sources show source
settings and there's my mate well card
what is going on here oh I'm sorry
haha like HDMI there's two inputs on
there there's the one that I'm actually
using whoops okay so you see I'm pulling
in at 720p I could be pulling in at 1080
and of course if my source allowed it I
could actually pull in at 4k because
this card supports up to 4k and that's
the idea so you notice okay device
deinterlacing that's obviously a part of
it if you've got an interlaced source
I'm using the 720p output patch which is
progressive so I don't need to use the
interlacing and I like that because it's
gonna reduce my CPU usage because it's
already progressive I don't have to
de-ice the video which takes more CPU
power so that's why I'm doing 1280 by
720 and no device DeAndre lacing okay so
now here's where the mage well card
shows off all right you ready for this
configure now you see that my face is
frozen that's okay you can still hear me
now look at what we've got here
HDMI blah blah blah okay here you go it
knows that it's pulling in a particular
type of video it knows that we've got
750 lines off of the capture card that's
also seems to be pulling 60 frames per
second and it's showing as a progressive
scan that's what the P means so HDMI
input with audio but we don't use the
audio off of that so it's auto selected
and us picked up on that camera and it
knows that that's what it is so you
notice what the mange well car gives us
is it gives us the ability to change the
way it crops and fills the screen
huh so typically it's gonna be keep
aspect ratio fill border with black
that's the typical behavior so in our
case then we would have black borders
but what I want to do is I want to
actually fill the image output and just
and watch what happens if I increase the
width let's just go way up there so see
what's happening to my resolution 1400
by 720 is probably about where I'm going
look at this okay 13 90 by 720 is this
best I can high as I can go so now I'm
gonna fill the output image and then I'm
gonna hit OK and that's gonna get rid of
the stretching notice that so I've got a
black bar over there but I can get that
out in in
Wirecast I'll show you how to do that so
go back to configure here I want to show
you why else okay remember that the
Blackmagic intensity card had no
settings whatsoever
look at that ha ha the mage well card
lets you adjust in live mode your RGB
brightness and contrast of each channel
also lets you look at this hue and
saturation gamma you can set your white
balance and everything if I guess like I
mean it's all there right just like a
typical driver would allow you to I
white balance I see is is grayed out I'm
not sure why that is but you get a lot
more options with the mage well card
than you do with the Blackmagic
intensity Pro so this gives me the
ability to change the saturation for
example change the hue get it a little
bit brighter or darker depending on the
environment directly from the driver so
now that I've done that okay see what
I've got now I can switch back to my
camera source and you'll see that I've
got a black bar over there but the
picture looks great I'm not stretched
out I don't look fat well at least no
fatter than I do on this camera anyway
alright now watch what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna bring back up Telestream Wirecast
bring up my shot there we go this is so
easy there's my shot right I'm just
gonna hole in the wrong key yeah
holding my Alt key and then I can just
kind of zoom in just ever so slightly
there you go and I mean it's not gonna
be lossy enough that you're gonna that
you're gonna care okay so I've just
gotten rid of that black bar on the side
there we go
now there you go perfect now see the
autofocus going crazy now I'm gonna turn
off auto focus that we don't do that I'm
gonna get a nice focus there look at how
I can blur out the background with the
we've got a Dee 5100 looking beautiful
on Telestream Wirecast and the way to do
that is with a mage well capture card
now that's again I'm using the 4k card
and it goes it's down we're compatible
to any resolution that's why we wanted
it because we are gonna be also
demonstrating using the gh4 and a couple
other cameras as well in 4k mode with
live Digital cropping so that you can
get 720 and 1080 P frames and move them
around on a 4k cam on a 4k source so
that's that's why we need this card but
look at that look at how gorgeous that
looks I don't know if my focus is
perfect I'm only looking at the preview
window over here right but that to me
looks pretty darn good so we're gonna
want to change our let's see up on my
camera here I'm gonna change camera
there we go okay so over here we've got
a an exposure button I can hold that in
with the hacked firmware I can hold in
the exposure button and then I can dial
the wheel and I can actually change the
exposure on the fly look at that okay so
you can get that really really nice mix
the nice color the nice exposure which
is going to affect your color obviously
and that is again provided with one of
the Nikon hack or firmware hacks so now
I'm still holding in that that button
I'm gonna hit the lock button for auto
exposure now my exposure is locked and
it's gonna stay like that so even if I
even if I go tour I don't have all the
lights on but there's a light on over
and it's not changing my exposure that
my exposure still stays real real nice
welcome to the studio by the way here we
are at this is the studio for category 5
there's a chroma key room we've got the
interview area over there notice what I
can do with the focus right our audio
rack which you're going to see on the
show show you're gonna see all this
stuff and kids over there in what is
normally our audience seating when we're
when we're live on the air but of course
again this is kind of a backstage view
just for you so I hope that you'll
you'll watch the show show it's gonna be
a lot of fun it's gonna be really
excited it's gonna be not quite as
casual as this a little bit more
professionalism not not so much the
handheld shots but I'll probably use a
tripod for most of it but it is going to
have the same kind of you know we're
teaching and showing you how we do
things over here and some of the cool
stuff that we're going to be able to do
using you know everything from DSLRs GPS
LRS I've got a see that iPod behind me
an iPod Touch we're going to be using as
a live camera source on Telestream
Wirecast I know you know it can be done
we're gonna show you some of the really
cool things that you can do with that
kind of setup that's all happening on
the show show so really this is all I
need to show you for the HDMI thing I
mean did you think it was going to only
take two quick little behind-the-scenes
videos but that that's it that works and
it looks great thank you so much to the
guys over at at Nikon hacker and thank
you to you for for watching I'll remind
you to to check out our show
category-five technology TV check out
our channel category-five TV and our
website category v dot TV of course but
on our channel you can pick up all of
our shows including the backstage pass
features and all that kind of stuff so
I'm excited about this that looks good I
hope that we're gonna be able to launch
this on on the show in the next couple
of weeks let's switch back over here you
can see I'm using the 1855 millimeter
lens on the camera right now and just to
answer the question that has been asked
we've got live view going out over HDMI
right so you see on the on the
lcd there is no there's nothing on it
when we're when we're doing this through
Telestream Wirecast now that's what the
1080 patch I'm interested to see and
we'll do this on the show show we'll
test it with the different patches
oh no I'm using the 720 patch am I not
so well we'll do some more playing
around anyways and we'll I'll show you
how to do the patches and stuff I was
also talking to Simeon over at a Nikon
hacker and he's going to come on and
because the question comes up you know
when I'm hacking the firmware what does
this feature do what does that feature
do I mean I look at things like the star
eater and while you or I may know what
that is somebody who's never heard of
star readers before may think well what
on earth why would I like what is that
right so we're gonna go through bullet
point by bullet point and say okay well
this is what this does this is what this
does so that when you build your
firmware for Nikon hacker for your
camera you're gonna you're gonna know
exactly what it is that you want to
select so I think that's going to be a
really good thing that's gonna be on the
show show and that's gonna be happening
we're gonna get this thing going as soon
as possible it's probably gonna be
happening within the next few weeks
Simeon's on deck and on board so we're
gonna make that happen and that will be
episode number one and then you're gonna
see some redundant stuff that you've
seen here as well
with a little bit more of a professional
edge but I think it'll be a lot of fun
for you and we're gonna learn a lot
you're gonna save a lot of time and
money too because it's you know I'm
gonna do all the experimenting for you
and show you what works what doesn't I
mean you might have gone out and bought
an intensity Pro card thinking oh that's
gonna work don't do it right you saw why
we're gonna use the mage well card so
and that's that's gonna be nice I'm
gonna love being able to adjust the
saturation because I like to bring down
the saturation just a little bit and to
not have to do that in post-production
is beautiful you want to know what
that's gonna do this will be the final
thing that we're gonna do today I want
to show you what what changing our
saturation is going to do for our
picture because you know I look super
bright super crisp and clear so I'm just
bringing up my drivers here why don't I
show you bring it up I'm gonna click on
the right camera this time configure and
then go over here to video proc amp
and let's see if I can bring down my
saturation down to let's do 85% just to
see what that looks like
there you go okay that's looking kind of
nice let's go back there again and bring
it down to all I'm doing is I'm
desaturating the image a little bit
let's bring it down to seven I'm gonna
get to 71 I earn a 69 to 71 try that so
what happened what ends up happening is
is you get this softer kind of tone to
the image which is has more of a film
quality to it it's a little bit less
saturation digital cameras really have a
you know high saturation level this kind
of softens it just a little bit and you
can you can play with that I've brought
it down awfully low there might bring it
up just a little bit but to be able to
make those kind of manipulations without
having to go into post so that means I
can do this in Telestream Wirecast
and I'm doing it on the fly and I can
change it like that and make my picture
look great so that when I record to disc
which is exactly what I'm doing right oh
I'm out of focus but there it is there's
the record then I don't have to then
take it into an editor sweet and recolor
eyes and fix it up so there you have it
I think that's a great a great
additional feature as well as the fact
that I can make it so that I'm not 20
pounds heavier like the black magic card
would do to me so there you have it
folks take care thanks for watching and
I look forward so much I can't wait to
show you the show show and I hope that
you'll be along for the ride so we'll
talk to you soon bye bye
