hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
what happens when you say don't believe
that down
welcome back so glad that you tuned in
we hope that you check out our website
in everyday TV check out our partners
page to see all the amazing
organizations and people supporting us
if you would like to support us check
out our partners pages lots of
opportunities there to connect with
those organizations and businesses so
yeah thank you so much and last week we
spoke about our mini adventure where we
went to why Marsh to feed the chickadees
and see nuts provision and talking about
the ways that we see God and then
believe is a few details what we didn't
go maybe we didn't go to where didn't go
to the White Marsh you mean in no we
didn't what are you talking about do we
need commercial break Jerry I can't
believe that you said that we went to
the whitewash I went there I was there
with you yo Jeff proof yeah I got a
picture you want to see it I'll show you
right now what cell on stage show we're
talking about what do you do when you
say you believe and then you don't earn
your back turn your back I like good I
know we plan that I know I was like yeah
we really did go and usually jen has the
best like memory for events so for me to
remember something in her not who was
like weird because we're talking about
events leading up to the crucifixion of
Christ and in this last Pat the last
part of John we talked about I totally
agree last week in your that's why I
interrupt her I'm like no I didn't
because Jesus predicts you really did
tune into last week's show but Jesus
predicts that his disciples are going to
deny him yeah right and they're like no
way man yeah Peter said no I'm not not
betray you yeah and Jesus like no like
before the before the rooster crows
twice you know you're going to deny me
three times
and he's like no I would never I would
die for you and then you know he goes he
goes before Jesus goes before the
Sanhedrin and this is verse 15 of
chapter 18 as a Simon Peter and another
disciple following Jesus which is most
likely John because he never writes
himself in because this disciple was
known to the high priest he went with
Jesus into the high priests courtyard
but Peter had to wait outside at the
door the other disciple who was known to
the high priest came back spoke to the
girl on duty there and brought Peter in
you are not one of the disciples are you
the girl asked the girl at the door
asked Peter and he replied I am NOT it
was cold in the servants and officials
stood around the fire they where they
kept warm peter also staying there with
them warming himself and then over verse
25 says as Simon Peter stood warming
himself he was asked you are not one of
the disciples are you he denied it
saying I am NOT one of the high priest
servants relative of the man whose ear
Peter had cut off challenged him didn't
I see you with him in the in the olive
grove again Peter denied it at the
moment the rooster began to crow it's
interesting the guy whose or knew the
guy whose ear he had cut off its like
there's the physical evidence that you
were defending this guy that you say you
don't even know now so what where's the
disconnect yeah yeah and the reason why
we're talking about this is because for
some of you and maybe for us we you know
we've made a commitment to Christ yeah
and you know we we've raised our hands
on Sunday morning or we've gone forward
for prayer we've said yes I believe in
Jesus and then you know whether it's at
school or at work you know somebody says
hey I saw you at that church and you're
like I don't really believe that you
know you sort of get you your back up a
little bit and you don't either know
what to say or you feel like you're
going to get
I don't know computer obviously he
denied Christ boldface no I'm not even
though the proof was there so what is
that what causes that feeling too no no
not me not me like what is what is that
because I know I felt it and I know I've
there's been times of my life where I
should sit up and say no you know what I
do know what happens after you die
because I believe what God says in his
word I didn't do it the four letter F
word hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I love
being a vimeo pro member as a web
broadcaster i need an affordable video
hosting platform that this flexible is
me a pro membership lets you upload up
to 20 gigabytes of HD video each and
every week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category five dot TV network will
receive a whopping twenty-five percent
off the annual price all you have to do
is go through our link
cat five dot TV / vimeo and sign up
today for your twenty five percent
discount to top it off you get 30 days
to try it risk-free if you're not happy
with vimeo pro you pay nothing the deal
is only for a very limited time go to
cat five dot TV / vimeo okay welcome
back to new every day Jen was just going
to say a bad word the four letter F word
fear fear I think fear comes in like you
you're passionately pursuing god and
then somebody challenges you and whether
or not like that we don't even know what
would have happened to Peter because it
doesn't say it doesn't say that you know
it was a girl in one of the case what is
she going to do go and tattle on him
like I mean Jesus was being physically
persecuted at that time yes being taken
away there was the threat of death so
that that threat was really imminent it
was right up in his face yeah but it's
interesting because he said no I would
even die with you right like I'm willing
to die with you I don't need and yet in
the garden they all took off and there's
Peter like there he is denying Christ
three times even though he affirmed to
know I'm going to stay and I think I
think you're right i think the shock of
the situation like whoa this is really
happening this is really happening jesus
said this was going to happen he said he
was going to be betrayed he said he was
going to you know be be captured like
whoa all wow this is really real yeah
this is real and I think they were in a
process of realizing that this was
really real I think sometimes we can
sort of be in la la land I want to say
as believers yeah and then all of a
sudden the rubber hits the road and
you're like whoa no this is this is
really this is really real yeah and what
is my risk osting me something yes this
is costing me the reputation i thought i
had built it's costing me the friend
that I thought I had it yeah it's
affecting my self concept
yeah there is there's a cost in some way
and I'm em and am I willing to pay the
cost like am I willing to align myself
with Christ yeah and in scripture does
say like we should counter privilege to
suffer with him to suffer alongside him
and Paul talks about becoming like him
in his sufferings and death that he
might attain obtained the resurrection
from the dead that he would willingly
lay down his life for Jesus saying that
he is god yeah like that that's profound
and I mean here in canada we don't
suffer the same kind of persecution that
they do in places like Eritrea like they
do in places in northern Africa where or
in China or North Korea where where
Christians are persecuted to the point
of death yeah we have not experienced
that no the the pictures that just came
to mind was a movie came out probably 15
or so years ago called oh the name just
lost me 15 years ago yeah investors no
but it was a Christian girl she was
diagnosed with cancer and the really
cute guy got into trouble and she went a
walk to remember walk to remember and so
she starts tutoring him oh yeah I
remember and they're doing the show
together and he and she's like so I'll
see you after school today and he's like
whatever in your dreams oh yeah and
everybody starts laughing because and
then he shows up at the door ready to
practice and she opens up the door and
she's just like I'm soon she says so you
want to be my friend but just like
secret friends yeah like yeah so
basically I want what you can give me
but I don't actually be associated with
you because you're bad for my reputation
yeah and she's like such a good example
I don't want to be secret friends and
Jesus does not want to be perceived
great friend I don't want him to be he
doesn't want to be our friend on Sunday
you know he doesn't want to be our
friend Justin her quiet times in her
rooms or when you see your friends from
youth group yeah like he wants to be
your friend at work when you know you've
been reading your Bible or reading a
passage of scripture online and somebody
comes up to you and you just quickly put
it away clear your screen or you put it
in your desk or whatever because you're
like oh I can't let anybody know you
know that I that I'm a believer and I
had to confess I have done that and I've
done that to avoid the conversation that
I thought I couldn't contribute to well
enough hmm but then that's the four
letter F word again right now it's oh it
always comes back to fear it always it's
like you said I don't know if I can
contribute to that conversation and I've
been in the position of well you know
how are they going to respond to me if I
say something about Jesus how are they
going to respond to me and even in
Christian circles sometimes you don't
want to be perceived as too religious
yeah totally it's like oh you take that
Christian stuff too far like you pray
too much or sometimes and I'm like
really yeah and and so sometimes I
actually pull back because I'm like um I
don't want to say too much here because
I don't want to turn people off I don't
want people to think that I'm super you
know hyper religious or anything and yet
Jesus is not calling us to be a secret
friend if he has laid somethin on our
hearts or for reading something about
him or if we feel like we need to share
something about him and we need to share
it right oh yeah we also honor me I will
honor yeah the Bible says that and
that's hard yeah it's and I think that
when the fear comes up when that when
that desire to sort of back away or to
hide or to deny as you know the boy in
the movie and Peter like it was out now
denial like I don't know you like in
your dreams and you know that grieves it
grieves the Lord and you do that yeah
but the cool thing is is that there is
forget
miss like yeah when Jesus after he's
resurrected he meets with Peter either
out on the boat yeah and Jesus is making
breakfast for them on the shore and then
Jesus I mean Peter sees him and like
jumps out of the boat and swims there
and the wallet eating breakfast jesus
says Peter do you love me and he has
some three times and he's on the
opportunity three times to say yes Lord
you know I love you and reinstates him
yeah I love that yeah I'm so thankful
for that yeah and then Peter goes on to
to start the church at Pentecost and so
I I agree yeah even though we can
believe and then deny Jesus when we have
a repentant heart Jesus for gifts yeah
and welcomes us back and and so we
encourage you today that if you are
struggling with being bold about your
faith or public about your faith and
that's that's what makes baptism so
important it is a public declaration
that you believe in Jesus Christ and
some people often struggle with that
they're like why do I need to be
baptized I love God in my heart why do I
need to get married it's just a ring on
my finger piece of paper yeah on it in a
public declaration saying I believe in
Jesus Christ marriage is a public
declaration that you want to honor God
with your with with your spouse like
that is the right thing to do yeah and
and so we want to encourage you today to
make your religion your your
relationship with Jesus public don't
hide it if you've denied it confess it
repent say god I've come under fear I've
come under fear would you forgive me and
I love the fact that says he is faithful
to forgive he's always faithful to
forgive and so he will forgive you you
just have to admit that that's what
you've actually done and and I know for
for me sometimes it's I might not say
well I don't believe in Jesus but under
my breath I'm like but it might not say
anything about them right and so I need
to pray for boldness for myself and
confess my own fear in sharing
the gospel and so we encourage you to
give that fear over to God to say dear
Lord Jesus would you please help me to
be bold for you to be public for you and
to go where you're leading me to go to
speak what you're asking me to speak and
to have the courage to do it yeah look
can I just pray for us then Jack yeah
father I just confess that i have had
fear in my heart sometimes if you're of
what people think of me fear of how my
reputation will be affected if i say
something about you that other people
might not believe but their belief does
not need to change what I believe in hmm
I think you got that my salvation and
honor depend on you that you gave
everything you traded up heaven you came
down to earth you died for us I'm so
thankful and I pray God that you'd help
us who know you to live a life worthy of
our calling we want to know you would
make you know mm-hmm and I pray God for
the people watching who have felt the
same way and have had that fear that's
that's not right help us to fear you and
love you that your love would compel us
to speak up out of compassion for other
people that they would see our lives
that put that have been transformed and
then that would be another stepping
stone to them coming to know you mine is
pray this in Jesus date
thank you so much for tuning in it's
been a pleasure talking about this jen
thanks for sharing all that thank you
thinking throw 2 curveball at me there
haha we hope you'll tune in next week to
do every day haven't offered me yes
later veena
you
