welcome to category five technology TV
again this week and today we have an
exciting show planned for you Sasha and
I are going to be looking at installing
Ubuntu Linux in Microsoft Windows new
technology from Microsoft of all folks
is going to make that possible for you
also we do have some sad news for Star
Trek fans stick around
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash IA
IV welcome to the show this is episode
number 575 it's like it begs for a theme
song we're 25 episodes away from 600 I
know right
can you believe 575 weeks of
category-five technology to be we've
given Jeff the night off again
poor guy I know the weather under the
weather under the weather but what you
can do what you can do folks what you
can do we're here we are ready to do
this we've got some exciting show for
you tonight
first of all I want to give shouts out
and big thanks to our patrons those of
you who are supporting us on patreon at
patreon.com slash category-five it's a
great way to support the show it's only
a buck a month and it gets you in on
things like the behind the scenes vlog
right and you get to hang out with me a
little bit more throughout the course of
the week learn what's going on behind
the scenes that kind of stuff and beyond
that it helps us to be able to do the
little things that we need to do and
sometimes the big things that we need to
do in order to keep the show going that
is right now we need a new not a new UPS
I don't want to replace the existing UPS
we need a supplemental additionally we
have we've grown to the point where and
I never I don't know why this didn't
cross my mind Sasha but here at our
studio we've grown to the point where we
have so much equipment that we need more
than one UPS hello like I didn't ever
think of that like this should have been
the first thing across my mind
well now I should have thought of that
you should you you think of a lot of
things Robbie so now when we do the show
just before the show I turn off a few
things tonight I turned off the server
right because it was like our UPS is
right at the brink of going ballistic
what worries me about that is when you
turn off the server I'm also giving
people voices turn off the server like
at my work we need your officers I
wouldn't that be great everything just
stops working no because we're a live
show Sasha everything that you see is
actually happening oh yeah our server is
storage so that that has to do with like
so after the show tonight when I start
editing I have to import it from our
recorder into the server and then start
editing it so I'll have to fire it up
immediately as soon as we're done
tonight okay now we can save some
electricity earlier when you're like
I'll just renounce the server and I said
do whatever you think is right really on
the inside I was like what are you that
was perfect for you you know when the
server dies at my work I also die and
things right now are working just fine
even without a server yes is perfect but
we do need to add supplemental power so
that we can keep everything running
right throughout the course of the
broadcast and that would be pretty cool
so thank you to our patrons who do
support us financially because there's
power in numbers even though it's only a
dollar a month and some of you give more
and we appreciate that I don't want to
at all belittle that but I want to make
it clear that hey it only takes a dollar
a month and 10 million people it's also
worth noting that affiliate links are
super helpful too actually because we're
getting closer to December which is a
pretty big if bang that's a cool thought
because Christmastime is always a really
great time for us because we do have
needs at the end of the year and if you
do your Christmas shopping online let's
just say for example you shop through
Amazon all right I think that's what
you're thinking yes exactly we do that
through our website yes and then a
percentage of each sale it doesn't
change the price for you at all
but for us we get a percentage of each
sale so that is another cool way to help
category 5 to grow and expand and stay
strong right and I was like I get kind
of excited about the fact that like I'm
gonna buy it anyway right and yeah it's
so cool we're example for Christmas for
Dave and I feel like you already know
this save so if you're watching the
speakers buddy musical speakers we
already know forget about the closed
captions
I'm getting him like you know the spongy
floor things that we stand on these
things yeah yeah I'm getting him an 8 by
10 spongy floor things oh no in the
middle of our living room for our viewer
setup
oh no way oh that's smart yeah and also
because but he's he gonna be limited to
like a 3x3 square okay oh that's huge
right
holy getting it through the affiliate
links because it's one big gift and yeah
I'm thinking about these are like three
feet long and they were but with VR and
the reason why I don't play VR as
dramatically as I could is because
sometimes like there's this green like
grid line that's the boundary you've set
and if you but if you pass it it you've
passed the green line like you can look
back and see your your boundary and then
that's it but once you passed it there's
no indicator that you passed it so if
you're like boxing and you go past not
hit the TV you can yeah yeah you need
like a mat that you can put in front of
you so what you can do is do the 6 by 8
mat including the grid lines at the end
of the mat so that you have like the
tactile foot change to okay okay that's
a cool idea
that's a cool Philly links will get you
know I'll pay the same but the show will
have some yeah we benefit from it and
and the percentage helps helps us out so
that's enough money talk I know I know
okay sorry
absolutely but it does help us out and
because we are a group of volunteers and
we do this for free
it really does help us out so we
appreciate you and I want you to know
that we greatly appreciate you so thank
you very much
speaking of groups of individuals who
volunteer their time and do it at no
charge to anyone because they're like us
just fans of doing what they're doing
right we love this we absolutely love
doing category 5 we love it so we're
fans along with you and and this is this
something we look forward to every
single week Sasha do you remember when
you and I took a tour in virtual reality
of the Starship Enterprise
yes was that not the most amazing I me
yes having grown up watching Star Trek
The Next Generation and feeling like NCC
1701 D was kind of a part of my
upbringing if you will like when I was
alone watching Star Trek The Next
Generation it kind of felt like you
might have to Captain Picard was kind of
like a fatherly figure to me right and
the enterprise was very much an
extension of my inner home like that
felt like home to me yes so to be able
to visit the Starship Enterprise was an
experience that that goes far beyond
Star Trek and far beyond CBS and what's
possible through television and it felt
like something that was just like a huge
dream come true for me in virtual
reality
yeah and that was done through the
efforts of a volunteer group of
developers programmers and truly artists
and that was through stage 9 and stage 9
has some sad news this week what
happened for fans of Star Trek and fans
who loved the project and that is that
stage 9 as a volunteer group and folks
who are not doing it for any recompense
monetarily have received a
cease-and-desist from CBS Studios why
why that's the question why CBS Studios
so you look at that you look at the the
whole mindset behind Star Trek and in
particular Star Trek The Next Generation
and the the the nature of it and I think
it kind of mirrors the nature of our
broadcast a category-5 TV in there we
want to make every effort when we say
hey support us through our affiliate
links and those kinds of things and
through patreon we want category-five to
always be free we want it to be freely
available to anyone who wants it and so
those things help us to be able to do
that because it costs money and we're
never looking to really make a profit
we're looking to pay the bills and to
enhance the show like enhance the game
right exactly but that's a mindset yeah
and I think that that is really that
kind of mindset that comes from next
generation right and I think that that's
really shared with the stage 9 folks the
folks who created that amazing amazing
experience so just literally two maybe
three weeks out from version 11 coming
out like they're right on the cusp of
being able to release the latest and
greatest version of stage 9 the virtual
reality experience of NCC 1701 D the
Starship Enterprise from the next
generation literally weeks away from
that and they get the cease-and-desist
so what does that mean for them can they
move on in any way from that for the
team at stage 9 what it means Sasha is
that they have to stop they have no
choice they can face basically criminal
lawsuit if CBS pushes any further and if
they do not obey the fact that this is
this goes back to we've been through
this with Nintendo and the thought that
this is intellectual property and yes we
acknowledge that Star Trek is an
intellectual property of CBS Studios
however as fans of Star Trek and fans of
Star Trek The Next Generation we love it
we want to keep it alive because it's
been off the air for many many years
yeah
we want that experience now we finally
have the technology that a group of
volunteers who are doing it for free can
give that to us the fans of Star Trek
and keep it alive so that when maybe CBS
says hey we're gonna bring Patrick
Stewart back all of a sudden we who you
know that dream has been kept alive
through fan efforts right are still
there are still passionate about this
project about about the whole Star Trek
thing right ah
my heart breaks for them it really does
and the fan fandom and it's it's
disheartening to see CBS taking that
stance as well to just basically shut
them down yeah I feel like maybe I was
wrong and how much faith I had in CBS
and their abilities to just like oh I
just don't love it I don't like this
it's the same I felt a heebie-jeebies
when when the one who was it that
stopped people from doing the roms
Nintendo yeah it's yeah and before that
love Nintendo but I why do you need to
make money off of old Zelda I'm okay
without me
I'm okay with them making money off of
it but don't kill away the fan projects
that are not making money off of it
right even if stage 9 collected money
from their users which maybe they did a
little bit but they didn't in fact that
was not at all their intent and I don't
know if they did or not but if they did
we we take we take Commission off of
Amazon and things like that we pay for
hosting we pay for an astronomical
amount of storage space to be able to
host 11 seasons of HD video we've
distributed over RSS feeds that cost a
lot of money we have Amazon AWS accounts
that cost a lot of money and so that
helps us to be able to afford to give
this thing for free and similarly how do
they give something for free if they're
not
and they're not making money mm-hmm like
do you know what I mean
I don't mind CBS saying we want to make
money off of this franchise that's cool
I want you to make money off this
franchise I want to be able to support
the franchise this is the only reason
that I've watched Star Trek discovery
because it's not good I'm serious look
at Star Trek The Next Generation look at
Star Trek Enterprise look at Star Trek
Voyager look at Star Trek Star Trek Deep
Space 9 and the mentality of Star Trek
is lost in Discovery so but I'll watch
it because I want to support the
franchise ok that's fair but they're
killing off those small guys that are
just trying to keep it alive that is not
fair this is not not cool please comment
below how can we help we really don't
know yet like this was announced
yesterday the the team at stage 9 made
the announcement as to why their site is
gone and why their profiles are gone I
can't imagine how their hearts are
feeling right now cuz I cannot even
believe that they've given this like
I've put years into this and I started
well into category 5 right so imagine if
you came in and I said we have to shut
it down because Microsoft said because
we talked about Microsoft Windows we
have to shut it down right exactly could
you imagine if all of a sudden you're
watching the show and next week you
cannot watch the show I'm not a huge fan
of Microsoft Windows let's give you a
better scenario ok I'm a big fan of
Linux I'm a big I'm really loving Linux
Mint yes I love Ubuntu let's look at
canonical and what happens if canonical
comes after me because I love it because
I want to promote it because I want to
show my viewers about it what would
happen if they came up and said you need
to shut it down we're gonna sue you if
you don't stop right right that's a
closer scenario they love it they want
to do it for free they want to give it
out they want to promote it and give it
to the community I can't even imagine
I'm not I'm not happy about it I'm
brokenhearted to be honest so what can
we do let CBS know as best you can tweet
about it post blog entries about it
Tagg CBS let them know email them find
out how you can get ahold of them and
tell them like stage 9 as a fan project
and we support it and we support you CBS
we want to see you create more in this
franchise but don't kill the dream and
the passion that we have for this
franchise just your your your hurt and
your fans
well said Robbie that's what I would say
mm-hmm and let the folks at stage 9 know
that you love them and you support them
and you want to see them continue doing
whatever they're able to do under the
under the cease-and-desist you can find
them on Facebook just do a search for
stage 9 you'll find them there they're
on Twitter as well and their accounts
there are still active they've had to
remove all videos and things like that
so we have to take a really quick break
when we come back we are going to be
looking at a boon to Linux but with a
twist we're gonna be installing it on
Windows 10 don't go anywhere
[Applause]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category-five
technology TV episode number 575 big
announcement from Microsoft and Ubuntu
what Ubuntu is now part of Microsoft
Windows what exactly what is going on in
this strange parallel universe that we
now live in you can now install an
optimized version of a boom to 18 point
Oh 4.1 LTS in Windows 10 what then it's
all thanks to Microsoft double what
uh-huh ok ok so they are thanking
Microsoft in this moment yeah it's kind
of awkward it kind of feels dirty ok but
thanks ma'am thank you thanks gang okay
here's Microsoft's announcement are you
ready for this yes this comes to us from
Microsoft's let's see if I can get this
right the windows developer team's
senior technical product manager ok name
is Clint Lucas and says today this is a
couple days back ok
today we've made running Linux even
easier on Windows 10 didn't even know
they were trying no I did but here we go
with the hyper-v quick create feature
added in the Windows 10 fall creators
update we have partnered with Ubuntu and
added a virtual machine image so in a
few quick minutes you'll be up in
developing this is available now just
type hyper-v quick create in your Start
menu please note this feature does
require hyper-v please head on over to
the docs and enable it on top of running
ubuntu in a virtual machine you can use
windows subsystem for linux wsl is a
Windows 10 feature that enables you to
run native Linux commands the
command-line tools directly on windows o
wsl is an extremely easy to install
feature on Windows 10 and you can run
ubuntu SUSE Debian
other distros as well and if you want to
build your own distro and use that you
can do that too that's an official
announcement from Microsoft there you
have it wink wink
fly fly it happened folks then at the
same time from Canonical's Ubuntu
desktop director will cook comes this
and this is more details folks of course
Microsoft was a little bit
hey we now have this here are some more
details from will cook at a boon to
canonical today again a couple days ago
yes here we are
we gotta wait till our show today we are
pleased to announce that an optimized
Ubuntu desktop image is available from
the hyper-v gallery this will give an
optimum experience when running a boon
to desktop as a guest on Windows 10 Pro
desktop host from the Ubuntu report data
we know that a lot of people are using
Ubuntu as a virtual machine and so we
want to make that experience as seamless
as possible our friends over at
Microsoft do you hear that
this is canonical Linux Ubuntu talking
calling Microsoft our friends I don't
understand what's happening here our
friends over at Microsoft have worked
with xrdp upstream to add support for
their enhanced session mode which
provides tight integration between a
Windows host and the Ubuntu virtual
machine running in hyper-v the next
obvious step was to create a bootable
hyper-v image of ubuntu desktop 18 point
o4 LTS which includes xrdp
pre-configured to take advantage of
enhanced session modes so the question
what does enhanced session mode give us
what yes
what does it get the question right and
so I continue improved clipboard
integration dynamic desktop resizing
shared folders for easy guest and host
file transfers uh-huh and an improved
Mouse experience seamlessly being able
to move from within your Ubuntu
installation outside into the Windows
environment
oh thanks to the work that Microsoft
contributed to the open-source xrdp
project an open-source implementation of
microsoft's own remote desktop protocol
hyper-v users benefit from using HV sock
a byte stream based communication
mechanism between the host and the guest
giving a high bandwidth inter connection
between them that's a lot of
technobabble
see I told you it was gonna get serious
here tonight basically this is some
integrated stuff this is built for speed
seamless integration and a great user
experience the Ubuntu desktop 18 point
Oh 4.1 LTS hyper-v image is available
now in the hyper-v gallery on Windows 10
Pro once booted you'll be guided through
setting up a boon to including adding
your user account locale timezone when
you first finish the set up enhance
session mode will automatically be
enabled and prompt you to select your
screen resolution once selected you get
an X RDP prompt to login make sure that
X org is selected from the drop-down and
enter your user name and password that
you created during this setup and you'll
be logged into a full Lubuntu desktop
session for more information visit the
Microsoft blog what canonical says for
more information about how to get a boon
to work and on Kanaan on windows so many
brands here folks go to microsoft's
website and find out more so let's
actually you know it's not enough to
just announce the news yeah let's do it
do we have time Sasha do well they said
just a human mind back the clock they
said just a few minutes let's do this
okay yeah
all right so jumping over to my laptop
computer I'm gonna click now this is
Windows 10 Pro first thing that I want
to do is make sure that I have hyper-v
active so type Windows Features and you
see that first option turn Windows
Features on and off click on that and if
you scroll down you'll see hyper
viii and you can see yay I already have
it and it's already active if it's not
on your system you can click the
checkbox hit ok and you're good to go
well how do you know if you have Windows
10 Pro which is required in order to do
this well no I kind of cheat I just type
64 - pit and it says see if you have a
32 or 64-bit version of Windows and on
that screen if you scroll down a little
ways you'll see that this is Windows 10
Pro and so with that I know haha I have
what I need to make this happen so with
hyper-v installed and keep it in mind
that this update came in with the fall
update right finally
Microsoft does an update that brings us
some good this is the first time not to
batch Microsoft ok don't need you coming
at us like CBS no I I I'm really pleased
with this I loved you a lot more before
you crash for a server but we're joking
about it because yeah you kind of your
updates kind of screwed up Sasha's work
for a while but I love you again now
that you're embracing this one is a
little better ok
so this is what was coming to your
server section type hyper-v and you'll
see quick create that's brand new folks
click on that say yep and what do we
find lo and behold Oh what do you want
to install windows 10 dev environment or
Ubuntu 18 point oh four point one LTS I
haven't had to download it I haven't had
to set up a virtual machine I'm not
doing this folks microsoft has included
Ubuntu LTS in Windows 10 bananas this is
a trippy show folks
trippy show so I'm gonna click on create
virtual machine and when I do all of a
sudden it's going to start downloading
and thanks to the magic of television
here Sasha tonight I've sped this up
from 45 minutes because ladies and
gentlemen it's not as fast as they say
down low
server is beast yeah 45 minutes for me
to download this Thank You CyberLink
PowerDirector for the ability to change
time and here it comes it see I'm even
getting impatient watching it in
thousand times the actual speed Sasha I
can't even give yourself give yourself
some time folks walk away at this point
at this point walk away you've got
another 20 minutes left check out a
movie yeah do something do not just sit
there waiting now this is real time it's
gonna verify that downloaded image we're
gonna see if that works
oh I sure hope it does alright now we're
creating a new virtual machine did you
notice Sasha all I did was click on a
boon to 18 point oh four point one in
the hyper-v system and click on install
and I'm just I know that it's taking
time but I am just sitting back and
doing nothing else right I could
minimize this if I didn't want to show
you it I could minimize it and go about
my day right let this run in the
background all that kind of stuff would
it reduce the performance of the
computer hardly yeah now keep in mind
I'm doing this also on my laptop
computer in my laptop computer as we've
found is not the most latest and
greatest however it does have Windows 10
Pro and it's got an i7 in it so I do
have virtualization technology in the
processor which is great so you're gonna
need to have support for that hyper-v
requires that your processor supports
virtualization technology so do check
that my i7 is gonna be a dream
so yeah it's extracting this so it's
time consuming Sasha but it's easy right
I don't have to figure anything out
that's how I roll well you know
realistically this is an opportunity for
Windows users to try Ubuntu if this goes
well I mean we haven't seen what the end
result here is yet folks but there we go
it's done so what happens if we actually
click on connect
Oh what's this this is a typical hyper-v
window I can click start to start the
virtual machine and what have we here
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching the
traditional purple screen are you
excited you can do this on your server
at work now that you've got your updates
[Laughter]
it flash real quick I've got - boom - on
Windows ok
locale selection we're booted yeah we're
ready to go sir we've liked see how this
actually I'm I'm a little nervous
because I've never done this before
there's a brand new feature I'm gonna
hit English and continue let's see how
things go here sash ok u.s. keyboard
yeah that's good for me you can choose
yours if it's different there's like
Dvorak you got the French keyboards in
in Canada here so watch out when you buy
a laptop in Canada because it has all
these French characters all over it so
if you're not French it can be really
annoying if you are French it can be
fantastic that's my keyboard just
defaults back to
Jenny how and then I have to message oh
how do I get rid of
oh yeah that's annoying if you type
resume a couple times here in Canada all
of a sudden windows switches to French
mode so this is it's not motoring along
I can click on the pin up at the top
here it looks just like any other
hyper-v so by clicking on the pin that
top bar will disappear see how so it'll
give me a more native feeling experience
and of course I imagine that we're gonna
get full-screen mode here after the
configuration is complete so I could do
this with my home computer yeah you have
Windows 10 on your home computer yeah
yeah yeah yeah do the thing I did when
in doubt do the thing I did okay watch
the show and go back to that moment yeah
okay so time zone this is easy
Toronto does it does it come out come on
give me Toronto show me Toronto I'll
just type it and hit continue did it
work okay mining Robbie Feder Kissin and
it's giving me Robbie - virtual -
machine I'm happy with that that's the
name of my host I'm just gonna call I'm
gonna use test test one two three for
the sake of the demonstration test test
one two three that's probably not a
strong password and it's probably not
the one that you want to use but I'm
gonna use it tonight Sasha but by saying
it out loud I won't forget it while
we're live on the air it's one of the
t's capitalized because that makes it
stronger no I went really weak and boom
- tells me it's a fair password boon -
yeah okay so I'm gonna log in
automatically because I don't really
care this isn't my real system this is
just a okay what is it doing so this
looks a lot like the Ubuntu installer
but of course I'm not having to go
through the installation procedure it's
just simply activating it on hyper-v
because I don't need to install it right
right I already went through that 45
minute download and let it do its quick
verification and install so it just
looks like it's configuring now it's
creating the user it's like an
initialization procedure as opposed to
an installer but looks the same that's
sleek fast and full of new features the
latest version of Ubuntu makes computing
easier than ever
here are just a few cool things to look
out for okay what do we got
say goodbye to searching the web that's
all I get
come on now I got applying changes
alright we're almost there almost there
so this is Linux you've asked how I'm on
Windows very interested in this Linux
thing that you speak of but I don't want
to lose all my stuff and I don't want to
have a problem reverting if I don't like
it you can do this oh it's not here okay
it's gone black oh you can so you can do
this oh look at this okay okay I'm gonna
come back to that you can do this on
your Windows 10 Pro System right just as
I'm doing here it's happening live okay
all right so it's it's got a desktop now
so choose the size of your desktop for
interacting with the virtual machine
drag the slider
I want large I want huge I want
fullscreen nice connect there you are
Wow wait that's ugly as sin but that's
okay I'm gonna okay well cuz now I'm
connected by the new xrdp so I it was
robbie test test one two three which is
a fair password if you ask me that's
fair okay the session was disconnected
if you want to continue try connecting
again reconnect Robbie
test test one two three the session was
disconnected
okay well that stinks loopy yeah alright
let's get back into hyper-v and let's
see what is actually happening with my
virtual machine here there it is
Ubuntu is running can I just can I just
bring up the console let's maybe my
resolution at full screen it maybe it
does
like it I don't know I'm gonna say it I
got tried just connecting with the
default Robbie test test one two three
because maybe maybe maybe it just simply
didn't like the fact that I was trying
to rescale the the desktop is it gonna
give me the desktop I can see the
desktop in the thumbnail there come on
give me more than that Windows come on
you're getting me excited here and then
so I'm an end-user today and I'm looking
at that and saying well this is not
great what happens if I try reset which
you never actually want to do I just
want to see do I get a window here
connect
am i right am i right we're so used to
the process
okay I see Ubuntu in the little
thumbnail there we're so used to the
process of I'll install Lubuntu and then
install Windows as the virtual machine
so how is the process of doing it the
other way around
Robi test test one two three
now check my session it is set to X org
and that's what we were told to do and
it won't allow me to connect what I know
well that answers my question so what
was your question going to be my
question was going to be yes so the
reason why as you know we built this
computer for Dave and yeah installed
Linux on it and and for a moment we
loved it and then he got on Steam and
downloaded some games and the games only
to play with Windows and then until we
needed to switch to Windows which was a
sad moment for us both
but it's about gaming and he really
wanted to play it that was that was the
whole intention behind the computer of
course right so the reason for switching
to Windows was that because some of the
games weren't supported so if now we
have Windows 10 at home if we switched
now on our Windows 10 could we still
play those games
if you both see that what we're trying
to do is install Linux into Windows
right so we're not actually replacing
windows we're giving ourselves access to
Windows so I would feel like I had Linux
yeah I could but Dave could still play
his games that are only supported with
Windows correct because Windows is your
native your actual operating system
right Lubuntu would be your guest
operating system is something that you
can run when desired so you can use it
for Internet you can use it for things
where typically viruses are a problem on
Windows for example yeah but you could
use this I would but if it doesn't
actually work like the process this the
process of getting it installed was
easy-peasy and dreamy but if that
doesn't lead me to an operational system
that
I have to say the windows team has not
done everything that they need to do in
order to make this a user-friendly
experience because I know I can probably
get this going and maybe next week we'll
say hey I figured out what the problem
was and I can get this up and going but
if I were to go home and try and do it
that any user like hey I'm on Windows 10
I'd never used Linux before and I want
to try it out try it on your system
obviously there's no harm done if you do
give it a try through hyper-v and see if
it works for you and comment below tell
me if your experience is different but
as far as I'm concerned I mean right now
it seems disappointing it's a little
lackluster and folks in the chat room
are saying well check your your username
skywriter 64 says yes my username is
Robbie
remember Thank You Robbie Ferguson and
it gave me Robbie and the username
Robbie I know so disappointing indeed
but I would like to know is your
experience different with the hyper-v
implementation of the moon to 18 point
oh four I'm excited about this is a
really good thing for Linux and boom -
and it's an exciting thing to have
Windows working on it right it would
help me because I want to be better with
Linux right that's why my laptop is
Linux and my home computer was to be
Linux but for gaming purposes it wasn't
but it would be really nice if I could
actually run Linux on it as well and
then get more acclimatized to it because
there's some things I just would like to
know better I like absolutely I have a
slight latex bias one final try one
final try is not even connecting yeah it
doesn't always go perfect but we learned
something here today yeah we did yeah
very curious folks chat rooms going all
of us saying hey try this
oh yeah Skyraider 64 my user name was
Robbie buddy and now I can't even
that's it that's that's it that's all
wha-wha-wha really I mean this was a lot
of time invested except for the fact
that we fast think of the developers and
it's happening it's happening folks be
ready for it
it's not ready yet not ready for
primetime not ready for TV not ready for
live TV you're almost there you're not
quite there almost there got it
installed got it installed my next step
Sasha so I'm gonna try connecting to it
through remote desktop through the IP
address now you try to connect to it
that way I'm gonna try like see if I can
SSH to it see if I can get an IP address
from my router there are some things
that I'm gonna play with to see
obviously it's showing in the thumbnail
it is running its operational the
desktop is loaded we're gonna check back
as Linden says we're gonna check back
next week and see how that worked yes it
will work by next week cuz Robbie is
nothing if not dedicated to don't put
that on me I'm not gonna be able to
sleep for the are you ready to head on
over the newsroom because I've got you
all set up all right here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom remember when
Apple's FaceTime stopped working years
ago turns out it was a deliberate part
of Apple's planned obsolescence
well it just got easier to run to Booty
on Windows 10 as virtual machine and
surprise it's all thanks to Microsoft
Twitter has told an undisclosed number
of users that their private messages may
have been leaked to third parties for
more than a year
health officials who are looking at how
to apply blockchain technology to public
health issues consulted with Walmart on
improving improving food supply
traceability and they plan to use the
technology in the produce department
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Geoff Weston Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you okay you're
terrible actor what does where acting
comes into play I don't know you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash DreamHost this is the
Gouri 5 TV newsroom covering the week's
top tech stories with a slight linux
bias i'm sasha Rickman and here are the
top stories for following this week
remember when Apple's FaceTime stopped
working years ago turns out that it was
a deliberate part of Apple's planned
obsolescence tactics Apple is accused of
deliberately crippling features for
people who didn't upgrade their iPhones
in iOS in a class-action lawsuit over
its FaceTime video conferencing software
last week US District Judge Lucy Koh
allowed a class-action lawsuit against
the tech giant to move forward after she
rejected Apple's argument that it can do
whatever it wants with people's iPhones
because users agree to its terms of
conserving agreements at the heart of
the lawsuit filed in California is a
decision by Apple to kill off FaceTime
for those who were not using the latest
iPhone and latest operating system
software in April 2014 they had led a
digital certificate expired prematurely
which broke the video conferencing
service for anyone using version 6 or
lower of iOS Apple claimed that at the
time there was a bug and users needed to
upgrade to the latest version iOS 7 to
fix things but internal documents
suggest that Apple knowingly broke
FaceTime for tech holdouts because it
was costing it money six months earlier
the latest version of its operating
system iOS 7 had been released and
included a fundamental change to the way
FaceTime worked but many iPhone 4 users
were wary about iOS 7 because the
resource-hungry upgrade made their
phones run very slowly so they struck it
they stuck with iOS 6
but then FaceTime suddenly stopped
working and when asked about it April
Apple told them to upgrade to iOS 7 or
buy the latest phone the iPhone 5 now
that Judge Koh has certified the lawsuit
this means that it can move forward as a
class-action lawsuit and pull in others
who have been affected but there are a
couple of limitations first you have to
live in California judge ko rejected the
attempt to make it a national
class-action lawsuit because the law is
under consideration very widely across
the United States and second it can't be
on a jailbroken phone so if you live in
California and got frustrated
when your iPhone 4 became incredibly
slow or were prevented from using
FaceTime because you didn't want to
upgrade to iOS 7 then you might be in
line for a payout if the lawyers win the
case of course this being Apple if it
does lose it will appeal the decision in
to the ends of the earth so don't expect
that money anytime soon
your thoughts planned obsolescence seems
like thievery to me it really does I
don't like it one little bit you want to
hear my experience as an Apple user yes
I'm not an Apple user that's my
experience as the answer that's it ok if
you are an Apple user I would encourage
you try the alternative just test it
just see give yourself a week borrow a
friend's phone or something your SIM
card in it and give it a try because
there is a certain amount of freedom
that comes from Android for example that
you don't get with an Apple device now
my experience with Apple I know you you
wanted all this to me tell my story I
went to Target which opened stores here
in Canada
target target open stores here in Canada
and I went there and they had an
electronics department and they had a
sale uh-huh and I bought an iPod touch
you did I did yeah and then and I hated
it because I'm used to the freedom of an
Android device and being able to drag on
mp3 files and iTunes is crap and so I
really felt confined with the iPod touch
yes they target pulled out of Canada
like a day later say the up and moved
out and I was stuck with this yeah I
figure out yeah I've got a couple weeks
to you know if I really do not I'm not a
I'm not the kind of guy who buys
something and return it but if I really
don't like it which I really didn't like
it I could have returned it they were
gone they up and moved out so I couldn't
do anything about it
so I still have it but it's useless now
I fired it up recently and I charged it
up and this
was new like a few years ago and and
I've only used it once or twice and it's
charged it up and I booted it up and I
thought okay well maybe I can use it for
something maybe I can pass it along with
the kids or something and I turned it on
for the first time in that many years
and it wouldn't let me install anything
anything it said my operating system was
out of date so I said okay well give me
the lady I said let's install the
operating system I said it'll give me
the update yeah this is not compatible
with your version of the iPod touch get
a new iPod touch get a new iPod touch I
okay how do you stand that let me just
rewind back in time when I was a new
co-host to category 5 I had a MacBook
and I had an iPhone oh yeah I did okay
and and I'm not into I'm not trying to
convert anyone to I just want you to
feel that like try it I liked them is
because they are simple now the reason
that I hates them is because they are
simple do you just can't do anything you
just like this planned obsolescence
thing to me it hurts me but it also just
reassures that yeah of course it makes
sense because they want you to like it
and use it and all sudden throw that out
and buy a new one and like it and use it
and then throw it out but I understand
that the Apple using viewers are maybe
not quite understanding what you're
saying because oh but I love my iPhone
right but I promise that if you try
something else and get out of that
mindset of that cycle I yeah I'm sure
you'd be like wow why did I ever waste
my money oh that's normal to you so it
became normal to me right I liked it
because I knew it yeah and then the new
version is so similar to the old version
that you can you feel like a genius
right yeah because oh yeah I know how to
do that I know where that right even
though it's a brand new phone and some
comes with Android I don't feel like a
genius sure sometimes I don't have a
clue where things are right and the new
the newer versions but you know what
it's forcing me to learn and grow and I
don't need to ditch my phone but it's
not hard don't don't misinterpret what
she's saying it's not different
difficult I'm Sasha no no I'm not no
come on I understand that challenge of
oh well the icons are not where they
used to be in the I need to reinstall
the apps that I like you have to
double-click a little bar instead of
long holding it right like how about
this I want mp3s I want music on my
phone
yeah so I take a cable and I plug it
into my computer and I take all those
files that I ripped from CDs and I just
put them on the phone yeah and then I
unplug it and I push play the end the
end if I want to use wires on my
headphones I can plug them in right I
wouldn't super hate on any of the Apple
products with the exception of the fact
that this planned obsolescence thing I
think it's that it's lawsuit worthy
because it's thievery I absolutely yeah
yeah enough about that let's so if you
live in California yes get in and you
haven't jailbroken your iOS 4 device
which what are you waiting for you
haven't I yeah iOS 5 I don't know how
that's the problem
yeah why to you if you jailbroken
exactly that's not fair
so ok so don't jail broke your break
your phone if the plan was to do it
tomorrow just hang tight you're about to
come into some money well it just got a
whole lot easier to run a boot to on
Windows 10 is a virtual machine and
Windows 10 Pro users are now able to
spin up an enhanced Ubuntu virtual
machine directly from the hyper-v click
create tool the hyper-v gallery of boon
to image let's Windows users get a full
abouttwo 18.04 desktop session set up
and running sooner with fewer post
install steps required to make it usable
the bootable hyper-v image of a boon to
18.04 LTS comes with xrdp pre-configured
to support an enhanced session mode out
of the box in
and session mode in hyper-v is kind of
like guest tools in VirtualBox in that
once enabled you get better integration
between host and guest including
clipboard support dynamic desktop
resizing shared folders and drive
redirection and seamless mouse sharing
an awful lot of a boon to users run a
voodoo on Windows using virtual machines
Microsoft Microsoft is aware of that
that fact hence the creation of the
windows subsystem for a linux WSL aware
that many developers and IT admins on
Windows rely on virtual machines to run
Linux on Windows Microsoft decided to
roll its sleeves up and work with
upstream xrdp an implementation of
Microsoft's RDP protocol for Linux to
iron out the kinks and the result is
this news the ubuntu 18.04 hyper-v image
which is arguably more flexible than wsl
as it supports a full GUI session has
neat systems integration and of course
actually uses the Linux kernel microsoft
says with only three mouse clicks users
will be able to get an Ubuntu VM running
that offers clipboard functionality
drive redirection and much more in short
the addition of Ubuntu 18.04 to the
hyper-v Gallery gives developers and
system admins stuck on Windows 10 a
faster way to install an optimized
version of a boon to 18 point o for
using hyperlink V
hyperlink my experience so far and if
you watched episode number 575 of
category 5 technology TV this week is
the installation process goes very very
well and I'm pleased that they're making
this effort but we weren't able to get
it up and going and and use it yes it
but I can see the potential like it's
almost there maybe I've got to do some
more work to get it up and going maybe
it's not quite as easy
yeah but it's so close right and it
means that people who really do feel
like stuck on Windows 10 and there is
some certain there are some situations
where you really work computers work
computer and as a developer myself I
hate I really would not want to be
developing on Windows like I want to be
in a Linux environment using Linux tools
right so this is great actually
one of what Linus would say Oh he'd be
cursing at them he can't I don't know
why he's so angry right I think that
this is a really great opportunity for
Windows users who are interested in
Linux yes to give it a try it makes me
think back to a product called Ruby it
was simply called Ruby Ruby wub I sounds
fun which was like an Ubuntu
implementation on Windows as well but
not a virtual machine it was like it was
a different way of doing things but this
is actually running in a virtual machine
on hyper-v on Windows 10 so if you got
Windows 10 Pro you can install it
absolutely free and I think that's an
advantage for Microsoft yes on Ubuntu if
you want to install a virtual machine of
Windows you have to have a Windows
license on Windows if you want to
install a virtual machine of Ubuntu
it's free because boon to Linux is
absolutely free so there are some huge
advantages to that way of doing things
but it's also an opportunity for you to
try it out and get the feel of a boon to
and say you know do I need Windows I
know that's not their intent because
otherwise they wouldn't do it it's a
development environment but it does give
you the chance to give it a try and it's
free so what what do you have to lose
exactly like you might as well just go
ahead do it try it already there what
and see and see if you can get it up and
going better than I can
yeah because so far I haven't got it up
and going I'm gonna give it another try
this week and see if I can get it
working it ought to be it should be easy
are you gonna try it at home well I'd
like I would like
love to have you report back next week
here's the only thing that worries me is
I don't know if I have my Windows 10 Pro
like I just don't I just don't know you
know how you can tell and I cheat but I
click on the Start menu and I type 64 -
bit okay and then it says tell if you're
win if your computers is 32 or 64-bit
and then you just scroll down and it
shows you the version of Windows that
you're running right it'll say Windows
10 Pro or Windows 10 home if you have
Windows 10 Pro you can install hyper-v
by going to Windows Features and
software whatever I do a quick search
Windows Features turn Windows Features
on and off that's what I see there and
by going in there
I can easily install hyper-v if I
haven't got it already right I would
like to give this a try because I mean
to tell you I'd love to hear how it goes
I I love Linux I have a slight Linux
bias and I only have Windows for the
gaming capabilities that Windows has so
if I can just yeah this is a way that
you can boot into Ubuntu into Linux
without replacing windows exactly don't
have to get windows off you can still
have it for all your games because I did
like I did think to myself at the time
when we were sadly saying good vital and
X and getting Windows on our computer I
did think can I dual boot late I just
don't know what a small SSD because SSDs
are traditionally a much smaller drivers
capacity goes than a spinning drive so
this faster just solve that there you go
so rocket this week let me know how it
goes let's see how it goes okay it goes
we'll be interested in that twitter has
told an undisclosed number of users that
their private messages may have been
leaked to third parties for more than a
year the software bug which has since
been fixed involved direct messages
between users and businesses that offer
customer services via Twitter affected
users are being notified via a message
that appeared when opening the app or
logging on to Twitter's website Twitter
says the issue has persisted since May
2017 the company had said that it
resolves the issue immediately upon this
covering it on September 10th of this
year after the bug had existed for
around 500 days Twitter said not all
direct messages which are supposed to be
private unlike normal tweets were at
risk just those between users and
companies such as an airline while
Twitter states that they do not have
evidence that the bug was exploited they
also expressed that they have no proof
that it has not so when I read this
story I think to myself what Twitter
user and the history of all Twitter
users thanks ever that their messages
will ever be private oh but Sascha what
Facebook user goes into facebook
Messenger and posts their phone number
or their home address it's crazy
mm-hmm yeah but I it just blows my mind
that people would think like okay so
it's not it's not good that this bug
existed but it also is not good that
anybody would have put things into a
message even if it was supposed to be
private in Twitter like it just we're
such we're such a connected world though
and we you got an app where you're
communicating and these days a lot of
support is done through Twitter I can't
I will never pick up the phone and call
Rogers really have you ever sat on hold
with Rogers I don't have Twitter have
you sat on hold with Roger yes have you
so how did that feel well I pretty great
huh his own local cable provider side
note
okay so Rogers is kind of crummy for
being on hold but my banking hold lets
you choose which type of music you wanna
listen that's that's the evolution of
technology right there but backing up
okay the Rogers scenario okay I can't
sit through that so do you so I don't
have to sit through that so I tweet to
Rogers help what do you say this is my
social insurance never here yeah
absolutely no and and this is where I do
have some respect for Rogers in regards
to their support because they cleverly
will not ask for information on Twitter
okay they'll say no
yeah so what what Rogers does and this
is smart this is really clever if you
tweet to them yeah and say my Internet's
down or my phone is not working or so on
and and ironically if the internet is
down just using yeah there's so much
irony in this so anyways if there's a
problem you're sitting at Tim Hortons
here we are in Canada we got Rogers and
Tim Hortons those are the only two
companies because target has gone so I'm
tweeting to to Rogers helps and I say my
internet at home is down and they say
like whatever friend us or whatever it
is on follow us on Twitter and and DM us
direct messages so then I direct message
and say hi I need your help and they say
click on this link and it takes me to a
secure form on their website that asked
me for things like my account number my
phone number those kinds of things that
they just need to authenticate my
account is that the spot that's being
bugged
no they're never because they're not
asking for that information I'm going to
their secure web site which I trust is
hopefully not exploited the same way
Twitter is so there but there are
companies that are maybe not as clever
as Rogers in that regard and I've never
had such respect for that feature as I
do now that this has happened right and
that Rogers has never asked me for my
personal information in Twitter they
authenticated me as a user with that
personal information through a secure
portal so I and then they've come back
to Twitter and said ok yep we got your
information we know who you are we've
offended cated your account how can we
help I am so happy you're here cuz I
have no experience in this I do all of
my authenticating over the phone I call
like I call say Rogers the other day
yeah and I had to authenticate who I was
and I just said to them right on the
phone after a little bit of a hold but I
like I just need to prove T Who I am
what do you want to know yeah so but I
I've always used phone contacts I've
never used I don't have Twitter
I'll
don't have facebook I also don't have
Instagram but this is a whole other
situation I have Twitter at Robby
Ferguson hello follow me personal info
message because nothing in Twitter in my
mind was F or private anyway so it blows
my mind that you would think that it
would be I think if anything this is a
wake-up call anyways to say don't post
your phone number don't post your social
insurance number don't post your credit
card number don't put those kinds of
things into third party services yeah
okay so if somebody is asking for it if
it's the airline and they say we need
you to give us your credit card number
on Twitter
yeah no thank you is there some kind of
third like form that we can use yeah
some some way to do this outside of that
third party service I just like this
Timmy seems so common sensical but only
because I just don't use it right so I
didn't in my mind I never assumed the a
private message in Twitter would ever be
private anyway it's the same way an
email is never private or yeah you know
but some folks don't realize that two
people send me their credit card number
by email that is an email as plain text
that is as as easy for me to read your
email as it is for if I said my credit
card number to you right now out loud
what if we covered could the viewers
could the viewers yeah could the viewers
pick up on that credit card number if I
told you my credit card number right now
that's he now I know that's email I
sadly have to explain that to a
ridiculous amount of people and when I
am giving you this advice okay health
officials who are looking at how to
apply blockchain technology to public
improving food supply traceability and
they plan to use the technology in the
produce department meat after hundreds
of people in the u.s. became ill after
eating contaminated romaine lettuce
earlier this year not me not meat
along with many
food retailers and restaurants pulled
the potentially tainted products produce
from their shelves after regulators
issued a warning the company says the
outbreak could have been stemmed sooner
if there were a faster and easier way to
trace what people had eaten Walmart
thinks blockchain technology could be
the solution the big box company worked
for more than a year with IBM and 11
food companies to develop a blockchain
enabled food traceability Network now
Walmart and its subsidiary Sam's Club
will require their leafy greens
suppliers to use its blockchain
technology to implement real-time and
and traceability back to farms within a
year the company announced today the
company claims its blockchain technology
dramatically improves efficiency in an
early test Walmart's vice president of
food safety
Frankie Anna's brought in sliced mangoes
and asked his team to stop everything
that they were doing and traced that
product back to its origin on a farm a
spokesperson said it took them nearly
seven days as the methods of tracking
today are antiquated sometimes done with
pencil and paper but using the
blockchain that tracking process can be
done in two point two seconds looking
back at the romaine issue the stories
had to throw out all romaine because
there was no way to precisely identify
which romaine was from the region where
the contamination see the contaminated
less lettuce originated it not only
affected Walmart but all of the retail
and even restaurants all romaine had to
go the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention which has been working with
IBM on applying block chain solutions to
other public health issues consulted
with Walmart on improving traceability
to help Public Health officials
investigate foodborne disease outbreaks
and find the source of contaminated food
Walmart said the aim of the resulting
block chain system is to help reduce the
number of people who fall ill during
food incidences incidents while at the
same time reducing losses for retailers
and suppliers during a recall the
spokesperson said the information about
Walmart's leafy greens will not be
immediately available to consumers but
it's in their roadmap
I love it I love it
I've left it for a couple of reasons I
have so many reasons to love this okay
so I'm new to blockchain so it kind of
to me it's like this like this
shimmering perfect orb of information
that I can't quite like pop into my
brain so I'm kind of new to it so I'm
good it's like on the IT Crowd how the
internet was this box to her the
blockchain is this orb I don't get it
quite yet but what I do understand in
this situation for me as a person who
wants the environment to be as great as
it can be if you can reduce waste
for example sure throwing out all the
romaine that's ever been produced in
that moment by all of the farmers and
all of the leaders of water and all of
the just that's a lot of ways and that's
insane so now take that one step further
and say okay they've lost all that
that's waste but now look at the
consumers opinions of that produce now
right okay so when that happens
am I gonna rush out the moment romaine
lettuce is back on the shelf and buy up
some romaine I've probably lost a lot of
consumer confidence in the product not
knowing exactly how it was contaminated
in their place and whether or not it
will be recontaminate and then how long
it is this the contaminated lettuce no
I'm not a pro so I may not buy it for a
while so now all of a sudden further
down the chain the farmer who has just
had all of their stuff pulled from the
Shelf even though they had nothing to do
with it their produce was clean theirs
was a perfect operation and yet their
product is gone and they've lost all of
their sales for the next three months
because nobody wants to buy that product
that can happen this can be sold now
yeah and how so the blockchain is like
this amazing encryption system that is
decentralized and when I say
decentralized the neat thing about it
all of these processes up until now yes
so when I as a farmer cuz look at me I
am obviously a farmer if I as a farmer
pick my mangoes right and put down on
the ledger that okay I picked my mangoes
and I've shipped them to such-and-such a
company and then that company takes it
and warehouses it and then that company
then ships it out and disperses it
throughout the world because it's an
international thing well each hop along
that way everybody's jotting down the
notes whether they use a computer or
whatever but there's a complete
disconnect between them and there's no
way to trace them back or it's very very
difficult to trace them back to their
origin so now with the blockchain as
opposed to that methodology everybody's
using the entire system to authenticate
that produce so as soon as I picked that
mango it gets assigned an ID which is
entirely unique so now I know that this
ID this mango was picked at this farm
and as soon as I take yeah at this time
and the weather was like this at that
time in this region as soon as I put it
on the truck it still got the same
blockchain ID so now everything it's got
a history and everything can be followed
everything can be followed right through
to the end and because the blockchain is
decentralized yes anyone can install it
anyone can take that orb and put it on
their system right so Walmart can take
the blockchain and have the blockchain
right every other company every little
farm can take the blockchain and have
the blockchain so if you find out that
one farm with a small amount of romaine
has distributed only one head of romaine
to all these places and people got sick
that's it you would know the rest of the
romaine was safe sure right yeah but how
like you see the sticker what is it I
don't have so good well it would have to
be a sticker or IBM has been working on
chips Oh for example like you you look
at like member CDs do you remember CDs
yeah when you open the jewel case
there's a little bar of metal and that
metal was programmed by the computer so
that if someone walked out of the store
and tried to steal it it would set off a
buzzer so thank you
that kind of technology it's a very
small a sticker sure it could be
something that goes under the skin it
could be these days the technology's
there so they can work it into the
blockchain can become a part of the
produce or the product but it's really
good and so as you say if they find
contaminated produce so now think about
that scenario of romaine lettuce
here's contaminated produce we can see
okay this originated this came on off of
this truck it came from that farm it was
handled by this farm worker and oh that
farm worker had this problem Rosy's or
something right that's just saying a
scenario so that's what happened so
oh well that farm worker also handled
all of the oh well we can track it
because it's on the blockchain we can
say oh we have some of that in that
store we have oh they have it in that
store over there so pull just that one
everything else is fine leave it up and
so no loss in consumer confidence right
I'm not worried because I'm actually
very confident that they're keeping me
safe by pulling the very product that is
right the one that's infected and no
loss to our resources which is a that's
a big thing but that's not my motivation
I want to know that my family's safe and
I want and and I do care about the
farmer and I want to know that I'm not
losing consumer confidence for no reason
every time there's an e coli outbreak
it's like I won't I don't feel confident
to buy the produce that is involved in
I'm not eating carrots for a couple
months you know it's it's just the way
it is that's my that's our mindset so
this does away with that and what's neat
about it is that we now live in a time
right now for the very first time ever
in the history of humankind where this
is possible
that's exciting it is big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories sauce this week
thanks for watching a category-5 TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha
and I'm Ravi Ferguson thanks everybody
for being here with us tonight or today
depending on what time you're watching
and where you're watching from we
appreciate having you here it's been a
lot of fun it has been I think Jeff is
back next week yes and I know you will
be back and I look forward to seeing you
again get on to our website category
five dot TV there's lots of great
content there and we look forward to
seeing you again
take care
you
