for those who prefer linux or are simply
curious about linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV broadcasting from Barrie
Ontario Canada get ready for you need an
interactive viewing experience have a
question call 2545 cat5 TV or email live
at category 5 TV and now here's your
host Ravi Ferguson welcome to episode
number 260 of category 5 technology TV
nice to see you welcome everyone
worldwide there we go got somebody else
causing us feedback tonight that's all
good that's all get September 11th
tonight 2012 nice to see it we've got a
very exciting show in store for you
tonight so make sure you stick around
for the whole thing we're gonna be
talking about our fifth anniversary
party that's coming up we we have a
video encoder for linux that we're gonna
be looking at to convert your files for
all of your different devices also i'm
taking a look at google maps and the
reliability thereof oh boy hmm just
gonna be interesting little story i can
feel how bones and Hilary how are you
I'm here and I'm married I did it people
that's why I've been a little m.i.a as
of late but I'm back hitch welcome back
yeah thank you married life here you
know it's just another part of the
adventure comes over it's great yeah
yeah awesome first is a great guy we're
gonna talk about it a little bit later
but it was a privilege to be at your
wedding thank you so much for having us
beautiful most beautiful wedding that I
never been ten flashing we're talking
all about it stop it like I say tonight
we've got lots going on we're going to
be talking to John Cabrera who joins us
from Los Angeles California we're going
to be talking about his new series h+
which is available on youtube it is
phenomenal awesome production and we're
going to talk a little bit about
we're going to be talking also about
well what's what's kind of going on with
this whole trend of here you are you
know sitting at home watching a
television show on your computer on your
device but not through the old sense of
how it used to be done we do things a
lot differently these days high speed
internet and the technology lets
attributed to that and built for that
has really been changing things so we're
going to talk about about that with John
as well so hey join us in the chat room
John is there with us and we're going to
be to that well he'll actually be able
to see your questions there in the chat
room so I'll let you we're going to jump
kind of right into that sort of change
the order of the show tonight we're
going to be talking to John first and
foremost but first of all we'll find out
what's coming up in the news and then
we're going to talk about or bring up
your viewer questions after probably the
halfway point tonight hmm this week's
major news topics as pertaining to the
world of technology denta ubuntu live
CDs are no more in favor of USB or DVD
media hmm a Bitcoin theft could mean the
demise of bit floor an Arizona hacker
who sold access to his botnet has been
jailed and oh this is interesting toys r
us is bringing out its own android
tablet mm-hmm and lastly Google is
responding to YouTube being pulled from
iOS's list of preinstalled applications
so stick around because these stories
are coming up later in our show Thank so
we're going to take a look at a trailer
for the the show called H+ which is
available for you to watch on youtube
we've got a really easy quick link for
you if you go to cat five dot TV / h
plus and that's spelt out p lus that's
quick link to get you there of course
you have to wait until after this show
but of course that will get you there so
stick around we're going to talk to John
Cabrera one of the writers and creators
of H+ right after this trailer join us
in the chat room category five TV
category five on freenode
are you ready to connect to the world
introducing h+ information delivered
directly to you 24 7 where you become
the connection h+ tap in and can connect
to your future self you're a software
superstar single-handedly changed the
way people access the internet are you
offering me a job I'm offering you a
chance to change the world again the
doctor was clear by h + d implant it's
an amazing technology i can use h+ to
communicate with other people can they
know that thinking i was surprised when
you're messaged did you know I was yes I
see your updates all the time wow it's
amazing but there's a giant invisible
hand that's gripping all of this very
tight
we're joined tonight by Jon Cabrera one
of the writers and creators of h plus
John nice to see ya thanks for joining
us tonight my pleasure John well of
course you may recognize his face if you
had ever watched an episode of gilmore
girls spent I think a good 30 31
episodes as Bryan Fuller on the Gilmore
Girls and now is creating H+ so how do
you go from acting on a show like
gilmore girls which i understand kind of
came about in a in a way that you know
you started out and didn't realize how
long you were going to be on the show
for and all of a sudden here you are as
a regular on the show once that came to
a stop what where do you go from there
well you know I I think that that I
always been sort of on a path towards
eventually being on the other side of
the camera I you know I went to school
for acting that was that was what what I
I majored in and graduated from depaul
university which is a big acting
conservatory with the expectation that I
would kind of go out either to New York
or Los Angeles and start working as an
actor but I think I always sort of knew
that eventually that was going to
transition into what I really wanted to
be doing which was writing and directing
and it's true when when I began my my
stint it was a stint you know on Gilmore
Girls early on I really didn't know how
long it was going to last I assumed it
was going to be about an episode or two
and five years later um and you know
about 32 episodes later I was sort of a
member of the cast of that of that show
and while I was on the show I was also
seeing like the most the most you know I
was the most financially secure that I'd
ever been and it was like the perfect
time to begin experimenting with what I
really wanted to be doing so that it was
actually during the show that I started
writing directing you know buying
cameras and you know software and doing
all kinds of you know but
broo style filmmaking and and in the
last year of the of this of the of the
show is when I actually began working on
on h plus when I first started to to you
know develop it with Cosimo it was in
2006 actually so how did that how did
that really come about I mean H+ is
obviously a very well produced Warner
digital production and you know I I'm
interested to know you know with this
kind of transition in technology to you
know here you are a web-based kind of
television program that's produced by
Warner digital how do you get from that
point where you it's just an idea and
all of a sudden here you are and you're
getting a massive response on YouTube
well here you are as six years later if
that gives you any any idea of how long
that can take and and and how that veto
that the answer that question changes
throughout the six years where where the
internet was six years ago and where it
is now you know just like night and day
you know especially in regards to to
entertainment on the web when we first
started the project it was just an idea
it was just uh you know it started off
with this kernel of an idea you know a
world connected so so so tightly
connected you know through this this
this you know technology that we that we
really have today you know i mean the
the big difference between the
technology in the series and the
technology that we have with our iPhones
and androids is really that you know
it's inside our body in the series and
right now it's in our pockets but we we
live in a world where we're connected 24
hours a day and we were really
interested in exploring that and so we
did we took this idea of a world
connected you know through their nervous
system something happens and we wanted
to explore how different people around
the world would be affected by that so
we just started coming up with
characters and scenarios and and for
about a year that's all we really did we
didn't even really write a story we were
just sort of we're building this world
and once we had a big enough world then
we started sharing it with people and we
still didn't really know what it was we
didn't know if it was a television show
up it was
movie web what yeah and and we shared it
with a lot of people everyone we shared
it with what's really excited about it
and we sat down with bryan singer and
his his folks were a bad hat harry they
thought it was great very uh you know it
was something that they hadn't really
seen before because they you know they
had been really working in television
and film and and even at the beginning
what we pitched to them was a very
nonlinear story told out of order in
small vignette slices and they loved it
but they were like this is I don't know
if this is television well and and it
was fortuitous in the sense that they
really wanted to get on they wanted to
start exploring the internet space so
they said let's let's see you know if
perhaps there's an internet show in this
and we shared it with Warner digital and
and they they loved it it was you know
it was perfect for what they wanted to
be doing in the space and and so then
that we sold the project to them we sold
the idea to them really and they hired
us as writers and we spent the next four
years writing it there so we hadn't even
we hadn't even written a word of the of
the series before so and and and we
wrote it as web series we you know like
we never thought of it as anything you
know as soon as we started writing it
was it was a project for the web for
four years and we had to watch as trends
were changing and we had two ago the
actual technologies that surround
broadcasting on the web and changed so
incredibly substantially over yeah at
that time I mean it's it's interesting
because the series is about technology
right so you know on the one hand we
creatively we were worried that the
technology was accelerating so fast that
we be able to catch up creative leave
out by the finger tap it was actually
going to have these implants a lot yeah
right I mean you know we were worried
that a lot of things would become passé
and we did have to start thinking you
know about you know stuff like augmented
reality later in the game you know where
our head wasn't in augmented
reality earlier on well you know back
like 2007 and then and then yes as
you're saying also on the on the actual
distribution side the technology was
going so fast that we also had to think
like you know format wise how is this
going to how's this gonna work um you
know we saw people I mean when we first
pitched the idea we pitched this project
as a story of small pieces these small
moments in time these little puzzle
pieces that audiences would have the
chance to sort of put together and back
in 2006-2007 that that really made sense
right and and then over the course of
these six years we saw something very
very big happen which was suddenly
everyone is watching hour-long shows on
their laptop something that you wouldn't
have really seen as much up back in
2004-2005 2007 s'right and so then that
became sort of an obstacle like okay
well we've conceived this series this is
what we want this series to be um will
audiences be accepting of that now that
that audience um you know tolerance for
how long they can watch a piece of
content has grown um you know in these
discussions they continue to happen you
know and it's at its it's scary but it's
also really exciting it's a it's a
really exciting place to be right now is
to be telling stories on the internet
it's almost like being a trendsetter in
a way really kind of being at the
forefront of this emerging transition
from let's say cable TV and satellite TV
to really youtube and netflix and and
other technologies that allow you to
receive broadcasting through your
computer connection is becoming that's
our entertainment source right yeah i
mean we're a testimony to that right
here at category 5 like that's that's
what we do hilary you had some questions
for i'm so I'm like you're viciously
writing things down here I'm just really
intrigued by like the whole concept I
think it's fascinating I'm like hooked
I'm like what comes next do you ever
think that perhaps your segments like
are you all done shooting
for like this season and will go beyond
one season perhaps or extend past like
the the five to seven minute mark now
that you can have longer clips on
youtube for instance yeah I know that
that's been the big question that
everyone's been having is is is the
length right so I spoke a little bit too
you know this idea that I you know first
of all I wanted to spell the myth that
like that this was somehow written as
you know something that was linear and
we decided to sort of mix it up and chop
it up and throw out in these small
little portions in order to gain views
I'm absolutely honest when I say it was
conceived in this format back in 2006
that's that I totally get it I
understand you know the frustrations
that people are having with it I think
that it speaks to people really loving
what they're seeing and wanting more of
it to answer your question forty eight
episodes are going to be released over
the course of the next five months and
they have been they've been produced
they've been edited they're done um we
did certainly put them together right we
could take two of them and edit them
together but there's really not much
difference between that and doing it
yourself right like because you can you
can put them together in playlists and
that was that was a big part of what we
what we wanted to do from the very
beginning um and it would be I guess it
would be a you know a bit unfair to our
original original vision for this if we
then just kind of go back in to post and
just essentially link a bunch of things
together because people want the content
you know in one piece what they can't be
is re edited into a longer piece I mean
they were written this way and and and
that and that's sort of that's that's
sort of where they have to lie in this
in this particular iteration of the of
the story that said absolutely um you
know things can change that's one of the
really exciting things about online
content is that you can't you would
never be able to have direct dialogue
with a creator of a television show
right with and yet i'm in the comments
in youtube i'm talking to people every
day i respond to questions and i'm
listening and
and I want the show to be as great as it
can be so yes we will be you know my
hope is that we go into a into
production on a season two we're
definitely going to be writing a season
to that I can say for sure and and and
and that conversation length is going to
be a is going to be a conversation for
sure within the creative team as well as
that Warner Brothers and it's because
we've we've heard you know what you know
how people feel about the lengths but
what I don't want to do is I don't want
to compromise that the essence of what
the series is which is not television
right that's right that's something that
I that like if this was this if this
series was picked up for television we
would have to reconsider was told
because television attend the internet
they or at least television style
content hour-long episodic content which
yes there are we're seeing more of that
on the internet as well Netflix Hulu but
that's really just an extension of
television right if we want to create
something that is distinctly different
from television which I really do
believe YouTube right now really has the
only ability to do because it has these
really interactive components like
playlist and whatnot um then then we do
have to think out of the box and to a
degree i think that the audience to
needs to think out of the box on some of
this stuff mm-hmm we're doing something
very very different and seeing something
very different with h plus which is you
know very it's it's almost it's
intriguing in that it's so different
from sitting down in front of a TV and
watching that half-hour episode that has
10 minutes worth of commercials and that
makes me wonder you know because you're
you're producing these shorter clips
that don't have any commercials in them
well in the traditional sense
where does financing come from for a
project like this well the series is
ad-supported um I you know I don't
really know exactly how you know what
the setting the ad settings are
currently with the series but I mean
I've certainly seen ads Oh calm you know
the the pieces are designed to I believe
that they're set so that you you know if
you watched four of them in a row you
wouldn't be watching a commercial during
each one um so I think that that's also
been a complaint that I've heard is that
we're you know we're forcing people to
watch a commercial every time they watch
on my videos I don't believe that that's
actually the case but still yes you're
right you know there there's not really
a lot of advertising that people are at
being asked to watch compared to what we
had to sort of put in to create this
level of quality and and and that really
speaks more to the fact that at this
stage Warner Brothers Sony all of the
the studios that are getting into
developing content on the internet
they're doing it knowing that they're
experimenting right now and that they
are they're putting a lot of their money
into figure out how this space works and
and I think that's admirable I think
that's you know a really exciting thing
is that we're getting these big players
who have the money and then know how to
create really great content on the
internet also willing to go in and say
look we don't know how this works
exactly we we want to understand we want
to learn from the audience we want to
know what's the you know what kind of
content works best for them and they're
willing to to risk you know large sum of
money in order to experiment in that way
the youtube youtube partnership well you
know h plus is at the youtube channel so
that is is part of the sort of financing
model and you know i mean the hope is
that over the next few years all of the
money that's sloshing around on the
internet right now starts focusing its
way into some of this premium content
that's being created and and a warner
and certainly h plots as as one of those
pieces of content wants to be there when
that happens absolutely you're watching
category 5 technology TV and we're
talking
with John Cabrera who joins us from Los
Angeles and we're talking about his
series h+ which is available on youtube
we have a quick link for you which you
can see at the bottom of your screen
there cat5 TV / h plus it's youtube.com
/ h plus digital series you have any
other questions for John or anything
coming in in the chat room monitoring
the chat room but I haven't John one
question that I have for you as your you
know really full force at the front end
of this real digital trend and
transition in in entertainment I know
it's kind of a goofy question in a way
but with our show category 5 TV
sometimes there's there's still a little
bit of a stigma around internet-based
anything that's internet-based doesn't
have the same level of at least in some
people's eyes the same level of I don't
know if its support yeah like when you
say I have a Gibby show and its internet
based do you and your circles find that
you're that you're having to explain to
to producers and directors and actors
well what it is listen to the end of the
name of our series h+ the digital series
right notice like we try our best to
stay away from the word web series web
series comes with a stigma definitely
but it's a web series you know I mean
that's the truth though I think what's
gonna happen whether it's web series
whether another trend come you know
another term comes up to replace it is
just eventually great contents going to
be on the internet and then people will
think that that's cool back in the early
90s in the 80s you know television and
film there was this huge divide in
quality between television film so much
so that you know it was for actors it
was like you know doing a feature
feature film was you know what you
aspired to and you you use television as
a means to an end meaning that no actors
really want it to be doing television
right fast forward to today breaking bad
you know walking dead all of these
really great shows on television and and
you have these huge actors that a decade
ago would never have ever done
television or starring in the show so
the perception can change and that's
going to happen with the internet you
know in 10 years people are going to
look at the internet and the exact same
way and it's just going to be quality
that's going to be that the big factor
and also more than quality it's going to
be the hardware right the more people
start getting these these smart TVs into
their homes that allow them to watch
YouTube exactly the same way that they
watch um you know all of their favorite
shows on TV game of thrones whatever
right think then it's going to see the
line is going to be blurred right in the
same way that that the line is now
blurred between great film and great
television and so yeah I mean I think
that that the big the I think that the
the danger is that is that people start
to use television or film as the
determined as like the determining like
as basically the mark for what quality
means on the internet and that's that's
that's what we what we've been trying to
avoid right avoid that that you know
people see this content they say wow why
isn't that a movie or wow why isn't that
on television as like because it just
isn't supposed to be right it's spokes
to be a web series you know why isn't it
an hour long it's like it's a different
format you know what I mean and and
that's the thing is that like you know
our law like just an hour long piece of
content now is sort of what it means to
be quality and I think that that that
will change and I hope that that change
changes because there are a lot of
really fantastic formats artistic
formats literary formats that are a
variety of lengths you know that we've
been sort of stuck with these to the
half hour and the hour long as as our as
the only option that we really have for
great storytelling I think it's a shame
absolutely now and I think it's it's you
know you should be commended for what
you were doing with h plus and and the
whole production team I mean fantastic
crew that you've got and the actors are
doing a fantastic job I mean I know that
from your perspective it's all done in
it you know season ones in the can but
from our perspective watching the show
as it's released it's just it's amazing
to see this type of quality on on
YouTube well you know I i should say
it's not all done right on the series
the 48 that the 48 episodes they are
done however there is an entire there's
a whole separate component to this
series that lives off of the youtube
channel at our main site h plus digital
series com we have all of these other
interactive components we have this
interactive map that allows you to
explore the world of h plus and see
where episodes actually lie both in time
and in place and each one of those those
episodes comes with an extra piece of
ancillary content that gives you more
insight into the world of h plus photos
videos you know text articles etc and
that stuff is being created by us that's
still being created as we go and we're
creating as much of it as there is a
demand for it and a lot of that stuff is
helping to fill in the gaps um you know
the story was written with purposeful
gaps in time for audience to UM to sort
of you know I mean we always say that
like all the characters in this series
have have these secrets right and and
the audience the part of the the fun of
the show is that the audience is
challenged to sort of uncover the
secrets of all of these characters but
time time is also a character in this
series right and time also has its set
of secrets and they lie in these gaps of
time that we we are never going to show
you in this first 48 maybe we'll show
you in another season I don't know but
um those secrets are also there for you
to unlock those secrets are part I think
part of the fun of a show like this and
and they live like I said they live
outside of the the youtube channel and
we're still making them and that's part
of this interaction between the fans and
and and the creators and something like
I said that you wouldn't really see on
television and and it's a I think it's
you know it's fun it's fun for us so I
think that that you know we are hoping
that it's as fun for the audience now
one of the things now because you're not
on traditional television you like we
sit have said and you've you've kind of
broken those shackles the the holds of
you know certain requirements of being
on TV but the other concern that we that
some may have is with regards to rating
systems with your show is there a rating
or is there something that like do you
say you know is it equivalent to say 14
plus or where where does H+ fall as far
as that's concerned well i think that
you know i mean III don't know for sure
but um I you know I know that I know
that h plus was rated by whatever system
Warner Brothers goes through and rating
things and that everyone was very happy
about the rating I have to be honest
with you I don't even really remember
what it was but if they were all happy
then it must have been a rating that was
below are or not I don't think that
there's old I don't think that there's a
lot in the series that would that would
really you know it garnered a really you
know poor rating but um but I also think
that YouTube could be wrong I think
YouTube has its own set of ratings or
has a way of blocking content that is to
that it's too extreme or so not so so we
should expect as viewers that there is
violence and there is a little bit of
swearing in h plus as well so do be
mindful of that if you're sitting down
in front of it with your kids yes there
is there is some not a lot but there is
some well John thank you so much for
being here with us today it's been a
pleasure having you on the show I would
just like to know as we close off the
interview where do you see h+ going from
here well um it's a big question I know
I mean don't ya well I mean like they
ask you do you mean story-wise or do you
mean just as a project on a whole well
kind of sorta I
mind knowing a little bit what happens
yeah what's what's gonna happen really
you like you like being spoiled huh
spoiler alert um well I will say this
the first third of the series um is I
think people think that the that it's
nonlinear the way you know what they've
seen so far it's is nonlinear the first
part of the series is the most linear
right we've got an entire storyline that
takes place in the parking lot that is
you know somewhat in a linear
progression and the same with you know
the other four storylines they sort of
move in a linear progression after the
first third things start to really like
spread out we start visiting a lot of
different locations around the world
which is really exciting um but you know
it really it starts to become you know a
much more of a scavenger hunt for the
audience's to piece these these things
together and I hope that I hope that the
audience is uh you know get excited
about that as excited as we were when we
were wrote it um we'll learn a lot more
about Kenneth and you know what he was
doing there in the parking lot and and
we'll get to know a lot more of these
characters and how these four storylines
that seem very uh that they seem very
separate you know and in this first in
this first part of the story will start
to learn how some of these characters
are connected directly and interacted in
such a way very cool John well keep up
the great work and kudos to you and your
team and we look forward to what's
what's to come from h plus you can find
h+ at youtube.com / h + digital series
we've got the quick link down at the
bottom right of your screen as well just
to get either real fast John been a
pleasure having you here thanks for
being on category five tonight and we'll
look forward to what's to come because
my pleasure thanks I is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson I'm Hillary Rumble and it is
time to jump right into the news oki
doodle people I know you're dying to
know what's happening in the world of
tech so here
comin atcha tobers release of a boon to
12.4 size of its disc image from 700
megabytes to eight hundred megabytes
therefore making it too big to fit onto
a traditional CBR media the news came
from Canonical's Kate Stewart in the
Ubuntu mailing list who wrote there is
no longer a traditional CD sized image
DVD or alternate image but rather a
single 800 megabyte Ubuntu image that
can be used from USB or dvd ubuntu
server remains unaffected by the switch
one of the biggest Bitcoin currency
exchanges has been taken offline after
twenty four thousand units about 250
thousand dollars or 150 7,000 pounds
roughly of the virtual currency were
stolen from its computer servers
bitcoins can be used for online money
transfers and trade and the currency
uses cryptography to protect it but bit
floors founder Roman um I don't know if
it's stileman stileman yeah Roman
stileman said he had kept on encrypted
keys which the thief access and used to
take the money he said his new
york-based service was the biggest of
its kind in the US and the fourth
largest in the world but bit floors
future is now in doubt a u.s. hacker who
sold access to thousands of hijacked
Holmes computers has been jailed for 30
months he was sentenced for renting out
more than 72,000 pcs that he had taken
over using computer viruses millions of
PCs are enrolled in these networks known
as botnet and many help to send out
those nasty junk mail messages um oh no
tell customers it is i think
this these names hell it's like
tell sorry i need like a pronunciation
guide customers installed their own
malicious software on the pcs to aid
their own cybercrime efforts as well as
going to prison for 30 months
was also sentenced to a three-year
supervised release program that he will
serve after leaving jail the supervision
will tightly control his access to
computers and the net rightfully so I'd
say yeah you know what a botnet is no
but it sounds crazy yeah it's like when
you get a virus and your computer
becomes a part of this super network of
virus infected computers so when it says
that those are sending out spam it's
like all of these computers become one
super computer it's like the folding at
home thing and when it's you know that's
being used for good and that's something
that you opt into but these are things
like that that you don't opt into and
you're sharing your resources so when
you're not at your computer your
computer is still working but it's doing
malicious things that is lurkey that
computer bad Trojans bad ah dint inada
in a bid to battle the showrooming
phenomenon that is hurting big-box
retailers toys r us said yesterday that
it will start selling its own
proprietary tablet designed for children
the 149 dollars 99 cent tabeo will be
available only at Toys R Us so shoppers
won't be able to try it out in a store
and then purchase it for less on a rival
retailer's website the tablet goes on
sale October 21st and pre-orders are now
available online at toysrus.com the toys
r s tablet which is powered by android
comes preloaded with 50 free games and
apps including popular titles such as
angry birds and the retailer has
developed its own app store with around
seven thousand titles mmk that's that's
cool I can understand that why they
would want to do that because it's so
true these days you walk into a store
you pick up the tablet you play with it
find out if you want it and then you go
order it off of a website because you
can get it cheaper it's true so that
would be really frustrating for the
retailers because they're the ones who
now can't sell that device because it's
out of box and it's used technically so
they're the ones that are out but but
the kids really need tablets that's well
I think it's brilliant I think that's a
good at catering to children once you
get kids you got parents I gotta admit
my kids do love playing games on the
ipod
whatever on the tablet but yeah that's
right you look pretty awesome our last
story of the evening YouTube is being
reprogrammed for the iphone and ipad
amid the latest follow between the
growing hostility between Google and
Apple the changes are being made because
of the company's didn't renew a
five-year licensee licensing agreement
that established YouTube's video service
as one of the built-in applications in
iOS YouTube is being bumped from the
menu of pre-installed apps on the next
version of iOS which could be really
released as early as tomorrow when the
latest iPhone is expected to be unveiled
Google is making a preemptive strike
today with the release of revamped
YouTube app designed to make it easy as
possible for Apple device owners to
continue watching clips from the world's
most popular video site you can get
these full stories online at category 5
TV / newsroom the newsroom is researched
by roy w nash with contributions from
our fabulous community of viewers if you
have a story you think's worthy of
on-air mention send us an email at
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Hillary
remember Thank so tonight's show is
brought to you in part by quarter eee
electric they are the official
electrical company of category 5
technology TV and you'll find them
online at triple w quarter eee electric
com and get your free trial of netflix
it's a one-month trial you can give it a
try for free cat five dot TV / netflix
do check that out Hillary we've got to
take a real quick break we're going to
be right back we're talking about Google
Maps we're going to be talking I'm going
to be showing you a video encoder for
your Linux system in just a couple
moments time and we will open up the
chat room as well get your questions in
via the chat room category 5 on freenode
we'd love to hear from you if you've got
a question Hillary's watching the chat
room for you now so we'll be right back
after this at eco alkalines we believe
you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but
here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm are you in
or near Barrie Ontario or feel like
making the journey meet the on air crew
of category 5 technology TV in person on
Tuesday September 25th as we celebrate
five years of bringing you free
technology TV the live show will be held
at bury Free Methodist Church on candles
road east and bury an admission is
absolutely free there will be prizes
during the show for those who attend as
well as a meet and greet following the
live broadcast doors open at six thirty
p.m. and we hope to see you there don't
miss this time of celebration with the
on air crew from category 5 technology
TV both past and present Tuesday
September 25th at 630pm for more details
visit category 5 TV category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters thanks Oh problem we've got
some viewer questions I see some
questions coming in in the chat rooms
before we get into that though our fifth
anniversary as you saw there is coming
up let's talk prizes let's party here
you can see the awesome gift basket
there from Ellie I electronics inc we've
got batteries from eco alkalines we've
got back to nature and well you know we
just can't slip a couple extra names in
there Hillary rumble from the stage key
that would be kind of obvious so long
Rick I want to keep going there's tons
of stuff okay there's tons of stuff
there's a free free play rechargeable
flashlight that's just what I can see
from here but it's worth well over a
hundred dollars also we're giving away
an assortment of magicjack pluses we're
going to be giving away full one-year
service so
you don't have to pay for long distance
anymore for for the next year we're
going to be giving those away to our
studio audience so make sure you come to
bury visit with us meet Hilary and
myself and the rest of the crew also
we've got some thermaltake stuff on its
way we'll let you know exactly what what
we're looking at but we're doing our
best to see that we can get something
really awesome from thermaltake to to
give you but one of the things i was
talking to eco alkalines one of our
friends over there Lionel and we're
talking about how yeah we've got this
awesome event we've got our fifth
anniversary show lots of people are
going to be there live in the studio or
in the auditorium and enjoying the show
so we've got lots of great prizes but
what do we do for you who possibly you
know maybe you're you're from somewhere
around the world around me the Beagle
yeah where's everybody from tonight what
are you gonna do because how can I
possibly give it to you if you can't get
here now of course you can fly in you
could but can bunk at my house if you
want in the course of our conversation
here it was decided that we are going to
send out not just a year supply of eco
alkalines batteries to you those of you
who can't make it live in person but we
are going to give out a second year
supply so I'm talking two lucky winners
are going to go home so well they're
gonna be at home we're gonna receive and
receive special part of a year supply of
eco alkalines batteries which are like
double a nine-fold C batteries you get
to choose what you want triple a Oh
amazing yeah but for those of you who
can get here now valve alpen one is in
sweden bit of a hike a bit tough to get
here if you leave now you might be able
to make it Dom's net is also from Los
Angeles Lawrenceburg Indiana guest 261
527 nice to see ya we've got people from
all over the world tonight you can find
out where everybody's watching from by
going to map doc appt five dot TV very
cool well we got lots people to chat
room people asking questions that's
buzzing about which is what we like
quick shout out to Alec
first time viewer y'all in the chat room
so for joining us and we have a question
here from Toby I told me quickly what
are the signs of a CMOS battery running
out of mojo mmm your CMOS the central
memory operating system that this is a
little battery that looks like a quarter
that sits on your motherboard in your
computer and some I've actually had
computers coming to the shop where
nothing's working what's going on and
they think it's going to be a big
expensive fix it actually happened to my
brother as a matter of fact he had a
raid 0 in his computer the battery had
died the battery stores all of your
hardware information and your clock so
if that battery dies all of a sudden
your computer forgets the hardware
information so my brother who is a
professional animator do check out his
shows i'll post links in the show notes
for episode number 260 but he brought it
in because he had thought that his hard
drives had completely crashed because
the bios Toby had forgotten about his
hard drives he tried to detect them but
it was it was a raid 0 and he was trying
to detect them as individual drives so
that's one symptom of course you're
going to lose your clock so that means
if you do any kind of bookkeeping and
stuff it's going to make your your
database out of whack so be very very
careful if your battery's low symptoms
essentially if your ear to clock is
losing time if if there are some kind of
weird issues and usually if you reboot
the computer do a hard boot turn it off
turn it back on again it should give you
a warning that the CMOS battery is low
if if in doubt turn it off and unplug it
so there's no power to the computer let
it sit for you know overnight plug it in
turn it on and see what see what happens
the batteries like three dollars so my
brother who thought he was going to have
a $300 Jersey huge major expense to fix
this computer devastation popped out the
old battery stuck in a new one we
initial didn't initialize but reset up
the raid so that the bios knew where his
hard drives were and how they were
supposed to be configured
hmm fired it up good to go they last for
like ten years though so you never just
forget expect you wouldn't anticipate
that's what it is yeah yeah but that
said it could have been sitting on a
shelf for five years before you got it
true say or maybe for some reason your
computer was unplugged for a while and
so used up your battery well there you
have it the batteries do not hold the
data the batteries keep a charge to the
chips the CMOS the central memory
operating system chip that needs a
little bit of power just to hold that
information as soon as it loses power
forgets everything goes back to to
default yeah so then you can't turn on
your computer because it doesn't know
where your stuff is mm-hmm now you know
the rest of the story now you know good
question worry your wedding as I said at
the top of the show was positively
beautiful oh there's her that's me
invitation yeah but I gotta say I
trusted google maps don't we get me
there I trusted Google Maps notice the
past yeah I was picking up on that yeah
huh saturday the twenty-fifth of August
2012 at the camp of the death def pardon
me the camp of the Deaf Parry Sound
Ontario
beautiful place as I found I went to
Google and I printed a map and
instructions and i put in camp of the
Deaf makes sense Hillary Rumble is that
close to where the camp of the Deaf is
well this here takes you about hmm half
hour the other North past it precisely
kind of the way I don't even know where
this would have pinpointed you I that
put us we were on the very main drag
James Street 74 james street we got the
bargain barn or something exactly well
that is wrong what a farce so I was I am
fury ated at at Google and stormed your
wedding halfway through actually kind of
tiptoe down it's okay it happens yeah
but I I did want to apologize for our
tardiness we left with such good time
and we were going to make it and Google
Maps seriously folks let us down so bad
I've never ever had that happen I've
heard it all it happens to me all the
time I've had it send me you know a
couple blocks away or given me you know
a direction that took a little bit
longer than it should have but to put me
in entirely the wrong region of Ontario
your bogus is crazy so Wow so a call to
you viewers to look around and we're
going to do a little bit of a round up
over the next week or two and we're
going to find what kind of deals we can
find on gps systems that would replace
the need for google maps so i have heard
that you can get them really really
cheap these days which we actually like
sheep yeah like it's $35 a possibility
if anyone can find a gps
that works for $35 we're gonna punch in
that's gonna be our test okay camp if
you can find the camp then it is it is
kind of a bizarre place I do admit it's
kind of like in the woods when you know
where it is though it was easy to find
true I don't know why I took you way
wrong way away wait we were wrong way
it's not even like it was like the camp
office was in that town that's what i
was looking for i was like oh well maybe
there's an office somewhere no there's
no reason no you would ended up in like
Don Cherry's little diner thing it would
be like me punching in to end up at the
Bayfield Maul and berry and it's sending
me literally to innisfil wrong totally
you know and and that I actually ended
up a little further than that I think so
we we drove around and we found a police
officer because they were doing a fun
run or something that day that's
convenient that was convenient oh and he
kind of explained it to me and it was
really really tricky oh that was the
third person who explained it to me
sorry no don't don't you do you own
google if I did what am I doing here
what are you doing I just kidding I'm
joking oh boy so anyways that was that
was just a wake-up call for me maybe a
wake-up call for you don't trust it I
should have called Hillary and said okay
is this correct are you really on James
Street but I'd never been to Parry Sound
it's okay I didn't even know sorry I
just who could have predicted that I
couldn't have but I just proved it that
it wasn't it wasn't my tardiness okay I
don't trust i ragazzi house
glad we dealt with that on air so I
publicly forgive you thank you thanks O
Yakko alright you heard it first so
moving along then pressing on one word
yeah you've got all your devices i mean
i've got this device and now i've got
the android device as well you've got
your phone yes every device kind of
likes different types of files and
different file formats and so when I've
got something like category 5 that I've
downloaded you know here's an episode of
the show that I've downloaded from last
week there it is cool cool I'd love to
be able to watch that on my say I pot or
some other device now I know of course I
can do that because I can just go to the
mobile site but that's not the example
but is there a way to convert these and
quite often you know you see us looking
at things like ffmpeg and little complex
ways to do it but tonight I'd like to
show you just a nice little GUI that's
going to do it very very easily for you
because occasionally I get the question
you know what what kind of software
would you use and we've looked at a
variety before i'm going to do a search
here for win FF just like it sounds I'm
going to mark that for installation I'm
just in synaptic package manager which
as you know is an excellent and easy way
to install applications in Linux and of
course this is a debian based Lubuntu
based distribution that I'm on it gets
the files off of the internet so you
don't ever have to go out and find them
yourself as long as you know the name of
the program which is win FF all done
there goes so I'm going to bring that up
first of all I'm going to actually bring
up their website just that you know what
it is I think yeah I think that there
are other versions of the sound like
that it is workable in Windows is okay
there's a Windows version which is cool
for those of you who are on Windows win
f F dot org and you'll see yes there's a
Windows version and Anna bhuntu or Linux
version and everything else ok so I'm
going to bring that up for the first
time sound &amp; video win FF all I have to
do is just go ad browse to that file
mm-hmm and how easy is this highlight it
and you can select any type of file
format let's zoom in just a little bit
for you so nice and easy free software
cool you can you know create DVD files
mobile phone files nokia files for
specific WMV like if you've got a an
xbox 360 and you want to put it on there
for example so in my case let's say I've
got my ipod touch so I'm going to
actually go to rock box makes sense
right and let's find ipod video
fullscreen or widescreen this is the
widescreen video so there we go Oh
scroll wheel apparently scroll through
okay so apple ipod video widescreen
convert
and there it goes cool it was asking me
if I wanted over right because I already
had a file with that file name it's as
simple as that good to know so that
program when FF works for Windows or
Linux it's available in synaptic package
manager you can find it through your
your software package manager in any
debian ubuntu I believe distribution I'm
not sure if it's actually on debian
itself I believe it is but their website
said boon to specifically so i wonder if
it may just be a boon to based which is
what we're on tonight so and this is
Zorin OS the dime on so good to find a
good piece of software like that though
to be able to convert our videos not
just for using on an ipod but also
sometimes you want to email a video and
you want to be able to create a smaller
video so here's a software that will
allow you to convert it to something
that's smaller than say so you've got a
big full HD file that's you know 200
megs you can't send it by email so you
can press it down to a little five make
file looks terrible but it lets you send
it across real easy this for editing too
because i have some light cameras and
they save in the most bogus file type is
our proprietary stuff in know like ones
like dot c.c.c ppi or something like
something i can't even I can't even
figure out how to open it yeah it's just
sitting there hmm that is good to know
I'm gonna keep that in mind for you oh
this okay ever it is convert it to some
kind of good quality format you'll be
good to go so keep that mind give it a
try win FF there's my file now I stopped
it you know before it was done but there
it is
it does work it works very cool i like
it when f F dot com check it out hey
chat room it's nice to see you thanks
for being here loads of people joining
us tonight what a gang what a posse we
have anybody have any quick questions
for us before we wrap up for the night
lots of suggestions there as well for
video production versions in the chat
room those so I always like to say you
know check out the chat logs for episode
number 260 and you'll be able to follow
along even as you're watching the show I
suppose I should have said that at the
beginning the show rather than at the
end okay but keep it in mind for next
time it's time you're watching after the
fact you can actually follow the chat
logs yeah yeah guess harry wants no well
can you improve the quality of your
videos and if you've got a small little
video off of a cell phone you can't very
well turn it into an HD video you can
downscale you can't go out though also
be all crazy pixelated yeah weird Oh
wild crazy pixilation not yet but maybe
someday you just never know what is
possible technology you know it'll be
some bull creating data where data
doesn't exist magnifying glass that
creates you know inviscid odda that's
not really there interpolates and
recreate Oh anything's possible after
learning about h+ anything is possible
mm-hmm I'm learning with technology
Garvey sang in the chatroom the ne rien
coding that you do you're gonna lose
quality regardless also once you take it
down in quality mm-hmm you can't gain it
back so do keep that in mind what you
would do is you would create a copy so
you're encoded re-encoded file would be
the copy that you use for the ipod or
for the other device where it's
compatible or to send by email but don't
believe the original no that would be
pointless that would be like you know
it's like it's like when you edit a
picture don't ever save over top of the
original file always keep the master
file
mm-hmm basic basic stuff 101 yep and you
know it's it is true technically that
when you re encode you're gonna lose
quality regardless across the board but
in certain you different in specific
codecs at specific bit rates and
everything you can actually get it so
close that you your human i would never
know the difference but it's when you're
down sampling when you're creating
something that's smaller or compressed
you're adding compression there then
you're going to get artifacting and
stuff so led zep just reiterate and keep
the raw file keep that master file for
sure mm-hmm Dave made who says my wife
copy part me copies over the originals
and then wonders where they've gone and
that Dave may do is where you as the
good husband have to have that back up
in the closet that you pull out and you
say it's right here babe here let me
just put it right back and you fix it
for so do your backups man be the hero
get her done save the day yeah cuz you
know better is that you can quote you
could print that on the t-shirt and with
Hillary I feel like I could have my own
line of shirts with all the ridiculous
things I say i'ma show you good pull up
some past episodes and be like I don't
even know I don't even don't have the
dumb things I say but if I'd like my own
t-shirt line I think that would be cool
Swiss Andy who is resting at the moment
in bed says that be the hero could be a
good t-shirt as well be the hero Dave
may do yeah
that'd be cool yeah anyone wants to send
his presents for the show just a special
fifth anniversary show yeah hey thanks
everybody for joining us tonight great
to see a busy chat room was nice having
John here John Cabrera from h plus do
check out his his show it's really good
cat five dot TV / h plus spelled p lus
spelled right out okay and that's going
to take you to their YouTube channel he
was mentioning as well they've got a
calm I I believe I don't want to say it
because I don't know it off the top of
my head but what I'll do is I'll put it
in the show notes episode number 260 so
that you can follow follow through with
that link and check out some of the
additional benefits that they have on
that on that site that he was explaining
it in the interview so I think everybody
hope you had a fun time hillary great to
see you for having i will see you at the
fifth anniversary party oh yeah just a
couple weeks away it's unbelievably okay
yep see everybody have a fantastic week
I'll be back next Tuesday night see ya
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV chicken the local show
times in your area at category five TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chapter
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5
see you next time it's the tuning in
