all right well welcome to New every day
my name is Carrie and my name is Jen and
on today's show we're going to talk
about the fact that God finishes what he
starts
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
well welcome to new every day so glad
that you could join us again we are
continuing our discussion on the Book of
Revelations the last book in the Bible
if you haven't been following and you're
just tuning in you may want to just stop
for a minute watch the last two episodes
kind of get caught up maybe read the
book of Revelation then tune in Jenna
and I have both shared how actually
reading through the book we've been
blessed by it because even though it's
hard to understand there are amazing
things and amazing truths about God and
one amazing truth that we've come to
realize through reading it at that God
when he starts something he finishes it
he keeps his word all the way for all
the way through the Bible yes and we
mentioned in the in the previous show
this is why it's so important just to go
back and sort of pick up where we've
come from is that some people think that
God is slow in accomplishing what he set
out but he's only what we perceived to
be slow in finishing what he starts
because he wants to draw all people to
him so him taking his time or what we
perceive is giving people more of an
opportunity and that is the hope that is
in the book of Revelation and that's one
of the revelations that that we've had
as we've read through it is wait a
second this isn't about damning people
to hell and earthquakes and pleasant yes
those things are in there yeah but
further for the purpose of actually
revealing God to people so that people
are drawn to God and repent mm-hmm and
so part of the hope is that God actually
finishes what he starts and and there's
I find peace in that so when he promises
something it's actually going to happen
and we have seen that in Scripture and
here's God at the end finishing
everything he started in the garden in
when he first created the heavens and
the earth in Genesis 11 he actually had
a plan on purpose to have a relationship
with us that's why we were created was
to have a relationship with God Jen I
can just hear my dad saying when I was
growing up because I'd start a job you
know was it
or whatever I wouldn't finish start
raking the grass and then I'm off to in
something else start doing this I'm
often someone they just really carry
just finish the job just finish breaking
the grass put the stuff away you know
it's so satisfying it when you can rely
on someone else to actually do what
they're going to say and so you're
saying yeah we see that in both Genesis
it starts in Genesis and then ends in
Revelation like over and over and over
again it was so interesting as I as I
read through jet revelation I went wait
a second what happens the story begins
in Genesis yeah and you highlighted some
of those will just read some of these
interesting parallels between Genesis
and revelation how God started something
and he finishes something so in Genesis
Genesis presents the creation of the
heavens and the earth and revelation it
presents that there will be a new heaven
and new earth and that's revelation 21 1
where it says John saw a new heaven and
a new earth so God is going to come and
redeem this earth that says that the
earth groans forgot to come and restore
it and so I you know part of that is
like whoa like I get out like tingly so
what is it going to look like what does
a restored earth look like that doesn't
have damaged or in my mind I think of
strip mining right or I think of what
does it look like to have a full habitat
with all of the species that it was
originally intended like I want to know
what a dodo bird looks like they've been
extinct right and we know that they were
created we didn't talk about that but I
want to know that a new earth looks like
yeah with the fullness of what God fully
intended and so I'm actually excited
that the fact that he like you said he
began with the heavens on earth and now
we're going to have a new heaven and a
new earth with with it exactly how he
intended like how hmm yay God and and he
says that those who know him we will
also be restored and receive a new body
when we're in heaven so the old will be
gone and the new will have fully come
yes
will be where a new creation now in
Christ because we've been set free from
our sin we received the Holy Spirit but
we receive a new body when we're in
heaven and I just think how exciting for
people who are experiencing chronic
disease who are experiencing things like
visual impairment or speech impediment
so you can't walk or you know all these
really physical things that one day
we're going to get a new body and I got
to think Jen that the fact that we we
have a perception of the passage of time
yes we can look in the mirror and we see
ourself aging I found a gray hair this
morning and I know well a couple my
wrinkles show oh I hate to keep lying
about anyways those gonna be no wrinkles
but I think we can see these reminders
of the passage of time physically it
lets us know and that we are not just
for this time mm-hmm that we are eternal
because if you think about it this way
why is it weird that we don't like the
passage of time why don't we like it
it's so part of life people have been
born living dying since the creation of
the world so why is it strange to us
it's like a fish being kind of out of
sorts that the waters really wet because
it's so part of his natural environment
but I think that the fact that we can
perceive the passage of time and it is
uncomfortable to us points the fact that
that we have we are eternal in our true
nature yes and that this is just the
shell of our body yes so next time you
look in the mirror and you're looking at
those wrinkles and you're counting hair
gray hairs just thank God that there's
something more to life than this hey
amen alright so Genesis also tells us
that Satan who the devil was in the
first garden and he is the one that
caused all the problems right he is the
serpent that caused Adam and Eve to sin
right he presented the fruit the fruit
right if you eat this Apple you will be
like God and yet and so the whole Bible
is about the fall
of that choice that Eve and Adam made
and so in the end God is true too he
finishes what he starts because even
though Satan is in in the first garden
in the new heaven and new earth there
will be no Satan he will be thrown into
the lake of fire and so he will not be
there there will be no temptation there
will be no temptation in heaven there
will be nothing to draw us away from
relationship with God and so often that
we talked to people today about guarding
relationships we've talked about the
little foxes so many times because the
little foxes come in and want to
distract us in heaven not as on to me
there no little foxes will be
distracting us from the goodness and
wonderfulness of who God is Satan will
not be there there'll be no temptation
there will be no trials there will be
none of that like mmm god yea God's
going to get rid of Satan there won't be
no evil in heaven gay and Genesis also
tells us about the entrance of sin unto
the earth right then just describe that
and in in the new heaven and new earth
it will be no sin because Satan will we
have have dealt with he will be gone and
so there will be no sin in have it so
there'll be no bullying which is so cool
like people will not people will treat
one another with love and respect and
kindness and goodness there'll be no
there'll be no abuse no abuse there'll
be and for some of you you need to hear
that today there will be no abuse in
heaven that there will be no bruises
that there will be no sore spots in your
life that there will be a completely
it will be filled with God and it says
he will wipe away every tear I love that
picture like there will be no hurt
between people there will be full
restoration of relationship between
people and with God yeah I mean even
just this week I heard about you know um
a little cousin of mine who was bullied
at school and I just want I heard that
Jen and I was like I just want to find
that bully I just want to murder re yeah
you know I just want to take care of it
and protect him and love him and you
know that's not the place for us to
intervene God is going to make all
things right he is just and both loving
and good and merciful but we upset
because we know what's wrong but here's
the hope that it's going to be restored
so in Genesis it tells us how death
entered as the punishment for sin and in
Revelation it tells how death is over
come it says death and Hades place of
the Dead is actually thrown into the
lake of fire so there will be no more
punishment for sin there will be no more
death like people will not die in heaven
I think like what you said about time
mm-hmm like we are eternal creatures in
a physical world so we cannot quite
grasp the fact of forever well because
time is a dimension yes length height
width and time and so it we're going to
be actually moved outside of time I know
which is so it's gonna be strange it'll
be strange but I won't feel strange
because that'll be our natural habitat
yes I agree there you go Genesis tells
us how we are banned from the tree of
life right because it says that God put
an angel around while flaming sword at
the entrance of the garden so they would
not come in and eat from the tree of
life and then basically that was a
protection so that we wouldn't be in our
sin forever and so he banned us from it
but in heaven it says that there will be
the tree of life will be there and will
have fruit every month and the leaves
are for the healing of the nation's and
it's open to everyone so because we will
live
eternally with God so we're actually
welcome to partake of the tree of life
in heaven and finally Genesis tells us
how our relationship got with God was
broken yes because in the very beginning
after Adam and Eve ate from the Apple it
says that from yves line while Adam and
Eve's line will come someone who'll
crush the head of the serpent meaning
the double meaning the depth and that
someone was Jesus Christ who at the
cross broke the power of death and hell
restoring us to whom he truly were
created to be if we chose to put our
faith in Jesus Christ originally we were
created to be in relationship with God
and I know you're saying she says this
over and over again because I think that
sometimes we forget why you're truly
created we're truly created to have a
relationship with Jesus Christ God the
Father Holy Spirit because sin entered
into the world and we now have taken on
that likeness we have a sinful nature we
can't truly be with God until Jesus
comes along and by his blood he actually
redeems and restores that that
relationship he pays for our sins says
that he wipes no way so that we can
actually stand before God because of
Jesus not because of works are we saved
it straight up Jesus Christ yeah yeah
it's our relationship our proximity to
him and actually there's a very neat
story it's written by max lucado and
it's a story about a young man who
learned about the relationship with a
fund and how that brings that you I'll
just read and then you can figure out
what it's about all right Joe Albright
is a fair and fearless West Texas
rancher he was a huge square-jawed
raw-boned man in Andrews County where I
was raised this is written by Max and
everyone knew him one of Joe's sons
James and I were best friends in high
school we played football together
more honest he played football while I
guarded the team bench I some people can
relate to that one friday night after an
out-of-town game James invited me to
stay at his house by the time we reached
his property the hour was way past
midnight and he hadn't told his father
that he was bringing anyone home mr.
Albright didn't know me or my vehicle so
when I stepped out of the car in front
of his house he popped on the floodlight
and aimed it right at my face through
the glare I saw this block of a man I
think he was in his underwear and I
heard his deep voice who are you I
gulped my mind moved at the speed of
cold honey I started to say my name but
didn't mr. Albright doesn't know me my
only hope was that James his son would
speak up a glacier could have melted
before he did so finally James
interceded it's okay dad that's my
friend Max and he's with me the light
went off and mr. Albright threw open the
door come on in boys food is in the
kitchen and what changed what made mr.
Albright flip off the light only one
fact that I had aligned myself with his
son by sudden safety had nothing to do
with my accomplishments how he played on
the football field or any offerings that
he could make it was because he knew his
son period yeah revelation 20 systems
then I saw a great white throne and the
one who was sitting on it and the one
who's sitting on it earth and sky ran
away from him and disappeared and I saw
the dead great and small standing before
the throne the books were opened and the
book of life was opened the dead were
judged by what they had done which was
written in the books the sea gave up the
dead who were in it and death and Hades
gave up the dead who were in them each
person was judged by what he had done
and death and Hades were thrown into the
lake of fire versus what we said the
lake of fire is the second death and
anyone whose name is not found written
in the book of life was thrown into the
lake of fire so the book of life it's
called the Lamb's Book of Life right yes
and that's where all the names of those
who have
align themselves with Jesus just like
Max had aligned himself with the son
James in order to be accepted by the
father that if we if our names are not
written in that book of life that
ultimately there is a hell and there is
judgment yeah but we have a choice we
have the choice and that is the hope of
Revelation is God finishes what he
starts he starts to have a relationship
with us in Genesis and in the end all
the Bible is like come to me come to me
come to me revelation come to me come to
me come to me and finally he's like
those who have come to me come into my
your eternal reward right well done but
those who have chosen not to serve Jesus
Christ and it is a choice it's always a
choice well stitch n thats I so I was
talking to someone not too long ago and
a tongue them about God and you know my
experience and in being a Christian and
and they said well I just can't believe
in a God who is supposed to be loving
who would send people to hell this awful
place of torment and suffering like what
kind of loving God would do that and as
always so what's your response well I
think my response is
God is loving and so he doesn't continue
to force himself on people that don't
want him in their lives and so for those
who have continually said no to God then
it just makes sense that he would not
then welcome them into life with him and
so release hell is absence of God so
they have chosen I don't want anything
to do with God so while they're here on
earth they actually are continually
bombarded bombarded by God every day
this is the earth resounds the glory of
God right and it says that creation
groans to be reunited to be restored
right so they are surrounded by God
every day when the new heaven and the
new earth comes for those whose names
are not written in the Lamb's Book of
Life they will be put in a place where
there is no God whatsoever because that
was the choice that they actually made
they actually made a choice not not to
respond to being with God because it
says deny yourself pick up your cross
and follow me so following Jesus Christ
is actually saying know where the things
of this world and that's just that the
things of this world except for the joy
set before him he endured the cross
right he knew what was coming and it's
like we need to people need to see that
there's more to this life and just what
they see around them that really there
is a God who loves them and wants to
have a relationship with them and they
actually have to make that choice to
follow him or else the option is how
like a place without God because that so
it's not that yeah God is a loving and
caring God and why would he actually
allow people who don't want anything to
be with him or his people to be in
heaven with him and his people because
then that's not very loving towards the
people who who actually made the choice
to follow him but I'll
God doesn't send people to how people
can choose but he's made away and Jesus
says I am the way the truth and the life
no one comes to the Father except by me
so he has already made a way for us to
choose him and so I think that's where
I'll and with that jen is that people
make the choice to go there yeah they do
that's that's the bottom line and they
just don't like the repercussion of the
choice I think that's what the problem
is well what do you mean I can't do what
I want to do and get what I want to have
and it's like I want to be a doctor I
want to be a doctor I want to have all
the money and benefits that a doctor has
I don't want to go to school and I don't
want to be in a resident and oh don't
make me you know touch people and
diagnose people but I want to have the
title of doctor I want to have the
paycheck of doctor I want to have the
honor of dr. I don't want to do what it
takes to be a doctor and it's you know
and that's a very rough picture but it's
like I want to be a Christian I want to
I want to go to heaven but I do not want
to do what it actually takes to be well
the results would be well I'm not going
to let you be a doctor you're not going
to be a doctor unless you actually go
through the steps of being a doctor it
to get your name written in the Lamb's
Book of Life means I'm a sinner I am
separated by God because of the my sin
and I recognize that only Jesus Christ
can make me right with God and so as a
choice i surrender my life i'm gonna i'm
going to align myself with him and I
want to walk the road that he's calling
me too I don't fully get it and that's
not it it's not about fully
understanding everything it's realizing
that we need to be restored with God and
the only way we can do that is through
Jesus Christ answer the power of the
Holy Spirit working in and through us we
actually walk through life with Jesus
teaching us
and you know to continue with your
analogy there of wanting to have all the
benefits of me being a physician but not
being willing to do the work I see it as
Jesus has done the work he's the great
physician yes yes and he he then gives
you the honor and the title yes and then
I see it as like he then takes your hand
and he would write the prescriptions so
that's how I see my life living out now
that I can't do the work I can't get
into med school I can't write an mcat I
can't do this and that but Jesus came
here he did it yes I put on his lab coat
I put on it and I now become that and he
helps me live it out yes through the
power to the power of the holy spirit
and and what it takes the work is to
believe in the one that he sent Jesus
yes so it's simple and yet it's so hard
right to live for the Lord because you
have to choose him that whole deny
yourself I'm going to choose life I'm
going to make it's a choice and God
calls every single person to make that
choice because he wants to be in
relationship with you but he wants you
to be in relationship with him and
that's good it's good he does not force
himself in and just like revelation that
is the hope of the book time after time
after time even though it's full of all
sorts of symbols and numbers and and
plagues and wrath but the underlying
purpose is in order to draw people to
him right that they would finally make a
choice to serve Him to love him to come
into relationship with him hmm in order
that they can be restored and be with
him forever that's that's the hope of
Revelation yeah is he finishes what he
starts he started in the in Genesis I
want to have a relation
share with you revelation is I want to
have a relationship with you and here
you are and he's made away and he's made
away through Jesus Christ why don't we
pray gen all right all right father
thank you you are the Alpha and the
Omega the beginning and the end you sent
Jesus your only Son to die on a cross
for us and lord I feel like we say the
same thing every week but this is the
good news this is the gospel this is
real heaven is for real I praise you for
that I also praised you that you are
loving but you are also just your holy
you don't want sin to be in your
presence that can't be in your presence
I thank you for that by your grace
you've made a way that because when
Jesus died on the cross as blood can
cover my sin now you paid that price and
so we receive that forgiveness thank you
Lord so much for all the people who are
watching this show and I pray that you
would encourage them I pray that when
they read your word it would just
explode in their mind that you would
open their mind to understand open my
mind Lord to understand even more what
would you help us to live this life that
honors you and to share with others this
good news we love you and thank you in
Jesus name babe
alright well thank you so much for
tuning into new every day please go to
our website new everyday TV check us out
on Facebook and we will see you next
week same time same place thank you so
much to category 5 TV for hosting and
jen thanks for the good conversation I
always feel like I learned something
here thank you God we arrived
you
