[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now as broadcasters we
love making it easier for us to switch
camera angles
don't you think Sasha I think so I
absolutely agree and totally part of
that process especially in a studio like
this or if you are webcasting from home
or any you know any type of scenario
where you need to be able to switch now
having something like this device is
just amazing right now full disclosure
we have a broadcast system that is
Telestream Wirecast powered right this
is only a controller so this will
control anything but it is not a camera
switcher we make it look like a camera
switcher right because that's the
buttons that I programmed in Sasha might
want this on the desk at work and turn
this into all of the buttons that you
use in your chiropractic software for
example you might want this on your
computer at home so that you can all of
your video editing or anything else that
you do you can program every single
button on here to do anything that you
want so maybe I do need it at home so
I'm gonna actually push a button here to
get in a little bit closer so that I can
show you the stream deck so this is what
it looks like to us tonight so we have
camera shots for all of us and we have a
wire cast button down here that allows
us to start and stop recording start and
stop broadcasting and even turn on and
off our computer monitor that we use to
be able to see ourselves and then I can
just navigate did you notice Sasha that
when I push the Wirecast button yeah it
brings up a folder I've programmed it to
bring up a folder we're gonna actually
be looking at that in a moment I'm gonna
push the wide shot you're gonna see how
it switches back to our normal camera
and it's instant it is instantaneous
we've used Bluetooth devices keyboards
and things like that in the past example
pedals
and it just there's a delay yeah
sometimes you got to push it two or
three times not the case here but you
also notice on my Wirecast button it has
a Wirecast logo mm-hmm and I'm
eventually gonna go through and the
Robie button is gonna have a picture of
me sashes button is gonna have a picture
of her and it's gonna make things a lot
easier for me too okay to look down and
know what I'm pushing instead of seeing
the robotic laces yeah it's just a robot
looking thing so let's get a look at how
I actually set this up and just keep in
mind I do want to circle back to the
folder right okay so so basically this
is our Telestream Wirecast system with
the stream deck software up on the
screen and all I want to do is I just
want to drag a hot key onto there and
you see in the live camera view that it
instantly creates it I'm gonna create
one called Robbie and look at me down in
the bottom there on Telestream Wirecast
I've assigned stream deck to control T
so now Intel a stream Wirecast I simply
want to match that up so I'm gonna go
into preferences and in my keyboard
shortcuts I'm just gonna create one for
Robbie
you can call it whatever you want and
the hotkey is gonna be ctrl T or shift T
pardon me
now I assign that to my shot and if I
click on any other shot now watch what
happens I'm gonna go and actually push
the button on the stream deck and watch
the yellow grid that goes around my
image watch there see that as soon as I
push the button that yellow border goes
around the the shot showing that it is
now the active shot so next up what I
probably want to do is start programming
all of my different shots in Telestream
Wirecast to be compatible with the
stream deck and it's really that simple
you just have to assign a key and
and then assign it to the stream deck so
I'm going to assign shift I as my
standby button and I'm making that
global you see that so if Wirecast is
not in the foreground it's still going
to work so I assign that to the shot for
standby and then back at the stream deck
I create another hotkey see how it
popped up there instantly and this is
just our standby and shift I and now
it's done its assigned so now if I go
back to Telestream Wirecast and i'm just
gonna jump back to the stream deck here
push that button see the yellow border
push my button there's the yellow border
moving down to my shot push it again and
it bounces around instantaneously now
there's something else that's really
really cool about the stream deck and
Telestream Wirecast and how it can work
together and that's that Telestream
Wirecast has some hotkeys assigned
automatically by default to things like
recording see that or in our case maybe
we want to create a button that is for
turning on the broadcast there you go so
now we can grab and we know control B so
let's let's do that so I'm going to
create a new button here for a hotkey
and this is going to be oh let's make it
a hotkey switch and now it's going to
show if we're live or not when we toggle
that button so I'm going to call this
broadcast and then assign the key for
both key 1 and key too it's gonna be the
same thing we're just pushing it once
and then again
now we don't have to assign that oh I
just have to okay so what I'm doing here
just so you know so you see how I had
the I left
Wirecast in the background yeah and then
I had the editor in the foreground and I
pushed the button the reason for that is
because I'm not currently broadcasting
right so I want the icon to be in the
off position right off state right now
when I go back to Telestream Wirecast
and I push that button again watch up at
the top a little bit to the left not
quite the middle when I push that see
that broadcast icon lit up mm-hmm now if
I push it again it's gonna wrap up the
stream and there it's off Oh see that
and on the switch on the button on this
stream deck the icon changes from off to
on and I can visually see that I'm
broadcasting or not so you can
understand like you're able to just
program anything that you want with this
let's look at the folders now sash I
said this is important to me let's
create a new folder for this and we're
gonna actually call this Wirecast it's
so easy like this took me five minutes
to figure out and I didn't look at the
manual I can now browse for an icon and
I'm gonna just jump into my resource
folder in Telestream Wirecast
installation folder and I can Crewe I
can create an icon on the not just on
the screen but on the actual screens
that are buttons like we're talking
about 15 little screens that are touch
buttons and each one can be individually
and dynamically changed so I'll just use
the Wirecast icon I think that looks
good watch how quickly see how it
changed up on the camera now if I push
that button the Wirecast button it opens
the folder and now I've got the
broadcast or not broadcast watch the
broadcast icon in Wirecast as I do that
right now I'm broadcasting and switching
cameras go back let's turn off the
broadcast and watch there it's off see
that
how cool is that now with the folder
Sasha I said that I really love the
folder feature right there are 15
buttons on the stream deck 15 buttons
and each one can be a folder okay so
we've got 14 sub buttons on every single
one of those 15 buttons we're talking a
cumulative total of basically this thing
has 210 active hot keys it's amazing if
you code it that way that's incredible
nobody probably needs that many but
consider I can have one for Wirecast
that's a button for Wirecast I can have
one for office suite I can have one for
whatever but then take it one step
further I can create profiles in the
program that controls the stream deck
right and each profile I can assign to a
different application so as soon as I
open Wirecast it automatically loads the
Wirecast profile into the stream deck as
soon as I open Atlas it loads the Atlas
profile into the screen onto the stream
so it's really unlimited now if 15
buttons is too much for you so you look
at this and you think okay this this is
really really great for a broadcaster
like Robbie and we'll get into focus
there 15 buttons 200 and 210 active hot
keys in folders maybe it's too much for
you now they have just released the
stream deck mini which we also carry and
the stream deck mini has only six
buttons okay so six with five in the sub
folders you're looking at 30 active hot
keys that's more than enough for your
desk at home or whatever it is that
you're doing just a quick correction
during post-production we thought hey
let's just try it and we created a
nested subfolder within a folder it
appears that you can create as many
subfolders as you'd like so basically
the stream deck can hold an unlimited
number of hot keys a folder within a
folder within a folder so you have to
check out stream deck I'm I have to say
I'm entirely pleased with this Jeff
you've go yet for two weeks now yeah
it's been amazing as a companion to
Telestream Wirecast it's been fantastic
and you can see how we've utilized it
there it's instantaneous camera
switching for us but it's not limited to
broadcasting so I want to stress even
though it's called the stream deck even
though I am using it as a streaming
interface because I can program any of
those buttons to do anything that I want
within Windows 10 or Mac OS I have no
limitations on what it's capable of so
that's cool it's my own creativity the
question will come in is it compatible
with Linux unfortunately at this point
not yet and that's because the driver
software has to be loaded on the
computer and it's only available for
Windows and Mac however I did notice
that somebody is working on a node.js
interface for it so that it will become
compatible with Linux eventually but
it's not there yet and it's unofficial
so it's not like something that you
program and plug in and it's going to
work on any computer it's something that
the driver is actually running on my
Telestream Wirecast computer and when I
plug it into the Telestream Wirecast
computer it loads and connects and
allows me to interface with it I'm glad
you mentioned that because as you were
going through the presentation
lych in in the chatroom happened to
notice that you had a very weird looking
version of linux on your screen yeah
cached requires by their Microsoft
Windows or Mac OS I don't we don't do
Mac here so it had to be a Windows
broadcast system that we use so that's
what we're tied to and so this is a
perfect companion for that so if you
have a Windows or a Mac machine this is
an amazing interface check it out a cat5
dot TV slash stream deck and if you come
up with any clever ideas for what it can
be used for we would love to hear from
you let us know
