hello and welcome to new every day my
name is Carrie my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
so who gets the glory stay tuned
hello hello and welcome back to new
every day thanks so much for tuning
again this week and we are back in the
book of Acts and I told you we'd be on
chapter 4 but we're not there yet
because there's so much more in chapter
3 to look at so Jen where are we chapter
3 verse 11 so last week we talked about
the fact that the disciples were walking
to the temple three o'clock because that
was a normal time to pray a man was a
crippled man from birth was brought by
some friends to sit at the temple in
order to receive money from the people
so then I love this part this is most
exciting part cuz Peters like look at us
cuz and the man's like play down rapt
attention and then he's like I've got it
we did not talk about this last week but
could you imagine this is the statement
you're hoping for money silver and gold
I have none I am like could you just
imagine how is his why do you think I'm
here boys yeah I like what are you gonna
give me something like I just wonder
what like maybe that he thought oh maybe
they'll share their lunch with me you
know maybe they have a cloak for me
maybe the head of a new mat for me like
I wonder in that split second what went
through his mind cuz you're wasting my
time yeah I hadn't even think of that
that's so true so yes so so anyways so
he jumps up don't yell me yeah because
beers like silver gold i have none but i
will heal you well know he doesn't say I
he says but in the name of Jesus from
Nazareth be healed so he hasn't in the
name of Jesus so this in some says he
jumped up and they continued into the
temple and the end of verse 10 says they
recognized him so the people that were
in the temple when all the people saw
him walking and praising God so that's
verse 9 they recognized him as the same
man who used to sit begging at the
temple gate called beautiful and they
were
filled with Wonder and amazement at what
had happened so it was like whoa hey
that's the dude has been lame from birth
yes wowza yeah like have you ever been
in a situation I know we haven't talked
about this where something happened and
you just went Wow light like that was
amazing or I can't believe that just
happened yeah yeah it yeah are you
thinking of one uh do you have one well
no because it's more ignorant good
because we often we because our lives
can be so predictable sometimes that I
think one I have a simple one where I'm
just I we commute a lot like we are
constant in North America if you're not
watching from North America you might
not have any concept to this especially
or use language to me pardon me which
seemed strange to me I know but we
commute a lot we were constantly in our
cars and so many times I actually even
driving down the road and I'll watch
somebody cut someone else I'll see how
God well in my opinion is God he gets in
there and totally predicts someone from
dying yeah and literally my mouth goes
wow god are you good like and that's
just a very simple like cuz I know it
was God when I watch how they almost
died and killed other people like that
and it's unfortunate that most of my our
moments hmm our phone are in the car on
the highway watching people not die like
is amazing it was like in the emergency
department I walk in and they did die in
front of me and then we're right there
so we can intervene yeah but they didn't
die until they got in so that was good
so it's the you know until I want you to
you know think about for you know you
know have you had experience where you
go wow that was I didn't expect that to
happen but it's so good it's okay so
then it says while the beggar held on to
Peter and John all the people were
astonished and came running to them in
the place called solid ins colonnade
when Peter saw this he said to them I
want you to underline that
through Bible when Peter saw this so
when Peter saw all the people coming to
him he said to them men of Israel why
does this surprise you why do you stare
at us as if by our own power or
godliness we have made we had made this
man walk the God of Abraham Isaac and
Jacob the god of Our Fathers has
glorified his servant Jesus he you
handed him over to be killed and you
disowned him before Pilate though he had
decided to let him go you disowned the
holy and righteous one and asked that a
murderer be released to you you killed
the author of life but God raised him
from the dead we are witnesses of this
by faith in the name of Jesus this man
whom you see and know was made strong it
is Jesus's name and the faith that comes
through him that has given this complete
complete healing as you all as you can
all see now brothers I want you i know
that you acted in ignorance as did your
leaders but this is how God fulfilled
what he had foretold through the Prophet
saying that his Christ would suffer
repent then and turn to God so that your
sins may be wiped out and that times of
refreshing may come from the Lord and
that he may send the Christ who has been
appointed to you even Jesus he must
remain in heaven until the time comes
for God to restore everything as his
promised as he promised long ago through
his holy prophets for Moses said the
Lord your God will raise up for you a
prophet like me from among your own
people you must listen to everything he
tells you anyone who does not listen to
him will be completely cut off from
other people cut off from among his
people indeed all the profits from
Samuel on as many as have spoken have
foretold these days and you are heirs of
the prophets and of the Covenant God
made with your forfeit with your
father's he said to Abraham through your
offspring all peoples on earth will be
blessed when God raised up his servant
he sent him first to you to bless you by
turning each of you from your wicked
ways
he just totally redirected the
conversation I know from the man who was
healed to Jesus and why they need Jesus
to come to turn each one of you from
your iniquities from your wicked ways to
save you so that was just like a
launching board to actually talk about
Jesus they wasn't fixated on the fact
that wow look at his ankles now look at
his knees look how high you can job look
he's praising God let's go praise God
yeah it was like hold on here's why we
have the ability to praise God now
because of this it's because Jesus
Christ came but repentance needed to
happen yeah in order for them to receive
Christ so the question is how good are
you are you at turning the conversation
from what happened to who it might have
happened from so think about that we'll
be back in just a minute introducing
Beltone first a revolutionary new
hearing aid so small you can hardly see
it so comfortable you can hardly feel it
for the first time ever you can control
hearing aids directly from your iPhone
pick up the phone listen to music and
use your hearing aids like wireless
headphones hear everything that matters
try Beltone first for a free trial call
one eight hundred Bell tone now hey and
welcome back we're jumping right back in
thank you so much to all of our
wonderful sponsors and partners if you
want to check them out go to work our
website you everyday TV click on our
partners page and you can see all the
amazing organizations and companies who
are helping make this program possible
so thank you so much and we were just
speaking about how Peter after the
layman had been healed how now he's
turning the focus yes and he's allowing
God to work repentance to bring
repentance into these people's lives yes
so he's telling the story and and the
way that he shifts the attention is very
interesting
and it does speak about in the New
Testament how we need to shift from the
natural to the spiritual mm-hmm everyone
can relate to something in the natural
world right like I was having a
conversation with a friend of ours who
works with computers and I just have no
idea how things work in the computer and
I'm quite happy not to fully know but he
was able to explain how some kind of
processor or something worked but he
related to things i could understand my
camera if it was like cooking or if it
was something else but i got it because
he related it to a natural thing that I
had familiarity with huh and I feel like
that people in the New Testament the
disciples and Paul especially swings
from the natural to the spiritual yes
they take what is happening and instead
of putting a focus on themselves because
not never wants this Peter take any like
glory for this like he acknowledges this
is what happens but then he said but
this is who healed him and he doesn't
even say well I was with him the whole
time he called me from the boat so I
have this special connection with him
yeah and so he just jumps right in its
like you said like this is what's
happening in the natural but he turns it
around to the spiritual lesson for the
people for the purpose that they would
come to know Jesus yes and what they
were able to relate to so these were
people these were Jews right yes these
worms going to the temple to pray so
they were familiar with the teachings in
the Old Testament and he quotes the Old
Testament and says you essentially
should know that this time was coming
because all the prophets like Samuel
onward they talked about this happening
that people would be able to heal in the
name of God yes right yeah so he's like
now's the time essentially and the Old
Testament spoke about Jesus He fulfilled
the prophecies in the Old Testament so
they were familiar with the Old
Testament the prophets yeah and he
relates this miracle to that saying this
is now a fulfillment of those prophecies
right yeah
and then he goes on to say how it was
Jesus who has fulfilled like you said
has fulfilled all of these things but
you didn't get it you didn't see that it
was Jesus that Jesus was the fulfillment
of all the Old Testament prophecies and
then it says verse 17 now brothers I
know that you acted in ignorance as did
your leaders like he just calls him out
he's like you didn't know you didn't
know but now you and and I love that he
goes on to say but this is how God
fulfilled that he would foretold what he
foretold through the Prophet saying that
his Christ would suffer so then he says
he he takes what happened but what's
happened the man was healed he relates
to the spiritual this you know this is
who the Christ is but you missed it but
this is what I love about this message
you missed the miracle you missed who
Jesus was but if you acknowledge that
you missed it and you repent here it is
here it is it's not amazing like second
chance second chance because it says
refreshing may come from the Lord he's
like he acknowledges the fact that you
missed the boat and he's like don't
worry don't let that stop you don't let
your past stop you from moving forward
with Jesus and that's like this is a
story of redemption like it's like you
know what the Old Testament says you
knew that times of healing and miracles
would come Jesus came he is the
fulfillment of that you and your leaders
missed it but it's not too late so often
I think people can say it's too late for
me or you know I should have made the
most of that opportunity and I've just
I've missed out totally that is not true
with Jesus it has never never never
never never too late and in one of our
previous conversations we talked about
the parable of the workers and how at
the very last moment out of 5 30 or six
o'clock when basically the day was done
that the owner went out and said no no
you come to you come to and at those
point that was when you know if you're
still standing around five thirty six
o'clock that meant you were
picked over like nobody wanted you to
work there's something wrong with you
and so maybe you were lame from birth
like maybe you were lame from birth and
he or you had no skill at all to do what
they need and the owner said no you come
and that's what Peter Peter is extending
to them that it's not too late like
there's room in the kingdom for that
like you come like you come now I draw
the line in the sand yeah and say you
know what today is the day I'm going to
move forward and I just love it because
it says that times of refreshing may
come from the Lord like when we repent
when we choose to acknowledge our
ignorance of who God is and say you know
I have sinned then by the power of the
Holy Spirit and the blood of Christ
washing away our sin getting rid of it
and then filling us with the freshness
of Christ it's like it is refreshing hmm
it is refreshing to experience just let
that time that you spend with the Lord
knowing that that you have been forgiven
that is not too late that God Christ
still has plans and purposes for your
life like it is refreshing to have your
sins washed away I was listening to an
amazing story yesterday and it's
actually on focus on the family if you
go to their daily podcasts and it was a
story of a man who has since passed away
his name's Dennis and Dennis was a
follower of Charles Manson oh boy yes so
can you give us just a little backup of
who Charles Manson is from what I
understand me I'm listening he
orchestrated some terrible murders yes
spend in LA like very very brutal really
shocked that area and the world and he
basically was saying like he was a
messiah type figure and so he had like
this family of people who would follow
him and so Dennis this guy got on board
and started to associate with his family
and kinda was brainwashed to believe
that he this Charles Manson guy could be
the leader that he was looking for
because he was like an anarchist he
really rebelled in the 60s against all
forms of law and so he then tried to
break Charles Manson out of prison so he
robbed a military surplus store was
shooting at police officers Anjali was
arrested brought to prison and it was in
prison that he was in a Cell his
cellmate was this Christian guy who read
his Bible all day that's it I thought
this guy is so weird so so so weird and
then he couldn't get away from it
because he'd go out in the yard and
these other big guys who murderers would
come up and be like hey do you want to
know what I read in the Bible today
maybe like what is going on but
eventually he submitted his life to
Christ and he asked for forgiveness and
he said it was the first time in 38
years he ever felt clean it was that
time of refreshing that God then changed
his life because of Jesus and he started
to see things in a new light he started
to speak things in a new way and that
really speaks to that time of refreshing
when repentance in God says it's his
kindness that leads us to repentance and
to a new life with him because there's
always room there's always room and so
we want to encourage you today if you've
never known Jesus then today is the day
that you would just as this word said
repent of your ignorance of not knowing
and times of refreshing to come or maybe
you're just struggling in your walk and
you're just like man I just really I've
really messed up and just like these you
know some of these followers had like
they were Jewish but they just really
missed the boat and not realizing who
Jesus was or maybe you know you know
that Jesus has been calling you to do
something but you've just been putting
it off and maybe today's your day just
to repentance a god I'm sorry but but
there's always room there's always room
to come and so we're going to pray and
we're
to ask Jesus to lead and guide us in the
ways that we might need to repent today
so let's do that Heavenly Father I thank
you so much that you want to bring times
of refreshment to each person would you
show us today the things that we may
need to repent of maybe it is ignorance
of just not knowing you have never come
to know you maybe it's repentance that
you have actually been calling us and
we've ignored you or maybe it's
repentance in the fact that you told us
something very specific and we've said
no Lord we ask in your name that you
would show us the things that we need to
repent of today so that we might
experience the times of refreshment that
you have for us and the greater things
and to be able to participate in the
greater things that you have in store
lord thank you for this message today
that you do want to bring times of
refreshment to all people I I asked Lord
God that we would desire those things in
your name we pray amen amen thanks so
much for tuning in again to new every
day and we hope to see you back here
next week can we carry on with the book
of Acts have a great week
you
