welcome to new every day my name is
Carrie and we have Emily and Erin back
on the show to talk more about family
matters and what it's like to be a mom
so stay tuned
welcome back to new every day jen is a
way and we have Emily Riley and Erin
Hatton here and we are so glad that you
have come back for another well round
two of family matters and talking what
it's talking about what it's like to be
a mom and if you watch last week's show
you'll know that Aaron is a mother of
four children and is a published author
and is doing some work in the community
with moms who are transitioning at an
intuition from the shelter system that's
they understand yarn yeah and Emily
Riley is a new mom of an 11 month old
Clara and she works in interior design
and does design ii things okay Emily and
her commercial and everything I mercial
interior we've known each other for a
long time and I always ask Emily what
she does I really don't understand but
she makes things happen and things look
nice and yeah good job emily is on
maternity leave right now and you're in
your home for the summer with the kid
who then still doing a little bit of
writing yeah here and there yeah when I
can remain and what what are some of the
books that what types of books are you
writing I historical fiction and fantasy
my books that I have published our
fantasy allegory about Christ's love for
the church and historical fiction based
on the true story about my ancestors and
their how their faith influenced each
other mm-hmm and if people want to get
ahold of those books how do they go
about doing that they're available
online like amazon chapters anything
like that yeah aaron has a Facebook page
I do if you go to our partners page you
can scroll down to Amazon and you'll be
able to search for Aaron's books give us
the title of your book other world and
across the deep other world and across
the deep so check that out
so anyways we're going to jump back into
where we left off we had you guys had
shared about your expectations before a
parent hood before you became new moms
and then how your relationship with God
changed after having children and that
you had a better understanding of God's
unconditional love for us in his
forgiveness and then we also kind of
touched on how society puts a lot of
expectations on new moms and a lot of
pressure and can we just go over that
again so what are some of the the
pressures may be that you experience as
a first-time mom Emily yeah so um even I
was talking about last time how stubborn
Clara is right so just finding out how
she would be able to sleep successfully
and that sort of thing like that was a
huge struggle and as soon as you start
googling stuff like you're all missing
last time there's two different schools
of thought and if you read one it's
saying if you do this your child's going
to be Abby's and like not doing school
and do poorly and if you do this then
they're not going to learn like how to
successfully sued themselves and all
that jazz and it's just finding what
works for you and like finding how you
can survive and thrive as well because
if you're doing one thing and you're not
doing like and if you're a mess than
your child's obviously going to feed off
that as well and sense how you're
feeling and like then they're not going
to be happy and I've heard that compared
to like in an airplane yeah how you you
put on your oxygen mask yours and then
you can put on your child exigent mask
because if you pass out while you're
trying to put on theirs then no neither
yeah exactly so yeah and so taking care
of yourself and you have to be able to
take care of someone else exactly yeah
and also like there's so many
expectations beforehand as well and
there's so many things that I said that
I wouldn't do beforehand like I never
statements all night I'll never do this
as a mom and I like i said i'll never
let my kid watch TV and like we were in
there eating lunch and clara was
watching the olympics and equestrian
with matt
Matt loves the Olympics like he has a
deep passion for the Olympics yeah and
so and even like every morning like I
was telling them like if i go to have a
shower or something in the morning and I
put Claire in her pack and play well
Matt's having breakfast she has she has
some separation anxiety which would
almost be an understatement considering
the church nursery but anyways ah it's
all good we're working on that she
starts daycare soon uh oh and when I
maybe sitter yeah someday you're gonna
love me yeah exactly so carries awesome
errands awesome so anyways so in the
mornings it's like if I put her in her
pack and play with matt and the TV's not
on she will scream the entire time while
I have a shower because she can still
hear me she can still she still knows
I'm there and she wants to play and that
sort of thing whereas if I turn the TV
on and her pack plays out with Matt
she'll watch the TV for like a minute
and then that she'll sit down in her
pack and play and she'll play and this
is something that like I struggled with
because it's like if your kid watches TV
for this long this is the amount of
stimulation they'll get and then they'll
get used to that stimulation and all
that jazz and it's something where I was
like she cannot so no watching TV for
this amount of time she's so young and
done but it's like it took me 10 and a
half months to be okay with it and but
she's happy and would I rather her be
happy and playing with toys while the
TV's on in the background with Matt in
the morning or would I rather her be
screaming at Matt for like ten straight
minutes turning red while he eats
breakfast and that's his last moment
before he goes to work with her that's a
good boy like and not like with his job
he has those ten minutes a bit more if
he wakes up early with her in the
morning and then he gets home from work
and he has 20 minutes with her before
she goes to bed so it's important that
he gets positive time with her and that
she gets positive time with him so good
yeah but the culture or yeah different
sources we're telling you yeah it's
gonna pickle
yeah yeah yeah exactly so it's yeah it's
learning what works for you same as
sleep training and all that jazz it's
learning what works for your family and
works with your kid now if she was
sitting down and she was like in front
of the TV when she's that young then we
may have to be evaluated ready but but
she's not doing that yeah we have a
similar thing with ya TV like I was so
like yeah they're not going to get TV
until they're at least two and
definitely minimal but then when I got
pregnant with Katy I was so sick I had
to go on dyke lectin and it knocked me
out yeah and so I've got this
two-year-old who could get into all
kinds of trouble around the house unless
I turn on the TV and then he sit still
and doesn't do anything and he totally
saved yeah so when I'm conked out and
could not keep myself awake it had we
had to put the TV on it was a survival
thing yeah because you were so tired
than he's know where he was yeah yeah
for sure for sure yeah wow yeah TVs just
one among that shocked me was you know
looking through magazines in your place
and seeing different ads or even just
reading on like facebook posts about the
products like the products that you can
purchase or maybe should purchase for
the safety of your child yeah like what
did you find that there's a lot of
product pushing that you felt the need
to have the right thing there's so much
product out there now it's again finding
what works with you and works with your
kids like there's so many different baby
carriers so like for me we have the
golden retriever so it's like okay what
will work for us in that time so I what
I did is I talk because we have holiday
I talked to a lot of moms beforehand
that had big dogs and that have been
through that experience and I asked them
okay like what works for you and just
getting that beforehand and testing it
out and that sort of thing and learning
the ropes and because we use a mobi wrap
right and you look at the moa Rob and
it's like how the heck do I did
I wish they'd had those 11 yeah did you
have a snuggly I had a snuggly yeah yeah
for them but with the twins and stuff
like I couldn't I know that when they're
little with the bull we wrap you can
wrap them both yeah I knew yeah yeah
yeah I couldn't do and so yeah my money
yeah yeah so if one was crying now I had
the other one it's just like yeah they
learned to take turns pretty young yeah
but the thing about products do I mean
like when we first had our kids we were
not in a position to buy all these
things yeah they were saying so we
really we bought like they had the the
kind of monitor that had the pad under
the mattress so you could like it would
have an alarm that went off your baby
stopped breathing or stop moving so we
we invested in that and we had a safe
car seat but I mean other than that we
were happy to have whatever we can get
yeah boy and and it's important to
remember to the older I get the more I
realize like people have been raising
babies for centuries without all this
stuff yeah I just look at how much
they've how far they've gone with
invention since I had my kids even just
in nine years like I did fine without
all those things yet they've invented
since the fat you know in the past nine
years so it's important to remember you
know that these this technology it's all
it's good to a point but it really isn't
the be-all and end-all it's important
that you love your baby and you know
keep your baby safe to a reasonable
level but you don't you don't need all
these gadgets sometimes they just want
the box yeah way to topper where
cupboard yeah exactly yeah yeah exactly
it doesn't change who you are as a mom
or and the wife you know more as a
friends like it's not going to enhance
that really yeah change who you are hmm
yeah no that's really good is there any
would you share like one piece of advice
for maybe mom maybe with the focus of
self-care like how do you take care of
yourself so that you're able to take
care of
you're your family and your husband's
you know and be there for them you know
what I know you mentioned that you put
the TV on together way that you take
care of yourself that maybe you could
share with the viewers um I think it's
important to forgive yourself if you if
you fell in short of these expectations
that you feel that society has or that
you have for yourself and and say you
know what maybe I didn't get to my
chores today and maybe my house is a
little messy but maybe I did get to you
know spend some time with God or or
spend some time making sure the kids
feel that that you're there and engaged
them or or have a nap when they're
sleeping instead of doing chores like
it's that's important and I sometimes
it's really hard for a mum to disengage
from that feeling of of needing to have
things done and needing to have
something to show for for being for your
existence you know like justify being
there but then I you know I think ok if
I have a nap then I'm able to make a
good dinner and I'm able to spend some
time with my husband before we crash at
bedtime like you know like that and
that's in some sense is more important
and even like date nights we made it a
priority early on that we were going to
make sure that we spent time together
without the kids and we've actually you
know when the kids get a little bit
worried about why are you leaving why
can't you stay here and then we'll well
I've actually told my kids before we're
going out on a date so we can be a
better mommy and daddy for you so we
that's always been a priority for us or
our marriage comes first and then the
kids yeah because I'd like to the whole
oxygen mask thing like you can't be a
good mom and dad unless you fill that
tank yeah cups yeah for sure and even if
you have yourself put together but if
you don't have a good relationship with
your husband how can you be on the same
page to raise four children around are
like I can't imagine that
yeah I know there's a lot of resources
from focus on the family that they do
say that a strong marriage is one of the
best ways that you can help your kids
understand what well one healthy what
healthy relationships look like and what
they can expect for marriage but it also
is um like socially protective for then
and in the sense that it can it you know
help keep them from getting into bad
stuff later if they know that stepmama
debtors their relationship is solid you
know even if other things are falling
apart mom and dad are solid yeah and I
know that there are a lot of like single
parents watching two and i think that
there's a lot of value in getting
involved in like a church family to
something at you and I know Aaron you
work with a lot of single moms is
absolutely yeah and if you could speak
to support for them oh for sure I mean
most of what I do at redwood is sit and
have coffee with moms and or you'll give
them a ride somewhere or watch their
little ones while they do something they
need to do and sometimes I feel like
well I'm not really doing much but then
I've had such continuous positive
feedback from them that that was exactly
what I needed today I needed to just
talk and so I think moms having other
moms to to vent to or two to talk to and
then it makes you feel like it cuz you
as a mom especially a single mom I'm
sure when you're alone with your kids
all the time you tend to get this
insulated little world where your you
kind of forget what's out there you
forget your connections to other people
and it tends to isolate you in the sense
that you don't really you don't really
know if you're doing a good job you
don't have a reference point I think so
never done before yeah getting together
with other friends why is friends who
are going to be able to steer you in the
right direction and to be able to to
sound things off of them or two to just
say hey I need to vent don't you know
don't judge me on this I just need to
yeah say what's in my heart and that
makes a big difference to your ability
to be a good mom and to be a whole
person
yeah those are some great thoughts and I
think that maybe that that speaks to
them the role of like single women in
families to you know for me I just so
value that my friends kind of welcome me
into your family but there's also a role
for women to be meeting with other women
you know human just absolutely that
sounding board and and to have that
solid relationship and friendship i
think is so important and even not not
having children of your own they're
still such an important and meaningful
role within families that I know
sometimes I've struggled with and that
you know some of my other friends who
don't have children have struggled with
but over time I've realized that that is
so important like having meaningful
conversation yeah having solid
friendships it is so important you don't
even have to have a lot in common yeah I
mean a lot of the women I support at
Redwood are they are playing domestic
violence like they add that is not
something I have any experience with but
we're we're women we're all women most
of us are moms we can still talk about
the common ground that we have yeah it
doesn't have to be much yeah there's
been so many times where like you've
texted me or you've texted me and been
like you're just wanted to let you know
you're such a good mom and it's like
even just that is so important yeah and
so valuable mm-hmm is there anything
that you wanted to add Emily to how you
take care of yourself to the whole bit
to the self-care discussion yeah well I
think even just learning how to be
flexible and relax and that sort of
thing and accepting change as well like
that's been big for me is that helped me
get through like all the transitions and
changes and that sort of thing like it's
a difficult thing to do but one of the
things that one of my friends for me
before him was the only thing that is
constant is change and just learned how
to accept that and that will help a lot
yeah and just kind of accepting that
truth has helped the bed it's like I
said it's been a challenge but yeah yeah
and like I said just with not just
learning how to be like okay you take
her I'm gonna go do this or accepting
help from friends and that's been a big
one for me as well as just learning how
to be like okay you got this see ya so
yeah mm-hmm that's so good that's so
good we are already out of time again
forever but thank you so much for coming
back on and why don't we just pray
together in the beautiful wrap up though
father thank you so much for the
wonderful gift of family and a
friendship and that you invented family
and you knit us together in our own
mother's wounds and Lord whether we know
are our parents or not or whether we're
part of the family or not you are our
Heavenly Father and I just thank you for
that God I think you don't you have a
plan for each one of us in your kingdom
and within the church the body of Christ
and I just want to thank you so much for
my friends who would come on today and I
pray for all the viewers who are moms
and who may be struggling and I pray
that you would put them in touch with
other people other women who know you
and could encourage them thank you for
your goodness to us and we just pray
this in Jesus name Amen all right well
thank you again thank you for tuning in
and check out last week's episode Family
Matters part 1 to hear from Emily and
Aaron and we hope that you'll tune in
next week check us out ketab new
everyday TV wanted to thank category 5
TV and Robbie Ferguson for making this
show of pasta
and thanks for tuning in
you
