[Music]
you every day with Jeff Weston commands
cruise
well good morning everyone good morning
Calvary and good morning new every day
god bless you I'm Lawrence Cruz and I'm
very privileged to be looking at this
amazing book here
it's called from eternity to eternity
it's a note book and study guide written
by a gentleman by the name of Craig F
Pitts and what do you know he happens to
be right here beside me today
hey come on live guess why don't you
welcome him in the studio today it's
wonderful we're live on location here at
Calvary Community Church in Barrie
Ontario Canada so a good shout out to
you all over the world I know many
Americans are watching and yes we are
looking well it's not too much snow here
today we made it and it's a little
warmer than usual what do you know
well it's Canada pastor Craig it's it's
a delight to have you here Cruz it's
good to be here and I think we're in for
a good time
I believe if this subject I believe that
we are now you didn't come here alone I
understand in the studio audience today
we have someone else with you who did
you lovely wife Dorothy is with me 48
years we've been together married and
we're so sorry what was that last call I
said we're still on their honeymoon
absolutely well that's great so thrilled
well we're concluding a series here at
Calvary on hell is no laughing matter
and this booklet has so many amazing
questions and great answers that
succinctly talked to us about this
subject so let's dive right in here and
I'm gonna read this question does Hell
in the Bible simply mean the grave
pastor you know that's an important
question because a lot of people want to
make it only mean the grave there are
cults that would say that when the Bible
talks about Hell is just talking about
disintegrating into nothingness it's
just the grave and that's all it is
there are actually two words for Hell
we we know of the Hebrew word is Sheol
the the Greek word is Hades and and it
does mean a place of the Dead mm-hmm
however there's a difference between
just Hell by itself and the lake of fire
because the Bible talks about the lake
of fire and so yes there is a place of
the Dead we are all destined to die but
after that the judgment and after the
judgment where are you going to spend
eternity and so we all see in a very
interesting question I used to ask how
many who lives forever believers in God
or or non-believers like and and the
answer would often it was a kind of a
trick question yes because that Oh
believers in God they're the ones who
live forever no actually the fact is
everyone lives forever right everyone we
are eternal souls that are conscious and
live forever
the question is where will you live
forever will you live forever in the
presence of God or will you live forever
outside of the presence of God and and
so that's why we as evangelicals and
understanding the Word of God we we
differentiate between the rapture and
the resurrection the rapture is is when
our physical bodies will literally
ascend into heaven and be changed and
this mortal puts on immortality as first
Corinthians 15 says but the resurrection
isn't it's about our body the body that
would be buried in the grave will be
resurrected like Jesus body was put in
the grave
it will be resurrected in other words
there will be a physical body for ever
and ever
both for believers and non-believers
okay those have physical bodies now
that's what I see here so it says so the
death of the body and the soul never
dies and yet there will be the
new body wood is forever and forever and
forever is that right everyone will be
resurrected
jesus said that that some will be
resurrected to life others to death the
word of the word death is worth looking
at - right it sure as if I was to define
the word death I would put it in one
single word separation death is
separation that's why there there are
times that we could use the word of
death of a friendship and it doesn't
mean that anyone died physically and it
means that something happened that
separated us as friends the word death
is a separation and when it's physical
death there's a separation of my soul
from my body when someone dies and we
have a funeral we say this person I mean
that their body is there but we say they
have left us well what are we saying
there's been a separation the Bible says
in James the body without the Spirit is
dead right okay so when there's a
separation of spirit and body it's death
well if there's eternal death that's
separation from God and Jesus saved us
from eternal death and brought us into
eternal life which is awareness of God
absolutely master this is beautiful and
and the three weeks previous there there
was a couple of times in the series
where I was privileged to be speaking
and I said if you get one thing out of
the teaching and you who are watching
today if you get one thing about this
subject of Hell it involves being
separated from a most loving wonderful
gracious kind gods of horrible thoughts
it's the most horrible and I have found
in my years of being a Christian and
addressing the subject again reading
your wonderful book it's true really if
we wrap our minds around that concept
that hell is separation from God I find
that it helps to understand
and so much more about the broader
subject yeah it is for sure praise the
Lord well it's a delight to have with us
pastor Craig Pitts here with us live on
site at Calvary Community Church and
what an exciting episode this is today
we're carrying on with another question
this is interesting so we think of it
some people might do this Oh heaven is
God's domain well hell well that's
that's the devil's place and here's the
question does Satan rule is the king and
the chief host as hell faster that's a
very good question because do you know I
actually have heard people say I'd
rather go to hell than heaven
yeah and they think yeah all my friends
are there thing to say yeah as if and
then they have this picture of the devil
that he somehow is the king of hell that
he runs around with his little demons in
red leotards and pitchforks you know and
pokin everybody and right and and
laughing with glee that they finally got
them there right it's making them
miserable forever hell actually how
wasn't even made for people
okay this was made for the devil Jesus
said that very clearly in Matthew
chapter 25 and verse 41 he said the
devil was actually created for I mean
hell was created for the devil and his
angels right it's just that if if you
reject Jesus if if you're not born again
from the Spirit of God and you're
separated from God then you get with the
devil gets you know yeah and that's a
horrible thing no I wrote another book
here that this has not been published
except in Russian it's been published
but I'd like to just relay are you gonna
read in Russia it's now now I'm gonna
read in English and we would appreciate
that and this was about the devil I I
said this this the book by the way the
title of the book is called the seven
defeats of Satan and it shows his
history from beginning to end in the
lake of fire and so this is the end okay
yeah I said truly it's a fearful thing
to fall into the hands of the
God the day is coming when in the courts
of heaven the righteous judge of the
universe will slam his gavel in final
judgment Satan's armies will literally
be devoured sets that's the word that's
used in Revelation 20 and verse 9 devour
devoured consumed eaten up gulped down
and destroyed by the intensely ferocious
fire of God's righteous anger yeah now
Satan comes to his final and painful end
the Bible says in Revelation 20 and
verse 10 the devil who deceived them was
cast into the lake of fire and brimstone
where the beast and false prophet are
and they will be tormented day and night
forever and ever
there are several incredible lies I'm
reading from my book now that have been
prevailing over the years regarding
Satan and the fires of hell okay this is
good so here I get you're gonna unearth
some things that are not true this is
good one lie is that Satan invented hell
as a kind of house of horror for those
he hates and wishes to torment
it's as if held is somehow the home
where he lives with his demented demons
they are filled with villainous Glee as
more Souls are added to their evil
dungeon they stoke the fires and party
over over the pathetic carcasses of lost
souls nothing could be farther from the
truth
really fact is Satan did not create how
God did Wow
Jesus clearly said hell was the
everlasting fire prepared for the devil
and his angels
so who Jesus said God did Jesus did Wow
so remember this Satan is not the King
of Hell he is the great prisoner of it
hell was made specifically for him and
his dark angel followers who dared to
attempt to usurp the throne of God
think of it Satan is destined to
languish in hell he will suffer beyond
description he will be tormented in
excruciating agony forever and ever in
endless eternity
furthermore as if that's not humility
humiliating enough the Bible indicates
this this is
interesting that God will actually put
this personification of evil on display
right in Ezekiel 28 I cast you as a
profane thing out of the mountain of God
and I destroyed you Oh covering cherub
from the midst of the fiery stones I
cast you to the ground and laid you
before Kings that they might gaze upon
you this is the point of scripture that
often surprises people yes that at the
same it seems timely troubles them
actually that the redeemed and glory
could actually look into hell
it seems preposterous but the Bible
indicates that in several places however
there are a number of references
throughout scripture that seem to point
to the fact that the pit of hell will be
open it will be an eternal memorial to
Christ's victory over evil it will be a
lesson of the righteous judgment the
judgment of a holy God and an
everlasting deterrent to all who will be
born into the new earth the Bible also
describes an observation balcony from
which these are those who are suffering
the eternal consequences will of
spurning God's love will be exposed and
this is interesting
Isaiah 66 it says they shall go forth
and look upon the corpses of the men who
have transgressed them against me their
worm does not die their fire is not
quenched not only that we're going to
look down and we're going to see Satan
as we see this amazing museum of God's
judgment we'll see Satan will scratch
our heads and wonder this is what the
Bible says he won't be the monster that
we expected there will not be the
slightest sign of power or strength left
in him
instead Satan will be groveling in agony
among the burning coals of hell as a
pathetic specimen of weakness and
disdain to our utter amazement we'll be
asking how could this worm have caused
such trouble in turmoil in the earth in
the words of Isaiah the prophet your
pump has brought you to the ground and
then later on it says those who see you
will gaze
you and consider saying is this the man
who made the earth tremble and just
shook the kingdoms like this you mean
that's that Satan and he'll be growing
and I so know the ant that the answer
Satan is not the King of Hell or sure is
the prisoner of it well that's a very
thorough answer and I loved every word
thank you so much hey live audience can
I hear your amen to that that awesome
[Applause]
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
yeah well you know Satan's power Satan's
strength and power compared to God's is
like holding a dying candle wick to the
Sun like it's just no comparison I just
love it that's a great message for us to
take away today it's God that we need to
fear not the devil praise the Lord
hey listen make no mistake I don't walk
around you know paying no respect to the
devil and his power no he's real people
and he's powerful but we here in Christ
right greater is go ahead father say
that as it is in the way amen so we have
nothing to fear not only throughout all
of eternity but even here on earth we
can apropriate that same power and make
it real in our life see that I should
probably just go I could go home now
just with that alone time but we've got
more what else we talked wonderful let
here's a this is another great question
why doesn't God simply separate the bad
from the good I see that like why like
why must hell be a place of torment why
it doesn't have to be such a sad place
if you're gonna be separated from God
why not just separate it from God and
leave it at that
well that's like asking why a room
without light and heat must be dark and
cold you know because that's just
outside of God's presence itself is a
place of of horror of disdain imagine in
fact just imagine if you were pushed
into a room with the worst criminals and
the and and bad people and people that
could care less about you they'd swear
and curse and knock you around and
everything and you had to you just spend
a long time in a room with that kind of
people live with them well hell is going
to be filled with those kinds of people
not everyone bad that goes to hell
they've just rejected Jesus but remember
sin is separation from God and imagine
the confinement with with people who've
been angry selfish brutal thoughtless
uncaring hate
filled vial and hell by its own
inhabitants is a place of torment
whether there's you know you talk about
fire in Hell or anything like that and
then also real torment doesn't come from
outside it comes from inside oh my
the real torment I think of Hell comes
from the heart the mind the spirit I
could have but I didn't I should have I
had the chance but I blew it you know
and and forever and ever thinking I I
could have remember the story of King
Agrippa in Acts chapter 26 when Paul was
preaching him and Agrippa says almost
you persuaded me to become a Christian
yeah Paloma remember this to be almost
saved is to be entirely lost oh my and
that is a real sobering thought oh I
heard the gospel but I ignored it pastor
it's friends if you are watching bye-bye
TV by Internet those of you in live
audience here this morning listen today
is a good day for you not to be almost
in the kingdom today is a great day even
where you are right in your room or in
this place to say god that's it I get it
you're kind you're gracious you love me
the offer of your salvation is extended
to me right now friend why don't you
right now reach out to Jesus and I tell
you what on the authority of God's Word
do you agree as those who call upon the
name of the Lord will be saved Amen
praise the name of the Lord it's good
well what a subject we're into faster
can we move on to another one I don't
want it I know you've got so out with
such a wealth of information on this
subject this great well how could a God
of love I hear this all the time or you
how could a God of love send anyone to
hell let me ask you live on East have
you ever heard that question before
maybe you've even asked it it's a good
question what what would you say to that
posture that that's an interesting
question I just had Jehovah's Witness at
my door yesterday yeah and they they
told me the same thing they said there
is no hell because God
a God of love wouldn't do that that's
like saying a god a judge who's
righteous wouldn't send a rapist in
criminal and a murderer and the wicked
way he wouldn't he wouldn't be that
nasty to send him to that's a jail would
he know it's not a matter of being nasty
it's a matter of being just right and
God has not only got a love he's got of
justice and the fact of the matter is
this might sound funny but it is because
God is loved that there is a hell
imagine a doctor who who understands
medicine who understands contagious
diseases and someone comes in with a
terribly contagious disease
what does a doctor a good doctor do if
he's a good doctor there's a room called
an isolation room why does he do that
that mean old guy he makes that guy go
in the isolation room and he can't mix
with other people why that doctors a bad
day I have my rights you know he's not a
bad doctor he's a good doctor he
understands the contamination that would
infect others I would call hell God's
contamination ward where those who are
contaminated with sin will not be
allowed into his heaven this world is
contaminated enough and God says the day
is coming when you will come to a place
that has no contamination at all and so
because God is love he's isolated those
who have been contaminated with sin who
would not let the blood of the Lord
Jesus wash that contamination away so we
can get rid of the contamination now but
only through the blood decides pastor
who decides whether or not they remain
contaminated I guess we decide ourselves
that's why in Deuteronomy 30 verse 19
choose life don't choose death ya crazy
we make our choices now and remember
this you live with your choices whether
it's through this life now some people
have made bad choices and they look back
even on this life and they regret the
choices my hand is up
for bringing me and I've made my series
of by making a choice that seals your
destiny for all let me turn in phrase
god I gotta raise my hand there cuz I've
made that good decision I gave it did
you 68 years ago I asked Jesus Christ to
come into my heart I remember the day
yesterday and I'll tell you I'm glad I
made that I gotta say something you are
looking good and I got a 68 years ago is
when you accept it that's when I watch
you at least 69 minutes yeah we'll just
leave it there huh I'm well into my
threescore and ten oh my goodness I'm
looking great - praise the Lord well
okay thank you these week ago out weeks
talking earlier I could go on and on and
love it but we can do this more and
perhaps people you can send in you who
are watching if you have a question
you'd like to further ask a question you
can ask that of Jeff and I and we'd be
happy to do our best to answer them or
get you in touch with resources that can
answer them including pastor Craig
himself well isn't that an interesting
subject to talk about what a man filled
with grace isn't he I just enjoy the man
Craig Pitts so much he's he's tried and
true and equally so his wife just
beautiful
man and woman of God well I hope that
you enjoyed listening to this most
relevant subject about hell I'm glad to
tell you that we're gonna do this and
get all over again next week so stay
tuned and check in again next week as we
hear part two of this wonderful topic
called hell catch a new episode of new
every day every Friday morning a new
every day by TV
we're also on roku cody flex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
