welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5e weeks
and now let's Kim here's your host
Robbie Ferguson welcome to episode
number 197 of category 5 technology TV
great to see ya and it is Tuesday June
the 28th me alone I'm Robbie Ferguson
yeah we're good to see you we're hanging
out in the shadows of the councilman I
am I don't want to really be seized
tonight feel kind like a scrub today you
don't look at me that's fine all right
happy Canada Day on Friday mmm i got my
canada day shirt but it's in fall colors
they say yeah that's that's my thing so
nice to see everybody join us in the
chat room category five dot TV category
five on freenode and well we got lots
coming up tonight we're going to be
starting a series on checking out some
of the modern versions of Linux the
distributions that are available for you
to download we're going to be starting
that tonight with pc linux OS brand-new
version that was just released this week
what do you got coming up tonight oh
we've got some excellent questions in
here i think that uh got some great
questions from the viewers today and we
got some news yes that's cute like I can
completely avoid talking about the news
tonight you want me to do it do I mean I
tell them what's coming up in the news
would that be safer oh I get it see I
complete yes completely do not get okay
so anyways coming on I'm just fine
when edges as you're about to start it
should be like you I made extra certain
that there was no hilarious news this
week that was very nice view no
hilarious news this week I still don't
really missed your cue though I'm doing
the thing that was complete it's all
good one stupidity read there's all
right take it away so phone up in the
newsroom que te users have found their
favorite apps blocked by Facebook and
photos deleted from their profile
Mozilla's new release scheduled for
firefox has corporate users on the fence
a lawsuit in Germany could be
devastating to GPL if one pc linux OS
twenty eleven point six is out for
32-bit stick around these stories are
coming up in under 30 minutes see I lied
I didn't realize there was something
devastating in there it's sorry I tried
really hard on I got so many email from
from you the viewers this week about
that little incident off the top of last
week's show I appreciate your emails
everybody wondering what what was going
on and having a good time that was a lot
of fun yeah it was live tonight
fantastic hey I would love to hear from
people if if this is your first time in
the chat room or if you're just joining
us if you've only been live a couple of
times let us know in the chat room make
sure you say rah BF or krista you are
logged in as Krista yeah there you go so
say our name and that will highlight it
on our screen hopefully we'll catch you
and be able to give some shouts out as
well let us know where you're from as
well and how is everybody doing in the
chat room hey Chris Reich good guy shot
David may do a gamoto
gadwal and final bloggers nice to see ya
d man 8-10 all right now you you notice
something in the chat room a little bit
before the show there yeah a little
birdy may have told me that it's their
birthday today so i think i think that's
final blogger or so a happy birthday to
final bloggers hey you find a blogger
happy birthday thanks for joining us
I've got some viewer pictures that were
submitted this week four points got a
few here's one from a gamoto who says
sorry about the the quality or lack
thereof of the photo the smudgy nuts but
this is my setup to watch category 5 TV
so there you go very cool very cool
there we are it almost looks like you're
watching us on a 3d TV it doesn't jump
whoa just like that I kimoto I'll throw
a hundred points here way thank you very
much this one comes to me from Rachel
who says back in the old days of Star
Trek the aliens were certainly cheesy
they take this episode with Robbie for
example they didn't even put any makeup
on him our viewers I like that okay this
is what happens when we when we
introduce the HD the high quality photos
in the in the static area of our site
which is hidden but if you ask for it
you might get it but this is what this
is exactly what happens people and as a
bad okay I'll throw some viewer points
you're putting of course thanks for the
thanks for the photo there Zubaydah says
again I was just in my local shopping
centre in crawley Anglin and the irony
of these two stores made me laugh so I
thought that I would share it with the
viewers of category 5 we've got the
istore was next to the I store
oh no interesting oh very close and this
one here is giving free eye tests hmm I
think there's some irony there I think
there's some irony there fantastic I
will throw you 30 viewer points for
senate met in thanks if you'd like to
get some free viewer points by
submitting your viewer images snap a
picture your best chance to get some
points right now is to send us a picture
of your setup as you're watching
category 5 TV we especially love it if
you can get into the photo as well and
we'll give you a hundred viewer points
for that and that will also give you
fewer points if you throw something our
way that's of interest to the viewers
here at category 5 TV but they've got to
be your own pictures that you've taken
or created yourself if possible cool
cool rate nice to see everybody John
says that it was spelt wrong it should
be I tests hahaha for sure for sure what
if they get away with that next door
have you got a lawsuit ER definitely
Apple will sue for anything that they
think is infringing but then they'll
infringe on everyone else that's the
truth David may do in the chatroom do
you see this one Apple is being sued
aren't they okay which one are you
referring to yes yes they are
are you laughing about Oh life in
general okay yeah everything's amusing
tonight again send your questions to us
in the chat rooms the best way to get us
during the live show but also live at
category 5 TV you can pop us an email
there thanks again to everybody who is
shown their support for category 5 this
week we've been watching that donation
thermometer steadily climb and that's
that's been very exciting check out our
website category 5 TV to see our current
progress and you'll also get to see what
our goals are and what it is that we
that we need to do over the next little
while so thank you to everybody who has
shown their support this week and again
I encourage you to check out our website
category 5 TV 2 to see where we stand
cool all right well we might as well
jump straight into questions and we've
got a lot going on tonight so we're
going to do our absolute best to get to
your questions but again if we if we
can't get here tonight we will we will
take your email live at category 5 TV
and that will get those in as soon as
possible great all right so our first
question here is from Greg he says Greg
hi Robbie and Krista I'd like to do a
offline installation installation of a
boon to on a friend's laptop at work
there will be no internet connection the
far wall work will prevent us from
connecting is this possible if so will
he have well he just have to install the
updates when at home after a fresh
install off line yeah you can install
Lubuntu you can stall Linux without
having to have an internet connection
but during the installation procedure is
going to ask you if you're installing
kubuntu now each linux distribution has
a slightly different installer with a
boom two in particular is going to ask
you if you'd like to install the updates
as it installs the operating system so
in that case if you're installing with
no internet connection you would say no
to that question is you wouldn't be able
to get them and it would just hang up so
so go with yet go with that once he
takes it home put them on to perfect
boon to category 5 TV you've got to have
an internet connection to to get access
to that
that gives you a lot of the restricted
extras that are not necessarily
available in the meta pack as well as
some bonus features like extra plugins
for the GIMP if you want to be able to
do graphic editing and things like that
there there's a lot of stuff in there so
and then of course you can use you can
use the synaptic package manager in
order to install a different desktop if
he wants to get away from unity if he
wants to follow the tutorial from a
couple weeks back on installing lxde or
xfce those are a couple of the options
there are tons of different desktop
environment options in synaptic though
so so feel free to look around and then
you can get your updates too so no
problem there it will work just fine but
you won't be able to get some of those
multimedia things until you get those
packages like perfect boot to provides
would be some stuff missing alright so
next question says hey Robbie Krista and
everybody else I was thinking about
building an unread box I've got 14 good
hard drives available but putting so
many hard just together could make some
heat so I was wondering what a normal
case and a five by three drive a work
well enough or something more
professional like a Norco tech RPC 4020
or similar to be better I didn't sorry
what's that device i'd like to look it
up ah the norco tech RPC 4020 go tech
with a k RPC 4020 says in a normal case
the drives are really close together at
least with a dry Bay the air flow is
closer to the drive so that might make a
difference even though the drives are
close together right so it is not as
easy as it looks but then that is why I
asked you and find out what you think
because I can't actually test it myself
three games from chopped John I think
that this device that I'm looking at
here this is the one that he's asked us
about the RPC 4020 is a little bit of
overkill for what you're probably
wanting to do just knowing a little bit
about your setup and you probably want
to have space but that's more that to me
like it's it's a for you server rack
mount system that you connect into a
server it looks more like something that
you'd set up in a business environment
in office environment where you need
that massive hot swappable drive bays
and stuff so you're asking about that
the heat and heat dissipation and the
ability to get some good airflow around
those drives you're right there with a
standard chassis like your thinking is
right on the money right on track a
couple things I look at first of all
you've got 14 hard drives remember that
an under a box has single drive fault
tolerance if you add 14 drives even
though you think that that's great
because you're going to get more
capacity you're probably better to go
with a lower amount of drives with
bigger drives if possible so for example
if you've got a couple of 200 gigs in
there don't even bother with those
because it's not so it's not significant
enough of space to be putting into your
array to bring down the fault tolerance
so substantially with 14 drives you have
a much higher chance of having two of
those drives fail at the same time than
you do with safer mags for my setup I've
got eight drives and that's definitely
as high as I would probably go with that
type of fault tolerance if you have two
drives fail you're going to lose data
from one of the drives so the whole idea
between behind unraid is yes to have
lots of space but also to have that
fault tolerance and redundancy of having
the parity drive so having 14 drives you
would definitely want to make sure you
have an extremely high end power supply
you'd want to have a very good ups on
that system and you'd want to have
everything set up so that if the power
goes out it keeps running or it does it
safe shutdown using a pc software or
something like that so there are risks
involved in using that many drives
especially if they are older drives if
you have two of them fail at once right
if they've been sitting around for a
while it's quite possible so I would
more I would be more apt to go with less
drives in the unraid unit
and just slowly add more space as you
can by pulling out one of the smaller
drives adding them and putting in a
bigger one I'm letting it rebuild Chris
did you understand what the with the
unrated system is that we're we're
talking about I'm completely feel free
to interject because you're kind of like
the proxy for for the viewers who are
thinking what is he talking about so I
encourage you to feel free to kick me or
interrupt me or whatever just don't pick
my bad toe that's all I ask I broke my
toe last night not a pleasant feeling
they spent hobbling around to see me at
work I was just like limping around
unraid is a really awesome piece of
software from Lyme technology lime
dashed technology com and basically what
this software does is it lets you build
hardware that has all different hard
drives right and with it with those hard
drives it shares the space of those
drives but it also has what's called
parody fault tolerance so if one of the
drives fails you can take it out replace
it and it rebuilds and you don't lose
any other data oh it's fantastic so and
one of the greatest things about unraid
as opposed to the traditional raid
scenario where you've got multiple
drives but it's raid with unraid you can
have any drives any speed doesn't matter
what bus there on they can be SATA
combined with ide combined with external
firewire it doesn't really matter what
type of drive it is it will add them to
the array and you'll get the full
capacity of those drives so so it's
different from a raid where if you have
two drives it might only give you the
capacity of one and the drives have to
be identical so so we just backing up a
little bit so that's kind of what on
rate is and you can check them out a
lime dash technology com that's this
website here and this is what i use here
for for our for our backups and file
storage and things like that so for you
job keeping the heat down what I did
keeping in mind that I stuck to a
maximum of eight hard drive so in a
standard chassis or right if you've got
the drives one
top of another there's going to be very
little room for the airflow so you need
to make sure that they that there are
some 120 millimeter fans that are
blowing directly onto the drives and
then blowing out the back of the derives
as well so that there's a blow over the
drives and a suction out to the back of
the chassis or to the front of the
chassis what I would do is I would just
get into the search engine and just type
hot-swap SATA bay something like that
and you'll probably find several diff
I'm just going to see if that brings up
any results what I got was a 6 drive hot
swappable bay now here's a single drive
unit this is the first one that came up
more this is more expensive than i would
spend for for such a thing but that's a
single drive but you can see the idea
behind it is you can install that into a
regular unit regular chassis so the
chassis as long as you've got the
ability to pull out you know three of
the slots at the front the five and a
quarter bays you'll be able to install
one of these units that hold six hard
drives sake let's see if i can find one
which by using the word cage instead
raid enclosure would be another one here
we go this is pulling more of the
results that i want so this is the kind
of unit that I'm talking about John so
this would have built-in cooling and you
see that it has some airflow on the
front so that's going to be what you see
at the front of the computer and it also
has some suction on the back that pulls
the air as the back and it keeps your
drives cool but it does it with all from
within one contained unit it doesn't
have to be this brand like this is just
the first one that came up that seemed
applicable in a google search but but
that's the kind of unit that I'm
thinking so you get a couple of those
and the chassis that will hold them and
then a couple of drives in the system as
well but space them out so that they're
not touching and you know right on top
of each other and make sure that you've
got that you know good cooling going
through that system as well so big fans
on the front big fans
back and if your chassis doesn't support
that I would suggest looking at a new
chassis get something that's going to be
able to provide you with better better
airflow suction from the front blowing
out the back so okay and let us know how
it goes be interested to hear how that
goes alright so from Chris Reich says hi
Robbie new motherboards often come with
just one ps/2 connector with two colors
are colors as he may say in the great
white north with a oh you Oh been hours
yep so how does one connect both a ps2
keyboard and a ps2 mouse to the
motherboard with only one ps/2 connector
of the show thank you for the pretty
Canadians and for answering such deeply
profound questions all my best the Chris
wake Rochester New York thanks Chris
okay so he's got like you've got a
laptop computer or a computer these days
a lot of times even the desktop
computers ps2 is the little round one a
little you know the purple or green
green being the mouse purple be in the
keyboard so a lot of computers these
days only come with one and they say
we'll just get USB keyboards or USB mice
which is all fine and good i mean if you
get something like what I'm using here
ok area it's courted you know it's just
an optical mouse it's five bucks and so
you know who cares right so just throw a
USB mouse on and that's probably the
best way to go but you can get a y
splitter for those crisps because
understand that when they when they
brought it from two to one they're not
deprecating the ability to use the ps2
mouse or a ps2 keyboard they're just
putting it onto the same port so that
it's it's like the old laptops that had
PS to make it be either or but not both
but you can use a wide after in order to
split that so just do a quick search for
PS / 2 y dash adapter cable perhaps
cable gear comes up
they actually have what looks not quite
like a cable but it plugs into one port
and it gives you the two and that's two
dollars and seventy cents so you can see
like it you know if you if you get
online or you pop by like some OEM
dealer they'll be able to throw you
something like that that's the that's
the simple way but honestly do I want
something like that hanging out of the
back of my computer if it's stationary
sure or you know something like that but
if it's going to be you know increasing
the potential of somebody tripping over
it and snapping the internal motherboard
of my computer because it's you know
pulled on the cable then I wouldn't I
wouldn't risk it I've just got with a
USB keyboard but for two bucks and
seventy cents get something like that
and like I say there are keyboard
versions as well just search for ps2 y
adapter and pretty much any online shop
or local shop should have those as well
David may do says they're two dollars
and seventy cents oh what's that in UK
pounds if you're serious if you want to
know what two dollars and seventy cents
would be in UK pounds here's a fun
little tidbit about Google we just head
over to google com or in my case
google.ca because we're being patriotic
it's Canada Day Week ok so here we go
was it two dollars and seventy cents USD
in UK pounds should do it no ok and
let's try just towns
come on Google there we go okay 2.70 USD
in pounds and it automatically translate
that over 1.69 so one-pound 69 cool
Google's cool that way you can use this
to convert anything if you know the you
know 40 degrees c and f is 104 degrees
Fahrenheit you know little things like
that if you know what to search for it
just quickly gives you that that value
Google always thinking of stuff still
clever so clever mm-hmm so let's try
thrown in our couple of questions here
we can from Edward Murphy yeah is there
a reliable windows 7 64-bit Twitter
client internet says no to seesmic and
tweetdeck for windows 7 64-bit solution
for now Twitter in the browser did he
just use the word windows and stable in
the same sentence see if there's a
period in between no no you did that's
the reliable uh don't moving on anything
you put on that thing is just gonna
crash it's just gonna crash pumpkin I
don't know windows 64-bit if it doesn't
work with seesmic what you can do get on
over to seize mix website let's do it
the old-fashioned way seesmic and it is
seesmic calm never take the risk when
you're live on the air okay get started
and you'll see okay there seesmic mobile
Seesmic desktop which is the one you
would go for and you'd say ah but it
doesn't work on windows 64-bit so what
you do is you go seesmic web okay and
what this does is it does use your
browser to run what what it is all in
all essence a fully functional running
version of seesmic
I so then take it one step further and
what I'm going to do is get an
application from the motel group most of
the foundation called prism and I'll
just find a website for you that has a
Windows version of that prism mozilla
labs com this application allows you to
run web applications on your desktop as
if they were actual programs okay so
what you do is you install prism and
then you run your seesmic web version
through did I say did I say sees me I
said I meant to say install prism run
seesmic web version through prism and it
will actually create an icon that is in
all essences to you you'll forget that
you're even using the web you'll just
think that it's an application and you'd
load that up and boom it's it's just
like running an app on your computer
that's web two point O at its best so
give that a try prism dot multi la labs
com for that and seesmic com for the
other down here try seesmic web sign up
for an account get it all set up and
then you'll be able to launch it right
in your prism but then you can also you
know if you're not at your computer you
can be at a you know somewhere else and
you can log into seesmic from there what
exactly is prism prism is the one that
allows you to run web sites or web
programs as applications on your
computer so you think about something
like gmail just to use an example really
gmail set up to be like a program it's
like your inbox it's like you're your
email client right so you don't need an
email client for it because you're going
to use the web you're just going to
bring it up in firefox or internet
explorer or whatever you're using chrome
with prism it will create an icon on
your desktop that you just launched it
and say gmail and it actually looks like
a program right on your way
site without ever having to bring up
Firefox or whatever cool yeah yeah it's
really really cool if you're familiar
with zimbra desktop that's actually how
they created their application to
they're taking that to the next level
and saying we'll actually distribute
this as if it's an application but
really it's just a prism wrapper on a
web site basically no Jax website so
these days it's really hard to tell the
difference between what's web and what's
an application because really everything
is based on the similar api's and it's
fantastic if you really want to blow
your mind you can check out iOS this is
the one that we were talking about last
week a little bit in the news iOS dot
info and what this is is a browser-based
cloud desktop environment oh it's
offline right now as they are preparing
to relaunch on july 4th so they're
obviously going through a big update but
that is an ajax client that runs like an
operating system through your browser so
you put that in prism and make it
fullscreen you never know it's like an
operating system so it really takes
things to the next level prisms cool
what to tell us in the chat room what
you use prison for be interested to know
at at my office we started using it for
our web-based contact management system
so we don't have to run it in a browser
we just click on our contact management
icon on the desktop and that launches
the system so it can be used for a lot
of different things we've got just a
minute but do we have any other
questions that reason you um I'm not
sure how long these questions will take
so let's uh let's just try one from John
crisp hey John says hi Robbie and crew i
watch your tutorial on synergy but so I
can't get to work I can't get it to work
I'm trying to connect to my old XP box
as a client what needs to be connected
to that box just the ethernet cable to
my router now i have the vga connected
to my HD monitor should only the windows
7 DVI connections exist that's my
dilemma and not trim the connections
required of my XP box thanks for a great
show cheers okay John here's here's what
we need to consider is what we what we
need to consider is how synergy works
and it helps if I mute the right
microphone there we go as the latest
switch we're going to figure this all
out John John synergy allows you to have
one physical keyboard and mouse so
that's plugged into your your one
computer and then drag your cursor on to
the next computer and all of a sudden
you're able to control that computer so
you're thinking I get the impression
that you're used to Remote Desktop
you're used to maybe VNC stuff like that
where you're controlling things by
moving around with I don't know if you
just dual monitor support or something
like that in your case your windows XP
system you're right you need that
ethernet cable but you also do need to
have a monitor on that system so that
when you drag your mouse you've got a
monitor to bring your mouse over to so
think of a dual monitor scenario where
you've got two monitors side-by-side and
you're able to drag the mouse from one
to the other that's exactly what synergy
gives you accept the difference between
this and a dual monitor setup where a
dual monitor setup is one computer with
two monitors this is two computers with
two monitors so you get the advantage of
perhaps you've got windows here and
Linux here so for development that's
fantastic perhaps you've got a really
powerful system here and one that's just
used for web surfing here so you can get
away with you know doing all your video
encoding over here and it's super super
fast but then you drag your mouse over
here and you've just got a web browser
and your Twitter and stuff like that so
it can just be a dirt-cheap you know
run-of-the-mill old computer and yet
you'd never know because it's
interacting between the two so you need
to have a monitor because each computer
has to have a monitor you need to have
one
mouse plugged into the host and then
your guests also needs to have that high
speed network connection so that the
host and the guests can communicate so I
hope that that makes things yeah maybe
that's what it is a gamoto is maybe
you're used to a kvm switch where you've
got one monitor with one keyboard in one
mouse which is a different thing
altogether because you're switching
you're only able to use one at a time
with sees with i'm getting all my words
can confuse me with synergy you're able
to use both at the same time as if it
was one system but it's really two
systems so quite a bit different than a
kvm for sure so hey Hilary good good
there we go we'll have to get rid of the
ticker there cuz name changed yeah keep
them up yes yes fabulous thank you
fantastic I am great and better than
great I've got great news for you well
fantastic no I ready for this
from the category 5
opensource report fogger guilt
brockmeyer yesterday that ali mughal not
to use facebook instead he says to use
facebook like you use any shared space
you never know who might be observing
and anything you leave behind might be
gone in five seconds after you turn your
back his statement comes in response to
Facebook's sudden ban of KDE
applications on their social media
social media service and the way they
reportedly have deleted photos that were
previously uploaded through KDE apps
which rely on hype i keep e-type I the
KDE plug-in system which takes care of
uploading files to Facebook on linux is
KDE desktop users who attempt to use
applications such as one view to upload
a picture to Facebook will receive a
warning that it now uses an invalid API
key don't ever forget that as you're
using Facebook who really has control of
your content because KDE users were
reminded again this week that it's not
them the Mozilla Corporation shipped
Firefox five this week almost exactly
three months after a chipped Firefox for
fasten your seatbelts because Mozilla
plans to ship Firefox six in six weeks
with Firefox seven six weeks after that
as they launch into their new fast paced
release cycle which has corporate users
on the fence as they find it difficult
or impossible to turn around major
browser updates in only six weeks by
releasing a newer version of its browser
every six weeks Mozilla helps to match
Google's development speed while Firefox
5 release doesn't contain the wealth of
new features of what some would say
warrants a major browser upgrade Mozilla
claims that they have made over 1,000
improvements to Firefox 5 in areas of
performance and user interface usability
general web browsing and JavaScript
speed has been improved while memory
usage has seen a decrease over firefox 4
can you keep up let us know by sending
as an email at newsroom at category 5 TV
last Tuesday the district court of
Berlin began a hearing or began hearing
a lawsuit which may have enormous
consequences for the way that software
is developed and distributed according
to linux kernel's developer Harold welt
in an announcement on the open-source
advocacy website GPL violations org
router manufacturer a vm is suing to
prevent family web filtering software
developer sigh bits from changing any
parts of the firmware used in a BMS
routers including the linux kernel
according to weld a vm is alleging that
sy bits has infringed its copyright
because it sells software that removes
avians altered modules from the linux
kernel embedded in a vm routers sie
bitte counters that they not oh sorry
they counter that not only does it need
to remove some of the alterations to the
colonel made by a vm in order for its
filtering program to work but it had
every right to do so under GPL licensing
the Linux kernel is licensed under the
gnu general public license version 2 GNU
GPL which as well note is a free and
open source software license permitting
everyone to use study share and improve
prove works which it use so open source
advocates like weld say that Amy M a vm
will win its case or no am I saying I
can't read not again guys come on so
well he's saying that if amy m wins its
case it could prove to be a significant
threat to GPL we will certainly update
you as soon as we hear more about this
pc linux OS developers released an
update to their popular Linux district
yesterday pc linux OS at twenty eleven
point six is now available for download
with a brand new look and lots of
updates the release for now comes in
lxde lxde mini and KDE version for
32-bit systems but a 64-bit version
reportedly will be available in the next
upcoming weeks you can check out the new
release which is free to download and
use it at this website pc linux OS com
you can get these awesome bull stories
at the website category 5 TV / newsroom
the category 5 Janey newsroom is
researched by Rory w Nash with
contributions from our fabulous
community and viewers if you have a new
story thanks worthy of on-air mention
send us an email at newsroom at category
5 TV from the category 5 bartini
newsroom I'm Hillary Rumble thanks Larry
yeah sorry for my little my brain input
malfunction I can't read today cuz I'm i
think i think the weather is it's in my
motherboard in my brain and it said did
you did you hear what happened last week
no did you hear the one that's the chat
room what happened world what happened
chat room you know you don't know what's
happening on this side of the camera and
then you know we don't know what happens
we don't know until it's too late but
luckily we have a chat room who tells us
things as they are happening like when
our mics don't work or you know stuff
like that indeed indeed they are our
sensors they are sure fabulous thanks
everybody thanks Hilary nice to see you
glad to be here now you were you out on
the on the bike yesterday did you make I
without today action today you look like
you've been out on a dirt obviously why
I was possibly a tad tardy entering no
seriously Nick you want to tell people
what's uh what's going on and how that
was I'd like to know i wanna know i'll
come wintertime you're here but yeah it
was really
really good um it was raining earlier
today which was perfect because I
created a great deal of blood mud so I'm
hoping it'll turn out I honestly haven't
looked at any of the footage they don't
know what you're talking about oh wow
world let me fill you in let's just
rewind a tad so Robbie has been in
cahoots with liquid image company who
creates various um various I guess ways
to incorporate a video camera into your
active lifestyle and I have the
privilege of reviewing a set of goggles
used for MX at such as like dirt bikes
or ATVs and and off-road vehicles glogs
you would wear under your helmet and i
am using them in a fun fun fabulous way
to see what this is all about and so do
you see a picture yeah I see a picture
yeah they're pretty cool they're pretty
groovy and so today was out bombing
around with them on and it was super
muddy and rainy which was great so I was
actually like literally caked in mind
you would not believe like I was cake it
was just on me really really good so you
wouldn't believe I can't wait to hear
how the camera performs it's a mask you
remember my my underwater camera mask so
they've taken that product line it's
liquid image canada.com if you'd like to
check them out but they've expanded that
product line into snow sports and motor
sports extreme sports and they're even
expanding it further beyond that so very
exciting stuff very well i'm looking
forward to to your review this summer as
well guys like it mmm stay tuned for it
because it's a really a neat device and
for someone like me who has tried to
document some extreme sports in the past
I mean right yeah holding your video
camera and driving at the same time
probably not your best best ideas so I
figure you use the thing for anything I
mean this this has got I don't know if
you can see from the picture but it's a
mask and it has a HD digital camera
right in the middle so you can imagine
basically it records exactly what you
see so if I'm ordering a hamburger you
know I'm
mask making a video documentary footage
holman whole new style only 10 we could
come up with this so stay cherry cliff
all I'm saying looking forward to that
this summer from Hilary Rumble and
category 5 TV get ready to rumble you've
never heard that before oh yeah thnkx oh
no problem category 5 technology TV is
brought to you by pogoplug at cat5 TV /
pogoplug and also from planet calypso
check them out you can now fly around in
space cat5 TV / calypso for the massive
multiplayer online game now hillary was
talking there in the news about the new
release of pc linux OS a two thousand
eleven point six and this has just been
released and we're excited to be
privileged to review it tonight and I
think what makes it kind of exciting for
me is that pc linux OS was I guess I
exciting sit on the word nostalgic pc
linux OS as you recall if you have ever
caught up on some of the older episodes
of category 5 TV it was the first
feature that we ever did on category 5
way back with pc linux OS 2007 so it's
neat to see for me you know being in a
boon to user at this point that is
seeing the progress a pc linux OS over
the years and and it's it's encouraging
to see that that they have grown and
that the the distribution is is quite
fantastic if you're looking for linux
distribution what we're doing over the
next several weeks is we're going to be
looking at some of the available options
we're going to try to keep up with as
many current options as as we can if you
have a favorite distribution that you've
never seen on the show email us live at
category 5 TV and we will do our
absolute best to get that distribution
on this week we're going to be looking
at pc linux OS version two thousand
eleven point six which you can download
from pc linux OS calm and next week
we're going to be looking at Zorin OS
so very cool so how much do you know
about Linux I mean you're a Mac user I
you know I try not to know too much I'm
just kind of like blocking it terrible
i'd rather get this job Mac so Linux is
basically it's an auto to keep it real
simple there there's windows and there's
mac right that's what we're led to
believe but did you know that there is
an alternative that allow that allows
you to run something on your PC hardware
so this is the hardware that you would
normally run windows on that is free you
can get all different versions of it
this is why we're saying that we're
going to be looking at different
distributions because there are so many
different versions of the operating
system that are available for you to use
we've been using Ubuntu for the longest
time and this week again we're looking
at one called pc linux OS so you can go
to their website pc linux OS calm and
imagine that you can actually download
this full operating system along with
its suite of software everything so what
makes Linux different from Windows well
primarily again keeping things really
simple and if you want to take it
further in the chat room go ahead but
basically you know viruses Mac for the
longest time it said oh well get a Mac
because you're sick of viruses well
really if it's not about mac vs windows
again viruses are a windows problem so
if we go with Mac sure you're going to
have less viruses if you go with Linux
same deal so the Linux is free this is
no linux versus anything it's just
here's another alternative for you so
I've looted up my pc linux OS system
it's the first time we've had a look
here comes
so we are running pc linux OS with KDE
4.6 point for pc linux OS 20 11.6 just
released features some really great set
current software it's got the Linux
kernel 2.6 point 38.8 it's got xorg one
point 10.2 for those of you who are
interested in that sort of thing very
current version of x it's got GCC four
point five point two G Lib C 2 point
10.1 right out of the box and I was very
surprised as a matter of fact that even
though i just installed this it's it has
out-of-the-box Firefox 5 so that was
cool because all my other systems I had
to update it it was a kind of a forced
update which was kind of annoying but
with pc linux OS right out of the box it
came with it it's also got Thunderbird 3
point 1 point 11 which is going to
become obsolete very soon when 5 comes
out and interestingly enough it didn't
come with an office suite usually Linux
comes with something that's an
alternative to microsoft office and that
would be you know traditionally open
office these days a lot of distributions
are coming with Libre Office which is a
fork of openoffice but what's
interesting is pc linux OS said okay
we've got to fit this thing all on a CD
we want people to be able to download
this burn it to a CD because that's how
you can do this you can download it and
put it on your own CDR and then install
it on as many computers as you want for
free with without the viruses and
without all that kind of stuff what they
did is they instead included something
called libre office manager and
interestingly when you click on that all
it does is it just simply connects to
the internet it starts downloading Libre
Office and it gets all the stuff so they
were effectively able to exclude libre
office from the distribution in such a
way that it doesn't take up space on the
CD that you're burning and doesn't
increase the size of your your actual
download of the ISO image but if you'd
like to have that it's a quick double
click and it's installed so that was
pretty brilliant some of the things I
want to look at with each of the
distributions we're looking at of course
ease of installation we want to look at
aesthetics organization of the menu
system the included suite of software
out-of-the-box usability and then
anything that makes us go hmm this is
your first time then seeing pc linux or
else yes first of all aesthetics you
know it looks nice looks pretty clean it
looks you know from a i would say from a
Windows user standpoint now this is
using KDE and normally i'm not a KDE fan
I'm a very much a gnome fan but that's
that's changing because I need to find
an alternative before known three takes
over the world so it's very much you can
see that the operating system sort of
looks like a windows 7 kinda system a
little a little darker theme and looks
nice beyond that aesthetics I think I
think it looks quite pretty one of the
things that it does include visual
effects if you have that ability on your
system if you have a nice graphics card
is going to automatically have 3d
enhancements and things like that
functionality wise well I should just
say the ease of installation factor of
it it took a few minutes to install
there were just a few mouse clicks and
it was super super easy to install Linux
has come a long way pc linux OS is at
the forefront of ease of installation it
was a fantastic installation procedure
but what happened next is that my
display was the wrong resolution and I
thought okay well how hard is this going
to be so first thing that I do as an end
user if I right click on the desktop and
see what options come up and I notice as
I do that well unlock widgets refresh
desktop icons below blah okay so it's
not there so next I'm pointing at these
icons down here and you'll see little
things configure your desktop
configure your computer I know if you
can see that there okay so I click on
that and as an end user you know for
from an end-user experience standpoint
asked me for my root password or my
administrator password which i set up
when i installed it and now it runs pc
linux OS control center again very
visually appealing and simply clicking
on hardware there's very few options it
doesn't look cluttered and I see right
there configure video card
configure monitor configure resolution
all I did was click on that how hard is
that nice and easy to find you know as
somebody who's never used it didn't take
me a long time at all to find what it
was I was looking for so I think that as
far as usability goes for the end user
out of box experience it's it's quite
good for that kind of thing this is type
of control panel it looks well laid out
it doesn't have a search feature right
visually that that compares to say
windows 7 search feature of their
control panel but then at the same time
it's not nearly as cluttered it's a very
very streamlined there's very few things
on each menu and it's very clear clean
and concise looks really good so then
next thing that I want to know is out of
the box experience i'm going to be using
this on the internet so what does it
come with internet I've got Firefox and
I've also got conquer which to me is
kind of a little bit of bloat why do I
have two browsers I guess we can choose
which one we want to use conqueror of
course could also be there for use as
the to navigate folders and things on
the computer so maybe that's why it's
there make sense that way bringing up
our website and user experience right
out of the box everything comes up
fairly well keep in mind that
performance on my screen is not going to
compare to this will actually run a lot
faster on a native system we're running
through virtualization in order to
provide a demonstration live on the air
and you'll see that right out of the box
try to scroll down a little ways that it
does indeed straight out of the box it
has flash features and I didn't have to
install or request the installation of
any of those things so right on that
website it's already loaded loaded our
YouTube channel so that's what this is
here so flash works out of the box it's
great and user experience that way I
think is is good because I don't want to
have to go through and install I mean I
created perfect boom to as a workaround
to the fact that Ubuntu doesn't include
all those things because of the you know
for obvious reasons they're not free but
as in freedom so beyond that the
organization of the menu system in pc
linux OS is quite good I I like Linux in
that with windows in particular and I
don't know how this is on the Mac but if
you've ever looked at a window system
that's been running for a year or two
years the menu system gets really really
cluttered with junk you install a
program it creates folders in the Start
menu it creates icon after icon after
icon in that folder and you know if I
install one program all of a sudden I've
got this folder filled with 10 different
things and all I wanted was that one
program with Linux and this is one of
the things that we want to look at is
how well each distribution does it but
with Linux typically you get a scenario
where Internet applications are in the
internet menu there's no blow there's no
add remove or read me or anything like
that there's no extra stuff that's
included in that it's just really
straightforward and everything that that
you would expect so if i install an
Internet application it's on the
internet menu my virtual machine is
having some trouble right now so
unfortunately that's the case of my
virtual machine running on low hardware
but that's that's still okay because
I've gone through the system including
suite of software one of the things that
that pc linux OS comes with right out of
the box that some people say you know
will wear you know how can i get this on
linux is a very easy to set up firewall
out of the box pc1 xos is wide open it
assumes that you're protected by your
nat firewall you know you're you're
behind a router so your computer is
generally safe but to take it one step
further you can set up your firewall
simply by clicking on the icon on your
desktop called firewall setup and that
is just a couple of clicks and you're
all good to go so that's a nice feature
and then the general suite is
vil there as well now pclinuxos also
supports your rpm packages as well as
apt-get synaptic package manager so
that's quite interesting if you want to
be able to install your applications
there's a lot of ways to do that and so
users from all different platforms are
going to be comfortable with that and
this again I'm looking at the KDE
version of of the distribution there is
also the lxd and alex de mini and then
we're looking at the gnome version is
going to be coming out very soon as well
for the new version there we go firewall
setup as I was saying is right up on the
desktop there
any questions in the chat room as as I
chat here what you see once this comes
up how simple that is very very easy
which services would you like the
internet to connect to and just a bunch
of checkboxes really simple setup no
questions and Chong no no questions
chatroom beyond that now here's the menu
system that I was discussing here Krista
you'll see on a Linux system you've got
everything is very well organized and pc
linux OS does it the right way video
you've got there's your video stuff
right you go into sound and there's your
sounds tough things are logical things
make sense where they are it's not a
cluttered menu of a whole bunch of
program names with a bunch of folders
that have a whole bunch of junk this is
very very streamlined you know you go
into office and there's all your office
applications it's nice internet is all
your internet stuff and it does indeed
also include ex chat IRC so if you'd
like to get it into our chat room that's
nice but it's included but linux again
you can install software using synaptic
package manager apt-get or young or
however you want to do it there's so
many different ways and it just gets it
off the internet and your you get it for
free and it installed so pc linux OS it
looks great nothing really makes me go
home about it other than when my virtual
machine kind of lags but that's not pc
linux OS has fault at all i would say
that this is definitely one that i would
recommend to check out at the very least
if you're looking for a distribution to
run on a new computer if you've got a
system that that doesn't have an OS or
you want to revitalize an older system
pc linux OS will automatically detect
your hardware it works very well with
with some hardware that i would say
would be problematic with distribution
such as a loon to such as Wi-Fi if
you're having trouble with Wi-Fi
adapters on your current distribution
try pc linux OS and
you may have better luck getting your
heart we're working out of the box so
it's nice and clean like like Krista and
I were saying aesthetically it looks
nice it's got a good layout things
illogical it includes some widgets if
you click on this little guy up here
click on unlock widgets and then you can
go add widgets and you can just take
these guys and drag them onto your
desktop there's my battery for example
and then I can lock my widgets and there
we go so you can just drag them on and
put them wherever you like very cool
stuff that's pc linux OS 2011 dot six
and you can get it again from pc linux
OS calm we're gonna be looking at
various distributions over the next
couple of weeks and so we're going to be
comparing those so that we can make a
decision as to you know what what would
we say is probably the ultimate
distribution for four different types of
users so be ready at the end of the
series we're going to allow you to vote
for your personal favorite and certainly
we would encourage you to follow along
with the series so that you're you're
not just voting on the ones that you've
tried but also voting for the ones that
you've seen demonstrated on the show as
well and if there are specific features
that you want to know about email us
live at category 5 TV let you know if
those features are available for the
distribution that you're looking for but
linux as it is is a kernel and
everything is built upon that so a lot
of times you'll see that different
applications are available across the
board on all distributions even if it
doesn't come with it out of the box you
can install that and it's that is linux
linux is 1x clinics so cool
how many times do you say linux I was
trying for I'm trying to actually make
my head explode as oh well I want the
YouTube auto-detection of the the words
add those keywords like crazy you know
sort of people are searching for linux
don't know that overload linux linux
snack stop stop Apple stop she's evil
you're gonna change the key words of the
show if you keep that up well then you
get some other good quality users to
join the wonderful oh yes people we
already have to hurt them Mac no no no
dear me well chat room been nice having
you here you can vote for your favorite
episode of category 5 TV at our website
category five dot TV and Krista would
love to get your emails live at category
five dot TV I'm putting words in your
mouth but I know that's what you're
waiting for you know that's sure I just
sit here to go she has more to talk
about when she's got email hours it's
chair that's just the way it is get your
emails him cool people want to see your
desktop so you have to bring up remote
oh my desktop is a mess right now it's a
mess but I will do it
there she is there it is it's a mess
looks strikingly more expensive than
piece of linux OS because it's nice and
clean right right where's not it see
that huge battery symbol that you saw on
the other one there's no huge battery
change that ever whatever nice whatever
on it like on fire this little fellow
sure hey it's been fun everybody i hope
you enjoy the show and look forward to
having you here next tuesday night it's
gonna be a lot of fun and nice having
you here very nice to see you and will
talk to you next tuesday night thanks
everybody hey
boy
