hello and welcome back to another
episode of new everyday my name is
Carrie and my name is Jen and on today's
show we're going to talk about how to
catch a fish
you
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda okay
well welcome back so glad that you tuned
in for another episode of new every day
Jen we have an interesting topic to
discuss today why don't you introduce
that for us sure this topic actually
began welling up in me probably within
the last two or three weeks this this
whole idea of you know dreams and
visions for our local church and saying
come on what do you want what what do
you have for us teach me to listen and I
feel that the Lord has been saying over
the last little while well I've been
praying for evangelism okay Lord you
know grow your church grow your church I
don't want it to be Church migration
right I don't where people are like
unhappy here so they go somewhere else
and off it's not really my style so they
go somewhere else where they go
somewhere else and it's like they're
never really happier plugged in I said I
don't want I don't want your church to
girl like that I want to grow by
salvation and I went oh dear Lord Jesus
why I feel my gifting is discipleship
teaching people about who Jesus is and
the abundant life and how do you
actually walk in the abundant life and
yet I feel him welling this thing up
inside of me that says but I love every
person i want all people to come to me
I'm like okay Lord then you need to come
up with a plan like yep so how do get
the people is how do you get the people
in how do you tell them about yourself
how do I tell them about Jesus or anyone
else and then what is the process for
will ship and I basically laid it back
out to the Lord to say what is your plan
you well it up because I don't want to
step outside of your plans and purposes
and it was really interesting because
then that night carries dad who's a part
of well is our alpha leader and it just
has a heart for evangelism came to me
and he's like Jen I've been thinking
about you know the next step after alpha
yeah I like to do Christianity 101 and I
just went I let you know it was just one
of those who I was that shocking how's
that plan to wait so shocking because
that morning I specifically said Lord
you have to come up with a plan right
and then carries dad comes and says I'd
really like to do Christian do you want
a one because what do people do after
alpha right I was like and then I looked
at him like Rob because he's been on the
show before so it's okay to say his name
oh yeah I said Rob I was praying about
that this morning because I want our
church to grow I want our church to grow
because of new people not just recycled
people who are unhappy somewhere else um
and he said I was praying about that
this morning too I know isn't that great
I know so I'm like okay Lord what are
you stirring up so it was so cool and
then I go to UM thrive which is the
Christian group on campus here in the
city and we were talking last night
about what does it mean to be a follower
of Christ and what does it mean to be a
Fisher of men and I'm listening to these
young men and women talk and I'm busily
like writing down notes I'm like oh this
is really good I'm like we have to share
this stuff and I was really convicted
about a passage from Matthew that I had
never really understood it before like I
always got afraid to be a Fisher of men
because why didn't make my to make you
scared your pastor min but like i said
in my mind i'm a disciple er right so I
train people and I yeah but that whole
idea of evangelism I think just scares
me I'd like no
when you see evangelism like the first
thing that comes to my mind I don't know
what you seem to what Wells up in your
mind but I picture like the soapbox
preacher right or the televangelists
when you think about evangelizing
someone else that someone standing up on
a podium and you know showering people
with information or trying or some kind
of coercion to try and bring them into
their club that's the first thing that
comes to mind yeah and so like is that
kind of what was intimidating to you and
being afraid that I didn't know what to
say I felt culturally irrelevant that
they wouldn't want to listen to me okay
I felt like I didn't know how to package
the words right like but it's fear right
and fears from the enemy it's the enemy
who doesn't want me to share about Jesus
and just the life change that he's made
in my life and so you know as I'm
realizing that God wants to grow his
church through new people um then I was
like how you gonna get them them new
people in here how am I going to do with
that and I literally was like okay Lord
like you have to come up with the plan
so as I'm sitting there last night at
they're threatening to thrive yeah we
started talking about a passage from
Matthew that talks about being a Fisher
of men and we talked about that more but
so we're so anyways over the next couple
of shows we're going to unpack this
passage from Matthew because there's a
lot of really cool I want to say one
liners or even one words that we want to
unpack and really understood them
because I'm sitting there going I've
never read that passage like that before
and I haven't read this passage like so
many got so many times and every time it
got and I will make you fishers of men
that statement I immediately went and
it's like it's like I tuned off right
then instead of saying instead of asking
Lauren how do i do that i was saying oh
lord please not me which is interesting
because I see you as a Fisher of men you
know because you you do preach you do
teach and sometimes there happens to be
people who aren't already Christians
listening to you and of course then they
come to Christ right but in I think for
all those reasons all those
preconceived ideas I was just like yeah
okay Lord that's not somebody else has
to carry in my mind has the gift of
evangelism like she just shares her
faith we'll talk about that more too and
so I was like okay that's for other
people right that whole idea being a
Fisher of men is for somebody else and
so um I'm just realizing now I haven't
done this but I need to sa Lord forgive
me for having that attitude about that
passage and other passages in the Bible
where I'm like oh but that's not me
mm-hmm and we just sort of say that's
not me or or dear lord please don't ask
me to do that hmm and so like I was
really challenged because instead
because then I think we turn ourselves
off to what God has for us because we
see our own skills and our own abilities
and we see who we are rather than we see
who he is and who he is in us because if
Jesus did it he says greater things that
you will do than what you've seen me
doing because we have the Holy Spirit so
yes he did it we can do it exactly right
yes that's why I tell myself so let's go
to the past okay so this is from Matthew
4 verse 17 and it says from that time
Jesus began to preach saying change your
hearts and lives because the kingdom of
heaven is near as Jesus was walking by
Lake Galilee he saw two brothers Simon
called Peter and his brother Andrew they
were throwing a net into the lake
because they were fishermen we talked
about that before him it's interesting
that they say they were throwing a net
into the lake why because they were
fishermen think about other reasons why
you throw it into the lake yeah carrying
on it's good to spell it out jesus said
come follow me and I will make you fish
for people so Simon and Andrew
immediately left their nets and followed
him as Jesus continued walking by Lake
Galilee he saw two other brothers James
and John the sons of Zebedee they were
in a boat with their father Zebedee
mending their nets Jesus told him to
come with him immediately they left the
boat and their father and they followed
Jesus mm-hmm and so the first word that
I thought we should look at from verse
19 where it says jesus said so the fact
that Jesus says it is really important
so it's not anybody else is like Jesus
the Son of God is saying this but he
says come like he invites them he
actually invites them there hasn't been
like a resume submitted like here's what
you're going to be signing on to yeah
and there's like okay you have the gift
of or you're able to talk really clearly
you're able to get your points across oh
look you have favored with people and oh
you're very handsome too like there's
none of these things right they are
smelly fishermen yeah right and unkept
unkempt because they have been out all
night long and Jesus sees past all of
that and says come come on in come and
like sometimes I get I'm a word person
sometimes I can get stuck on a word and
think about it for a long time because
it's an invitation he invited them to
come and not for not for the reason
where he thought that they would say no
he wasn't giving them an invitation for
them to say no because you know how
sometimes you invite people to go places
but you're kind of you're just being
polite and you're like oh would you like
to come and you're really hoping on the
inside nothing don't wanna you want to
be polite right and so your octopus so
you're extending the invitation you
really don't want them to come but you
should be polite anyways do you want to
come and have to do this and this and
this it's not going to be that awesome
but you're welcome to come right where
you know and then sometimes the other
person really doesn't want to come
either but they would be offended if you
did invite them and you would feel wrong
if you didn't but really neither one of
you want to come that's so culturally
bounding
yeah so anyways gee this is not this is
not to come that Jesus is talking about
yeah he genuinely wants them to come and
there wasn't um well how do I want to
say this there wasn't this come and get
like get cleaned up first hmm it was
come as you are it wasn't okay you go
home and you get cleaned up get your
hair comb get on like clean clothes cuz
they had been fishing like they smelled
like fish and there was none of that
there was no resume checking there was
no okay you get all cleaned up and then
you know we'll come and chat it was
immediately they left the boat yes and
came and came you know what i find
interesting too is in verse 19 when he
said to them follow me and I will make
you fishers of men you know they didn't
get insulted like well we're already
fishermen like we know how to fish
you're not gonna have to teach us
anything but Jesus is introducing
something totally different yeah but he
used a context that they were familiar
with interesting mm-hmm you're right
they did not get offended they not say
can you not see what we're doing like
they just they heard it and then they
responded which is you know very
interesting and sometimes I need to
think through okay what was the last
thing Jesus invited you to be a part of
because so often people are like what
does God want me to do in my life and I
will often say to them what was the last
thing God told you to do or invite you
into and did you do it and sometimes
they can't remember and sometimes were
like wow you know I wasn't sure if he
was really serious about that or I was
afraid like and so I'm like well if you
want to know what God wants you to do go
back to the last thing that he invited
you to be a part of and take stock like
what happened and I and I've talked to
some people who have have said no to
Jesus at some point in their life and
they let it literally have felt like a
door closed in their life at that point
and they have not felt close to the Lord
as a result of saying no at
one point their life totally took a like
a left turn or a right turn or you turn
because they said no and often when we
can trace okay what was the last thing
God told you to do or invited you to be
a part of we go back to that and like
are you willing like are you actually
willing to say yes to him now so that
you can you know either get your life
back together or or begin hearing him
because some people will say well I
haven't heard Jesus in a long time I
like well did you listen to him the last
time he spoke to you because it's very
interesting we want to hear hear hear
hear we want to feel the love of God we
want to you know know that he sees us
but then when he invites us into a
situation or to be a part of it like oh
that's not for me or are you sure that's
for me or I couldn't possibly do that
like we start making up all these
excuses right and is like it's none of
that if Jesus invites us to say calm yep
then he believes that we can do it well
he says I will make you fishers of men
yeah I don't like come and find out how
to yes I'm gonna make you I will do it
yes and that's just it like come and be
with me it's like not go somewhere else
and figuring it out on your own it's
like I'm inviting you and we're gonna do
this together and yeah together we will
make fishers of men like I'm going to
teach you how to do this like it's thing
is there's so much in that one word of
come where we just read it right we just
read it in a one-line come and I will
make you fishers of men right and yet
there's so much there that says you know
it doesn't matter who we are it doesn't
you no matter what we think we can do in
fact as Jesus calls us he advises he
believes that we can do it and then he's
willing to do it with us yeah and he
promises to be with us when were
challenged to do something yes and I
think like these disciples who were
called I think they all were murdered or
they get Peter no Pete
Andrew Peter was and james and john and
i'm not sure about Andrew I'm not sure
about Andrew hi there we'll have to look
that up google it Andrew see if he was
martyred
but they probably didn't know at that
time what they were signing up and what
the cost would be yes but Jesus was with
them and just look at the transformation
from them being called and not knowing
yes to them eventually dying for their
faith because they knew the love that
Christ had for them yes so you don't
really I think that's part of the fear
yeah as we don't know what the
invitation entails come and I will make
you fishers of men and we're like okay
because some of us want the play by play
yeah okay so when is this going to
happen how's this going to happen what
are you going to do did it is it right
mm-hmm um yeah or maybe we feel like I
don't want him to ask me to like move
somewhere or have to ask someone to live
with me or go you know I don't have the
time in the day I can't take on one more
friend right evangelize right or please
don't ask me to give money to them right
right like I only have this much money
so please don't ask me to give to this
cause or this cause and yeah it's light
and I'm we're kind of saying that like
people say this and they don't want me
to do this but I know that I've had that
in my own heart and so if I like yeah I
don't want to do something I know you
said oh yeah yesterday um I need came up
at the church of a young woman who
needed some clothes and i was thinking i
was telling carrier getting our weeks
together and she's like okay what are
you doing thursday i don't like TBA and
i'm like it's just enough it's a day
don't know what i'm doing yet but in my
mind I'm thinking I'm gonna go get an
outfit because I've been thinking I
would like a fall outfit right and all I
could think about was Jennifer are you
willing to give this young lady as much
money as you're willing to pay under
clothes on your own clothes because I
really i have a closet full of clothes i
don't really need something else right
and i was convicted and i'm like nuts
nuts and it's like all I can think about
is Jesus has come like if I'm inviting
you into this into this blessing for
this young woman do you not think that I
can work the rest of it out and I've
seen it happen so many times where God
invites
and we say yes and then we sort of set
back and go whoa that was good like
because we don't see it right all we see
is the invitation yeah we don't
necessarily see how it plays out and
that's what gets us because we want to
know well what's in it for me yeah what
exactly am I going to have to put out on
this and the thing is um that it's a
trust thing am I willing to trust that
God really does love me enough that he's
gonna stick with me like and he's gonna
see it through because he doesn't like
come follow me and I will make you like
it's a process yeah so I think we get
caught up in fear mm-hmm when the
invitation comes we start to be afraid
and it's like I don't know if I can do
this yeah and I think so there's a story
about a man who was an atheist and he
was going for a walk at a hiking along a
mountain and all a sudden came to an
edge and lost his footing and he was
falling off the cliff but he managed to
grab a little tuft of grass and as he's
holding on to the tuft of grass he's
wondering how he's going to be able to
get back on to the cliff ledge to be
safe to be saved so he's holding on the
tuft of grass knee looks down and
there's just jagged rocks and even
though he's an atheist in his
desperation he says God if you're up
there can you hear me and help me and
all of a sudden he hears I can hear you
let go of the tuft of grass and trust me
and he's holding on he goes is there
anyone else up there because sometimes
what he asks is really hard yeah to
trust him yeah yeah
and so we're going to end there on the
first and the third word jesus said come
okay but we want you to think about that
for the next week the invitations that
Jesus has extended to you ministries to
be a part of missions to be you know to
give to our people to give to like how
has Jesus invited you in to follow him
and you know praise the Lord where you
have said yes no I am so thankful for
the opportunities I've had to say yes
Lord and I have and then in those times
where you have said no because of fear
or perceived lack then we challenge you
to say okay Lord I'm so sorry mmm i want
to experience life and life to the full
would you forgive me and then let's
let's pick it up yeah keyboarding and he
is so inclusive he continues to offer
that invitation to come to him yes even
when we've messed up just recently I was
going to be going to a function and I
was talking with a friend of mine and
she was like oh well you know what I'd
love to come do that and in the back of
my mind I thought oh you know I there's
not really a whole lot of room in my car
and you know I'm gonna have to work out
picking her up and all this stuff and in
my mind I'm trying to work out how to
not have this friend come with me right
and Jesus is always inclusive yes and so
I was feeling bad about that and then I
thought you know what the very fact that
I'm feeling bad about it points to the
fact that Jesus has already is is still
doing a work in my life so yay God so he
allowed me to see it and I'm so thankful
for my friend and I'm so thankful that
he has shown me the way to be inclusive
like him and just say calm and he's good
he can take care of the details amen so
yay God yay God should we pray yes oh do
come pray yes okay father thank you so
much that you say come you invite us to
a life that is new every day
we thank you for that I thank you for
the wonderful privilege of being
ambassadors for Christ that we get to
invite other people and as we study this
and learn about it where would you show
us show us how you have done it and how
you still do it and how you're using
your church all over the world to make
disciples thank you for the promise that
you never will leave us or forsake us
and you will enable us to be fishers of
men where would you bless our viewers
and our listeners and just ask God that
you would encourage them and remind them
how much you love them I pray this in
the name of Jesus amen amen amen all
right well thank you for tuning in again
to new every day we have a number of
excellent partners if you want to go to
our website new everyday TV click on our
partners page we've got a whole list
like two pages if you need to buy
anything except for maybe eggs if you
need to buy anything go to our website
click on our sponsor on our partners
page yeah and just read through what is
there like we were reading it say if you
need a t-shirt made there's a spot if
you know how to make a website website
there's a spot if you need you know to
buy or sell anything there's a spot so
we really encourage you and if you're
wondering how could I help these girls
first please pray for us and secondly I
consider it find what you would normally
get anyways just click on earth our
website new everyday TV click on the
partners page and just scroll through
and see
what you can get the things that you
need from those sponsors power through
the partners awesome while we look
forward to having you join us next week
same time same place new everyday TV and
have an awesome week right John cheers
Cheers
