hey everyone and welcome back to new
every day my name is Kari and my name is
Jen and on today's show we're in part
two of a man named Phil so stay tuned
we'll be right back
this is new every day with Jen wagger
and Carey web
[Music]
hello welcome back to new every day we
are in part two of a man named film
named Ben last week we talked about
Philip who was chosen after Jesus Christ
had been resurrected yeah and ascended
into heaven and he was chosen as well as
Stephen to be a minister to the poor so
that the Apostles could be freed up to
then teach and preach yes right yes so
where we at now where we at now we are
in Acts chapter 8 verse 9 and here we go
okay now for some time a man named Simon
had practiced sorcery in the city and a
mace or in the city of a Samaria and all
the people of sand and amazed all the
people of Samaria he boasted that he was
someone great and all the people both
high and low gave him their attention
and exclaimed this man is the divine
power known as the great power they
followed him because he had amazed them
for a long time with his magic but when
they believed Philip as he preached the
good news of the kingdom of God and the
name of Jesus Christ they were baptized
both men and women Simon himself
believed and was baptized and he
followed Philip everywhere astonished by
the great signs and miracles he saw when
the Apostles in Jerusalem heard that
Samaria had accepted the Word of God
they sent John or Peter and John to them
when they arrived they prayed for them
that they might receive the Holy Spirit
because the Holy Spirit had not yet come
upon them they had simply been baptized
into the name of the Lord Jesus then
Peter and John placed their hands on
them and they received the Holy Spirit
when Simon saw that the Spirit had was
given at the laying on of the Apostles
hands he offered them money and said
give me also this ability so that
everyone on whom I lay my hands may
receive the Holy Spirit Peter answered
may your money perish with you because
you thought you could buy the gift of
God with money you have no part or share
in this ministry because your heart is
not right before God repent of this
wickedness and pray to the Lord perhaps
he will forgive you for having such a
thought in your heart for I see that you
are full of bitterness and captive to
sin then Simon answered pray to the Lord
for me so that nothing you have said may
happen to
when they had testified and proclaimed
the word of the Lord Peter and John to
Jerusalem preaching the gospel and many
Samaritan villages hmm yes you know last
week we talked about how when Philip
went to Samaria he preached the word and
then also did many miraculous signs and
people were drawn to the Lord in part
because of the miraculous signs that God
was doing something through Philip that
they had never seen or encountered
before
I know and here's Simon the sorcerer yes
it sounds like a bad guy from a Disney
movie right here I know hi I'm Simon the
sorcerer anyways um he kind of takes it
totally out of context he is seeing the
miracle
without realizing the the cause of the
miraculous who is the person of Jesus
Christ yeah Ruth Philip so it's like
he's he's worshiping the actual miracles
themselves and not encountering the God
behind them well I think you know as I
read this it says that he believed he
himself believed and was baptized and he
followed and listened to this and he
the great signs and miracles he saw so
you're right he was totally captivated
by the power of the Holy Spirit moving
through Philip and he was more
captivated by what Philip was doing then
through the power behind it which was
the Holy Spirit yeah and and so when
Peter and John are sent from Jerusalem
to check this out that you know they lay
hands on and they received the Holy
Spirit and Simon sees this and he's like
whoa I want that too this could be
moneymaker he didn't want the Spirit he
didn't want Spirit he wanted the power
he wanted the power ha ha I just feel
such a huge gut check right now because
I have met people who move in the power
of God and there they're almost
worshipped for what they can do and
literally if you go here this man he'll
prophesy over you and I'm like and now
I'm sitting here and I still I felt I
feel the same way as I did then like am
I going to hear this man or am I going
because I want to hear what God has to
say and there's such a fine line there
am I going to worship this man and him
it he can do what he can say or am I
going to meet with God say what do you
have for me like there's such because we
worship we worship our pastors we
worship worship leaders we worship
people with the gifts of prophecy and we
just did you hear what this person said
did you hear and it's like yes I'm
saying did you hear what God said
through that person yeah right
oh no we would say they are so like wow
the power of God like they just moves
through them and we almost worship them
I think I want to be like them yeah but
I I think that one of the signs of a
false teacher is that they don't
redirect the accolades to the Lord and
like give the credit where the credit is
due
but the humility that some teachers and
preachers embody is reflective of the
character of Christ and so that's a more
clear sign that you know what they're
doing is through God and they point you
in that direction so the miracles the
healing the wisdom and the teaching that
they provide then turn people down a
path to knowing Christ for the first
time or knowing him more intimately and
I think like Philip was there
Philip was all over like as he was
preaching the gospel and there were
signs and wonders that accompanied him
because he was right with Jesus right
yeah so people came to know him because
of what he was speaking and and the
signs and wonders so Philip isn't the
problem it's Simon who sees that instead
of seeing Jesus he sees the power he
sees the the wonders he and he
misses out on the who the who is doing
this part and it's like I want to
believe so I can do those powers I can
have those powers now I want to believe
because I want to be close to Jesus so
yeah you want to think about that I want
to think about that you go ahead and
dismiss them for our break
she is dismissed you whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching hello again
welcome back thank you for staying with
us on new every day go check out our web
site new every day TV you can go to our
partners page and see all the wonderful
businesses and organizations who are
supporting us to make this show possible
because we sure are grateful to have the
opportunity to talk about God and to
talk about life and real life stuff with
you on a weekly basis it's really just
been an amazing piece of our lives they
gen yes I know we're gonna just dive
right back in we're still talking about
Philip and the gen where did we leave
off there well we left off with Simon
the sorcerer and asking the question do
we worship the messenger or do we
worship the message okay yes I knew I
was gonna say Simon the sorcerer himself
believed and was baptized yes what I
appreciate about that is that the Philip
and the other people who were preaching
and teaching they didn't like have them
fill out a survey they didn't you know
there was no vetting process if they
said they believed they believed
they baptize them and it was the Holy
Spirit and God who brought who sifted
through what his true motives of the
heart we're right and proverbs does say
that the Lord looks at the motives of
the heart and identifies that and then
when Peter and it was a John who came
down mm-hm
then they were able to say to Simon like
you're not in this for the right thing
you're you may your money perish with
you that's this is not what this is
about and I really see that gen as the
mercy and grace of God because it
doesn't we don't hear about what happens
to Simon after he's just like oh pray
the Lord for me that none of the things
which you have spoken may come upon me
you know what I find interesting about
that passage right there though is he
doesn't repent no he doesn't repent but
that is the opportunity to repent and we
don't know if he does or not it you're
right and I'm just saying that's if if
someone's in the wrong and he studies
believed then it's an opportunity for
the church the community believers to
say hey wait a sec this isn't lining up
with what you said you believed and it's
an opportunity from God in His mercy
that he has the opportunity now to
repent you know yes I hear what you're
saying
I hear what you're saying but I feel
like if he had repented they would have
written it in and maybe maybe the prayer
where it says pray to the Lord for me so
it's not like basically saying oh no
that those things won't happen to me I
don't want the consequences but it
doesn't actually say wow I was wrong and
you're right this is where the body of
Christ comes alongside to say okay let's
just because you did believe and you
were baptized you're baptized in the
name of Jesus okay some of your motives
are on here yeah so let's just talk
through that and and that's part of your
right I don't think they I don't think
they wrote him off that does not it
doesn't the passage didn't give it give
that inclination that they wrote him off
yeah but it does give the idea of your
right maybe there is room for more
teaching and mentoring to come alongside
Simon to
say okay daddy yeah let's talk about
this let's talk about who the Holy
Spirit is let's talk about Jesus my
guess is that Simon was a Samaritan so
there was an understanding of the gosta
becoming Messiah not quite the same as
the Jews who had a deep understanding of
the coming Messiah but going back to the
Samaritan woman it says well no you Jews
preach that you know and so there's an
idea that they understand somewhat of
the Jewish faith but here's your right
an opportunity to come alongside and
mentor him and what's cool is there are
people in our church who will just come
alongside other people and and track
with them for a while and mentor them
and speak truth into their life mm-hmm
and and so maybe this is you know one of
those chapters that sort of brings that
to the forefront like wow it's so easy
to write Simon off hmm but we need
someone to come alongside Simon right
and and that's what the fact that he
believed and was baptized was like okay
you're in the posse now like you're in
the club yeah and and sometimes in
churches there are people who well you
said you believed but mm tell me right
here right here and I think it just
shows to go ya that that those kind of
people who have that skewed
understanding do exist within the church
but if the church is healthy and has
people like the Peters and the John's
and the Phillips yes who can readily
identify if people aren't actually
following what the Bible says and it
becomes a more healthy church body
because they're given the opportunity to
repent and change their ways and God in
His mercy I know I've seen this happen
in the church Jen people were kind of
like going astray and like doing things
that were going to be harmful and
someone very lovingly came and said this
is not God's best for you God loves you
this is not what he this is not what he
intends this is wrong and that is what
Peter and John do like they're just they
speak directly to the truth
and and they don't mince words yeah I
think it's true
they're very clear and it is a challenge
you're right how do you speak the truth
and then come alongside yeah now like
Peter and and John and Philip were
evangelists and apostles at this point
so their job was not to come alongside
and walk with people we don't see that
at all often Peters going off on his own
and doing whatever but that's where like
the Barnabas comes in the Silas comes in
people in your life who come in
alongside you and say let's let's do
some life together and I know very often
that's what Carrie and I do like okay
you're doing this have you thought about
this or or I'm doing this what are your
thoughts about this and just like iron
sharpening iron and being the okay I'm
gonna speak some truth into your life
right and and just like that mentor or
help that we often need in our Christian
life to help straighten out some of the
things that we think are some of the
behaviors often will confess to each
other going I was thinking that I was
doing this and it is wrong and then we
you know we take that as an opportunity
just to come alongside and encourage and
and so that might be where you're at
right now maybe maybe you're a Simon and
you've been looking at the messenger
instead of the message or maybe you're a
Peter and James are a Peter and John who
actually you see something and you know
it's wrong maybe you need to speak truth
into that life or maybe you're a
Barnabas that isn't mentioned in this
who needs to come alongside someone
who's young in their faith and and you
know that God is tapping your heart
right now saying hey I want you to go
meet with Sam or hey Sarah called you
and I want you to answer that phone call
or so-and-so texted you or you got this
email you see that young family who just
needs a surrogate mom and dad to come
alongside like whatever that is maybe
you're that family that comes alongside
to strengthen encourage and build up in
the Lord so we're gonna leave that with
you - who do you identify with in this
passage you know so let's pray yeah
dear Lord Jesus a man named Phil started
something in Samaria and it didn't Wow
it might not have went the way he
thought it was going to go Simon came
along and and got things mixed up and so
father thank you that thank you that
Philips still spoke the message thank
you for the boldness of Peter and John
we thank you for Simon Lord that he
willfully chose to serve you and was
baptized and and Lord we pray for those
that might need to come alongside
someone like assignment who's just their
theology is off or they're not living
the life that they professed to believe
and so you're touching their heart right
now you're touching their heart like so
father you leave this in your hands
touch our hearts we pray amen thank you
for praying with us thank you hey if
you're praying for us to I also thank
you for praying for us but we appreciate
you praying for us because we're so glad
for this opportunity yes so anyways have
a great week we're gonna see you back
here and next week same time same place
a little open the Bible again have a
great week
catchin new episode of new every day
every Friday morning and new everyday
dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku plays YouTube
and Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
