welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 342 for Tuesday the
eighth of april 2014 they finally done
it Microsoft has cut off microsoft
windows XP and if you're angry about
that fact well don't go anywhere you
don't necessarily have to replace your
computer we've got a way that you can
get your old computer up and running
good as new screaming fast and
absolutely free pretty good very good oh
also tonight we are on the roku we are
on roku ladies and gentlemen so welcome
if you are watching from a Roku device
nice to have you here chelsea jensen
everybody ha thank you having me back
good to see you so here's what's coming
up in the newsroom thanks to the whole
windows XP thing some organizations are
ditching windows all together and making
the switch selinux a security exploit
gives low-skill hackers direct security
clearance access to over 76 7600 power
plants all over the world
when we hear that a bug has caused
mazda2 recall 42,000 vehicles we
typically think they're talking about a
computer problem but this time it's not
a computer bug it's an arachnid no and
finally xbox microsoft xbox live service
was owned by a five stick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
awesome thanks Kelsey now I know we've
got a little bit of screen flicker
tonight I apologize for that hey if you
can stick it out it's it's okay we know
that it's there and unfortunately I
don't know if there's anything that we
can do with it while we're live but
we'll definitely make sure that we
resolve it in time for next week's show
I think it's minor enough that we're
gonna be able to do a great show for you
so don't go anywhere this is going to be
an awesome show this is category 5
technology TV
starring
Sasha dormidas
Hillary rumble
Kristen wells
and kid and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV hey
it's so nice to have you here I'm Robbie
I'm Kelsey category 5 TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here Cat Cat five TV it sits right
there DP it's cat five dot t / t pn and
the international association of
internet broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib to
be fair we have so much to cover tonight
that the font is very very tiny tiny and
lost it I love Vicky literally out loud
said where to go where to go ok follow
along with your finger Megan yeah ok
category five TV t shirts are available
for you in our category 5 merch store
shop category five dot T shop category 5
TV hey our t-shirts are really fantastic
if you're new here you want to get one
while they last get on over to shop
category five dot TV and pick up an
awesome category 5 t-shirt as mentioned
in the category 5 TV is now on the roku
I'm very excited to be a part of that
platform sorry for the crazy flickered
folks oh yeah
you're going to bear with me right even
if you're watching on roku if you're
watching however you watching if you're
on our website category 5 TV just
forgive flickr it's okay we've got i'll
show you we have crammed the technology
tonight and we're guarantee it what
you're seeing here is that we're pushing
the tech as far as it will possibly go
all the way to the limit all the way
because we have so many linux distros
running all at once so that we can take
a look at these tonight we want to show
you all these linux distributions so
that you can see what is available
that's a lot it's a lot and so we want
to show you it because linux is an
alternative to microsoft windows to mac
OS and it's absolutely free which is
very good yeah so forgive the flicker I
know we're pushing the limits tonight I
think the sound is good you're going to
be able to see the screen we're going to
be able to see the Roku so all the rest
of it doesn't matter as just my head
just say it's the shimmer of the lights
off of the bald nerd so we're on roku
cat five dot TV / roku we're going to
talk more about it as we demonstrate our
channel i've got my Roku remote right
here fancy we're going to take a look at
that tonight we welcome all of our new
viewers who are watching through Roku
both live and on-demand tonight and and
over the course of the next few weeks I
know there are a lot of you it's so nice
to have you being a part of the show and
we invite you to join our community get
over to category five dot TV and sign up
for a free account there it's how you
can participate in contests prize
giveaways we do those here on the air
and even if you're watching on roku you
can qualify for those prizes also get
into the chat room if you're watching
live its category five on freenode or of
course you can head on over to live cat5
TV and you'll see a link there or just
go to our main website category five TV
I'll throw it up on the screen for you
there it is and you'll find the links
under the interact menu
we have a mobile site as well if you
want to watch it through your mobile
device there you go mcat five dot TV or
scan that QR code hold it up to your big
screen TV you're watching on the roku
scan it you can have all your devices
every last one of them all every single
one of them surround flicker how cool
okay good so can you believe windows XP
is officially dead it's gone i can't
remember time without it like i remember
when i was younger windows XP on my
family computer and yeah for me it was
das 3 okay all right I see what actually
before ya dick 20 anyone can relate yeah
XP has been around for a long time it's
2001 that's but it came out pretty old
it blows my mind that that it has been
running on desktop computers laptop
computers for that long like we're
talking 13 years 13 years house facebook
has been around as long as you can
probably remember well it's been a
bitter a long time it came out Facebook
came out three years after windows XP I
phones nowadays when we're designing
websites and we mentioned our mobile
website you use your iPhone or whatever
else whatever other device but an iphone
was not even announced for for another
six years after XP came out they had not
even announced the first release of the
iphone 4 6 full years google was just a
small little company i mentioned it
before a privately held company with
about 400 employees it's just a baby
that's where they were at when windows
XP came out so if you take advantage you
know you're watching this on your high
speed internet connection tonight
imagine the big news the huge news when
windows XP came out that at that time in
2001 was from us robotics
who had released their v92 56k modem Wow
remember those there weren't no internet
video back then that's what that's where
XP has come from so people say to me
well why is it being deprecated why are
they cutting off XP when it still works
just fine it's that old it's 13 years
people gotta move on we have to move on
the Society of computer users has to
move on AG emotive says that windows XP
was one of the things that made him
actually going Salina and that's
surprising you would say that because
tonight we have a question from a
wonderful viewer I don't under if you
can touch on that yeah this is from Thor
kneel or neo he says my mom needs to
replace XP what linux distros should
could she use and how can I make it look
like Linux like XP so they don't get
scared by it okay I can't touch the
question but I have to do this kelsey
what linux linux she's new here folks
it's clinics she's new it's ok linux
linux think well if people say linus
torvalds yeah the creator of linux but
actually in his home dialect it's it's
Lena's four vaults oh so then you said
anything linux but but Lina's says uh
linux and he's the guy who created it so
he's got to be right oh yeah he says
linux linux a sound clinics ok well now
that we got that another way that is
more serious folks than the flickr so ok
so you've got linic you've got windows
XP it's the classic scenario we wanted
to read your question there thorny oh
because you your mom is in the same boat
as so many other people yeah windows XP
is gone today's the day April 8 2014
doesn't do anything anymore
you can keep running it but then you are
absolutely unsafe I I can't stress
enough that if you keep using Windows XP
you are basically opening yourself up to
be exploited and when I say that I've
mentioned it on the show previously if
you think that you are not susceptible
to those attacks because they aren't
just I'm just Robbie you're I'm just
Kelsey I'm just insert name here the
fact is is that these hacker exploits
are going through IP address IP
addresses like a phone book and
eventually they're going to get to you
they don't care who you are they don't
care that you've got a couple kids and
nothing they don't care that you can't
afford to upgrade your computer for
example okay you've got windows XP I
can't go out and spend another thousand
bucks buying a new computer I just
bought this 16 years ago yeah so and it
still works why should I have to replace
it that's where a lot of people are
right now but you can't keep running
windows XP that's not the solution plain
and simple so tonight we're going to
show you some alternatives and I kind of
alluded to it Linux is a free operating
system and it allows you to wipe out
everything on your computer and install
a replacement operating system you think
oh I'd love to do that with windows 7
i'd love to put windows seven on my old
computer or windows 8 on my old computer
but it's not going to happen no free
it's not free for one thing you're
absolutely right but here's the thing
you pay you buy the license so let's say
we went with windows 7 because we wanted
to breathe new life into our old
computer by the license might be a
couple of hundred bucks you might get it
on a deal or whatever by the time you
get it you know in you get your stuff
backed up you get your operating system
installed then you realize you need more
ram because your computer actually
doesn't have enough specifications in
order to run the new operating system
and then it's you've got it working but
you've now you've spent four hundred
dollars and you know you then you need
to hire someone or have somebody
transfer all your files back and it's
you're down four days upon days and
that time spent so much money and in
that time something could have happened
surely but also you are still running
this old six year old computer with a
newer operating system so it's dog slow
horrible experience and what was it
worth you just sank four hundred dollars
into it mm-hmm so then people say okay
well for six hundred bucks i can buy a
really decent computer brand new with a
you know maybe one two three year
warranty on it that makes more sense
because i'm spending just a little bit
more getting a brand new system i can
put that old one into e-waste or just
store it if i ever need access to it or
whatever not safe to boot up but maybe
you've got files on there so fact is is
that it's still going to cost you a lot
of money tonight i want to show you some
alternatives because one of the things
that microsoft doesn't want you to know
is that there are other options people
have said oh what if i switch to mac why
don't i just switch to mac well then
you're doing the exact same thing you're
having to buy new hardware it's licensed
software and your programs you know you
you you probably won't be able to
transition the same programs over and
then you've got the whole learning curve
thing so if you're going to do a little
bit of learning curve anyway you're
going to do that with windows 7 windows
8 Mac doesn't matter there's a bit of a
learning curve might as well take a look
at Linux absolutely free so let's do
that I have six different linux
distributions installed on this computer
right now so we're going to start with
number one and this is called q400s and
I didn't want to discredit q 40 s which
is a brand new operating system I wanted
you windows XP users to see how similar
Linux can look to Windows XP this is
it's notable enough that I wanted to
show it to you it looks feels a lot like
Microsoft Windows but it's not windows
it's linux so the software is a little
bit different but what I want to think
about is what do you use your computer
for Kelsey um my computer's mostly used
for homework and you've all watching
YouTube videos
Netflix Netflix things like that Netflix
is the one that might get you might get
me mm-hmm but you're gonna get a Roku
anyway of course of course so looking at
Linux what's different is that it's it's
alternative software so homework and
stuff you've got a linux-based free
office clone sweet to replace microsoft
office don't forget if you upgrade to
Windows 7 you got to buy microsoft
office too because office 2003 and
before has been deprecated as well so
now we've got this on Linux we've got an
alternative it'll work with your word
docs your Excel spreadsheets your
PowerPoint files all for free internet
is a given you've got your web browser
you've got the ability to surf the web
just like you normally would you can go
to youtube and you've got access to
everything just like you would because a
lot of stuff these days is web-based
right this one's a little bit slow and
so q 40 s looks a lot like Windows XP
but it's probably not the one for you
because it is young I say q 40 s is more
for somebody who perhaps is a bit of an
ax like a somebody who's used linux
wants to play around wants to make
something look like Windows XP it's a
little bit young so let's move on let's
check out what's next next up is point
Linux this is my distribution of choice
it's based on debian and debbie ins and
other distribution this is what i want
to kind of share with you about
distributions because linux comes in all
different flavors is what they call them
so where you used to be used to windows
XP windows 7 windows vista and windows
millennium edition and 98 these are
different versions whereas Linux you're
going to have all the same versions but
different flavors so a different company
has developed this Linux a different
company has developed that linux but
they're all linux and they're all free a
lot of the time freeze pretty good the
ones that i'm looking at are all free so
this is point lettings ilike it because
i am old school and i like the
old-school look of it and i am good at
linux so i don't mind that
sometimes things break sometimes things
aren't exactly where you want them and
you have to move them it gives me
control so if your linux user already i
recommend you check out point linux a
note that i will be posting links in the
show notes pardon me for episode number
342 you'll be able to follow all the
links for all these distributions and
actually download them to your computer
so point linux comes with a lot of stuff
everything is this is out of the box
i'll show you a libreoffice writer which
is a microsoft word clone and works with
your word documents and and is in all
essences a replacement for microsoft
word whoa so it looks like it you know
it's just it's a word processor right
does what you need it to do exactly and
works with all these file formats dented
i did d microsoft word 2007 2003 97 XP
2003 2010 and those are just the formats
it'll it'll still open newer ones too
and look at all this stuff look at all
these file formats unlike word where it
was like doc right no this will open you
can open Word Perfect files if you
wanted to all that stuff is all there so
LibreOffice is included with a lot of
different linux distributions including
point linux and is absolutely free comes
with your graphics editing software text
editors calculator the basic stuff and
again your ability to browse the web
because that's you know out of the box
it's important so I draw your attention
to usability and as an XP user you might
see that well that's kind of like a
start menu but it's at the top but
you'll also notice that it's a little
better organized I've got internet and
there are all my internet programs
there's not a lot of junk you don't see
any you know uninstall or text read
mizore help files and all this extra
junk that Windows XP is users are used
to know it's internet these are my
applications graphics these are my
applications accessories these are my
applications very well sorted
and of course there's my web browser
which is by default mattila Firefox in
point lacks all right and a gamoto was
wondering what made you choose point /
Zoran wellpoint Linux to me is a little
bit more customizable for an old-school
linux user so for those of you who are
running windows XP looking for an
upgrade maybe this isn't the one for you
but if you've been using Linux for a
while then I would suggest that you look
at it it's based on debian 7 and it's
incredibly robust comes with some of the
great features like comp is which give
you some nice effects and things like
that and for me that's one of the
selling points because here on the show
for example I need to be able to do
stuff like zoom in which or do this kind
of thing or if I need to I need to be
able to do more because I do a TV show a
little bit different but it's really
robust it's really fast and it's
rock-solid because it's based on debian
so a few different reasons we're going
to get 20 s too alright so moving along
let's take a look at our next distro
xubuntu this is interesting this one is
based on ubuntu and i'm going to tell
you a little story about a boon to
because it is one of the probably the
most famous linux distributions right
now because it is commercially
commercially like an XP commercially
developed by canonical is a company that
sells support rather than software
interesting model right because we're
used to Microsoft who sell software so
you have to buy the two-hundred-dollar
license the four hundred dollar license
this is provided this is a version of
ubuntu called xubuntu you don't need to
understand the the idiosyncrasies it's a
little bit different than ubuntu but
they're all run by the same company
canonical and the reason the way that
they make their money is through support
so it's a much different kind of
business model and you you're able to
take the benefit of an operating system
that is rock solid look at that again
start menu will call it is at the top
it looks very much like say a windows 7
kind of start menu and you'll see that
if I navigate to internet there are my
internet tools multimedia it again this
is out-of-the-box this is a fresh
install it comes with a certain suite of
applications so if I want internet I can
click on internet and bring up Firefox
and I'm good to go if I want to edit
graphics i can go graphics and it comes
with GNU image manipulation program
which you've probably seen here on the
show if you're a regular viewer so
there's your internet and you can again
get around the internet and do your
thing oh look at that they detected me
as English all right wonderful thank you
YouTube yeah I I think that this one
looks pretty pretty sleek it does look
very nice I would have to say if you
have older hardware xubuntu maybe the
way that I would lean because one you've
got the base from a boon to that is
really rock solid they are commercially
back so you know that you're always
going to have good support on the
operating system as far as getting the
updates and security patches and things
like that but xubuntu is much lighter
weight than Ubuntu Ubuntu is kind of
heavy this will run very well it's xu bu
NTU xubuntu will run very very well on
older hardware well that's always a good
thing if you have an older computer
that's the thing ok bought yours by your
computer 2001 with ya police event
windows XP so using that and here's a
way to breathe new life into that
computer so what's different about
xubuntu is that it comes with a
different suite of software and there is
a learning curve but remember that this
is absolutely free and it comes with
probably the bulk of what you're going
to need to get up and running you'll
notice that there is no LibreOffice
instead there is a program called a
b-word and that is again another
alternative to microsoft office but not
as robust as libreoffice so well I
really want LibreOffice but I've got an
old computer so how can I do that on
this system well
you can install because it's Linux you
can install any Linux application on
here and and it will run on your linux
computer just like you know if your
computer doesn't come with word and
you're on Microsoft Windows you can buy
word and you can install it on your
computer so similarly free software is
available for xubuntu or any of these
linux distributions and you can install
them so the way that i would do that is
to bring up ubuntu software center and
once that comes up keep in mind if you
see that things kind of run slow around
here tonight do keep in mind that i have
that many operating systems all running
simultaneously so I'm again I'm milking
the resources here tonight in Ubuntu
Software Center this is a way that you
can install software for free on your
computer that runs linux that is that
are based on ubuntu so this is for
ubuntu derivatives or Ubuntu itself so
if you wanted LibreOffice up in the
search here we could type in Libre and
let's see what comes up
I'm having some weird keyboard stuff
probably from again having so many
different operating systems running but
basically that's that's how that works
anyways not to take too much time on it
but this is a repository of all
different types of applications I'm
gonna use my mouse instead of the
keyboard cuz I seem to be having trouble
and you can scroll through and find the
applications that you want there's
LibreOffice right there so I can click
on it and then all I have to do is click
on install and presto blammo your
computer downloads it through the
internet no discs needed no licensing no
having to purchase it's absolutely free
definitely better than windows in a lot
of ways in a lot of ways alright so
moving on here now let's look at a boon
to thing to note about Ubuntu and
xubuntu and all of the boom tues is that
April is what's called LTS month so this
is our long-term support cycle is about
to begin so if you're going to download
Ubuntu or xubuntu wait until the end of
the month because they have a brand-new
version that's coming out that has an
extended support cycle so you're going
to be able to use that operating system
for a very long time absolutely free
well that's a that's good thing yeah so
there you go so what's different about
this one I got logged out there and just
gonna log back in this is unity it's a
different interface I feel like unity is
designed more for touchscreens that's my
impression it does require better
hardware so probably your old computer
is not going to run this quite as well
and I do find it a lot slower than some
of the other interfaces you can kind of
tell that here tonight it does have
LibreOffice and everything kind of
included it has ubuntu software center
so you install more but this is geared
more toward probably i would say
somebody who has a slightly newer
computer that wants to be able to do
some more graphical stuff as far as the
way that the operating system works and
it does to me you can tell from the
interface it's not a start menu kind of
idea it's it's like a big button
interface to me it feels more like a
touch
screen yes because that's the way things
are going they're going tablet and I
didn't want to discredit Ubuntu I wanted
to show you it and you can run it in
different modes but we're looking at
out-of-the-box experience this is what
it looks like out of the box looks like
it's got amazon in there too it does
have an integration of the Amazon API
which means as you type something in so
what would you search for probably what
would you what would you go to Amazon
for any particular buying books so let's
ya book that doesn't really that's
pretty generic doesn't it actually as a
type in book it says okay well you've
got contacts but then it also brings up
all these options to search in in Amazon
and then it gives you suggestions for
books from that was a generic term let's
say piano guys because I don't have any
piano guys on this computer but so what
you'll see is that okay now all of a
sudden it's going to start suggesting
some CDs that I could buy there's the
pianist from piano guys for example and
I'll probably find some results so
search is integrated into ubuntu in in
that kind of dash environment not the
same it's cool it's cool it's really
cool but probably not for the older
computers but i want a bit maybe you've
got a newer computer you're still
looking for a linux distribution to take
a look at so maybe that's the one for
you certainly is robust and like I said
it's backed by canonical a company that
backs up this software runs it for you
and the new LTS version is coming out
and this one's still free right it's
free mm-hmm okay now people want me to
take a look at linux mint so i'm going
to sign in here there we go welcome to
linux mint this feels pretty windows
asked to me until i click on the menu
yeah that's not windows no
and that's not a bad thing i would say
okay so I point to office and there
again as LibreOffice absolutely free and
included remember I have not installed
anything on these computers this is all
that comes with it so again absolutely
free so with linux mint it looks pretty
polished the edges look pretty polished
on almost as though maybe they've got a
fairly strong graphic department at
linux mint it looks pretty good i see a
lot of gradients and stuff i think a
matter of taste but again this is linux
it's customizable i can change things
like my desktop background just as
easily as i can with microsoft windows
or anything so you can customize it you
can make it look the way that you want
as you can see there right comes with
some it's just loading up there so click
and move around but again it's linux a
little bit of a different flavor looks
fairly windows ask i think that the
learning curve would be reasonable don't
mind the speed issues that's because
again i'm running seven different
operating systems right now
simultaneously on one computer so I i
don't think the learning curve there is
is too bad but i think it is it's
heavier than xubuntu so it's not going
to perform quite as well on your older
hardware but maybe you've got a fairly
new system you know somebody came into
my office and said i just bought this
laptop three years ago and it had
windows XP on and it was probably just
one that was on the floor and still had
XP what a shame so maybe this would be a
good solution because it is a little bit
sleeker a little bit nicer looking and
certainly comes with a robust suite of
applications might want to give linux
mint a try what stands out to you so far
about linux kelsey it's a lot different
than windows it looks nicer cleaner yes
sir cleaner quote that get a t-shirt
lubuntu it looks it looks basically like
windows and
then you know do other things well not
that's right this one looks just like
Windows Linux Mint enix midgets looks
just like windows besides I'm a couple
couple differences I think it's the
paradigm it's the okay well we need a
desktop and that desktop should have
access to your computer in your home
folder which is you know say documents
and pictures and things like that so
when I click on computer I should have
access to my file systems and so on and
so forth so it's not that it looks like
Windows per se but that the paradigm is
the same so when I click on this menu at
the bottom I expect to be presented with
a list of applications doesn't so much
matter that it's laid out differently
yes I just expect it to perform that way
maybe that's one of the reasons that I'm
uncomfortable with a boom to as a user
because when i click on the menu i
expect to have a traditional style menu
to some degree i don't mind that it's
different but I want it to behave the
way that I the end user would expect my
operating system perform so with Linux
Mint again it does have that oh this is
just my list of applications yeah no
bells and whistles straightforward it's
got the search if I if I can't find
something I could type it in writer yeah
and it's instant look at that give me an
application Firefox yeah there it is so
it has all those kind of additional kind
of enhancements like that but it does
have the windows user interface yeah so
to speak mm-hmm should we move to the
next one all right ready for how many we
got we've done we've got one more last
one folks whoo ladies and gentlemen
allow me to present you with one that we
looked at many many years ago this is
called Zorin OS okay so you're thinking
about possibly upgrading to Windows 7 or
getting a Windows 7 computer but it's
pretty pricey remember Zorin OS is Linux
it's absolutely free this is out of the
box looks pretty sleek yep looks like
it's got chrome instead of firefox I'm
going to bring up my menu in a gain what
am I presented with a list of categories
so internet there's my browser
there's instant messaging compatible
with you know Facebook and icq IRC AOL
Instant Messenger all the big ones what
else is there now that msn is gone I
don't know thunderbird email so
applications come with it but again what
do you notice it looks quite similar to
windows i dares ya learning curve is
really really simple huh and this is
free yeah it's always free so what are
we looking for um ok well let's say I
don't like the background wallpaper so
me as a user my automatic impulse is to
right-click and say ok what o.o change
desktop background ok that was easy so
I've clicked on that there we go knows
there's some some cool effects there to
way yeah um I don't see in Windows so
what am I looking for oh all set no
that's not what I wanted ok let's go
back to that ok that took me back to
like the control panel so I right
clicking automatically took me to
background so what do I do i click on it
oh there we go really like the space
theme yeah can you blame them no so all
this stuff is included that's pretty
cool any of those stand out to you
Kelsey I like the one the black and
white part French yeah ok select that
and and there we go there it is so
there's our ours or an OS operating
system absolutely free comes with
LibreOffice again so I've got access to
my office documents I've got Excel
spreadsheet support I haven't shown you
that yet it's called calc and I'll bring
that up as well and so you can breathe
new life into your old computer because
these applications will run on older
systems mm-hmm for free so you can
download them from their respective
websites again links are going to be in
the show notes on category 5 TV for
episode number 342 I'll close out of
LibreOffice writer there's the Excel
clone works just the same looks
basically the same yep just the same
sort of thing and not only can you open
but say your friends use the actual
Microsoft Excel you can in fact save as
xls Oh see you can save as Excel
spreadsheet so wanted to bring it to
school or something you save as the
normal saved document and yeah exactly
there you go you have it you've got
something you can transfer or somebody
emails you an Excel spreadsheet or
something you can open it it'll work at
this as the same thing save it as a PDF
yeah do whatever you like yeah cool so
that is you know just a real quick I'm
not given tutorials on Linux tonight
it's just I wanted you to see that
there's an alternative out there that
you can use that is available absolutely
free and they there there's just a
plethora of Linux distributions that are
available to you and I'm going to have
links for you in the show notes episode
number 342 is what this is and our
website is category five dot TV so just
look for that episode click on the notes
button and you'll see all the links for
all those distributions that we've
looked at and of course in the chat room
if you've got your own suggestions post
those in the chat room and then they
will show up in the chat logs as well so
if you have a linux distribution that
you think is perfect for a Windows user
who's migrating over from microsoft
windows XP to Linux I I think that
xubuntu is probably the lightest weight
of all the ones that have looked at
tonight so that's the one that I would
say yeah if you're if you're using
microsoft windows XP you've got an older
computer that would be probably the one
that I would expect is going to perform
the best and be very very usable and
comes with the support of canonical so
there you go favorites Kelsey
I like the last one the last ones are in
torrents or on alas that one was good
that one looked really nice oh um lyics
mint linux mint there's or no se game
yeah perfect I like that one looks
pretty sleek yeah it does well give it a
try let us know what you decide and
certainly if you're moving over from
Windows XP don't feel like there's no
hope for you as far as you know if
you're stuck because it costs so much to
buy a new computer or you need to figure
out what to do installing linux is
fairly simple and we will happily walk
you through it here on the show and so
once you've sort of selected the one
that you're interested in let's have a
talk send in your questions live at
category 5 TV and then tune in to the
live show or watch the show on demand
through your Roku device or right on our
website category 5 TV and we'll be more
than happy to to walk you through and
give you a hand all righty alright
thanks everybody all set all set here we
go so here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room Microsoft has
more reasons to worry about linux mac
linux linux after reports of it
an Indian state switched from Windows XP
to Linux now a UK UK based organization
is ditching windows and going for linux
based Chromebooks X Linux I'm gonna do
that every single time i mean i just see
linux linux linux the london borough of
barking and dagenham is opening the
source way as it shifts away from
windows XP desktops in favor of 2000
samsung 3333 hundred three C's
Chromebooks for employees and 300
Chromebook chrome boxes for reception
decks descoth death I can't tell you
buddy we do the reception desks and
shared work areas across the borough the
council claims the migration to help it
save around four hundred thousand euros
half the total half of the total cost by
not choosing new Windows desktops and a
further two hundred thousand euros on
electricity costs with Chromebooks being
more energy efficient than desktop PCs
the council earlier it had 3,500 desktop
computers and 800 laptops for its 3,500
employees if all goes as planned it
expects to complete the migration to
chrome chrome books and chrome boxes at
by early June interesting ok so these
are linux-based chrome dome units
Chromeo yeah I guess well I guess yeah I
mean if it's yeah if it's the chrome
book Oh ass ok that's interesting so
they must be centralizing a lot of stuff
and but but cool that they're saving so
much money by dropping microsoft windows
yeah could come back to bite but you
know we'll see what happens exactly I
think it's good thing good thing if the
big companies are doing it you can do it
too mm-hmm promise you the discovery of
bugs and software you used to run oil
rigs refineries and power plants has
promoted a global push to patch the
widely used control system the bugs were
found by security research and if
exploited could give attackers remote
access to control systems for the
installations
Oh the US Department of Homeland
Security set an attacker with low skill
would be able to exploit the bugs the
security researchers said we went from
zero to total compromise first release
to run on Windows 98 and thus NTM CS
3000 software is used to monitor and
control machinery in large industrial
installations julián díaz explained if
you are able to exploit the
vulnerabilities we have it identified
you get control of the human interface
station that's where the operator sits
or stands and monitors operational
details holy cow I know he continued if
you have control of that station as an
attacker you have the same level of
control as someone standing on the plant
plant plant floor wearing a security
badge mmm my oh my about 7,600 plants
around the world or using the vulnerable
software the software developers are now
in the process of contacting customers
who might be vulnerable and are urging
those who were at risk to apply its
patch Wow okay so first of all I would
say if you're thinking about exploiting
this software hacker just keep in mind
that the quote is that it would be a low
skilled hacker so anyone could do it if
you do it then you are falling under
that category yeah that's kind of
frightening also these machines I'm
thinking I can't help but think that
they've taken control these low quality
hackers are loads low-skilled hackers
and that to me takes me to Total Recall
and on planet Mars and you just want to
watch out for those because they're
under the control of a low skilled
hacker yeah I might not be a good thing
might not be crazy that it's been in use
for this many years and they didn't know
about this seeming exploit that would
allow me to take control well not me
because I am a highly skilled hacker
yeah but a low skilled hacker could take
control and and who knows what you could
do at a power plant yeah there's a lot
you know just shut down power to whole
cities and
a lot other kind of stuff I don't even
want to think about that no I'd be
really but it's usually them you know
that so you know you get some kid who
can do that apparently it's that's the
way it is and maybe there's some some
other thing going on that they need the
power out for ya something like that are
overloaded circuits sir who knows yeah
hopefully they all get a fixed hello Oh
what do you got a particular type of
spiders has been forced matt has forced
masta to issue a voluntary recall notice
that it can apply a software to fix its
cars okay sorry a spider spider spider
did that has causes mazda to recall
their cars yeah you go on okay the
yellow sac spider is attracted to the
smell of gasoline and will weave its web
and engines causing a blockage and
buildup of pressure possibly leading to
a cracked gas tank I'm not good with
cars but that doesn't sound good no
Mazda has said that this could increase
the risk of fire a free software update
will be applied to recalled cars to
monitor the pressure level and warn
drivers of any danger mazda said it is
unaware of any fires being started to do
to the vulnerability but it has been a
prop but it has been a problem that has
played the company since at least 2009
specifically it is masta sixes from 2010
2 2012 range that are covered by the
late by this latest recall according to
wikipedia the yellow sac spiders
preparing merrily found in northern
europe to japan and from southern Africa
to India and Australia that's uh well I
don't even want to comment as
yeah very let's move on yes all right
hey there's a cool kid yeah a
five-year-old boy who worked out a
security vulnerability in Microsoft's
Xbox Live service has been officially
thanked by the company a low skilled
hacker that is that as low skilled
that's the kid who's hacking into the no
no power plants there is Christopher von
hassle from San Diego figured out how to
log into his dad's account without the
right password the boy worked out that
aren't entering the wrong password into
the login screen would bring up a second
second password verification screen
Christopher Christopher discovered that
if you simply press the spacebar to
built the password field the system
would let him into his dad's account you
serious that's it Wow as all that takes
so much how did that exploit get in
there oh yeah I just push space a whole
bunch of time yeah let's do that good
old Microsoft their security Oh
Microsoft has fixed the flaw and added
Christopher to its list of recognized
security researchers must be proud oh
yeah that's the last story that's the
news that's it from the category 5 TV
news room thank you newsroom category 5
TV if you want to follow the whole
stories and of course you can email us a
newsroom at category 5 TV if you've got
a noteworthy story that you'd like to
include right here on the air well I
want to show you the Roku because this
thing is just awesome and if you're
watching on roku you know you're just
like yeah there it is I've got the roku
2 and the reason that I went with the
roku 2 is I didn't want the Roku one
because I wanted this headphone jack
imagine a remote control that has a
built-in headphone jack oh okay napping
kids are napping you can you can put on
a show and listen to it with headphones
walk around the house I don't know how
it works because this has has never died
on me yet the batteries haven't died
I've listened to
it all the time and my mp3 player only
lasts a day yeah my ipod last 20 minutes
how this thing works that don't know
it's it's plutonium or something but
it's got a headphone jack and it's got
excellent sound that's one of the
selling points that sold me on the roku
2 versus the roku one but also didn't
want the roku 3 because I've got some
older competitive ease around the house
but I want to be able to plug the roku
into if I want kids to be able to watch
Netflix or whatever else and it gives
them access via either the old style
composite not component but composite
the RCA red yellow and white cable or HD
up to 1080p through hdmi right so decent
decent so what is the Roku I'm actually
going to bring it up on the screen here
there you go it's basically you know
it's just a set-top box that gives you
access to so many things if I jump into
the channel store you can see that there
are just you know there's featured
channels MLB UFC lots of sports second
see kids blackjack shows blackjack if
you've got a roku 3 you can play games
and stuff Roku 3 does have some great
selling points go to cat five dot TV /
Roku and I've written up a little bit of
a blurb about the advantages and
disadvantages of the four main units
that are currently available the
streaming stick which just plugs into
your TV directly through hdmi so it's
nice and convenient if you've got a TV
mounted on the wall because I don't have
any cables the Roku one the roku 2 and
the roku 3 and what makes them you know
what makes them different so those are
all the information is available at cat
five dot TV / Roku this is the online
channel store through the Roku device
and you'll see if you go to new channels
that category 5 TV is in fact there and
you can actually install that so if you
haven't already done that you've got a
Roku please do you'll also find it in
various places on this device it shows
up in internet TV for example so you can
go to internet television shows and here
you go there's category 5 technology TV
so there we are
but you see that there are a ton of
other shows lots of shows that you are
no doubt familiar with I saw twit above
there and it loops around I just saw the
tech buzz TTB network let's see what
else we've and so many recognizable
channels TED Talks for example cnet
dailymotion revision3 is another great
one so you just kind of scroll through
and you can add anything you want and
they are well categorized so if you're
looking for food channels there you go
if you're looking for sports there you
go because one of the things you know as
you cut the cable well am I going to be
able to watch my sports well Roku is a
device that is going to be able to
provide that for you weather and news
and all these different categories so I
want to bring up Roku on on my computer
through the channel store and again I've
got links to that at cap five dot TV /
Roku just to make it really really
simple for you and show you just a how
that works as we head over to our
website count five dot TV / Roku there
are my reviews of each device and then
there's a link for us in the channel
store when you're at the channel store
check out what can happen if you click
on browse up at the top here now we've
got the list of all the different
categories up here at the top so if we
go into science and technology you see
that you know there are Ted cnet all
those kinds of things and you can
actually click on a show and you can add
the channel so there's an Add button you
can actually put it on your device or if
you have the channel code you can in
fact click on the channel code and just
add it to your device really really cool
one of the things that's neat about Roku
is it now I'm showing you all the
official channels and you know the fact
that these channels are available in the
channel story you'll see them as you
browse but there are also private
channels and the Roku supports private
channel so that you have access to
content that maybe cannot be displayed
in the public approved kind of channel
store but you can get access to it by
other means so you can do a google
search for roku private channels you'll
find some things whatever your favorite
search engine is
one that seems to work really well is
stream free dot TV stream free TV just
like it sounds and if you click on free
roku private you'll see that it there
you know you can look at all private
channels or by category and if you go
into by category you can see all these
different categories and this is just
one result that you'll see in Google so
if you go into say science and
technology you'll see that category 5
isn't here but these are other channels
that are available through on your Roku
but they're private so they're not
available in channel store so I can
click on you know NASA for example and i
can add live streaming from NASA to my
roku box just by clicking on to add it
and is asking me to login so I'm going
to jump over to Firefox because I've
actually got access to my Roku account
from firefox rather than chrome there we
go so if I choose one let's say NASA
there we go oh I gotta sign in I talked
too long that's all yes waiting for me
to enter my info there we go okay now I
mean so by clicking on that now I've got
the ok do you want to add this yes I do
so and even though this is not available
in the channel store i can find it over
there at stream free TV or i can find
them through google by searching for
roku private channels and i can add
channels that are not available in the
public channel store very cool to be
able to do that you'll find some you
know even some channels that are maybe
betta testing and they're not really
ready for a public consumption but
they're still really good channels and
you want to be able to get it there's a
lot of live stuff that's available as
well through private channels Netflix is
available in the channel store and you
see that I've got it installed now I've
got a roku 2 so netflix on my device oh
and i'm in the channel store burned me i
want to go back to my channels there we
are so if i bring up netflix
the the issue on the roku 2 and roku one
I believe the streaming stick as well
they're slower devices so you don't get
the new Netflix experience so there are
no profiles so you'll see for example
recently watched by mummy and daddy
spongebob dr. Joe in there too Doctor
Who that really was mommy and daddy but
all these other ones you know you can
see that the kids have gone in and and
been watching stuff that one was me that
one was me so there are advantages to
the roku 3 because it comes with the new
roku are the new Netflix channel so now
you have profiles and you can select
which profile you want to use these
other devices are quite a bit slower
they don't see you see that they don't
perform slowly just that the processors
themselves are slower even though
perceptively we see that it runs really
really fast so when people like their
companies like Netflix develop their
software they can only do so much with
the roku 2 versus the roku 3 so that's
why there's a quite a bit of a feature
gap between them but it works
fantastically well plays really well
remembers your spot so you can see that
it's waiting for me to play episode
number 210 that's the one we'll be
watching tonight go back to my home
screen notice that I'm operating
everything directly from this nice
little remote really really easy to use
only a couple buttons really is and here
we go so i'm going to i'm going to
actually jump up to category 5
technology TV because i told you we
would take a look at this channel
because a lot of you haven't got your
Roku's yet you can pick one up at Camp
five dot TV / Roku and you'll see that
we've got all episodes this is cool
because if you go to all episodes you
can go through the current season but
you can go all the way back season 6
season 5 season four season 3 season 2
and season 1 all the way back to two
thousand seven win our very first
episode and every available episode is
available on roku and you can watch it
up on your TV so that's really really
cool big feet and you know again huge
thanks to jot for
of our community viewer viewers who
helped us to put that together sort by
co-host this is cool Kelsey all the
kelsey Jensen fans can jump over to
Kelsey and there we go you've only been
on one episode before so this one will
be in there this one will be in there
too after tonight but you can see that
as you choose a co-host you can actually
watch any episode that have that co-host
on it that's kind of cool you can watch
live as many of you are right now and
you'll see that we are currently on the
air and there are some special features
behind-the-scenes things that you've
never seen before also recordings of our
Google+ Hangouts so if you have ever
participated in a Google+ Hangout those
are available for you as archives and if
you've never participated it's a little
bit of fun and it's almost like our
hangouts tend to be a little bit like a
very laid back episode of the show in a
way because it's so interactive because
we're actually chatting with you and we
have a lot of fun answering your
questions and sometimes it's slow that
you know there might be one or two
people sometimes there are 10 people and
and we have a good time and I fully
expect that you know if we when we hold
another one that will we'll see a lot of
people join us and we invite you to join
us for that so I love that there are the
backstage pass features tour the studio
and just a variety of different things
that you haven't ever seen anywhere else
and and those are available to you on
our roku channel so there you have it
and I'm going to be I'm the developer
and so you know I've had to teach myself
bright script and there's been a lot of
fun and learning how to program this
thing love the device I'll just mention
so i know that you who are using roku
are absolutely in love with the thing
and I got to say as a developer and a
programmer in a broadcaster it's a
fantastic platform i love it and it's so
nice to have you joining us and if you
haven't got your roku yet again get over
to our website through this link cat
five dot TV / roku and find out all the
information you can actually buy them
right there and you'll be just loving
this thing and that's the interface it's
really really easy to use and that's you
know that's category five and and this
is
only going to grow we're just going to
be adding features and making it better
and better and then of course you go
through the channel store and pick the
shows that you like and you know I've
just been I basically just been putting
any on there just to see what how it
works and if you want to be able to
stream files from your computer i
installed the channel called my media
and it you put a tool on your out on a
Windows computer somewhere in your
network and it allows it to stream your
video files directly to the Roku as well
which is kind of nice Roku 3 has USB and
a jack so you can plug in a flash drive
or something with an external hard drive
with your video files and that's a lot
better yeah because you don't need to do
the networking aspect but at least there
is a way around it so yeah cool well
this is category 5 technology TV it's
really nice to see ya guilty alrighty so
we welcome our newly registered viewers
yeah there's been a few of you is this
week yeah the list is quite long we
should probably we're gonna have to do
this really really fast yeah all right
go for it alright welcome how we welcome
fixing stuff BW with age George Crawford
in brain q 49 lamb mid to be here g-man
carol w campbell whoo Aled a late add a
little late am i guessing be set z7 BBD
i guess that's his license plate number
baby yeah I secure your boys hello Zoran
soon nice to see ya uh Jim
look and Florida Bob fast cat 666 thorny
oh we had a question from him tonight he
did nice to see ya at ESL 247 farmer in
d thanks for the OC to pronounce names
yes let's see ya spur noga and Kevin 48
songbird that one's pretty good 29 16 i
would say curable coral your world
alright and that steve g to Marcus
Howard Bigham verizon ahhh Butler jazz
Chloe UK and finally tits and fifty to
one of these days someone is going to
pull a bart simpson and register you
know see more but kiss or something and
we're gonna say hello dia but it's so
nice to have you joining us and of
course it's free to register on our
website category five de you love having
you as a part of our community get into
the chat room throughout the week
because you know we tend to come in and
out of the chat room but there are all
these people there that want to say hi
diya and you can certainly talk about
the show also if you enjoyed this show
if you enjoyed other episodes of
category 5 please go to our website if
you're watching on roku you notice those
five stars in order to rate our show you
have to go to our website category 5 TV
and you'll see the stars on every
episode you can choose one to five stars
but that said if you want to rate the
show itself in the channel store and
encourage
you can follow the link at cat5 TV /
Roku to our channel store entry directly
you can vote directly on your Roku
device on the channel store pretty easy
stuff preciate it it's nice to see it
rating us and enjoying the show well
thanks everybody we are completely out
of time can't believe it I've got lots
of your viewer questions that came in
this week and we're gonna actually do
have your question extravaganza next
week and we're going to go through those
so don't miss actually show we're going
to take care of those for you we're
gonna get rid of all this flickr t
goodness and we're going to have yeah
it'll be this will be fun will still be
fun even if you're not here but this was
good thank you you have fun yes I had
lots of fun good you have fun I said yes
yeah I'll see every cigarette time said
yes it was like the board yes all at
once everybody wants so have a fantastic
week hope to see on our roku channel and
I guess we'll talk to you in one week's
time hey thanks Kelsey thank you very
much thanks everybody see ya we hope you
enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
