welcome back this is category five
technology TV and you'll find us online
at triple w dot category five dot TV
Jeff let's go back in time a little bit
okay
we met working in radio we were on ships
yes we were
I just when we first met I think I was
like a co-op student in high school were
you so I was the senior officer yeah
yeah you were the senior officer and I
was like not even Wesley Crusher yet I
was the midday DJ I know you wouldn't
believe it with my squeaky voice but so
you came in and you got the job after
one of the deejays left and moved on to
another station yep in the big city and
you took over the night shift so I did
we're doing the youth music and that is
in the rock predominantly loud the stuff
that my band played yes
and boy did I crank the speakers yeah
how do you say we wake when you are live
in a studio all by yourself there's
nobody else working in the studio well
crank the speakers and I rank so would
go through a 12 pack of cans of coke a
show so yeah 12 cans every five hours
five days a week
Wow yep the thing about the radio
station is they had a pretty sweet sound
system yes so when you cranked it up it
was your own personal rock concert it's
true not to mention the rock concerts
not to mention the rock concerts the UM
seed yeah are in the front row the SAC
stage standing in front of the speaker
yeah so needless to say I do have some
nerve damage and hearing loss as a
result now is this diagnosed as this
self diagnosed using self diagnose
hearing loss it was self diagnosed when
my wife kept saying why are you not
answering me I was like a honey here yes
and I'm like maybe I should get my ears
checked she's like you're young they
should be fine so I got them checked and
sure enough I actually have hearing loss
from moderate to severe
sorry mild to moderate do you know how
many decibels do they tell you that they
did
but I don't have the report in front of
me so I could remember all I know is
that the range in the mid tonal range
I've got upwards of 50% loss Wow
so and it's amazing that you know when
you look at statistics it's a huge
number of folks yeah that are like you
have hearing loss some undiagnosed but
you know that it's true because you know
you have trouble hearing out of one year
or two of both ears yeah and that could
be from loud music or it could be from
work-related incidents or could just be
from you know it can happens with aged
life yep yeah but it's not always an
option to go out and get some hearing
aids no it's not and they're very
expensive they are and you've got you've
got the assessment you've got the
medical consultation the medical
referral you've got the molds of your
ears to be done you've got the tweaking
of the hearing aids and it's not usually
covered that's right unless you've got a
good benefit plan you're paying a lot of
money actually I have the Beltone
Bluetooth ok aids but there was a recent
software update and so I says to go
update them so even though they're
fantastic hearing aids won't get us from
credible you have to actually go to the
hearing specialist in order to have the
firmware updated yeah ouch yeah so
that's a fifteen hundred dollar bill ah
okay what if I told you we're not gonna
call them hearing aids we're gonna call
them we're gonna call them hearing
amplifiers yes but really I mean what's
a hearing aid it's gonna help you hear
absolutely so what if I told you we
could get you hearing amplifiers for 99
bucks I'm sold
it's a product review we've got Chubby's
these are the brand-new amp sound
earbuds so we're gonna give you the full
overview of what these look like now I
was able to get my hands on a prototype
they are not yet available they're
coming out in two months time and
they're currently raising the funds in
order to mass-produce these okay so you
can get there through IndieGoGo we've
got a link at cat5
dot TV / amp sound and if you've got
hearing loss we're gonna learn all about
them tonight
but this is a great product for you it
looks awesome it's a great little case I
say that I I say that tongue-in-cheek
but their design is I made oh you
noticed like yeah okay it has USB we
haven't even opened it I haven't even
opened it yet it looks like just a like
a normal case no they they are all about
really sleek design okay as part of what
this product is about so without the
medical evaluation you don't need any of
that stuff you don't need to get any ear
molds done you don't have to get any
consultations or anything just you know
that you've got some hearing loss you
can pick these up today for 99 bucks on
IndieGoGo alright let's get into the
package let's what is so you know the
first impression that I get from this
packaging is Wow okay that's really well
designed it's a carrying case but you
notice okay here's that here are the
earphones okay there are these these
battery capsules that are in fact
charging inside the 3000 milliamp hour
case right now so the case is a charging
pack and that heads the usb on the
outside the case charges the capsules
for the hearing aids the hearing
amplifiers but it also has a USB port so
that if you want to also charge your
phone because you might be using them to
listen to or something like that then
you can also plug that in now if you're
just charging the hearing amplifiers the
Bluetooth end of it you're gonna get at
least 21 charges on a single charge
so you charge the case first Wow
and then you can charge your your
hearing amps for 40 21 times minimum now
is that 21 so like both both amps are
done 21 times yeah or 21 between ah good
point okay not sure we'll say at least
11 times it would make sense for both
cuz yes I mean if they're less
interesting point because okay first of
all hearing aids you go through a ton of
batteries yes and
one of the problems with hearing aids is
the batteries are not rechargeable
you're constantly buying batteries yes
that also means you're constantly
disposing of batteries this comes with
these rechargeable capsules okay so
let's let's get one out and they just
they unscrew okay and there you have it
so there's the capsule itself and
interesting that you would mention you
know is it one or two you can actually
charge one at a time okay and so if for
example let's say your hearing loss is
quite bad yeah and you really need these
and you rely on them to be able to hear
well and one of the and and the battery
is getting low
you can charge one and continue to use
them with only one battery okay so you
still have some sort of amplification
absolutely you do so those are the
capsules so the capsules charge directly
within the case now that I've removed
them you can kind of see how that works
it's just like that you can push the
button to see my battery level now I
just received these today they were
rushed to us and again it is a prototype
so the charge I got as much of a charge
as I could but I mentioned as well so
there's our capsules I mentioned that we
don't have to go through the process of
getting this thing fitted to our head or
anything you'll notice that it comes
with a ton of different sized little
earbuds like you would expect they're
really high quality though and these
will fit on here to basically fit this
to your ear right okay so you don't have
to go through a molding process it's
it's just simply hey you get this out of
the box it's ready for you and if it
doesn't quite fit you can actually
change that yeah that's awesome so the
other thing is you think about your
hearing loss and a lot of people have a
little more hearing loss in one ear
versus the other correct not sure how
yours is mine is like that my right ear
is a significant left there's a lot of
these little fittings Oh surprised yeah
so along the vein of your hearing loss
in one ear more than the other you would
normally once again have to go to
you're hearing specialist get them to
adjust it right it's not quite right go
back a week later get them to adjust it
again and it's this process of tweaking
it so that you can hear it kind of
equally from both ears right the the amp
sound from from jobbies you can actually
modify the amplification on a per site
basis yourself oh okay
so again you don't have to get you are
your own hearing specialist that's
amazing
that is not an official statement but it
comes with a little itty-bitty
screwdriver but they thought of it
alright so with the batteries out there
each each side actually has this
itty-bitty hole and you can just put
that in there and give it just an ever
so slight adjustment and that is
basically about your a per channel
volume okay so you give it just a little
quarter turn
put them on listen to it for a little
while see how they sound see how they
feel and then take them off give it
another quarter turn and just do it that
way until you've got that good balance
awesome works really well okay so I love
that so let's install the batteries
you're gonna be doing this yourself so
first of all left and right these are
labeled the batteries are labeled but
you need to know that the right is
basically the one that has the the
volume control the controls itself so I
just put that on there and give it a
little turn
see if I'm good there we go there and
now the left one so there's two cells
there we go so we've got our charged
earbuds awesome they look and behave
just like any other Bluetooth earbuds
absolutely isn't it okay so we fire it
up absolutely I think you need to try
this because you're you're the guy okay
I'd like to know your impression of them
because you're you're the one who
experiences who goes through life with
hearing loss sure so the the question
really becomes okay hearing aids are
very expensive
these are on IndieGoGo for 99 bucks
right now are they effective do they
help you to be able to hear and at the
same time they look stylish because they
look just like any other earbuds right
plus they allow you to listen to music
answer the phone that connect to two
different phones at once if you want two
different Bluetooth devices oh really so
you could be watching TV but also with
these then have your phone hooked up so
when the phone rings all of a sudden the
TV goes off and you can answer the phone
for example so it supports that now
where is the app like where's the
speaker for the amplifier is it is it in
the volume control it's actually in the
note the oh the the volume control it
sound oh no they actual so like if I
just if I've got the minute I'm not
listening to any music I'm just you know
sitting in the mall oh the microphone
yeah and where is it there are actually
two microphones okay within this piece
here so it looks like one on the front
okay and one on the back these little
holes so it it's designed so that it
will work out you know the best noise
reduction okay with those two
microphones so it gives you the best
quality sound possible with the best
amplification so basically what we're
gonna do is we're gonna turn it on turn
on the amplification mode then put them
in your ears and you can adjust the
volume and see how they work how they
feel excellent other than that I mean
it's crystal clear but we got a look at
the sound quality as well of course
let's take out their their bluetooth 4.1
they are and they have this new what's
it called apt X yeah yeah it basically
it's a technology that is implemented
into Bluetooth 4.1 devices that allow
such good sound quality from your
Bluetooth connection that it you
wouldn't know the difference between
wired hardwired and Bluetooth right okay
so fantastic for listening music and
everything like that so okay so let's
fire these up Jeff so first of all
there's a power switch right here which
I'm just gonna flip and you'll see that
it goes into it's looking for Bluetooth
or something like that I should turn
bluetooth on my phone oh there you go
there's a night yeah brand-new s you
have any music on there
I do have music fantastic okay before we
get before I actually connect it to your
yep sound is it already got it it's
already got well let's put it on camera
so that they can see it's already got
it's already paired to amp sound can you
just like fast it's gone ah but in in
less time than we could get it on camera
for you it was already paired yeah so
there's no passcode like it was connects
right in okay so I want to hold in this
mode button on the side for about two
seconds and that mode button is gonna
put it into hearing amplification mode
one two and now already I can hear it
like it's in hearing basically hearing
aid mode see that no way okay so notice
I did that without these in your ears I
always want to turn on the amplifier
outside of your ears because that would
be loud yeah turn it down yeah okay
volume is on the side here it's just you
know standard but a volume up and down
and hello hello so I've turned that down
a little bit check check check
yeah it works great so this is left
that's right and that would go around
the back of your head so I've turned
that down so it's a safe safe volume but
then you can use that volume control to
turn oh wow
so check check you know one of the
things when you and you have hearing
loss that you know things that you take
for granted but stuff like rustling of
plastic or rustling of paper right
children dropping things in the studio
you know all those things you'd never
hear yeah that's true I think the
earbuds are a little bit big but you've
got you've got funny ears I do if we did
encounter that before yeah so we you
will need to fit it
the fittings that are here and that's
fine because it comes with so many of
them sound yeah you haven't turned it up
or anything it's just no everything's
the same like I can hear the AC running
or whatever the venting system is doing
right now
can you hear like that better than so
you I turn it like right down yeah how's
that sound
it's good it's good I mean it's an
amplifier so I mean there's there's a
slightly digital list to it but you're
gonna get that with any of my ex the
action system so but no this is great I
mean cool all right so you've synced it
so that's really all there is to that
you've got the volume control fantastic
now you synced it to your phone yes it's
connected to bluetooth yes so now that
mode button on the side there yes you
want to tap it twice
that's plug it here bring it back on
camera I gotta bring it up front just so
weak sure okay so in order to exit
basically to exit our sound
amplification mode we just tap this mode
button twice one two okay and now you
just give a listen and yeah it it did
turn off so now we're in Bluetooth mode
so it should be you know if you put on
some music yeah
so it immediately started playing was it
play yep so you should put those in and
crank it up and and actually this is
your right ear and just we've worked
with Bluetooth earbuds before cuddled
like you can wear it like a beard if you
want we've worked with Bluetooth earbuds
before and they you know from earbud to
earbud a lot of them have good sound
quality some of them don't have great
sound quality how's the sound from those
he can't hear me he turned off the sound
amplifier yeah that's great sound it's
great its amp sound I don't know what
you're saying yeah I'm enjoying music
right now I know that's amp sound you
can find out more cat5 dot TV slash amp
sound let's make sure that you know
everything about this thing and I really
wanted to show you these because you
know that we have you know we have a
passion here for helping people with
technology so technology is an exciting
thing if it's used you know to me if
it's used to help people
we love that Jeff mentioned Beltone
first and beltone is a fantastic company
that builds they create manufacturer
exceptional hearing devices but they're
quite expensive and you might not be at
the point where you can get into that
kind of thing so seeing something like
this that's available for a hundred
bucks right now is IndieGoGo is really
really awesome we work with the deaf
community here in Barrie Ontario and
Hilary Rumble is a co-host here and she
actually signs for the hearing community
random paired people at a camp and so
you know we really have our hand in that
and we really have a passion for helping
people and so I wanted to bring these up
to you because I think it's a really
great thing for you to support and also
if you do have hearing loss make sure
you pick up a pair what have we not
mentioned Jeff I mean there 16 levels of
personalized sound amplification and I
mentioned that it goes up to about 125
with about you know about a 5 decibel
variants you can hear that when you
first turn them all I mean it was sure
yeah it's rocking absolutely and when
you turn it when you're listening on on
average it's gonna be about 50 56 58
decibels improvement over your regular
hearing so it makes a huge difference
without actually going into being a
hearing aid you know a medical
instrument it's something that you know
it looks fashionable absolutely and it's
it's gonna work really really well for
anything I should mention that it's if
you do have hearing loss and you've had
it assessed these these amp sound
earbuds are meant for hearing loss down
to about a hundred decibels so if your
hearing loss is beyond a hundred
decibels these may not be the thing for
you but I think that covers a very large
spectrum especially you know for those
who just want something comfortable to
put on once in a while and to be able to
hear better at the very least even as
Bluetooth wireless headphones that's
their great amazing
they're great did I mention the
rechargeable battery cells
yes that's cool I really like the design
very and
you know we joke we joke about stuff
like you know Christmas lists and
everything but yeah I've got people in
the family that have hearing loss
undiagnosed but you know that it's there
yes and something like this is much more
comfortable much more accessible than a
hearing aid it's something that you can
you can get as a gift and it would make
a really great gift so check out cat5
dot TV slash amp sound and find out more
about these but also through that link
if you support them right away there are
limited edition a limited number of them
available for only $99 so you can I
don't think I've ever seen a hearing aid
for under 400 you know so usually and
that's like entry levels yeah
and these we've got the Bluetooth and
everything else and because I love the
fact that you can tweak it yourself
which is awesome I think it's perfect
IndieGoGo campaigns or sometimes iffy
sometimes sometimes and sometimes we
don't necessarily want to go out and
support IndieGoGo campaigns because what
happens if they fold or they don't raise
the funds but then they still take your
money yes so I did want to touch on
jobbies is a you know they are known
company with a great product line
they're doing this in order to be able
to mass manufacture something that they
believe to is a fantastic product for
those who perhaps can't afford hearing
aids those who are in countries that
simply you know they don't have access
to that technology and boom here you go
we've got a rechargeable pack that you
know we can charge this once a week and
take it and you've got your hearing
apparatus all ready for you so they're
you know they're a good company that is
they have a whole product line they're
reputable and as you can see even their
prototype is is really serious it's
really far along that's one of the ways
that I can judge you know the quality of
the prototype really tells me that this
is this is a good good product they're
serious about this and they're ready to
go into manufacturing so they're coming
out in two months so get on over to cap
five dot TV slash amp sound to find out
more about it support it get yours in
couple months time when they actually
start shipping and I think you'll you'll
be pleased with those I am I wish you
can hear them it's one of those things I
can into review earbuds yes kid how do i
how do I do you Reno well they work and
they do they're really well done really
well thought out let's love I love that
love it
cool awesome Khatami's has done it again
with AM sound well done
