here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
floating windmill farm off the coast of
Scotland is generating energy quite
efficiently a DDoS attack of
unimpressive tented scale is taking
place thank - thanks to an exploit in
memcache P Levi's is switching to lasers
in an effort to cut down on the chemical
use an effort to cut down chemical use
in the manufacture of denim and
driverless cars are raising some big
questions in UK courts as the law
commission aims to adjust British
driving laws to accommodate a future
filled with autonomous vehicles these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere whether you shop on thinkgeek
gearbest B&amp;H photo video
ebay or amazon or even if you want a
free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux box
I'm Sasha Redman and here the top
stories were following this week the
world's first commercial floating
offshore wind farm called high wind
started sending electricity to the grid
last October
since then the six turbine 30 megawatt
installation has been working really
well in fact high wind has had at least
65% capacity factor over the last three
months according to Statoil the
Norwegian mega corporation that built
the wind wind farm off the coast of
Scotland a capacity factor of a hundred
percent would mean that the wind farm
would be sending 30 megawatts of power
to the grid every minute of every day
high winds capacity factor exceeds the
average capacity factors of many
electricity onshore wind installations
in the US for example had an average
capacity factor of about thirty six
point seven percent last year Solar
averaged twenty seven percent and
hydropower generation was only around
forty five point two percent
comparatively comparing high winds sixty
five percent capacity factor in the
winter when winds are blowing at its
hardest in Scotland to the average
capacity factor of other renewable
installations over the whole year isn't
quite fair we can assume high wind will
have a lower capacity factor in months
when the winds are milder the company
says it hopes to bring the cost of
floating offshore wind down to 40 to 60
euro per megawatt hour which is around
50 to 74 US per megawatt hour by 2030 so
so I want these everywhere sure the
windmills right I want but I want to
know because the the onshore ones have
had a bad reputation for flight
disruptions for birds whether or not
seabirds would be affected oh yeah I
mean birds birds bird whether it's on
land or at sea its there's still a
potential disruption but what I was
actually thinking is what happens if
you've got extreme weather like a
hurricane rolling through how does that
impact it they actually stop spinning
they lock themselves when the weather
gets too bad okay and their self up
writing so that they won't capsize but
when it comes to the wildlife you're
right like I've heard that birds can be
killed by these things right and so I
had to look into that because it seems
to me like any time I've seen them these
windmills they look like they're just
like this yeah and I didn't realize but
you know centrifugal force or whatever
it is but these things are huge
yes and so at their tip at the tip of
this thing even though it looks like
it's moving really slowly because
they're so big and because it's at the
tip it's moving at more than one hundred
and
miles per hour really yeah so if that
hit wildlife it's not likely to survive
guarantee you so when it's in a field
they can measure that they can see okay
there are X number of dead wildlife at
the foot of this thing yeah to some
degree because scavengers come in and
take carcasses and things but so in the
water would that would they lose the
ability to measure that and the ability
to that's my concern the yeah the
evidence of this I would would float
would I went I would say though I guess
to counter that is if we could switch to
greener energy yes we wouldn't be
killing as much of the earth and and
wildlife as a whole sure but we might be
killing some birds that's an argument
that I've heard too is you know is it
not it will probably kill less birds
than fossil fuel right right because of
pollution and habitat destruction and
things like that are the winds stronger
off sure than they are like I I feel
like how is it that big of a difference
well I mean if you think about if you've
got a wind farm onshore typically
there's other Oh structures and yeah
that would block the wind you could have
buildings you could have trees whatever
whereas if you're in the water yeah
nothing like that winds gonna blow we're
here in Canada so we're pretty shielded
but yeah hurricanes and things come and
they're huge you know it'll be a
category 5 do you like how I knocked
that I dropped that it'll be a category
5 out on the water but then as soon as
it hits land drops to a category 3 right
so yeah there'd be much more wind on the
water thinking of the birds though I'm
like will they follow that wind well the
birds be following the wind right that's
the only thing that keeps me from really
loving this like I want them everywhere
some kind of a caging system or some or
something that scares them away with
some kind of shrill noise I don't know
must be a way
a new technique is abusing poorly
secured servers and fueling
record-breaking denial of service
attacks along with notes demanding the
targets pay hefty ransoms if they want
the debilitating flood of junk traffic
to stop memcache D a database caching
system for speeding up websites and
networks lets ddos vandals amplify their
attacks by an unprecedented factor of
51,000 that means a single home computer
with a 100 megabit per second upload
capacity from its isp is capable of
bombarding a target with a once
unimaginable 5 terabytes per second of
traffic at least in theory following the
discovery that DDoS vandals in the wild
were abusing open memcache D servers
researchers last week predicted a new
round of record attacks
two days later DDoS mitigation service
at Akamai prolix reported that reported
the 1.3 terabytes per second attack
against github just slightly topping
previous records set in 2016 on Monday
researchers from a separate DDoS
mitigation service Arbor Networks
reported a 1.7 terabytes per second DDoS
that also relied on the newly documented
memcache D app amplification method
researchers are also reporting that many
of the potentially paralyzing attacks
are accompanied by a ransom demand
presumably so that data that the data
flood will stop some of the attackers
who are abusing the servers to deliver D
doses are including the words pay 50 X M
R along with the address to a wallet as
the screenshot below demonstrates the
message is repeated over and over in the
payload delivered to targets in an
attempt to exhaust the network bandwidth
they have available at current prices
for the digital currency known as Manero
50 X M R is valued at about eighteen
thousand four hundred and fifteen
dollars if providers everywhere deployed
measures that prevented spoofed UDP
traffic on their networks and shut
all publicly available mem caste servers
they hosted the new amplification
technique would no longer be available
the new record-setting DDoS reported
Monday demonstrates that a significant
number of providers have yet to adopt
these common-sense measures so Robby can
make a little bit of sense of this one
forum well I mean it often comes down to
server admins who you know we've set up
servers and we trust that it's just
working and maybe it's fallen behind or
out of date or there's you know in this
case it's wide open to the web and the
exploit exists in the wild and now now
that hackers know about it if you will
they create scripts that look for this
exploit and once they find it then they
exploit it and use it as part of a
botnet in in this case so if I'm able to
send you know light through a magnifying
glass and it suddenly can burn through
paper it's it's you're maximizing the
effects right so if I'm able to send my
attack through one of these susceptible
servers and it becomes this massive
attack because of the way memcache D is
being exploited then there's no limits
to the damage that they can cause it's
taken down servers and things like that
see what bothers me about this is I feel
like this is a weekly occurrence there's
some sort of attack happening and for
some reason a lot of individual
companies who have provides server
service are not taking the precautions
to update their systems I mean this is
where the argument comes in
why is your hosting so much more
expensive than the one up the street
who's selling it for six dollars a month
right because the one for six dollars a
month could potentially just not be
caring yeah to update the service on a
regular ongoing daily sometimes hourly
basis but I mean we are in a world of
internet driven everything you gotta
take care it just as a service provider
especially yeah you've got to watch out
for your users it's bugging me that this
stuff is falling through the cracks and
so simple I just have to shake my head
if you're a server admin update your
servers please get on some mailing list
that that revealed these exploits like I
use WordPress on a lot of customer
websites and so I am very actively
watching word fences blog word fences
newsletters and things like that
so that I know what is happening as far
as exploits go on WordPress yeah Ashley
I'm going to throw back to you
Levi Strauss is introducing a digit
digitizing technique that uses lasers to
ethically create designs on streams in
place of manual labor called Project FLX
which stands for future LED execution
the technique will cut out harmful
chemicals and reduce labor-intensive
steps in producing gene finishes from
between 18 to 24 steps to just three
Levi is also planning to scale across
scale this across the companies denim
supply chain the lasers use infrared to
lightly scratch designs into the top
layer of the gene surface creating the
faded outlines and tears Levi says for
the past 30 years the clothing industry
has generally used hand finishing and a
chemical process to create the worn and
faded designs on denim the company has
committed to achieving a zero discharge
of hazardous chemicals by 2020 and says
it will reduce the number of chemicals
used from thousands to only dozens
during the denim finishing process with
this laser technology as part of the
project
Levi's designers are also using a new
imaging tool to create different
patterns and finishes on jeans using a
tablet to create a prototype the
platform allows designers to tweak
colors and control the design of rips
and tears while this isn't new Eureka
labs reportedly tried to make the 3d
graphics more realistic prototype jeans
are usually created by using chemicals
and manually ripping tearing or wearing
down to a down a physical pair of jeans
the company states that this new digital
tool will cut development in half from
months two weeks and sometimes only two
days those digital files created can
also
be sent to the laser machine to create a
prototype or even to a vendor for
large-scale manufacturing Levi's
anticipates that the digital platform
will be fully implemented in 2020 Wow
okay so this is another really great
situation where people obviously are
suffering every day with all of these
chemicals and all of this hard manual
labor and technology just comes and
saves the day with lasers ripping your
jeans for you there you go yeah I think
it's great when technology improves
lives and there are two sides to it I
mean I don't know all the intricacies of
it you know the question that Jeff
probably is thinking do do jobs get lost
by robots okay I know I I I'm sure
you've seen some of the clothes I wear
in the show I'm not very fashion minded
I like fairly simple outfit why do we
ramp a sweater why do we make clothes to
ruin them so we can sell them new
clothing
actually is more comfortable i buy I
would say 97 percent of my clothes
secondhand because I like the comfort of
old clothes and also I like the money
savings of used clothes so I really just
love the idea that I imagine if you
walked into the building where they are
chemically deconstructing mo Lian's like
it must be a stench beyond imagine and
that'll just be cleaned right now we
were talking just before the show even
about how I took the kids to an indoor
waterpark and yeah the chlorine was just
like burning your eyes and you know you
you shower it off when you're done but
yeah I can see that being the case so if
the technology is able to improve the
lives of the workers and and really that
needs to happen because in the news you
hear about how poorly the conditions are
for some of these workers so you know
I'm all for anything that will improve
things for absolutely I say go for it
this is great
no issues with it I just don't
understand that ruining clothes you
don't understand fashion I don't
understand I'm not fashion minded the
Law Commission in the UK is to conduct a
study into British driving laws with the
aim of making sure humans can still be
blamed for road accidents caused by
driverless cars as well as criminalizing
hackers who target autonomous vehicles
the Department for Transport said about
the planned three-year review key
aspects will be adjusting traditional
laws to reflect the fact self-driving
vehicles of the future will not have a
driver perhaps not even a steering wheel
like traditional cars and also consider
some of the criminal offences involved
insurance companies have already told
the government that they will refuse to
pay out if autonomous vehicles write up
speeding fines even threatening to pull
their all important support from the
autonomous and electric vehicle bill
currently before Parliament if they were
made liable in such cases the law
commission will look at how to allocate
civil and criminal responsibilities
where there is some shared control in a
human machine interface as well as the
creation of new criminal offences for
novel types of conduct and interference
in other words the hacking of driverless
cars cyclists have in all seriousness
suggested prosecuting developers of
driverless cars car software for making
errors if a cyclist gets squished by a
self-driving vehicle and academics have
also questioned whether insurance
companies would pay out in a mass
driverless car hack scenario normally
the Law Commission issues public
consultations to inform its work and
then publishes a paper summarizing both
the responses and its recommendations to
the government's no announcement has yet
been made about the motoring a law
consultation Wow so I never even thought
of that when I was thinking about
autonomous cars but I ride my bike and
what if there was an issue where the car
didn't see me yeah you kind of trust
that a human driver is gonna see
you there right but we've already seen
from I could say was but tears ago
somebody who died while their plane was
at Nintendo we know they were watching
oh they were watched Harry Potter Potter
yeah that's yeah well yeah I mean you
give humans the ability to chill out a
little bit they're gonna go ah I mean
already in the chatter of water-salt
driving cars equals more sleep time yeah
like I'm sure hey I honestly like when
I'm crossing the street I make eye
contact at the cars like that not the
cars the people behind the cars to make
sure they see me crossing the street now
I'll be walking across the street
trusting because they can't make eye
contact with an autonomous vehicle that
they aren't gonna go I think the
autonomous vehicles can be programmed in
such a way that they will follow the
rules of the road regardless but then it
becomes the bikers yes issue that oh
well I just expected them to stop I've
had pedestrians just walk right out in
front of my moving vehicle yes because
they know that I the human driver will
stop now that's arrogance and that needs
to stop
because if we're in a world where
autonomous vehicles are driving they may
not stop in time I have a real problem
with the insurance aspect of it in that
I don't think that insurance companies
are insuring me personally so much as
I'm paying to have my property insured
I'm paying to protect those around me so
that if I caused damage to someone
else's property they are covered so that
you know if I bump into your car you're
not out the money for repairing it
that's my that's what my insurance is
for if I'm not in the car if the car is
driving itself I think my insurance
should still foot the bill for whatever
occurs right they need to revive their
law their rules in order to accommodate
autonomous vehicles not the laws
accommodating the insurance companies
who don't want to pay yes an accident
happens that is a super valid point
yeah I agree completely so do i I mean I
because I work in a major city the
likelihood of a car accident as for
myself has gone up I mean in the four
years that I've been working there I've
already had
one car written off and another one in
the shop now both times that were not my
fault right
but my insurance company their stance is
hey not your fault we get it will pay
for the repair we're going after the
other insurance company right so why
wouldn't the insurance companies say
look if it was you know human error in
this case where you were sent me in
control of the car even though it was
driving for you and you were negligent
we got to eat those costs I get it but
if if there was a programming error or
there was a hack the insurance company
should be going after whoever created
that issue so I don't see what the big
concern is not great I'm not an
insurance agent I'm not assurance broker
I don't get it I'm not part of that
industry but I mean the whole point is
we'll pay we're going after somebody
else so why couldn't the same here I
mean if if you know you've got an
autonomous car that you know that has a
systems crash also you know yeah you
nail hackers in that in that case yeah
why wouldn't they go after the company
that made the car that if that's a case
and say you have some liability Sasha
I know that we're out of time for the
story and I know you want to wrap up but
the Albuquerque turkey does raise a very
interesting point in that okay I'm gonna
expand on Albuquerque Turkey's comment
here and say look Sasha you're biking
yeah okay you're walking to and from
wherever you're going yeah you're
probably into fitness right okay you
probably are wearing what are you got on
your wrist there girl I bet you have a
Fitbit okay and and probably most people
these days that are biking or walking or
I'm tracking my steps with my phone
you're tracking your steps with your fit
bets why not have a pedestrian
transponder within those devices that
will protect me from autonomous vehicles
so that the autonomous vehicle now
doesn't just see me as a person but sees
that digital footprint there's a person
there there's someone there I recognize
that that is a Fitbit signal and I need
to stay away what do you think of that I
actually really love that it makes me
feel a lot safer because I really would
love the idea that we could all just
have autonomous vehicles and we wouldn't
have to rely so much on human judgement
in driving when we're all so tired and
distracted yeah so I love it thank you
big thanks to Roy W Nash Senor wences
and our community of yours for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
