when you take a photo and you realize oh
no the curtains were open and I've got
some blinding light coming in from the
window okay and so the room is
absolutely dark in the photo we need to
be able to fix those so tonight we're
gonna learn a little bit about color not
color correction but lighting correction
in the GNU image manipulation program
and then we're gonna talk about how we
can improve our photography as well so
that we don't have to go through the
onerous process of modifying our photos
but we're gonna use one tool okay one
tool in the GNU image manipulation
program in order to do this so if you
follow along with us this week you're
gonna be able to do this as well and
improve your photos so that they look
better when you put them up on your
website you're using them on your blog
particularly of interest if you're
taking pictures for a customer right I
know I did web design as as like a home
business before you know years ago and I
would often go in and take pictures of
rental units and and I was doing some
photography for for real estate then
it's particularly problematic when you
take a bunch of pictures of the suite
that they're trying to sell and the
lighting is way off and you know you'd
never would admit it to the customer but
oh I kind of messed up and the lighting
wasn't right so we need to go back and
take it again No we'll use free software
get it at GIMP or gets available for
Windows Mac and Linux so regardless of
what platform you're on you'll be able
to use this I've got a handful of select
pictures from my own repository to use
for this demonstration and what I'm
going to do I'm going to open the first
one which has extreme backlighting I'm
gonna open this in the GNU image
manipulation program version 2.2 n on my
Windows 10 system now remember this will
operate on Windows Mac and Linux but
today we're using it on Windows 10 just
to show you how this how does look so
here's a case where this beautiful photo
of a bedroom is
[Music]
slightly destroyed by the fact that
there's a lot of sunlight coming in from
that their window yes there is and
because of that my camera has set the
the exposure level based on the amount
of light coming in from that window so
now the room itself which is actually
the focal point of my photograph is
really really dark the colors are off
and it's very very dark so I'm gonna use
I mentioned I'm gonna use one tool this
week on a future episode we're also
going to be looking at color correction
but this week we are strictly looking at
levels okay so basically lighting
adjustments so with our levels tool
we're gonna be able to correct this so
I'm gonna right click and go colors
levels we've seen this tool on category
five technology TV before on the left
hand side these are your shadows so if I
grab this little triangle and bring it
in it's gonna get more shadowy aka
darker if I grab the right triangle this
is our highlights so that is going to
bring it in its going to make it the
opposite of shadows any guesses Ashley
come on I'm lighter that was that was
your cue yeah yeah more highlighting so
you see what's happening there
it's brightening up brightening up
brightening up but the colors are still
off yes so what I need in order to
correct colors is what's called white
balance have you ever heard that term
yes not that I would understand exactly
what it means well it when you think
about a photograph or visual imagery
like convert it to digital white balance
is basically telling the computer yeah
what of this photo is meant to be white
and if that's supposed to be white then
that thing that looks yellow right now
should probably be a little bit more
toward the blue spectrum then so right
right because lighting and and exposure
can really mess with the colorization of
a photo so do you then have to pay
in the picture what the real proper
color is like you find the real white in
there and just click and tell it that's
a very good way to do it Sasha that very
quick way to do how I should say because
otherwise we can yeah we can tweak the
colors and as I said we're going to be
looking at colorization and and
correcting colors in a future episode
but by finding something in the photo
that should be white we're able to tell
our computer that should be white so
everything else can be adjusted based on
the fact that that should be white
that's called white balance okay so it's
a really great way to be able to correct
the colorization and the brightness of
your photo so you can tell that my
camera has basically said the outside so
the the sunlight that's coming in which
we know is not actually white it that
looks very very white to me mm-hmm so my
camera has probably determined that the
light that's coming in from the window
is white and that's why the colorization
of the scene looks a little bit off it's
very brown on the spectrum so I'm gonna
bring back up my levels colors levels
and there are three mysterious buttons
here that I want you to get familiar
with this Doppler is for shadows okay
this Doppler is for gray and this
Doppler is for white we're not looking
at photography just yet but you can
actually purchase off of Amazon or any
you can walk into a photo Photography
store and you can get swatches basically
like a template that it has white grey
and black on it so that as you're taking
photos you can hold it up take a photo
and then that becomes your base image so
that you have something to Doppel that
is specifically white I find it's
helpful like if I'm taking a Fatah photo
of a nature scene sometimes I'll
actually kind of oft the corner off to
the side I'll put a piece of white paper
or something that I know should be white
especially in a scene where the I I can
tell so they think of this as you're
taking your photo is there anything
white in this scene because if there
isn't your camera is probably going to
go off on the color because it's gonna
try to detect the white balance it's not
going to find anything that's white
so it's not gonna be able to do it like
pick the closest way yeah so it is so to
put that into perspective if somebody's
wearing an off-white blue shirt so like
a really really light-colored blue shirt
mm-hmm the camera will interpret that as
white and so then the entire room will
be white balanced to that as white and
that's a blue technically yes everything
else so all the blue will come out of
the image right so now everything is
very much toward the kind of orange
yellow red kind of end of the spectrum
right that's what messes up the
photograph right so we're gonna we're
gonna correct that now so in this photo
I mentioned these three tools here and
the only one that I'm gonna use right
now is to pick my white point so I'm
gonna select this Doppler right here and
within the photo I just want to find
somewhere that I feel should be white
and in looking at this photo I see a
baseboard
that is painted white so that's a good
spot but it has yeah the ceiling is good
the baseboard has a little bit too much
shadowing so I think it's going to
brighten up my image too much the area
around like the actual window valance
here is painted white but you set the
ceiling so you can see how over here
it's quite quite bright but then it
falls into shadows over here so this is
gonna be turning out a little bit darker
so let's try it let's select somewhere
in the kind of intermediary brightness
area so right about here
I'm gonna select that as my white point
and you see what happens because there
are shadows up here yes the colorization
has improved right however it's really
really really bright yeah because of
that shadow they live on the Sun yeah so
let's bring that in a little bit tighter
into the white area of the ceiling up
here now this is probably like a stucco
ceiling and I'm clicking all over the
place so there are parts of this ceiling
that are not going to be pure white
there's gonna be some gray specks and
some shadows so let's try in around the
frame of the window here okay I'm
starting to see some good colorization
but I again have some kind of wicked
looking
brightness right so but the colors are
looking natural though the wall doesn't
seem unnatural now so if I turn back off
my preview that's what it looked like
that's what it looks like now so I start
to feel like wow the the white of the
window frame here the window sill is
turning into a pretty nice white balance
for my photo right so I've been able to
select that but it's way too bright okay
so now you can play with the shadow
slider right yeah I could but the
shadows are natural I don't want to pull
those in too tight because then I'm
gonna get too much shadow instead
there's this nice happy medium gray area
and with this gray one in the middle I'm
going to take that and drag it a little
bit toward the light which means I'm
actually removing some of the light and
pulling it toward I'm actually adding
more shadows but in a much more subtle
sense okay so you see what I'm able to
do yes so I'm getting a much more
natural color ization on those walls the
bedspread looks a lot more natural
things look a lot cleaner I'm gonna I'm
gonna leave it about there I'll turn off
the preview so that's my original very
dark very under saturated and then
brightened way up there we have wow much
more improved now this is not a perfect
photograph because now the the window is
super super bright the window looks like
you live on the Sun but the colorization
is correct and everything else about the
photo looks a lot better I really love
this hmm so let's jump back to my photos
I'm gonna I'm gonna use another example
okay we've got another window here see
if it loads up here we go okay so this
window is interesting because this
window has some things outside it's a
little hard for you to see at home
if I darken it a little bit let's just
darken this scene a little bit for you
so that you can see see outside I see
some trees I see some houses now I do
yeah but if I do that what I've just
done look at what it does to the room
our room is like pitch black so we've
got an interesting case here where okay
now we've got that backlight that's
really creating a shaded room but I
don't want to lose the scenery outside
it's especially the case if I've got a
photograph of like a suite that's
overlooking a beach right you know you
really want to be able to see that
beachfront property outside but you
don't want the room to be black so
there's a little bit of trickiness to
this and a little bit of happiness first
of all what I want to do is I'm gonna
create a duplicate of the layer I want
to have a backup of that layer so now I
have two of them they're identical so
either one of these they're exactly the
same so with this first layer I'm
actually going to darken it a little bit
so that I can see outside so I'm simply
I'm not changing the white balance I'm
just darkening the photo so that I can
see outside see what's happening there
yeah so I can see that's a nice looking
landscape I've got some trees it's not
perfect but I want to get it so that at
least I can see what's happening outside
I can see that there's more going on in
the scene than just the room itself and
just a white window but now the room is
dark so now if I turn back on that lower
layer turn off the top when you see what
happens when I switch between them yeah
okay so I've got the window this is
gonna be my window scene and this is my
room scene so let's correct the room
scene so I'm gonna go colors levels and
again I want to improve the white
balance because this is obviously under
saturated the the wall color is
obviously off I'm gonna grab some white
from the pillow look at how that Jam
brought the room right out of that now
I'm gonna grab the grays and brighten up
the room a little bit but notice how
I've completely lost my window okay
that's why I wanted to darken out
another layer for my window so there's
the window layer and here's the bedroom
layer so now I've got two layers to work
with so let's go back to our window
layer I'm gonna zoom in a little bit
here and this is where things get a
little bit hacky so we're taking it real
easy tonight I'm just gonna grab my
lasso marquee here okay
select tool they call it and I'm
grabbing the outside of the window frame
not the inside because I don't want to
mess up the brightness of the inside
you're gonna see that in just a moment
I'm going to just kind of trace around
anything that is inside the suite see
that so I'm not gonna I'm gonna trace
around that hit enter to save that
selection so now I've got a selection
that is that window can you see that
marquee it's a little bit difficult but
it is there now gonna hold up my left
shift key so that I can multi-select so
now I'm selecting another marquee on the
other pane of the window I'm gonna go
around these pieces of fruit as well as
I can take your time a little more than
I am but this is for a demonstration but
you can see how quickly I can do this
and I'm just doing this with a touchpad
on me while you're selecting that can I
just ask you the food wants to know did
you shoot and raw for this to be
possible these were shot in JPEG in auto
mode and that's intentional for the sake
of the demonstration because for for a
lot of users you're just gonna be
shooting from your camera and getting
the best shot that you can just by
pointing and clicking exactly and then
it's the regret afterwards where oh I
really wish I could have made that a
little bit better we're gonna try to fix
that up a little bit so I'm tracing
around this so these are just shot JPEG
in auto mode so I've traced around hit
enter so now I have both of those panes
selected so just to show you I'm going
to control C control V and then turn off
that layer and create a new layer so
that you can see what I've actually done
so that's what I've actually just
selected and highlighted so what I want
to do now and turn on all my layers with
that selection I'm gonna right click on
the top layer which is my window layer
and I'm gonna add layer mask with that
I'm gonna choose the selection because I
want to create the mask based on my
selection and are you ready for the
magic I'm gonna add that now it's left
my window like that look at that hmm
that is incredible
now I'm gonna zoom out so you can see
how those two layers those two different
versions have now merged together and so
quickly like I'm doing this live me so
there's my twin all the windows problems
yeah not all of them I'm on Windows 10
is probably gonna crash so there you
have it so there's another example of
how things look now keep in mind I've
got links below this is kind of hard to
see on your TV but I've got links below
if you're watching this on youtube or on
our website category-five TV where you
can download the full sized image and
you can actually see the difference
between the original and the version
that I've created here tonight live on
the air but I can definitely see that
yeah on my screen that that just looks
stellar now another trick that I could
use so and this is something that I
would recommend that you do and this is
just kind of a side tip for you
there's something about when you create
a clip like that how there are these
stark lines and sometimes those can be
very very visible because like see that
the the kind of blue line right there
yes that's because there's a bit of a
shadow right there that's a part of the
other layer so what I want to do instead
so let's just backtrack a little bit and
with this layer here I want to now I've
got my selection I'm gonna right click
and go select and I'm gonna feather okay
now observe the dimensions of your image
this is 42 72 by 28 48 so I can say
probably about 50 pixels and and you
will be able to gauge this as you grow
as a visual editor I'm gonna say 50
pixels is about right it might be about
30 but let's try that I mean now I'm
going to lay add my layer mask and what
I did there I'm going to turn off the
bottom layer is that I softened the edge
do you see that it's not so stark so now
when I turn back on the bottom layer
that blue line that was there is much
more natural-looking because there's a
little bit of a gradient right leading
from one photo into the other and then
you end up with this nice soft edge on
the curtain here that
really looks so natural that you would
swear that that's actually just the
light pouring into the room right it's
beautiful so then you end up with a
photo that's perfectly usable and again
you can check out the original image
below let's jump back to my samples and
one final item with the white balance
correction let's bring up the typical
scene in the bathroom where lighting is
always off color is always off right and
it doesn't look terrible but there's a
very definite yellow hue so I'm gonna
right click and go colors levels and
I'll just say I want to show you this on
multiple different images because I know
your images are gonna vary from mine so
we're learning techniques we're not
learning specifics these are techniques
that you can use in order to improve
your photos after the fact I'm going to
choose that white Doppler like I did
before and I see from the sandwich I've
got a white toilet I've got white towels
but they may be speckled with some gray
I've got a white curtain and I've got a
white sink but the white sink has some
grays in it you see that so we know that
that's a little bit off but let's grab
that and watch what that does to the
room Wow do you see that yes and if I
click on the wrong thing let's say I
tell it that white is actually this
Brown tile it's gonna completely mess up
the photo see what happens yeah well you
can click anywhere else if I click on a
brown towel it's gonna say Brown is the
color and that's what I'm talkin about
how if you don't have any white in your
photo your camera's gonna select the
wrong thing as being white so let's grab
the sink because I think that's gonna
give us a really nice white balance you
can see if I turn off the preview so now
it's off you can see how it's got a real
yellow hue it's kind of like there's a
mask over top of the entire image giving
it that yellow look turn back on the
white balance that I created from the
sink and it's got that really pops out
you can see that the colors are right
and now I can safely adjust my shadows
and make that look the way that the room
actually in fact looks and there you
have it is bananas bananas you heard it
here folks lighting and color
Corrections these are corrective actions
once we've already taken the photos
right so we've taken it and now we've
made it we realize we made a mistake
once we've imported them we need to fix
these photos we're going to show you
after the break a couple of tips that
can quickly help you to just take better
photos right out the gate
so that there's a little less corrective
action that needs to be done and you can
actually just take better photos from
ground one nice stick around for a
limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
alright welcome back let's get into it
you've got some questions in the chat
room absolutely okay so soul boo was
asking what if after you've taken the
picture you discover there's nothing at
all white in it so like before you could
just use a piece of paper and just add
it to the corner right but what if right
so why will we do that why would I take
a piece of paper and put it in the
corner it's so that afterwards I have
something I can Doppel write because I
know when I'm looking through the camera
lens or through the through the whatever
you call that the viewfinder I'm able to
see oh you know what there's nothing
white in the photo so we have to kind of
think ahead as a photographer like if
I'm taking pictures when I'm taking
pictures in a suite I'm looking at
things like are the bedspreads wrinkled
are the photos straight are the lights
are the lampshades on straight those
kinds of things like as as you're taking
photos whether you're professional or
not you've got to kind of think of these
things and one of those things is what
in this photo is gonna give me white
balance right okay so instead of you
taking the picture hypothetically I'm
taking the picture and I pretty much
take the drop off I like take the lens
cap off turn the camera around yeah okay
the batteries in zero white things in my
there's nothing I'm so gonna get beat up
on YouTube seriously there's nothing
like it's like it's just so that's where
color correction comes in okay that's
happening on a future episode I want to
say next week but I know that we've got
some things happening next week and it
may not happen I want to be here for it
I'm not here well that's perfect so two
weeks from now we're looking at color
correction which is different we're
gonna actually be able to adjust the
colors without something to base our way
no white in the picture and that takes
creativity nice thing about white
balance is we know hey that piece of
paper is supposed to be white so let's
topple that and it will fix the
colorization based on that right well if
you don't have anything white in the
photo there is gray Doppler so if you
find something that's supposed to be
gray in the photo then you can adjust
things based on that right you can also
use color correction tools desaturation
tools things like that that will be able
to assist you as well
okay those are the things that we're
gonna be looking at but backing up so
you've got the camera yes and I said you
know before the break we looked at how
we could correct photos that we've
already taken but as we're taking photos
as I mentioned we kind of want to we
want to be smart about what we're doing
so I've got my camera and I'm and I'm
taking a shot right and I'm looking and
I'm kind of looking beyond the camera
lens and saying okay is everything
straight is everything looking good have
I got something that's gonna give me
good white balance in this photo and
then I take my shot because tonight
there was a there was a truck that was
parked right in front of the studio and
I said oh that's a cool shot
I want that because I've got the Sun
setting behind it and it's coming beyond
and then I took the shot right where's
the truck where's the truck man so fast
the speed of light that truck our camera
I mentioned when I was talking about the
window
yeah it's gonna set the exposure level
based on the scene right and it saw the
Sun and then it just gets everything
else because I wanted the sky in the
photo so of course as I'm setting up my
shot I've got the the sky and I've got
the truck well the camera in its auto
mode because I'm assuming that we're all
kind of rookie beginners and we're just
learning how to use our cameras and so
so I might have it I might have it in
auto mode I might have it but regardless
when I push down that button it samples
things from the scene right usually it's
a pinpoint in the middle of the scene so
if I've got this scene here and in the
center I've got this big bright area
that's what it's going to base its
exposure value on mm-hmm not the truck
that is in fact down here would it be a
different exposure level if that bright
Sun was in a different part of the
picture like if it was in the upper
right it would change everything with my
camera and its default auto settings
yeah it's a pinpoint in the middle of
the photo so a toppling photo okay so
but that may not always be the case
mm-hmm but when I'm taking my photo so I
want you to grab your DSLR and if you
feel the button that is your shutter
and I want you to feel this so push down
on that okay push down all the way yeah
there's like what do you feel there's
like a double there's a double yeah you
feel that yes with your DSLR if you push
down sometimes we just take our photo
and we we take for granted that there
are actually two buttons that are a part
of this what's the first size the first
one is to set your exposures set your
focus so okay so okay so I'm taking a
picture can I just hold it you know I
will be see I will be care notice this
this is something that I do and and this
is subconscious but do you notice that
okay so every time I pick up my camera
we know if I drop yeah if I drop it
that's that's as far as it's gonna get
okay so I am okay that's what I do okay
so I am taking the picture don't go half
way and then all the way the rest of the
way or do I can't I go half way and then
come back off and it saves it no so as
soon as you release it it's reset back
to hey I'll try again okay okay so
instead what we want to do is we want to
take our camera yeah and we want to find
a point that's in the same focal range
as what we're actually taking a photo of
so if I'm taking a picture of this wall
and there's a window right next to it I
could say this is my focal point and
then I can I can I can widen up the shot
so okay so when you say okay I'm gonna
point the camera and then I click to
take my photo but I push all the way
down to take the picture but then it
samples everything and creates the
exposure level and creates this right so
instead what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to that's my shot that I want but the
truck is down here right so I'm actually
going to look down at the truck don't
change your depth because then you're
gonna have focus issues cuz I'm gonna be
setting these in a second so here's the
photo I want I'm gonna actually move
down my head to the truck now I'm gonna
half the half press and I'm gonna here
my lens kind of focus and I'm gonna see
that it's clear on my screen in in the
viewfinder and then with it still half
pressed I'm gonna move my head up
and then full press it's this step I've
been missing right so now that photo
that look like that yes looks like that
whoa okay so we can find that find that
point within your photo we're like can
you can you even see it they're not
there it's the same photo that's
incredible but all it took was just
looking down at the truck and then
moving up now this is a poor example
because the weather wasn't quite what I
wanted today I was going to take a nice
nature shot and it started snowing that
was the only amount of blue sky that I
could find in all of berry that was it
yeah it was like a little oh you had it
all it was a little opening but just to
show you I mean that's not the photo I
mean you're saying oh well that's a
stupid truck that's it just happened to
be in my way just actually the example
that we're giving that makes sense to me
now so here's the here's the truth of
the matter is Dave had one time bought
me this is her husband Dave yes
bought me a camera and I mean I just
take pictures like I'm sure it's a
picture that era it's a camera that has
the double sure but a DSLR I always
found that my my camera was better
because when you take a picture with
your camera you can touch on the screen
where you want the focus to be and then
just press the button on your phone on
your phone yeah well that you can do
more than this you can do it with the
clock or to kind of I'm gonna take this
to the next level for you so you're in
my scene so say say Sasha is my shot
okay so but I don't want her to be right
in the center of the shot I want some of
the scenery that's behind right so what
do I typically do is I frame my shot so
that Sasha is a little off to the side
and I've got the sunset behind us eh all
right yeah and then I take the picture
well now it's looking for a focal point
it's looking for exposure and it finds
it in the sunset behind you okay because
that's what's in the center of my frame
so in auto mode that's what my camera
focuses on so instead I point it
directly at you I focus it on you with
the half-press
then I move it out and then I click all
the way down so then you are bright
there's not that backlight causing you
to be like your facial expression be
unvisible right it fixes that ah so now
we can very very easily even in auto
mode take better photos everybody
watching right now is like they are
there digging up your camera and they're
checking for the half yeah try that yeah
there's a real thing but one other thing
that you can do and I recommend that you
do it is start looking at lens
attachments the one well of course
there's the the UV lens all of my
cameras have a UV l of v lens on it
because they're cheap they're clear they
don't cause apparitions and they protect
your actual physical lens okay so this
is a protective layer but on top of that
get yourself a polarizer 15 bucks oh
that's what a polarizer does is it acts
like sunglasses for your camera so if
you take any pictures outside your
you're gonna be going to Whistler BC
next week right you're gonna be taking
pictures snowboarding yes well if you're
outside in the snow yes white it's gonna
be it's gonna be blanched completely so
you put a polarizer on there and it acts
like sunglasses for your camera and it
just kind of darkens it up and makes it
so that it finds good exposure good
white balance nice and it's like 15 boxy
and pick them up anywhere I wonder if I
can get that shipped from Amazon to my
sister's house because I'm going to
visit her there you go all right yeah
you can get them on Amazon for sure so
there you have it that is you know just
some quick tips for you with the GNU
image manipulation program get it for
free at gimp.org and a couple of tips
for you with improving your photography
out the gate so you don't have to do so
many different modifications to the
photo after the fact thank you
[Applause]
