first of all if you want to get yourself
a really cool retro case for your retro
pie head on over to cat5 dot TV slash
high are you ready for this yes okay
first of all with my brand new Raspberry
Pi 3 B+ the first thing I want to do is
I want to put some heat sinks on it now
these are available on Amazon you can
grab heat sinks
they probably now in my case they came
with the the kit that I bought from
Kanna ket's so cat5 got TV /pha you buy
the kit it comes with heat sinks so I
need to put on the CPU heatsink just to
keep that nice and cool that's gonna
dissipate the the heat even better than
the the improved cooling kind of metal
cover that's on the Raspberry Pi 3 B+
and then there's one for this little
chip over here I don't know if that's
the math coprocessor 2 I'm not sure what
that is but it's cute and this will keep
it cool because it does get hot real
simple there's stickers you don't need
any frosting or anything like that
yep just push down on it a little bit
give it a little bit of pressure and now
we are ready to install it in our new
retro case and this ladies and gentlemen
is just the Box they went all out and I
I would pay somebody I would ask them
how can I send you money just to buy
that box and inside the box is is really
what it's all about folks and we talked
about mini game systems like the mini
and like the SNES mini and look at this
a Nintendo Entertainment System
miniaturized it's got USB and Ethernet
there it's got HDMI port on the back the
SD card and there incidentally on the
bottom here where there normally was the
GPIO or the connection is a little
storage case they even got that detail
to put your SD cards in it's got two USB
ports on the front and a working power
button that operates just like the
yes like it holds in it's not like just
a momentary switch it stays in it came
with a fan as well the screwdriver some
screws and just a quick little
instruction set look at that if we need
to okay so we're gonna actually put this
together for you tonight
so let's let's get started cool
I guess the fan is just gonna officer
draw some of the heat out of there and
there's some screws to mount that to the
case so what I like about this if you
notice the USB ports on the front and
everything and they it actually has
circuitry like it's not your typical
Raspberry Pi case that you just stick
the PI in and then plug everything into
the PI it has these connectors that plug
into the PI and then it has its own
headers that make it so that you're not
restricted to the form factor of the pie
itself so with my Raspberry Pi 3 B+ I'm
just going to insert that with the HDMI
at the back but first we'll connect in
Ethernet and that will make live the
Ethernet port on the front of the what's
called an S PI case plus so this is the
next generation of the nest PI case and
this one is slightly larger than the
original with better cooling and a
little bit more airflow and certainly
less cramped and I think it looks more
legitimately like a real Nintendo
Entertainment System than the original
case so it just kind of goes in there
just line up the headers at the back
because it is going to you're gonna plug
your HDMI directly into the PI and then
we've just got a little pack of screws
most of those six of those are for the
case itself because this is a case that
we're gonna assemble and leave assembled
it's not something you're going to be
swapping your board in and out of but
then there are two screws to actually
mount the Raspberry Pi board to this
case now keep in mind this is compatible
with B model boards so you're looking at
the Raspberry Pi two Raspberry Pi three
Raspberry Pi three model B+ so you can
you can mount other system boards in
here as well and presumably future-ready
as as well as long as the form
factor on the new raspberry pi's stay
the same so with these two screws it's
just gonna mount that in scene I have to
make interesting Sasha we're putting in
two screws so you're doing a great job
thanks tiny tiny screws yep look at how
tiny they are they're tinier than a pie
everything on the pie is so cute oh and
this is just the cutest no it's nice and
snug it feels real snug there you go now
this header here is going to give you
the fan so we just plug that in make
sure you put it in the right way the the
pins are on the outside of the Raspberry
Pi and that enables the header on the
top there and gives it power for the fan
as well as whatever other power is
needed now there's no designator here
which way the fan is blowing I know from
experience that usually the the sticker
side is where it's going to be blowing
out of so I'm going to put that down so
that we're drawing the heat out of the
case we're not gonna be drawing air into
it we want to push the air out of it and
it just snaps in there and then there
are three screws that that just hold the
fan in place so it's not going to fall
out
some good TV right here folks riveting
look at that look at the way I turned
the screw and and note the screwdriver
was even included so I didn't have to
buy buy or find a tiny enough
screwdriver it's it's included so now
you've got an extra screwdriver for
that's actually very considerate yeah
you know until you end up with with 300
of these screwdrivers you're happy that
they included it yeah now you can also
fix glasses I feel like I'm thinking
that this is gonna be a perfect size for
changing motors in my drone oh that's
perfect nice simple installation folks I
think if you give yourself ten minutes
time now we're not going to take that
much time tonight because I have the
power to accelerate the video a little
bit but ten minutes time is all you need
and then you're gonna be up and run with
your retro pie so I'm not sure which way
to to put this cable on to the this is
the fan header not sure which way it
goes and there's no like one way you can
put it on either way I don't see
anything in the instructions about the
fan either it's only about the case and
the installation of the pie so I could
plug it in with the positive on the left
and you can always change the polarity
and that's going to change the direction
of the fan but actually the the red
I'm just looking and there is a marking
that says the positive is on the right
my right so that should be the correct
way to put that fan in there okay so now
the next step is just to close it up and
I'm just I'm making sure that the cable
there is not gonna there's a quite a bit
of slack on that cable I don't want it
to obstruct the fan I don't want it to
get into the fan I guess I could put a
twist tie on that or something like that
but I think it looks like it's gonna
stay out of the way it's not gonna nudge
its way over to the fan so shouldn't be
a problem and that should just snap
right together there we go
doesn't that look awesome oh my goodness
I can't wait to show this to my family
because we grew up with that look at
SD card slot on the side - all right so
now we've got those six screws we've got
to put in this is where you know this is
this is way too much for you so I'm
gonna speed this up a little bit what
was your first retro gaming system Sasha
growing up I played well I played Atari
games and then I had I think I skipped
right - Super Nintendo really to be
honest you went from Atari 2600 to a
Super Nintendo yeah I had an Atari 2600
and then when the NES came out so the
Atari 2600 was like when I was born
mm-hmm and then I got the Nintendo
Entertainment System when it came out so
there it is folks so this really is a
throwback for me
I'm so proud and excited about this just
this case that's gonna sit under our TV
in full sight it's got HDMI on the back
you'll notice that the header for the
power has been offset using their
built-in header and it looks astonishing
it is sharp it is so cool
the ultimate retropie retropie case and
there it is are we ready to fire this up
yes we are all right it feels good I you
know people are gonna ask like is it
flimsy and cheap no it feels like
substantial it feels real good solid it
is solid and you feel that button yeah
it's click click click click yeah
momentary so it's just like the original
and I guess you know folks are wondering
about the SD card slot over here so
there it is I've already put in our
retropie SD slot card and it just it
goes in and out nice and easy but it's
not gonna fall out there you go
there we go okay so let's fire it up
sash all right here we go
now I can plug in power because remember
it has a power poor power button on the
front it's not going to turn on until I
hit that button
I'm gonna go HDMI output so it supports
HDMI but it does have access to the the
AV port as well so you
you can use one of these cables right
and plug that in here and then you've
got RCA output for an old-style TV right
or if you're real retro want to go
completely retro absolutely okay and
then I mentioned a little bit earlier
that I'm using an Xbox controller so I
do need to use an Xbox receiver because
it's not bluetooth if we wanted to we
could use Sony Playstation three remotes
which are bluetooth and that I would not
need a receiver and I could play it just
like that so no no extra wires coming
out of the front I think that would be
cool so I'm gonna get myself some
PlayStation controllers but it does have
two USB ports on the front - and then
another two under here so but you see
the ones there you can plug those that
you can get USB retro NES controllers
that look exactly like the originals but
their USB anyway that is that's the next
item that's if you're completely
obsessed with retro ok so I'm gonna plug
in my receiver here and I'm just gonna
push the power button there it goes
[Music]
[Applause]
