hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and we want
to say Merry Christmas on today's show
we're looking specifically at the
shepherds and their response to hearing
the good news about Jesus being born
stay tuned
you
this is the story of operation christmas
child it may just be a shoebox but to
millions is the start of the greatest
journey traveling the world sent with
prayer to box kits fill the hearts of
children from over 100 different
countries with hope faith and love
welcome back so glad that you've tuned
in on a very special Christmas table
thing you're doing a wonderful day with
your friends and family and we're so
glad that you tuned in again yes PF
teddy we have teddy teddy is our only
Christmas decoration that stays out all
year long he sits in her kitchen and
he's just been there for years I know he
makes sure nobody gets the cookies
that's what it is of course there's
there's no foodies in the jar there's no
cookies in the jar but he sits there all
the time he watches over everything yeah
we don't we don't really put up
decorations because we're not home a
whole lot and we get to enjoy
decorations at other peoples houses and
then they have to deal with putting them
away that's true and we don't have dust
them exactly so teddy is joining us on
the show today just because because it's
nice because it's nice but we have been
talking about the different responses
that people in the Christmas story have
had when God shares the good news about
Jesus with them so we looked at
Zacharias and when he received the news
from the angel Gabriel that his wife
Elizabeth was going to be with child and
he had unbelief in his heart that God
was actually going to fulfill that
promise then we looked at how Gabriel
addressed Mary and Mary's response was
I'm your maid servant behold her maid
servant of the Lord and may it be as you
have said yeah so she just believed that
it was going to happen right then we
looked at Joseph and what was Joseph's
response gen joseph's response was he
woke up and he did with the Lord set
right now the
appeared to him in a dream and he woke
up and he just did it he said he took
Mary as his wife and and just did what
the Lord told him to do and so on
today's show we're specifically going to
look at Luke too and I am reading from
the new century version and I have new
king james king james yes and it says
that night some shepherds were in the
fields nearby watching their sheep then
what Percy web verse 8 right I'm trying
not to read the King James in my head
because I know it from the peanuts show
Oh Charlie Brown Christmas yes fear not
for behold I bring you good news of
great joy that shall be to all people
for unto you Is Born This Day in the
City of David a savior which is Christ
the Lord and this shall be a sign unto
you that you will find the babe wrapped
in swaddling clothes and lying in a
manger Linus Linus classic so new
century says to purchase but peanuts yes
you can go to our partners page on new
everyday TV click partners and then go
to Amazon and then you can order the
movie and support our show and support
our show thank you for giving to us this
Christmas season alright so here we go
starting a concern on at verse 9 I
didn't mean to enter a problem then an
angel of the Lord stood before them the
glory of the Lord was shining around
them and they became very frightened the
angel said to them do not be afraid I am
bringing you good news that will be a
great joy to all the people today your
savior was born in the town of David he
is Christ the Lord this is how you will
know him you will find a baby wrapped in
pieces of cloth and lying in a feeding
box then a very large group of angels
from heaven joined the first angel
praising God and saying give glory to
God in heaven and on earth let there be
peace among the men who please God when
the Angels left them and went back to
having the Shepherd's said to each other
let's go to Bethlehem let's see this
thing that has happened which the Lord
has told us about so the Shepherd's went
quickly and found Mary and Joseph and
the baby who was lying in a feeding
trough when they had seen the Hitman
they had seen him they took
they told what the Angels had said about
the child everyone was amazed at what
the Shepherd's said to them but Mary
treasured these things and continued to
think about them then the Shepherd's
went back to the sheep praising God and
thanking him for everything they had
seen and heard it had been just as the
angel had told them yes so if we look at
their response in belief now the
Shepherd's they were like lowest of the
low the lowest caste if you will race
because they slept outside with smelly
sheep it just was not on the social
ladder they were at the bottom yes yeah
yes so it's very encouraging and amazing
that God would bring this good news and
allow these Shepherds to be the first
ones to see his son born in a manger yes
and it just now can you read what your
version says because it's written
differently in mine because I'm the new
century makes it seem like when they had
seen him they told what the angel said
about this child and everyone was amazed
so it makes it sound like they hadn't
left the manger okay now when they had
seen them they made widely known the
saying that was told them concerning the
child and all those who heard it
marveled at those things which were told
them by the shepherds and read the next
but Mary kept all these things and
pondered them in heart than the
Shepherd's returned glorifying and
praising God for all the things that
they had heard and seen right so they
told other people so they actually went
they believed this is this an angel from
God yes i believe the message and you
made a good point Jen that the angel
didn't say go and find the baby mm-hmm
they decided to go right but they said
the baby the angel said for there is
born to you this day in the City of
David a savior who is Christ the Lord
and this will be assigned to you you
will find a babe wrapped in swaddling
cloths lying in a manger and suddenly
there was an angel a multitude of
heavenly host praising God so they never
actually said go there no they said this
latest design like but they were never
told to go it's interesting because a
Cariah was told
is what's going to happen and he's like
okay prove it prove to me that you're
true Mary was like okay well how's this
going to happen Joseph just did it right
he was told to do something and he did
it but it's interesting because the
Shepherd's weren't actually told to do
anything they went on their own volition
they went on their own volition and it's
very interesting because even though
they are telling people about what
happened what they saw nobody else
actually goes to the manger to check it
out oh he had true they just stood there
marveled so all those who heard it
them by the Shepherd's but they didn't
actually go confirm it themselves I know
I never thought of that which is very
interesting it's like oh yeah I just
like this is the savior of the world
right like that's what he said for unto
you Is Born This Day in the City of
yes so this is the savior that they have
been waiting for to come right and yet
the Shepherd's are the only ones that go
and check it out yes when he was still
in the major while he was still in the
me a wider Minh came later yes yeah and
so it's very interesting and it reminds
me that God reveals himself to people
who are willing to see him hmm that is
so true that is so true and he came in a
very unassuming way born in a manger the
Shepherd's went there that the manger
was a place for a king to be born and I
I was reading in this Christmas ideals
book of poetry and I wanted to share one
with you guys it's by Leslie at Leyland
fields I hope I'm saying your name right
and it's called let the stable still
astonish let the stable still astonish
straw dirt floor dull eyes dusty flanks
of donkeys boxin crumbling crooked walls
no bed to carry that pain and then the
child rag wrapped laid to cry in a
trough who would have chosen this who
would have said yes let the God of all
the heavens and earth be born in
this place who but the same God who
stands in the darker Fowler rooms of our
hearts and says yes let the God of
heaven and earth be born here in this
place and I just loved the sweet
parallel there Jen that the stable was
this unassuming place very humble
nothing exciting but God saw us and
chose to make his home in us because He
loves us and were made in His image and
he wanted to come and live inside of us
it's the same kind of thing that your
heart is now disabled it's the your
heart is the manger this Christmas and
maybe this is the first time that you've
even thought about welcoming the Savior
into your life and it's a good time here
to pause and think about that yes and
maybe that's why the people just
marveled at it because they didn't for
unto you Is Born stay in the City of
David a savior which is Christ the Lord
and this shall be assigned to you will
find the babe wrapped in swaddling
clothes and lying in a manger maybe the
people just went huh Savior manger that
does what that what a weird dichotomy
and it's and when we think about it like
that how could possibly God of all
creation want to live in us yeah and yet
the word Emmanuel which is one of the
names attributed to Christ is basically
means God with us like he wants to be
with us and so it's very i want to say
humbling that God himself would come and
and allow himself to be born into a
manger and then the I'd across in order
that he could be with us when we seem so
sinful for lack of a better word so none
God worthy and yet he deems us as God
worthy by dying on the cross for us and
that was the sole purpose in coming at
Christmas at that first Christmas was he
came that he might
ro show us what God was like died on the
cross for our sins as the perfect lamb
which is what we talked about last week
with Abraham and that we could be made
right with God if we chose to believe
which is the first verse that we talked
about four weeks ago with Romans 10 9 if
we believe in our hearts if we confess
with our mouth Jesus is Lord and believe
in our hearts that God raised him from
the dead who may be saved and that is
what Christmas is all about it's Jesus
came so that we might have life eternal
with God the Father yeah and if we
believe then we can have that life too
and so the last four weeks we have been
talking about what does belief look like
and it doesn't always mean having all
the answers no it means it's trusting am
I going to trust that what God says is
true and so can I had something to that
sure is for like growing up in like
through my teen years I always thought
yes Jesus came to die for me because I'm
such a center I'm such a sinner yes true
I'd sin separated myself from god but
God must have looked at us and seen such
great value yes that we were made in the
image of God that he left having to get
heaven back inside of us that we might
have fullness of joy now and I sometimes
I feel like the Christians I met growing
up kind of had head down trudging I'm
just waiting to get to heaven I'm just
doing a day by day I'm getting to heaven
yeah but that's not necessarily the good
news like tidings of great joy yes which
will be for all people right and that
great joy is christ in us the hope of
glory yes I know I've said that verse
over and over but I feel like sometimes
we have a really skewed sense of the
gospel hmmm they were just holding out
for something yes Jesus died that we
might spend an eternity with God but
there's a life now to be lived for him
and for his glory and he's spreading his
kingdom on the earth yeah we get to be
part of that we are ambassadors because
he lives in us we now become the light
of the world we know
are the Word of God because Christ is
the word he's inside of us yes well and
it says give glory to God in heaven and
on earth let there be peace among the
people who please God now I know says on
whom his favor rests in various versions
but that idea of when we put our faith
in Jesus Christ there should be this
deep sense of peace in us does not mean
that there will be peace around us in
this world you will have trouble but
take heart i have over the world but
there will be a deep sense of peace
inside of us so Jesus came to bring us
peace as well and so not only like so
when we are reconciled with God when we
are made right with God that peace comes
inside so this little baby like that's
at what part of what I find so shocking
is that the people just stood there and
marveled but they didn't actually go and
embrace and how many people stand in the
look at Christians and I know we have
talked about this but people will say to
myself or to carry and I think I hear it
more from Kerry because I work in a
church but people will say to you oh
well you seem to have such a strong
faith and they marvel at it but they
don't want to reach out yeah and didn't
we taste and see that the lord is good
yeah that he's good so they marvel at
our faith they marvel at wow you have
such a strong connection with God and
it's like yes and you could have it for
you and it's for good news for all
people yes yeah but they don't want to
reach out and see they don't want to go
to the stable they don't want to invite
Jesus into the stable of their up their
art yes yeah and that's where I think oh
boy we we so want people to understand
that how much more does God long for
people to get ahold of that yes because
when you think about what took place God
becoming man putting everything of who
he was in the form of a baby bpe and I
just came from a friend's house and she
has a wee baby and even to get up out of
the crib mama has to come and left the
baby up Lego dependence so so it's
interesting when you think that may God
became dependent on man like that's how
much he valued us because he gave up
everything
and he trusted himself to Mary and
Joseph which is very interesting to like
if interested himself to Mary and Joseph
to raise him up so that then he could do
what he came to do which is to make us
write with himself and if you think I
often like to think about this if you
read in John chapter one although in the
beginning was the word in the worst with
God and the Word was God that's Jesus
and nothing that was made that's made
here was not made through that had not
been made unless it was made through the
word so Jesus was instrumental in
creating everything with the father
right father son Holy Spirit all
together so when Jesus was a baby like
Anna toddler going up did he have an
understanding of when he made Mary like
that she was wiping him at washing him
and feeding cam did he remember creating
her mm-hmm just something it just blows
my mind yes and then fast forward ahead
of time when Jesus is being about to be
crucified and the soldiers are smacking
him and beating him up did he remember
making ma'am and yet he still loves them
it's the same love that he has mm-hmm
for out all people yes so i'm justing so
encouraged by the Christmas story Jen
even to stop and think about it read it
maybe that's something you could do with
your failing maybe you've never opened
the Christmas story before to actually
read it out loud with your family or
with your significant other or with your
roommate or with your friend maybe
you're away at college you just want to
open it and just read the Christmas
story yeah so the Christmas story is
found in Luke too well there's two spots
there's Luke to which starts with the
birth of Jesus and it goes it to the end
Luke 22 21 that is the bulk where
they're called to Bethlehem to go or you
can start at the beginning the beginning
of the beginning Luke one where the
angel appears to Zechariah and continue
to the end of 222 or you can go to
Matthew where Jake or Joseph is called
I God 22 merry merry merry merry merry
and then the wise men come to visit
Jesus as at the beginning of chapter two
in Matthew there's so much still to
cover in the Christmas story yes so if
you're wanting to pick up the Christmas
story Matthew at the end of Matthew 12
Matthew two and then Luke one and Luke
two will give you the full Christmas
story but we encourage you today to take
not just to marvel at the Christmas
story but to actually embrace the truth
of the Christmas story that God really
does love you and some of you have known
that truth for a really long time we
encourage you to once again then marvel
at the Christmas story because you
understand the truth but maybe you need
to step back and go wow God did that for
me and he did it for you and so be
blessed today know that God loves you he
cares for you he loves your family he
cares about where you're at and what
you're doing and his peace that passes
all understanding really is available
for you today in any situation that
you're in so so can we pray then Jen we
sure can its father God you are awesome
thank you so much for looking on us and
loving us enough that you sent your son
to be born as a baby in a manger mm-hmm
to die in a cross and I thank you for
the promise that's inside of us thank
you for the whole Christmas story thank
you for all of history that points
towards your son coming thank you now
for the hope of his return and for all
the signs that point to that coming soon
we look forward to that day
and yet where we want to live in this
day for you experiencing life and life
to the full thank you for our viewers
and our listeners would you bless them
and their families we pray this in Jesus
name Amen we wish you a Merry Christmas
we wish you a Merry Christmas we wish
you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New
Year Merry Christmas have a wonderful
time with your family Merry Christmas
well Carrie yes Merry Christmas my
friend Merry Christmas
