hello and welcome back to new everyday
I'm Carrie and today on our show we have
a very special guest Rob Webb who
happens to be my dad and he's going to
be talking about the authority of the
Bible
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
well welcome back again we have a
special guest here Rob web my dad thanks
dad come on the show my pleasure how are
you I'm fine good to be here thank you
when I first asked you to come on the
show you suggested the topic of the
authority of the Bible and why did that
come to your mind as something that you
wanted to share with others well it's
been my experience when I've gone to
share the gospel and I speak of of the
Lord and I referenced the Bible it had
its happened where people were
questioning well that's fine for you you
believe in the Bible you have your
source I have my own and so I think we
need to have a way and a reason why
people would trust the authority
description we need to have those
answers now not everyone would have that
question but but when it comes up and I
think in our own hearts we need to
understand who we are and why is the
Bible is our Authority and be able to
give that evidence when we were asked so
I think it's important to validate what
we're saying the Lord has given us
evidence and the lengths that he's gone
to to get his word to us is absolutely
phenomenal and the depth of the troops
there and the evidence and so it's
exciting to to to see what God has done
and the lengths he's gone to and to be
able to share that and give evidence in
support for the gospel and your
reference as the Scriptures as Authority
so yeah so I've had those instances
where where people have rejected what
I've said about the scriptures and about
about the gospel but when I've
referenced authority and given them
evidence why I believe the conversation
has changed so that's why because
suddenly it has a different undertone to
it that there is some weight to what
you're saying and well and I think a lot
of people have it's just hearsay and I
know this for myself before I was a
Christian I I just believe what I'd
heard other people say what the
scriptures that they
or you know this you know they were
written by men and their you know that
they're not you know they just they
can't possibly be the words of God and
and all these things that you just write
them off and and you know nobody can
know no one can know the truth and so I
just regurgitate these things that I had
heard and I never took the time to
investigate and when I came to the Lord
he put upon my heart to study the
scriptures and he's revealed amazing
depths of truth and just a fantastic
evidence now and that scholars for the
last 50 years it just it's there and the
evidence is on our side and I think we
need to know that and I think it's it's
important gods gone to those Lakes to
show us mm-hmm well I remember as a kid
before we came to Christ because you
came to Christ when you were in your 40s
mmhmm yeah so I was in my teens and I
remember even before that your
personality was always you know very
kind of scientific and logical in their
house there's explanations for things we
would have conversations at the dinner
table and I would ask dad you know how's
the toilet work and does how does all
these things happen and why can I why is
that true and dad would always indulge
me and explain things and there was
always a reason actually it was more of
a tactic to avoid going to bed as a kid
but but I I can appreciate that you know
for people who want to have a solid
understanding and what they believe and
make sure it's not riddled with holes
God has provided enough evidence or that
that's me and we can know that the Bible
is true and what we are reading is true
well last week when we had Carmen on the
program she was sharing how with her
mental illness she would have lies in
her head that she knew were not true
about who she was and whether she was
going to heaven or hell and and she
would combat those lies with Scripture
because she knew that it was true and
she started to do a lot of research and
apologetics and gain a greater
understanding about why the Bible why we
can put our trust in the Bible and that
helps solidify in her mind that yes god
loves me that yes he has a plan for my
life he does care for me and i am going
to heaven when I die it's because she
knew that was true she is able to combat
those lives in her mind and to today and
up to today stay strong in that so I
think it's really interesting and
perfect timing that we're talking about
this right after addressing mental
illness and Christianity so yeah yeah
and I mean I think of the Bible Sunday
School songs jesus loves me this I know
for the Bible tells me so well if if
that's it then I want to know that it's
true yes so where do you usually start
dad I know that you have often had these
conversations with young people about
why they can trust the Bible so where do
you even begin well I and I've had these
conversations with people I've met at my
work and been sharing my faith and
normally where I go is just it just
briefly to ask them questions of what do
they know anything about the Bible do
they understand how it has come together
I was compiled that there's an old and a
new testament and when those books were
written the time frames when they're
written so we have an old testament that
all of there's 37 books in the Old
Testament that were 39 books in the Old
Testament they were written hundreds of
years before Jesus I mean the last book
of the Old Testament is 400 years before
the birth of Christ and so all those
books in the Old Testament of a time
period between 1100 1500 years before
Christ to 400 years before Christ so we
had this eleven hundred years of these
books of these 39 books and then we have
the new testament to 27 books which were
written during and and just after the
death of christ and so we have
essentially the Old Testament written
over all these this time span over
almost of years and then the New
Testament written over basically one
lifetime normal so to understand how the
book is compiled and then the only one
that says okay so all these books are in
the Old Testament one of the reference
they look at the book of the book itself
why I why it's an authority we see all
these old these books in the Old
Testament written before Jesus was born
but then we have
one scripture I go to very often and
it's just you remember the one scripture
so you just have to explain when the
books were written the Old Testament is
written hundreds of years before Christ
that's that's basically the what I say
and then I go to one scripture verse to
start it off I said we you know all you
have to do is read john 5 39 where Jesus
says speaking to the Pharisees with the
lawkeepers if his time in Judea he said
he says you search the Scriptures for in
them you think you find eternal life but
these are the scriptures that testify
about me now the thing that you have to
understand is that's recorded what Jesus
said but when he said it the New
Testament wasn't in existence you're
reading it from John chapter 5 verse 39
which was written by the Apostle John
which recorded the life death and
resurrection of Jesus Christ it's one of
the four Gospels the first four books of
the New Testament right but Jesus is
referencing the scriptures and what
scriptures are he referenced is he
referencing well he's not referencing
the New Testament he's referencing the
Old Testament what he's saying the
verses in the Old Testament are actually
about me he is actually saying he's
making an incredible claim and all you
have to do at my challenge to people
when I when I say this to mrs. he's
either correct or he isn't the Old
Testament which was written before he
was born is either about him or it isn't
right and all you have to do is
investigate yourself the onus now is
back on them I've done their
investigation and then I you know you
know you know i'll give them scriptural
references in the old testament but the
entire Old Testament is a progressive
revelation of what of God's plan of
salvation through Jesus Christ and then
that that promise is fulfilled in his
birth and his life and his death in his
resurrection but it's for told thousands
of years before the events and Jesus is
pointing us back there he's making that
claim and all we have to do is challenge
him on that clan is he correct if he's
not right forget the whole thing but if
he is correct what are the implications
the implications are that he's God and
why why is that because you jump to that
I jump to that because how
how can someone have their life for told
before they come into to be to be born
and so he is eternal he is God incarnate
in flesh and that's but we see a
progressive revelation of God and His
plan and it's fulfilled in Christ and
God became flesh God became man and died
for us and that was the plan right
that's in fact that is that is the
entire theme of the Bible in fact and I
talked to people with the theme of the
Bible that they get they look at the new
and the old testament and all these
different books what's the theme there
is a theme of the Bible and in fact the
Scriptures tell us I don't have to
explain it I go right to the scriptures
to let the Bible explain itself and the
theme of the Bible is Jesus Christ for
we looking in second Timothy in the New
Testament chapter 3 verse 15 were Paul
writing to his protege timothy paul is
about to be to be killed he was he was
put to death and he's a it's the last
letter he ever wrote so it carries a lot
of weight he talks about the most
important things and he writes to
Timothy he says he says Timothy you know
you knowing the Holy Scriptures he says
which are able to make you wise unto
salvation in Christ through faith in
Jesus Christ so the Old Testament in the
Bible the scriptures are are the purpose
of the Bible is to make us wise unto
salvation through faith in Jesus Christ
again Paul is not referencing the New
Testament which which gives us the talks
about the fulfillment of those Old
Testament Scriptures he's talking about
the Old Testament he's talking about
those old testament scriptures were
written before Christ was born that make
you wise unto salvation that say Jesus
is coming he's going to be the one that
points to the very reality that that was
fulfilled in Christ and so there's no
scholars that would argue about the
dating of the writing of the Old
Testament books and the end and the
earliest one to the birth of Christ is
some 400 years before his birth so how
did how did they verify that oh there's
no scholar there's no academic scholar
there's nobody that would argue with
that now that's that's a settled factor
the writing of these scriptures is the
dating is
there's no dispute there you can you can
take that and look at that yourself
there's there's no question when these
when they were written now the question
that you have to satisfy is is is Jesus
and is Paul when he writes the second
timid in second Timothy is he correct is
the Bible the Old Testament and the New
Testament is it about Jesus Christ and
the redemption that we have through him
and the reality is it is and it's
fantastic the way of God has revealed
that through progressive revelation over
time and through his word written by
many different people penned by
different people but it is inspired by
him and so by the Holy Spirit and so
it's amazing and that i put the
challenge back in in other people's
hands now the thing you have to remember
is this is not an intellectual exercise
the reality is is that we come to Christ
through the Spirit of God leads us but
the evidence points us in the right
direction right it opens up our minds
you know there's that there's a saying
I've heard before if yeah yeah if the
mind the heart cannot rejoice what the
mind cannot reconcile you know so it
there has to be reason and it has to be
evidence and one of the great scriptures
about that is in Hebrews chapter 11
verse 1 you know the verse mm-hmm it
says what would the faith is it
describes to us what our faith is and
this is where people think our faith is
blind or we follow we follow just a hope
that has no evidence and the interesting
thing is about Scripture it even tells
us what evident what what faith is now
it says in Hebrews 11 1 it says now
faith is the assurance of things hoped
for the evidence of things unseen so
it's telling us that faith is based on
evidence okay and so their needs if God
the evidence has to be there to support
our faith our faith is not blind because
when i think of evidence i think is
something tangible something i can
interact with like if you're doing an
experiment the evidence is there that
you know that your hypothesis is correct
well sure it's saying it's the evidence
of things unseen so easy thing that
there's that
physical evidence of an unseen there's
physical evidence to support the unseen
the hope of our fulfillment in our and
our eternal life in Christ the evidence
that God has given us is there and it so
but the idea that our faith what is your
faith our faith is we have a blind faith
people to say it's just wishful thinking
but it's not in fact all of us live
every day in fact almost every moment in
faith in something if we don't have
faith anything we can't do anything okay
what do you mean well I mean by if if I
was to go up in this room and I wanted
to if I said if I turned that if I get
up and turn that light switch on the
light will come on now I believe that
now if i can say that as much as i want
say i believe it but the reality of my
faith will be expressed and proven when
i actually get up and go in turn the
light on now my faith is justified my
belief is justified and my actions are
justified so the fit my faith is the
investment of myself into that which i
believe which i have good evidence get
out and take the steps towards faith is
an action it is moving in the direction
of what your belief but you have good
reasons to believe in so there's
evidence to support what what you
believe in and your faith is your
movement in that direction okay that
makes sense yeah so so where can you
point us to a scripture in the Old
Testament that that you've often used to
refer people to that show where Christ
is yes i would point people that very
simply so if you think of a conversation
now that you might have with someone
about your faith and very quickly you
can reference explain the the dating of
the old and new Testament that the bible
is divided into sections and the dating
of the books that did all the Old
Testaments written before the birth of
Jesus and then we look at the New
Testament where it's recorded his life
and his death and his resurrection and
he we recorded what he has said and we
see in John chapter 5 verse 39 so that's
the only scriptural reference you have
to remember that's one of them there's
only a few you have to remember to go
through this john 5 39 okay and jesus
makes the claim
and he's talking about the scriptures
that he's talking to the Pharisees that
they searched the scriptures for eternal
life but these are the scriptures that
testify about me and explained that he's
actually referencing the Old Testament
so that's one verse that you'd point
people to that gets us looking at the
Old Testament and so I the question to
them Jesus is making this claim that the
Old Testament written hundreds of years
before his birth is about him right all
they have to do is see if it's true or
not do they do the the investigation
themselves and so where do you recommend
like how do you even start some people i
don't know maybe some of you haven't
even really opened the Bible or maybe
you've done the old okay open it and
read wherever it folds open to so how do
you even get started jen and i have
talked in previous episodes about how we
actually read the Bible every day and
how God speaks to us through that but to
really do an in-depth study and learn
about the authority of the scripture
where should we well let's I think we
should stay focused on this is an
apologetic moment I'm explaining so what
do you mean minute so you're you have an
opportunity now to give evidence for the
authority of the scripture and you're
having a conversation you're sharing
your faith and people are questioning
your faith yeah and the authority of the
Bible which you keep referencing to and
this is a quick way by referencing john
5 39 giving them a quick explanation of
how the Bible is compiled with old and
new Testament and the dating of the
books reference john 5 39 jesus's claim
explained that he's referenced in the
old testament and that posed the
question to them is he correct because
if he's not you can write the whole
thing off but if he is correct then
there's implications and the
implications are that he's God he is who
he says he is and so you put that put
the responsibility to investigate it
back in their lap because if they want
to write it off there you've given them
some evidence you've given you know I'm
not afraid for them to go and look
because I know they're going to find the
truth I'm in fact I want to encourage
them to do so right but I'm putting it
back in them if they want to just you
know criticize without evidence or just
you
be their opinion well that's fine but I
need evidence and if they're evidence if
the evidence that i'm suggesting is
greater and stands up we're putting it
on the table basically say okay well
let's let's just see what the truth is
and and so i would give them that give
them that challenge and then i would ask
them okay if you want to see and there's
a couple of reference that I often give
I give them I tell them that this book
of psalms was written a thousand years
before Jesus by King David most of it
and then I reference Isaiah 53 and so I
just say these two scripts these two so
go to the Psalms Psalm 22 ok and Isaiah
53 okay and so that's it they can do all
that this whole thing in a few moments
10 minutes of looking at the Bible and
now they understand the dating of the
writing and they look at the evidence of
the writing what it's saying and
hopefully they're going to come back and
it has some more question can have
another discussion so what now I've
spoken to people about those verses
before and sometimes got the response
that well you know how do I actually
know that the Book of Isaiah was written
so many years before Christ how do we
know that well that's a simple scholarly
I mean that the writings that in fact
you could guy like me in fact you can
reference the Dead Sea Scrolls okay
because the Dead Sea Scrolls you have
the entire book of Isaiah recorded and
the dating of the Dead Sea Scrolls is is
not in dispute and it's 150 to 200 years
before Christ so there you have it and
it the great things about dead sea
scrolls is that matches the the Book of
Isaiah that we have now the recording
this is that's the great thing nothing's
changed really yes and so and so there
you have it and we have an old copy
that's hundreds of years before Christ
right which matches the copy that you're
reading in your Bible now so therefore
that gives it its is dating authority
okay okay so that that's a quick and
people have heard of the Dead Sea
Scrolls may not know what they are when
you reference them they can quickly
google them and find out yeah what they
are yeah and see that they're the Book
of Isaiah actually they were in the war
on terror museum a couple of years ago
people so but the dating of the old
testament is not in a dispute the books
that are there so it is when i go to
find that you know you know you say
there's no scholar that would dispute
that now but i could just say that but
how do i find out that well again you
can google the days of the Old Testament
quickly I mean any any encyclopedia
about the Old Testament books will give
you the dating of the writing and they
don't have to be Christians collect
repeated it could be you know secular
encyclopedia but the books of the Old
Testament right there's no question
about the dating anymore and one thing I
find interesting about the Old Testament
is that the books often refer to like
the political scenario of the time and
like who was routing in Israel and that
is consistent with historical documents
well and we we're making the claim that
this is the word of God so it only
stands the reason that God got his
history right yeah I would hope so okay
and so we can stand in comfort and again
that's another reason you can then go
into coma see I don't care which way you
come at the Bible whether it's from the
prophetic side from the scientific side
from a historical side from you know it
answers the big questions of life it has
a unity of all of these 66 excusing 66
books in the Bible that are tied
together over although the written over
a period of fifteen hundred years are
tied together there's a unity in these
books and they present a story and a
plan of God that is just incredible it's
breathtaking when you consider all the
time it took and the different people
that penned these books and different
circumstances and yet they're tied
together there's a there's a cohesion
because the author is the Holy Spirit
and so it's just amazing we see the
museum and do you remember like after
you became a Christian where that light
bulb kind of came on where you realized
the Bible was the Word of God yes and
how did that happen it was doing a
similar study like that I'm listening to
there's fantastic scholars that we have
nowadays and who would you recommend
from a apologetic standpoint whether you
want to look at technical things like
dating and stuff like that if you want
to look at those types of things or you
want to look at
making apologetics on a moral basis for
the Bible or is it you know the basis of
the writings and how do they relate to
the reality that we live in they do and
they stand up like nothing else and so
the apologetic approach that you're
taking whatever subject you're looking
at there are some great authors out
there right now Ravi Zacharias from it
from the from the point perspective of
of presenting the scriptures as as the
Word of God from a moralistic and and
and just lining up with the reality that
we live in right I would recommend from
technical standpoint Josh McDowell has a
wonderful book the evidence is its
evidence that's worth knowing that
demand everything to the man's a very
Carmen actually also recommended that
one to me after our discussion last week
so and actually if you want to be able
to get any of those resources you can go
to our website new everyday TV and click
our partners page and you can go to
Amazon through there and get resources
from any of those authors through our
website so Wow dad it's a great start
and I know that we've had so many
discussions about this in the past and
I've always just so appreciated so thank
you so much for coming and I hope that
you will come on again maybe next week
okay thanks so much thanks for tuning in
to new every day dad would you just pray
as we close sure that'd be great
Heavenly Father we give you thanks that
you are mindful of us who are a way that
you are mindful us pilot but you love us
and you pour out your grace upon us
father you've proven yourself you've
shown us and you say in your word father
that i will i will show you who i am and
prove my word by i will show you these
things that they will become true your
word is truth lord and so i'll tell you
things you say you can tell us things
before they happen and they do
father your word lines up and so father
we thank you and that you've taken the
time you've given us the evidence father
you've given us it's reasonable the
evidence that you've given us father
points us to who you are and I pray that
we would follow that evidence if we're
searching that those that are searching
father would find you they would be
pointed in your direction by the
evidence and they've followed where it
leads and by your grace father leads us
to the foot of the cross the salvation
in Jesus Christ we give you thanks Lord
in his precious name amen amen thanks
again and thank you we hope you'll tune
in next week for episode 22 have a great
week
