hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen on
today's show we're in part six Wow
I don't see that coming so stay tuned
[Music]
hi everyone welcome back to new every
day so glad that you've tuned in I say
that every week but really I'm so glad
that you tuned in and Josh I'm so glad
that you've come back thank you so much
thanks for having me you're welcome this
is Josh Holden a friend of ours and
we're just yeah I have you so Josh
joined us last week to tell us a little
bit about his story because we just
walked through chapter 9 of Acts if
you've been tracking with us and
learning more about Saul and his
conversion story and we thought be great
if we could share someone's conversions
rate because you heard ours I was at a
EBS Vacation Bible School at our church
from the lady at the front said hey do
you want to serve Jesus and I put my
hand up and Carrie basically drove past
a church with her mom and her mom was
driving she said hey mom can we go to
church should we go to church and it was
over a process of time that that she
came to know Jesus and we thought it'd
be really cool to hear for you to hear
not from us but somebody who had a
different story
and so we invited Josh to come and share
his story with us and last week we heard
just how he always knew that there was a
god they got sidetracked in high school
and then around the time when he became
I want to say a young adult and started
asking the questions about marriage and
kids and family and what does that look
like and and so those big questions came
up and so we started examining different
faiths and how do they answer the
questions and and so that's kind of
where we left off and maybe you have a
friend who is like asking those big
questions like what is truth and what is
real and how does Jesus stack up against
all these other religions well then this
is the show for your friend so so yeah
so we're just going to jump right back
in and I know I we had to cut the story
off Josh right when you were kind of
getting into how you were examining your
your life like physically with regards
to addiction and relationships but then
you start to examine your life
spiritually so as you were looking
through these different religions take
us to the point where you realize that
Jesus was who he said he was and who he
is in your life now can you take it to
that point yeah um so it was about my
second year in college I by this time I
had already gone through like Hinduism
by Islam and just looking at the
inaccuracies and contradictions
scientifically and historically and as I
was going through which truth claims
they made and what adds up what doesn't
add up
I eventually thought it time to take a
look at the Bible so did you leave that
one till the end yeah and I think it was
purposely done when I was a child
actually it's kind of crazy you know I'd
rather have my mom tell this but like
when she was pregnant with me she had a
dream and she's going to have a baby boy
and that she's in the name of Joshua
Jeremiah my grandmother was she walked
with Christ my parents weren't religious
I didn't grow up in a Christian home but
from a young age we grew up in Toronto
Hector Avenue Christie Place area Hoover
and Christie getting into trouble my
sister arrested for violence you know I
started getting into things that I
shouldn't have been they kind of calmed
down a little bit when we moved to
Innisfil but my mom started to send me
to Sunday school and I found that I have
a spirit of argumentation she just likes
to get the details yes the right details
okay so I'd find myself arguing with my
grade for Sunday school teacher and all
the other kids are sitting there like
well did you talk to your grade four
through nine I'm like all over the place
but I'm like no no what about this and
what about that right no rations I was
in a sermon one time and they were
talking about letting Jesus into my
heart and I remember laying up one night
and thinking to myself like the reality
behind that okay because I understood
the ten commandments I understood like
that's the weirdest thing is like I
always knew hmm you know but I suppress
the truth in unrighteousness so I was
looking for an ideology that agreed with
my justification sure yeah so I started
to examine the Bible historically and
scientifically started watching debates
between Christians and atheists I found
that although clever and crafty with
their wordplay the atheist would always
take a definition of God from a general
perspective basically making a boiling
pot so that they could rely on the
audience's reaction in order to win the
debate no but the Christians will always
calm and collected right and they would
rely on the evidence but they would ask
very important questions that I think
any any real thinker
you can't ignore right okay so second
year of college I stumbled upon a man
named Kent Hovind who I've watched this
guy debate people like Michael Shermer
for instance who was a famous biologist
atheist and he had never lost a debate
and I mean he spends everything just
like atheism Darwinism the existence of
dinosaurs like the age of the earth and
how they tell the age of the ice and the
rings and he brings up the evidence of
the law squadron in world war ii and how
there was about two hundred thousand
years for these isolators right that's
what that's how we would define them by
looking at the layers there's two
hundred thousand years but we know that
this loss squadron went missing in 1945
so there's no way that they were gone
for twenty thousand years so the
mechanisms that the atheist was using to
determine the age of the earth was
inaccurate it fell apart right because
these planes were found interesting so
it was those piece of evidence but that
you really resonated with so it wasn't
only that it was a you know discovery of
like skeletal structures of dinosaurs
with
living tissues still intact these
evidences you can't really ignore so I
started watching and paying close
attention to this Kent Hovind character
and within each debate in his
introduction he had already basically
put all of the arguments of the atheist
to shame it's like I mean I I'll never
forget the debate between him and
Michael Shermer because within his
introduction Michael Shermer comes up
afterwards and he's just like I should
have note had that drink you know I mean
basically another two feet right I have
nothing like yeah so I'm just saying
okay so you're you are building this
intellectual evidence in your mind and
what brought you to that decision then
well that your life is looking different
or how did so still in the second year
call my last year call it to your
program I basically asked could
scientifically from what I've analyzed
in the scriptures to the evidence that
we have there is no contradiction
despite what many people say I prayed my
first prayer and I was like okay you
hadn't prayed before this not know
really really long time okay yeah
interesting I was like if Jesus is the
truth yeah I need evidence that was
satisfying for me in order for me to
walk in this and isn't it interesting
that Alice's prayer he actually asked
God to prove himself to you in a way
that you would get it and so we're going
to go to a commercial break right now
and I want you to be thinking about how
you would pray for someone that you know
needs Jesus and saying okay or Jesus
would you reveal themselves reveal
yourself to them in a way that they need
to know that you're real and we will be
back right after that so stay tuned Jeff
Weston Gela you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
what are you what you're terrible actor
what
that's where acting comes into play I
don't know where are they you're
supposed to act okay fair enough
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the root your own com dice
to put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 TV slash DreamHost don't
forget about papers on it just don't do
it but hey it's a great deal folks best
deal you're going to find five dollars
and change per month put a cap five dot
TV slash DreamHost
hey everyone thanks for staying with us
on new every day
thanks to our partners who make this
show possible go to new every day TV and
check out our partners page and we're
going to jump right back in here Josh
you were looking at this intellectual
evidence and building a case to know
that Jesus was real and you asked God if
Jesus is real is the son of God would
you show me in a way that I need to hear
it because you knew what you needed to
hear to be satisfied that this was the
truth
so what was that so I was always
attracted to history okay and although
I've seen elements of historical
documents which collaborated the
biblical study different books existed
contextual criticism I asked God I need
something that will satisfy me and that
was the case of the resurrection
hmm and you know I think miserable says
it best you know like if you can
dismantle the resurrection and
Christianity has nothing to hide yeah
okay and it was the amount of historical
documentation from the first century
from sources outside of you know
Christianity like the way that the
Romans perceived how Christian were and
how they were persecuting them for
basically coming together and raising
money and selling themselves into
slavery to take care of people you know
the way that they went through torture
and like they just praise God that
entire time and it's like okay then to
look at the Apostles and to see how
Christianity basically sprung out all of
these different parts of the world and
it was all from a man who taught never
to lift a sword mm-hmm to love and pray
for those who persecute you you know and
and it was like that that's just that
historical evidence for the resurrection
from Jewish sources you know the fact
that the Jews they don't even discredit
the fact that Christ did all these
miracles instead they said he learned
the name of the Father but yeah you know
it's we haven't seen that from anybody
else and from the account of the
Apostles they're all saying the same
thing that Jesus is saying in the Bible
so from there I picked up the Bible I
opened up to Matthew chapter 5 that was
the first page okay and the Beatitudes
right yeah yeah and like right there I
was introduced to Jesus himself and who
he was okay he was pulling that up there
John who's pulling that up there so what
about it what about that in particular
resonated with you that this is who
Jesus is and Matthew 5 was the basically
the entire chapter Matthew chapter 5
chapter 6 is that which is the Sermon on
the Mount yeah where Jesus just lays it
on the line starting off with blessed
are the poor in spirit for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven and blessed are those
who mourn for they shall be comforted
and it goes into the salt and light here
at the salt of the earth but if the salt
loses its saltiness then how can it be
made salty again and and murder and
adultery and divorce and oaths like all
those where it's like you have heard it
said but I say yeah and just that God
you know Jesus sermon is just the God's
mercy you know trumping everything but
it was more than that like often you
know you hear truth is stranger than
fiction
a man dies and resurrected the fact that
there is evidence to support that
yeah the boom of Christianity from
non-violence from miracles that were
reported all over the world of this but
then it's the truth challenges you the
truth hurts right and I've never been
challenged before especially when crisis
you talked about you know though you've
heard of said an older - I'll not Kittel
but I say to you that if you are angry
with your brother you know and the verse
about adultery - that if you even look
at a woman with lust it made me see for
the first time the way that God sees us
and how separate we are from that and
how separate I was for not
and then so linked to God lead you to a
point it's like confession at that time
or like what happened after that like
you've got here's who Jesus is here's
who he says we are to be with him here's
the evidence that he's the real deal
I experienced prevenient grace what do
you mean man the Holy Spirit came to me
okay
there's full prisons like like a bright
light and I'm just a speck of dust so
were you like at home were you like huh
but yeah in the car reading here no I
was at home I was open to open the book
ready to get to Matthew I get to that
verse thou shalt not kill and I just
dropped and and he came to me like the
Holy Spirit came to me like externally
it wasn't internal and everything that
was I've ever done things that I
couldn't even remember and like to this
day like it still kills me to think
about it like it was all laid out before
me like this is the mark that you miss
hmm and I rejected that you know I
wasn't ready like that was telling the
truth it was like this is reality yet I
wanted to suppress that because I knew
what come next I didn't want to make
that I was still in my what comes next
like what did you anticipate yes did I
read after this that's funny how you led
me you know every page that I skipped if
you don't hate your brother your sister
your mother your father
yeah even your own life pick up your
cross deny yourself and follow me you
cannot be my disciple now you hear that
and it sounds strong it brought us to
the fact that if you're unwilling to put
God first and you're not worthy of him
that's a challenge hmm but if we run
educated on who God it is you know and
it's like he showed me who he was in the
character of Christ right and then he
showed me what's not
I rejected that okay at some point you
obviously embrace it because here you
are yeah sitting with us on you everyday
so so about five months later after you
know getting a sin out and just going
back and forth I came back and I was
like I can't do this without you
hmm you're the truth the way and the
light so were you trying to like make
amends with people on this good you
thought it was the right not like it
wasn't until January like this happened
in August and I had too much going on
you know what I mean like I was still a
part of the world and I want to make
that I didn't want to leave the world
behind yeah but uh not I came to the
realization that this is what I was made
for this is who I am
this is why I'm able to do the thing
that I do and that's why I haven't been
glorifying myself and anything that I've
done up until now so obviously I'm
misguided and my ability is being
directed in the place where it never
should have been in the first place hmm
so at what point and and we just wanting
to answer this question before we close
off what was it or what day or what was
it that triggered that I'm going to
strangle my life like what was it that
you finally said today's the day or I've
got to do this I heard the gospel and I
understood it and how did you hear that
to a video I don't even like to live
mine I've heard the gospel before yeah
but this time it made sense
and that night I just said you know like
I was in tears like I was just crying I
pray dozen remake me in your image mmm
like it's not about me it's about you
yeah and that is what it that is what
it's about it's like we were dead we
were blind until Christ came and he's
made you a new man mm-hmm
he's forgiving you and like and each
person who has accepted Christ has
experienced that and it looks different
for different people but it's the same
God it's the same love it's the same
kindness that he draws us with and His
mercy and man I'm encouraged by hearing
that story you know because you share
how God actually spoke to you through
the word but the truth claims that
Christ mate can also be substantiated by
reality and history and then without
your own experience and how you can
justify yourself that you're a different
person and I mean we see it and it's
amazing felt yeah man there's so many
more questions I want to ask you but
we're out of time again so Jen will you
just pray for us and about this change
life and then we will we will final
let's pray so Heavenly Father we thank
you so much for this time Josh and Laura
God we thank you that he saw the depth
of his sin and realized he could not get
out of it on his own and he needed you
and so father we thank you for your
pervy me and grace that went before that
softened his heart spoke to a spirit and
Lord
thank you that he has responded to you
and it's oozing every day about this
cross I mean I himself
thank you Lord we lift up our viewer see
that are struggling with the same thing
yes you encouraged instead take that
sexy in your name Amen
-
you
