welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 415 for Tuesday the first
of September 2015 it's so nice to have
you here thanks for being with us my
name is Robbie Ferguson and tonight
Sasha and I are here in the studio and
we are going to have some fun we're
gonna be doing something really neat
we're going to be taking an old laptop
hard drive out of the laptop and turn it
into an external hard drive so that we
can not only obtain the old files from
the old laptop but also use it trade it
in for an external hard drive turn it
into something that will give you some
added space for backups and things like
that over the newsroom Sasha what's
coming up hi Ravi here's what's coming
up in the category 5 TV news room boeing
has successfully shot a drone out of the
sky using a high-powered laser facebook
has announced measures to tackle video
piracy on its website cisco has
announced it has completed the
acquisition of opendns a privately held
company that provides advanced threat
protection and a dark market website
that relies on the tour privacy network
to keep its operators anonymous is
temporarily shutting down amid concerns
attackers are exploiting a newly
reported weakness that can identify
server locations again finally a front
woman has won a disability grant after
telling a court she suffers from an
allergy to electromagnetic radiation
from gadgets stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
christo wells
and kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Ravi Ferguson Sasha terminus
is here too hey hello and i have to say
tuesday September first and from what I
hear it's the birthday of one very
special sparkly balls so high you're
gonna make me laugh every time you see
me but hey happy birthday buddy yeah
it's so super awesome and very
importantly category five dot TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat5 TV / tpn and
the international association of
internet broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib so
there you go very important news how
have you been I've been really really
well you're kind of way over there in
the blue room so yeah let you kind of i
I've been great I've been well today we
started working a little bit more on try
it by and yes tell us a little bit about
that what's what's happening there so
some new can I can I let every can I let
everybody in on the secret oh sure okay
might as well okay so there are these
earbud headphones that are wireless and
they connect to your phone or any sort
of Bluetooth wireless device yeah so I
got to go for a jog with
but yes love them they're super
comfortable I can't hear a thing when
they're in well I think you hear the
music oh yes they're super great I can't
hear a thing I can't hear anybody
talking to me so I love for you great
well we're looking forward to to another
episode of try it by it coming soon
that's pretty exciting you know what's
funny i do this show every single week
and i feel super comfortable as soon as
they in front of the camera for try a
buy it i'm super-nervous oh really
what's the difference honey I don't know
maybe there is there is no like I can't
justify a difference like there is no I
can't explain it it's just different
here I'm comfortable maybe it's no
support from the chat room you know cuz
gr you live at ya the chat room and I
you know connect that might be it that
might be it yeah well this is category 5
technology TV welcome to the show I do
apologize that we we do seem to be
having some feed issues with some of our
live feeds so those of you who are
watching live on roku or try at trying
to I guess so you're probably watching
in the in the in the live view and also
our new Cody plug in our new Plex plug
in these things are all in development
but also there have been some changes on
our servers over the past week and we
are doing our absolute best to stay on
top of the the changes and the number of
distribution platforms that we have to
account for so so I'm making lists if
you have any further trouble please let
me know I do apologize that tonight
unfortunately looks like we are not
going to be available on those platforms
however please let the chatroom know
those of you who are able to see this
right now just to go to live dot cat
five dot TV that's the place to catch us
tonight live and of course on demand you
can catch us at any of those places
because on demand is working just fine
thanks everybody ok so tonight we're
we've got a lot of different stuff to
cover first of all our feature tonight
is we're going to be looking at this
anchor external chassis it's an
enclosure for 2.5 inch hard drives we're
going to look at that how to set that up
so if you've ever wondered about
you know what can I do with my old
laptop it's got some files on it I can't
access it now it seems like an
appropriate feature to have because our
laptop in fact died so the laptop itself
I don't know if I can fire this up and
show you what the symptom is maybe our
upper view will will give you a bit of a
better view than previously the screen
oh yeah and it's going to reflect all
the lights but that's all we get it's
just nothing but lines lines lines lines
and so the screen is is in fact poached
and unfortunately it's it's cheaper to
replace than to fix at this point so
with this laptop of course it's got a
lot of data on it that you know if we're
fortunate because we have backups of
everything and all that but the home
user this might be your main laptop this
may have everything on it all your
personal files and things and you may
have backups they may be a little bit
outdated but there's some hardware in
here that still works and even though
the screen is busted it would be nice to
be able to utilize some of that old
hardware and not actually just ewaste
the whole thing because there's some
good gear in here what's fun about
tonight's features we're going to get to
see the inside of this just a little bit
so that we can see how we can how we can
go about this so if we're ready Sasha we
are right now I ok so let's now I've got
this great top view here thanks to our
supporters on patreon go to
patreon.com/scishow search for category
5 technology TV and you'll be able to
support us that way it's thanks to you
that we're able to do this kind of stuff
so from our new upper cam up here which
I can move around and zoom in and out
and everything let's flip this over and
get a look ok so on the bottom of this
laptop you see a handful of different
areas here first of all there's the
battery release and this is quite
important we want to make sure that we
don't actually have any power going to
our computer at the time that we're
working here internally because we don't
want to be zapping any components or
damaging anything that way so there's a
couple of different things to note
different screws do different things so
you see this one here has a little CD
icon yours may be different but it means
that if I remove that screw it's in fact
going to
ject the cd-rom drive or the unit itself
what I want to do is I want to get into
the hard drive area this particular
laptop doesn't have a specific laptop
area it looks like some computers will
have just a little compartment and
that's the hard drive you want to look
for one that has a little hard drive
icon just like this or in our case we're
just going to start removing the screws
from the bottom here and you'll note
just make note of where the screws are
you can see that you know these ones are
for keyboard and all these are kind of
chassis to remove the motherboard this
is actually a plate and what we want to
do is just remove that plate we don't
need to get into the whole thing so you
can just kind of feel that see where the
next screw is which is right there
wouldn't you know yes Sasha what do you
do when your screwdriver doesn't reach
all the way down in there oh no oh no
many have a phone do you still have that
screwdriver from yes or from last week
when we took what part the raspberry we
started putting together the Raspberry
Pi it was kind of always tiny yeah that
was a yes that was that it was that it's
the depth oh well no way uh-oh step one
folks ensure that your screwdriver is
capable of going into the sabzi here's
what I can come up on oh that's step one
all right oh you have something I might
let's hope Ravi got this whole bad boy
okay geeks always have random
screwdrivers kicking around okay yes
victory I was at the I was at a computer
shop just you know browsing the same one
we did the nerdy video over Canada
Canada computer yeah nice and I saw that
they have like computer tool kits so
maybe that should end up be here yeah
yeah okay well i got my crazy pencil cup
/ and it's got random little tidbits of
little things in there and so we're
doing okay okay so i can feel hear that
that looks like the last screw there we
go okay let's pull that out don't lose
any of those cuz we're gonna have to put
it back together okay let's look at the
internal components here and see what
what have we got this fan looking thing
is fan this is this central processing
unit and math coprocessor cooler so
here's the CPU you've heard the word CPU
central processing unit this is the
Intel or AMD chip the coprocessor over
here graphics it could be the GPU as
well but this copper pipe draws the heat
to the fan and the fan blows the heat
out the side so that it cools these
things while keeping a low profile this
is the memory here so these are the
memory sticks for your computer if you
ever find that your computers running
super slow it could be that you need
more ram that's the memory the temporary
not the storage this is the temporary
ram for your computer and it's just a
little chip that goes in like that and
you can upgrade these just by purchasing
new chips like that so that's one of
those things that you could upgrade
yourself by simply buying the parts make
sure you know which type your computer
is compatible with because it's
different for each laptop there are
specifications but different ones will
have different types of ram and
different interfaces but that is one of
the things that you can upgrade on a
laptop this one I notice that with this
msi laptop kind of cool I can see that
with three screws here and a couple
screws here I could in fact remove the
central processing unit that's fairly
uncommon for a laptop a lot of times and
I apologize for the glare but a lot of
times central processing units are
solder right onto the board this one it
is actually removable
we could with a single screw loosen that
up and remove that and replace it with
something faster that's kind of cool
beyond that here's my wireless adapter
this is what gives me wireless
connectivity here and you'll see that
that goes out to two and 10 I and they
go out to the computer and they usually
go along the side of the monitor so that
you get a better signal various
different components this is a battery
that keeps the memory for your central
your your CMOS so things like the date
those are stored by using this battery
so that even if you don't have power in
the computer your computer doesn't
forget the date so that's another thing
that sometimes your computer will stop
working or the date keeps falling behind
or something like that and you don't
realize it's this little battery that
you can actually quite often pick up at
a dollar store or something like that
it's just a little cr2032 in this case
and that just pops out it's like a coin
and you can replace that very very
easily just by popping it out I don't
know if I want to do that there we go
boom there you go so it's just like that
it's just a coin and you just replace
that like that so if you ever have a
problem with that it's as easy as that
to replace so then moving along to our
main feature tonight we've got a nice
little solid state hard drive here and
this hard drive is what stores all of my
data so this is my files my operating
system the pictures that I've saved to
my computer everything is stored on this
component here now this is a solid state
drive some computers will have a
standard spinning drive whatever it is
it's usually the same form factors 2.5
inches and the key thing that you want
to make note of is what kind of
interface it has if you get on to your
favorite search engine do an image
search and you'll be able to find there
are two main interfaces that you're
going to find there's one called SATA
that's what we're dealing with here
tonight and that is much more
current then say I de so you can do a
search for 2.5 inch ide and 2.5 inch
SATA those are the two interfaces that
you're most likely to encounter and by
comparing images of the interface you'll
know what kind of hard drive you have
essentially okay let's pull mine out so
I've removed two screws and then it's
usually just a little pull to get it off
of the backplane here right there you
don't want to lift up because it's
actually kind of clipped into that
motherboard there so you lift up just a
little bit you can see a little tab here
and pull and we've done that very gently
and haven't caused any damage to the
hard drive so with this I can see that
this is serial ata or SATA as i've
called it so we've got the power is here
and this is the data here and so when we
want to put this in an external chassis
or if we want to move this into another
computer we need to make sure that that
chassis or that computer also has serial
ata as its interface for the internal
component not to be mistaken we're going
to be looking at e-sata which is
external serial ata tonight not to be
mistaken for that because you can have
ESAT a devices which I don't know if you
if they do or not but this is the
internal interface the hard drive itself
that we're looking at right now okay so
this has a little kind of an adapter
which makes this fit into my chassis so
that it doesn't rattle around inside of
my laptop so I'm going to remove that
adapter just with a couple of screws
because the hard drive itself doesn't
actually have this bit
and if you have any questions tonight
sasha is in the chat room their tally
forever is also in the chat room and
they're both here in the studio with me
and would be happy to pass along any
questions or comments that you have so
that just comes off just like that and I
can screw that back into the the chassis
I'm not going to do that right now
because of you know kind of keeping up
with time I i have a question Robbie yes
so if you had a problem you could like
take your laptop apart and just replace
that hard drive say there was a problem
would there be a problem yeah yeah hard
drive is one of the more likely pieces I
guess I should be looking down here um
the the hard drive is one of the more
likely pieces to fail in your computer
because it and I am looking at you by
the way Sasha just down there lets you
move you around I love telestream
Wirecast and all the things that we can
I just can I bring you over here can you
can you bring you over there yeah I'm
gonna you happy this is important to me
okay we're gonna be goofy with the
camera shots we're gonna do it right
okay okay I can look at you I mean I'm
looking ok so the hard drive being one
of the the main components that that is
always being accessed so in a case like
this this is a solid state hard drive
it's probably less likely to fail i
would say then a spinning hard drive ok
and the reason for that even though
these are prone to failure as well
they're flash media however you're
spinning hard drive so think of a record
needle running across it's kind of like
that but it's magnetic so you've got
this device that's always moving and
what do people do with their laptop they
lay on their bed yeah they drop it
sometimes worst case scenario they move
it while it's on and when it's on that
thing is spinning at 5,400 rotations per
minute or as much as 7200 rotations per
minute and there's a little needle or a
head in this case is what it's called
that's moving across that platter and
it's extremely sensitive so if i move my
laptop and it's on and then i set it
down and i'm just ever so slightly rough
with it i'm likely going to cause damage
to the platter of that hard drive so
some hard
have that or in some laptops have also
when you're buying a laptop and it says
SSD there's there's a tough thing is
that is sometimes when you're buying a
laptop you look at it and you say oh
well that one has only a 160 gig hard
drive that one has a one terabyte hard
drive right so you're buying based on
the capacity of the drive not the type
of drive that it is okay SSDs are much
smaller this solid state drive here is
128 gigabytes versus a spinning drive
can be three terabytes easily so it's a
lot smaller capacity wise but I store
all my stuff elsewhere anyways because I
don't want it on the laptop I want it
somewhere safe so that's more rugged so
if I was buying a laptop for somebody
who was active or yeah we're not so
careful with their stuff think teenagers
not that there's anything wrong with
teenagers but I'm thinking about you
parents who have kids going back to
school or possibly starting a college or
university solid state is much more
robust and much more solid solid state
solid sighs much more solid less likely
you can see me flapping this around it's
it's solid state which means there are
no moving parts the pieces inside of
this are chips instead of moving parts
so it is much more much more safe when
it comes to shock and things like that
okay all right so yes back to your
original question that is one of the
most likely components to fail however
it's very easy to replace how but you
have to keep in mind that it's the
operating system so if it fails ullu you
could potentially lose all the files
that you've ever accumulated so that's
why backups are important yes back up
yeah but also you lose the operating
system be it windows 10 be it linux
whatever it is that you're running is on
this media so if you buy a new hard
drive you can't just put it in and
expect that it's going to turn on
because there's nothing on it right now
operating system you can't turn it on so
you remember back when you got your new
laptop and what do we do we put linux on
it yes that was one of the first things
that we did now you're operating with
that and it's that's your operating
system so you do have to keep in mind if
you replace that component
you have to also replace the operating
system okay okay so that's that's that
piece I think that's a fairly good
overview of what we're looking at here
this is the motherboard of your computer
the laptop and generally speaking
laptops are much less upgradable than a
desktop computer because of the
components like look at the the cooling
system I couldn't put a liquid cooling
system in here or anything like that or
upgrade my my graphics card for example
it's just not possible so you are fairly
limited you want to make sure that
you're getting something that meets your
needs right out the gate because you're
going to be stuck with it for as long as
the life of the system okay so we've got
the hard drive out of that system and
sorry Sasha you have a question I have a
question from Dennis Kelly he's okay
whether or not you should be worried
about electrical static when you're
working with your laptop sure you should
whenever you're working with electrical
electrostatically sensitive devices it's
important to to ground yourself I ground
myself here I've got components around
me that when I like it that I'm grounded
and in this case I'm I'm not overly
cautious because I'm not not really
doing a whole lot with this but so if I
was at home doing this how would I know
I was grounded how would you know okay
easy way is to find a computer that has
no paint on the back so it's just
aluminum or whatever you like a metal
steel chassis oh and if as long as it's
plugged into the wall you touch that oh
and it will ground you because it is a
grounded component and the non painted
surface is going to allow any
electrostatic to go out of you that's
how you can do it without having to buy
any special mats like right and then I
just don't move after that like I just
like my touch that I mean you're not
going to build up a huge static charge
unless you know maybe in the middle of
the winter when you're walking across
shag carpet or something that's a little
different but realistically don't like
stick balloons to walls yeah that's not
a good practice hey kids I'm fixing this
computer watch what I can do yeah don't
don't go doing thats how did you shave
my head does that help how I no hair no
does that help with electrostatic
certainly worth a try yes so grounding
yourself will make sure that you're not
zapping the components and that is quite
important components are not as since
sensitive to that these days as they
were say 15-20 years ago def definitely
is true but alright let's take a look so
this is the anchor hard drive enclosure
I'm going to tell you why this was
chosen there's a couple of nice things
about this and you can check it out at
cat five dot TV / external I got it
right cat five dot TV / external this
one is kind of special because it has
USB 3 as well as I mentioned it earlier
e-sata so we're going to look at those
two components why those two things are
important right after the news we're
going to take a quick jaunt over to the
newsroom Sasha and then we're going to
pick it up where we left off we're going
to take that hard drive from our laptop
we're going to turn this into an
external hard drive in just a couple
minutes over to the newsroom Sasha it's
Tuesday September first 2015 and here
are the stories for covering this week
many companies are working to develop
high-powered lasers for military use and
boeing has now succeeded in shooting
down a drone using a portable laser unit
facebook needs to step up their piracy
protection if they intend to take on
video sharing sites like YouTube cisco
has bought out OpenDNS a recent exploit
in tour has resulted in one dark market
website shutting down operations
temporarily and the fight continues to
determine whether electromagnetic
radiation from gadgets is bad for our
health and one woman has won a
disability grant because of her claims
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere you've got mad skills now
hone them learn new skills or improve
your existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and stay
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda I'm
Sasha through madison here the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
boeing has successfully shot a drone out
of the sky using high-powered laser the
device was able to track and damage a
free flying drone during the trial in
california boeing is one of many
companies working to develop
high-powered lasers that can be used in
military or defense scenarios and the
company says its new device is the most
portable yet and can be collapsed into
four parts light enough to carry so
that's pretty interesting I guess we
definitely need defenses against drones
I don't know that we need my ma groans
we don't you well I guess that they've
had drones flying around airports lately
that have been of concern so drone
versus plain bad right so yeah I don't
know I I get a little worried that there
are these high-powered lasers out there
and then maybe boeing has them right now
but who else might end up with them yeah
what a little scary for sure that's kind
of the invisible weapon system right I
know it's that's a tough one I don't
know how I feel but congratulations
Boeing that's quite the feat good for
you okay facebook has announced measures
to tackle video piracy on its website
the company said new video matching
technology would alert selected content
creators if their videos were reposted
to facebook without permission facebook
has been trying to grow its video
business and in july it announced plans
to share advertising revenue with
content creators for the first time but
the company has been criticized by
prominent video creators for failing to
tackle video piracy in june research by
advertising agency Ogilvy found that a
whopping seventy-three percent of the
most popular videos on Facebook had
been ripped from other websites hola
that is a huge that is HUGE announcing
its new approach facebook said our
matching tool will evaluate millions of
video uploads quickly and accurately and
when matches are surface publishers will
be able to report them to us for removal
the new tool will be available to a
small group of partners while the
company improves the technology so if I
steal a kitten video from a website and
then post it on Facebook and then it
gets a lot of views I won't get the
money that's what is happened it's
because now he's doing what YouTube is
doing with the problem is a yeah they're
trying to push revenue to content
creators and providers because I don't
want to post my videos on Facebook
because it costs us money to do that
they're not paying us so they're saying
okay we need to start pulling a you tube
here and in order to attract content we
have to start paying providers so if I
post my cat video which is awesome by
the way you've got to see it and then
you download it and then you posted on
your wall instead of just sharing my
post then who do they know how who to
pay who's the creator of that was it you
who uploaded it or was it me that
uploaded it first there's it's kind of
impossible for them to really know so
content IDs and things will help them to
be able to track down who was the actual
creator of that video mm-hmm Wow I still
I like watching my videos on YouTube
I'll said I YouTube is is king for sure
it's kind of cool okay in business news
cisco has announced it is completed the
protection the acquisition will advance
Cisco's security everywhere approached
by adding broad visibility enforcement
and threat intelligence from the opendns
cloud delivered platform in addition to
the close of the acquisition cisco was
announcing the first technology
integration of cisco amp threat grid
with open dns services opendns employees
join the cisco security business group
the founder and CEO of open da
as becomes vice president kind of cool
under the terms of the agreement Cisco
paid 635 million dollars in cash and
assumed equity awards plus retention
based incentives for opendns so here we
go a dark market website that relies on
the tour privacy network to keep its
operators anonymous is temporarily
shutting down admit concerns attackers
are exploiting a newly reported weakness
that can identify server locations oi
the technique requires the adversary to
control the tour entry point for the
server hosting the hidden service okay
it also requires the attacker to have
previously collected unique network
characteristics that can serve as a
fingerprint for that particular service
still once that bar is met the attack
has an eighty eight percent accuracy
rate hidden services are sites that are
accessible only from within the tour
which conceals IP addresses of servers
and users tor project officials have
downplayed the novelty of the new attack
method and could and the likelihood that
it could be carried out in practice
however considering the suspension will
presumably cost them money while the
site is out of operation it does stands
a reason that the site operators are
convinced that their service is being
actively exploited so this is this is
good though this is La this is a sort of
situation where they know that there is
a breach right so they're shutting down
sure I think it's a bit of a hard kind
of gray area because they're obviously
dealing and illicit material and things
that perhaps are not legal and and you
know so we're not going into too many
details about who they are what they did
but the fact is tor is an open system
developed to provide anonymity privacy
protection from third parties who would
steal your information your private
information and we know that that's a
problem in some areas of the world
and so tour being there as a service to
provide some assurance that you've got
privacy and then finding that okay
there's actually exploits that allow
governments say for example for example
do you get around the fact that you are
using what is supposed to be protecting
you thank you for that awesome
explanation a French woman has won a
disability grant after telling the court
she suffers from an allergy to electric
make electrical Wow I said this properly
earlier suffers from an allergy to
electromagnetic radiation from gadgets
Wow yes marine Richard who is 39 was
told she may claim 800 pounds per month
for three years as a result this is not
claiming her weight claiming this is a
currency folks wowsers yeah she said
that it was a breakthrough for people
affected by electromagnetic
hypersensitivity also known as EHS I
cannot even imagine how horrible this
would be yeah the condition is
recognized by the world health
organization though it says the causes
are unclear while I would think that
would be electrical magnetic haha I'll
tell you what it's probably
electromagnetic radiation that's causing
you to be hyper sensitive to magnetic
radiation miss Richards has resorted to
living in a remote area in the mountains
of Southwest France in a barn that has
no electricity sounds fantastic yeah I
know it is she says she has been
affected by everyday gadgets such as
phones now I wonder if she's affected by
landlines as well as cellphones or
whether or not it's just the things that
caused the radio there is such a small
amount of EMF from a landline phone but
a portable phone with a wireless hand
receiver right that would cause EMF for
sure right well there could be people
who were sensitive and then she could be
the equivalent to anaphylactic with like
peanuts but with radiation right she's
like super super sensitive she's tried
yes you'd have to be to be awarded like
that in the courts for
she should definitely not try those
headphones that I just fell in love with
oh yes right typical symptoms reported
by those who say they suffer from EHS
include headaches fatigue nausea and
palpitations the disability allowance
was granted by a court in two loose
although the ruling did not formally
recognized EHS as an illness meanwhile
in the US the parents of a 12 year old
boy with EHS have decided to file a
lawsuit against his school they say
their son began suffering headaches
nosebleeds and nausea after the face
school installed new Wi-Fi in 2013
however a firm hired to ask assess the
electromagnetic radiation at the school
found that the combined levels of access
point emissions broadcast radio and
television signals and other radio
frequency emissions on campus comply
with the federal and state safety limits
maybe not though if you're
ultra-sensitive in the UK
electromagnetic hypersensitivity is not
a recognized condition that's because
the public health being public health
england says there is no scientific
evidence that electromagnetic field
damaged people's health probably because
there's no real way for them to measure
it because every time they come near a
person with any of their gadgets those
people are sick the who agrees and
believes more research on long-term
health effects needs to be done I you
know I think for most people there isn't
a problem but I mean you hear you hear a
lot of cases say when there's those big
wind turbines causing headaches for
people like their yeah I mean people say
though that if they live on the side of
the street where there's the the wires
overhead that is right like there's a
lot for sure radio towers and things
like that are definitely a concern I'd
be interested to know what your viewers
you know do do any of you have
hypersensitivity in any way to cellular
radiation or being too close to
electronic gadgets
for example it's it's a tough thing I
think from a league ality standpoint and
from a medical standpoint because there
is a lot of there's a lack of true
unbiased research that goes into these
kinds of technologies a lot of it is
funded by the very companies that are
selling you the products so you've got
cellular phone companies doing the
research that says x kinds of radiation
are considered safe or well within the
normal limit limits what our bodies can
withstand but we know that radiation is
such that with prolonged exposure to it
whatever kind of radiation it is it can
cause damage you know what I don't even
know how I would even gauge like cause
and effect for that because I'm so
surrounded all the time right how would
I ever know if I had a headache that it
was caused by a gadget I was holding I
wouldn't yeah I wouldn't right now would
just think oh I suffer from the
occasional headache until you go away
and you come back you know if you're
away for a week on a vacation where
there aren't these things and then you
come back and realize oh my goodness I
was feeling so much better there it's a
very interesting news sir I'm interested
to see how it develops big thanks this
week to Roy w Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us if
you have found a new story that you
would like to send email at the newsroom
at category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis thanks Sasha
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show hey if you've been enjoying
the show please head on over to our
patreon profile go to
patreon.com/scishow on the cool thing is
that you can say give us 25 cents every
time we do the show and and that is a
way that for virtually free you'd be
supporting category 5 TV and all that we
do here so thank you to those who are
supporting us through that
form of course we do also have paypal
and all those other ways that you can
support us and and also make purchases
through our affiliate links our partners
you can find those on our website
category 5 TV click on support us for
more details okay so moving along with
our feature tonight we've got this can I
can I go back in time to the beginning
when you took that coin battery out of
the laptop sideline yes okay let's just
rewind for a second Leland had said that
we might want to mention the bios
password hard reset by shorting or
removing that coin battery so is that a
well when you remove that battery as
Leyland is saying now when I removed
that battery I basically most likely I
mean it depends on how much of a charge
there was in the on the motherboard but
basically you're you're removing power
from the CMOS so it loses all settings
it forgets the time it forgets what hard
drives you have installed it forgets
your password it resets back to factory
defaults basically unless you know some
systems may have a chip that will store
that data indefinitely and with some
yeah there are ways to short and stuff
we're not going to get into that tonight
but interesting point that yeah you by
doing that I if I tried to turn on that
computer even if it worked now it
wouldn't it wouldn't recognize my hard
drive it wouldn't I'd have to go back
into the bios and reconfigure all those
things change my boot order all that
gives your laptop and media and Musa
exactly and it doesn't lose the data it
just makes it so that it's inaccessible
until you reconfigure especially if
you've got a raid where we've got
multiple drives or if it's configured as
a raid and then resetting the bios now
set it to ahci which makes sense to some
of us and maybe not to others and that's
cool but it changes the settings on how
your drive is communicated with so now
it can't read a raid drive because it's
defaulted back to ahci so that's just a
setting in the bios that you would have
to configure thank you thank you okay so
with the anchor external enclosure okay
I mentioned earlier that one of the nice
things about this is it has USB 3.0
which is backward compatible to one and
two as well but it's nice and fast but
it also has
the e-sata so that's basically an
external SATA hard drive port so it's as
fast as your internal sata but its
external so you can take this and that
gives us because it's USB and the SATA
kind of nice because you can plug it
into a computer that only has USB and it
can be any USB but if it has USB 3 it's
going to be nice and fast USB 2 is going
to be kind of slow like 500 almost 500
megabits a second but USB one would be
dreadful slow but at least you can use
it it's going to be accessible then with
ESA ta you get the full three gigabits a
second and super super fast and same
with USB three you're going to get up to
five gigabits a second so that's pretty
awesome so it's it gives us because it's
got both it gives us the best of both
worlds and it gives us a very universal
device so that we can we can use this on
any computer okay and of course it'll
work on Mac Windows Linux etc so as you
can see this is an unboxing as much as
anything else it's never been open so
let's get a look at this oh ho there it
is cat five dot TV / external let's do
what it says here and push and there we
go this is kind of nice it's got a back
a back pay back plane in there well if
you guys oh this is tough you see the
backplane there so the drive is going to
simply insert into this is kind of a
nice way to do it just right in there
and then this closes down locks it into
the backplane there we go so that's
literally with this particular one
that's all there is to it it looks like
it's it's to list completely to list oh
that's all that's in the box which is
good cuz you're also without tools right
I'm yeah I'm sorely lacking tools here
Sasha what have we got in the Box okay
we've got a protective film which is
kind of nice this protective film is for
a hard drive which may have now my SATA
hard drive most likely does not
oh that's beautiful right see see the
bottom of my drive it's plastic so
spinning hard drive I don't think I have
one here to show you unfortunately but
you're spinning hard drive may have some
metal components a circuit board PCB and
this is a protective film that you can
stick on on top of your PCB to protect
it so it doesn't get shorted out in the
middle case okay a little bit of
information there and you'll notice that
it comes with an e SATA cable that's
brilliant these can actually first
shielded cable can be quite expensive
this is just a standard kind of short
cable but it's going to do the job
anyways nice to have in your kit ESAT a
three gigabits a second and then here
we've got the USB 3 and you'll notice
something interesting about this cable
okay so it's got the USB 3 on this end
and then it's got two USB plugs on this
end well why is that I'm only plugging
in one hard drive any guesses Sasha ah
no no but no guess it all you want to
know I do want to know all right do you
want to know all right I'm pretty sure
that's the Sun like what now well one of
the thing what do you notice okay a hard
drive is 5 volts power right requires
five volts in order to operate fact
where's the power cable for this that
you'll notice there's no separate
external power cable that I have to plug
in and it doesn't have a big transformer
or anything so this cable here is a nice
special cable which is backward
compatible because of the second plug
here so this plugs into the hard drive
chassis this one with the blue that
provides the data and then this one with
the white provides the power so what you
want to do is when you plug this in you
want to plug these two into the computer
first so that you've got data and power
ready to go and then plug this end into
the hard drive so let's let's actually
set this up session this is kind of nice
i'm going to show you this again so i'm
going to plug my hard drive in here that
kind of makes it more like a docking bay
solution as well it's not just an
external chassis because i can i can
easily swap drives in and out so this
drive is now ready to go so if I want to
use USB I'm going to plug these two into
my computer first then now if I've got a
spinning hard drive I've got an SI t an
SSD hard drive here so it doesn't matter
if I move it around while it's on it's
okay so i can just in my hand i can plug
this in and it's going to simply power
up it's going to detect as an as a new
external hard drive and i'm going to go
if you have a spinning hard drive what
was it i mentioned you don't want to
jostle it while it's powered on because
it's spinning right so you'd want to set
it down on a nice firm surface then plug
in the cable make sure that it's not
moving and then let it work yeah and
don't bump it while it's running because
it's very susceptible to movement and
then when you're done you would dismount
the drive as normal on your machine so
that would be right clicking on it
usually an eject or something like that
and Windows 10 you click on the icon
down on the bottom right and then you
choose the device to eject and on Linux
that's very similar as well so that's
all there is to it now with ESA ta
you'll notice okay we've got the e SATA
cable but II SATA does not carry power
so what do we do in a case like that
we've got our three gigabit sa SATA
cable which can go into the back of a
compatible computer but then there's no
power so it's not actually going to spin
up so what we actually do is we plug in
that USB cable as well and we plug in
the white cable to the computer's USB
and that's going to now give the drive
power but again we've been able to do
that without needing a separate power
unit so that's pretty that's pretty
smart regardless I mean you could even
plug in both of these and and that's
fine if you've got ESAT a plugged in
it's going to default to e-sata and the
USB will simply be power then going back
to this chassis here I want to show you
the ejection mechanism so I'm going to
push in slide over and watch this drive
as I open it up pops right out just like
butta it's like a toaster I think that's
their their inspiration so there you
have it cap five dot TV / external
you'll be able to take that old hard
drive
I can copy my files off of it I'll see
the whole file system when i plug it
into my computer I could actually boot
from this and use it as a second
operating system that i can boot from
play games say i put windows on it and
put all my games on here for example
that is so cool and then you can boot it
up and use that and it's volatile so you
can save to it it's a hard drive it's
not like a drive where you can't save
what you're doing like a CD or something
like that right it's all there is to it
they're not expensive head on over to
cap five dot TV / external and check it
out this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson I I can bring
it sash of your ears and I've been oh
now did you did you drag me over to the
extra chair I didn't should I can you
did we have time for that that's
hilarious it's kind of neat
unfortunately because we're zoomed in on
me it's not gonna work that camera
operator tonight I can't I can't really
do that okay well we'll have to show
everybody at some point that would be
pretty neat we'll do a demonstration may
be on the show show which incidentally
is starting this weekend this week this
weekend is the is the show show so very
very excited about that and everyone
who's been looking forward to being a
part of the show show that's gonna be
starting this weekend so very keen to
release that for you so the show show
try it by it yeah every day every day is
every single week strange for the name I
know new every day every day every week
in category five technology TV of course
every every week I was speaking with
with military Bruce from military Bruce
calm and we are working on bringing
Canadian military base history to
category 5 TV as well that's something
that is in the works it's probably going
to be first quarter 2016 maybe second
quarter but if you're interested in
military base history that's something
that we're going to be bringing you as
well and I hoped maybe in military base
yes yeah primarily I mean we'll travel
around as well but Bruce's expertise is
here in Canada great that will be great
I'll watch that first okay that'll be
fun okay do we have time for some
questions here Sasha can I bring up a
couple of questions yeah please do and
the
you you've got to chat room on your
phone I've got chat room here that's
cool okay I've got a question here from
Dave d and Dave thank you for taking the
time to write us dave says I saw episode
3 37 that's move your linux home folder
to another drive and why you'd want to
you remember when we did that Sasha
first off wants to say thank you for
posting this without a doubt it was the
easiest and most thorough explanation I
have found yes we were specifically
going for easy and most thorough that's
why I was on there i was like explain it
to me like I'm great they know our
formula NASA when it's about a beginner
you no explanation okay I should show ya
here I'm gonna I'm gonna see what I can
do here too i know i can't i can't
really like playing you on to my set but
let's see if we can do a little
something something why don't we just
bring you onto my set in those I don't
have a green screen behind me my friend
I know okay that would be I can move
myself around know so that i can do
stuff like gotcha can I do well could I
do that I'm there when you're doing that
I have a question from good guy 98
because the old CMOS save restore
program still work properly what is that
a four-story little seems CMOS CMOS yeah
but my savings your programs still work
properly restore programs and the CMOS
I'm not familiar with that setting in a
CMOS sorry you'll have to continue with
your question yeah yeah sorry buddy I'm
not sure and I don't want to get
sidetracked from Dave's question here
either so oh oopsie sorry oh yeah I know
why I already and you're here with me
now so you don't have a desk in front of
you though I need to fix that okay this
is from dave dee who say having watched
this as like you i held my breath during
the final reboot and hoped everything
would work out well and then I didn't
screw up my computer thankfully
everything worked that is awesome well
done okay Dave's question is while I can
see the home folder on Nemo running
meant it's listed as 451 gigabytes
movies as I moved a to a 500 gigabyte
external hard drive okay fair enough if
I go into my file system and I open the
home folder I can still see my user
folder and all of the user files on
there why is that after editing etc etc'
/ FS tab I would think in the terminal I
use make dirt to create the home
directory in my internal hard drive as
in the video this is referring to
episode number 337 I did an LS command
showed that there was nothing in that
directory anything new that I say does
does get saved to a new location but
seeing my user files in the home folder
under file system threw me off I thought
the home folder in my internal hard
drive would be empty and just used to
mount the external hard drive what gives
says forgive my ignorance I'm a linux
noob thanks again from Dave be Dave this
is what's so cool about the whole
process mount points in Linux you won't
know the diff all right so if I now
mount that 500 gig hard drive to my home
folder then i can now CD into that home
folder / home and do LS and i will
actually now be looking at the content
of the 500 gig hard drive even though it
looks like i'm looking at that wonder if
there's an easy way for me to to
demonstrate that for you i'm not sure if
i can no i don't if i can just explain
that okay so easiest thing to do is type
mount type sudo mount and hit enter and
that's going to show you all your mount
points and you're going to see that
slash home is in fact a different hard
drive than /
and therefore you can deduce that you're
actually looking at that other hard
drive when you're browsing your file
system so to you the structure looks the
same and what's brilliant about it is
it's the same it looks the same for
everyone for all of the for the all the
software on your computer so now if i
install something and it saves files
into slash home slash robbie or slash
home slash dave d it's going to be on
the 500 gig hard drive not on my actual
internal hard drive so to speak so hope
that shed some light on it and
appreciate the question very much Dave
can I can I do another one yeah you can
do another one thanks I'm not I'm not
used to having you way over there and
nobody right actually next to me I can
be like you actually is is that my face
over there that you're punching no no no
you wouldn't no never she's about 15
feet away from me folks alright uh
Jonathan Chevalier Jonathan thanks for
the email l says how are you I would say
I'm doing pretty good thanks Sasha
Jonathan wants to know how you doing I'm
doing great thank you Jonathan Chevalier
I like your name Jerry Jonathan says I
send you this email because I've got an
issue to post my I've actually got a
problem posting my honor questioned to
your website the page is returning an
error when i try with even two email
addresses that's unfortunate cat5 TV /
ask should be working just fine I do
receive a fair number of and I see a lot
of questions coming in through that form
so I wonder if maybe just something
didn't get quite filled in correctly and
so it thought maybe you were a bot or
something I apologize for that but it
seems that you were able to work around
that if if in doubt at present you can
email live at category five dot TV as a
fail-safe we always prefer that you use
the web format cat five dot TV / ask and
that's because it actually directs you
to the right email address here and make
sure that your your question gets the
priority sequence that it should get if
you email live you're in among thousands
of emails and spam emails and
that kind of stuff so sometimes it can
fall through the cracks that way so use
the form if you can but if in doubt you
did it right okay so moving on to your
question here Jonathan rabia liked it to
ask you how do you back up an entire
Linux system when it's online maybe a
hot backup solutions you have buys at
our backup or something else anyways I
really appreciate your show I've learned
many things on Linux hardware etc all
the team is cool and penny R I'm looking
forward to your answer for many thanks
from Jonathan dolls France so thank you
Jonathan for taking the time to write us
okay you mentioned a hot backup of
course that's a great way to do it there
was a program called hot coffee and you
know that we did a feature a while back
the ultimate backup solution for linux
and it was fantastic but it kind of died
off when some of the Colonel's improved
and then they didn't they no longer
support the the modern colonel so hot
coffee unfortunately kind of looking
like a dead project it's it's a real
shame I wonder though if part of the
reason that they have kind of died off
is the fact that we've got lvm snapshots
now so with lvm if you when you're
installing your operating system in the
first place if you set it up with a vm
then you can do snapshots and we don't
have time to go through how to do that
tonight but what it is what you're
looking for I think so a quick search on
the web or send you know do that and
then say yeah this looks great can you
do a demo pop me another email and we'll
do it lvm snapshots are like a hot
coffee snapshot they're like a volume
Shadow Copy if you will what it does is
it takes a snapshot of your entire file
system or file systems and by doing so
and it's not a copy okay don't don't
maybe it's still good for you to watch
the episode about haunt copy so you
learn the mechanisms it doesn't make a
copy of your file system what it does is
it freezes it and it says okay now what
I'm going to do is if you change any
files those are the only things that are
going to be written to the hard drive so
if it takes a snapshot it basically
freezes my hard drive in such a way that
now if I create
new file called hello txt it will now be
taking up a little bit more space
because hello txt has been saved but
let's say I edit / ET c / FS tab ok so
my file system table neat thing is it
will now save the changes to my actual
live hard drive but my snapshot will
still be snapshot of the original before
I made the change so it's almost it's
like it's frozen in time but I can
continue using my system why I do I care
well if you're running a server
environment you've got a MySQL database
up and running you've got constant
connections people coming back and forth
to your server you don't want to shut it
off turn off my SQL so that you can shut
down the server and then do a backup and
then boot it back up again it just
doesn't work so an lvm snapshot will
freeze that hard drive let you back it
all up through your normal mechanisms
you don't necessarily have to back up
the operating system back up your dpkg
table and all of the installed
applications a list of that so that you
can easily then reinstall the same
packages on a new fresh install back up
your / home folder but back up your / ET
c and anywhere else that's important to
you / user / share for example find out
where the files reside that are critical
to you and back those up from your
snapshot back up your mysql folders that
contain the data data files with the
database and you can do that on the fly
with the snapshot so I hope that points
you in the right direction please let me
know how that how that goes and I think
Sasha that that's that time that we have
to recover most of what we wanted to
cover tonight I think we did okay yeah
technology has been a little bit fraught
with peril over the past you know a
couple of weeks and we're working
through and I appreciate your patience
and understanding as we figure all that
kind of stuff out we've got a really
cool setup here and we're so pleased to
be here in studio D mu love having you
a part of our community I think it's
pretty awesome what were able to do with
the space that we have yeah sometimes we
have little glitches here there but
there are some dude please have we've
got stuff like like this Sasha der mein
us on the set but not actually here I
brought her in we can do all kinds of
stuff like and then all of a sudden you
know there you go I don't know where i
am now you're in face i'm in space face
yeah i can give that to you is you've
got the the green behind you and I guess
do we show what let me know where I am
can I show what it actually looks like
yeah absolutely I think that's all ya
okay I'm allowed to do that okay just as
we end the show because people in the
chairs this house is actually like so
I'm just setting up your shot there we
go okay she is Sasha dormidos over in
the newsroom and Robbie I'm Robbie
Ferguson it's been so nice to have you
here sorry I waved that sash was hogging
the screen real estate thing it's been
so nice having you here this week I look
forward to seeing you next week next
week sash we've got a really cool
feature we're going to be carrying on
with our feature about raspberry pi
setting up a music server I'm not
looking for
that's a great week everybody see you
next Tuesday we hope you enjoyed the
show category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven p.m. eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
