[Music]
well hello everyone welcome to new
everyday I'm Lawrence Cruz and I'm Jeff
Weston and we have an amazing show for
you today it's one of the best ever you
know why because this guy right here is
sharing a fantastic story of God's
redeeming Grace this is you every day
with Jeff Weston L'Anse Creuse
we are back again with another hopefully
fantastic show I don't never week span I
think there's dated yeah well that's
what your mother says hey friends what
we're gonna do is we're gonna pick up
from last week's episode when we were
talking about the body yeah
that was a good subject to talk about
it really wasn't and we only planned for
it to be one episode but just kind of
the way it unfolded like there was so
much me too it's like I don't think I
can eat all this in one sitting
yeah and I know and I love Jeff just
listening to you your heart is full and
it's awesome friends we have we do have
lot we just love talking about Christ we
like talking about his church we like
talking about the things of God so
there's no lack of things to talk about
in our world and we're so we're so
thankful we are the body and that's what
the the message is last week that's the
message this week it's it's founded
primarily upon first Corinthians chapter
12 you could begin at verse number 12
and read to the end of the chapter and
learn so much about it and we had said
something I but I think it was me that
mentioned well and then you agreed is
that there was a time in my life where I
said I siloed myself where I get that
you know I'm just thinking about the
farm and you know that silo in the farm
field that's housing grain or whatever
it is they want to put in there and I
was actually on an airplane enroute to
Victoria British Columbia and one of my
colleagues he and I were talking his
name is Rob sharp I think you know who
is yeah and we were talking he was
reading a book and the book was talking
about the danger of someone removing
himself or herself from the body and the
phrase that the author used was siloing
yourself I thought oh and just as he was
talking
interesting that you never knew about
that conversation and here we are
talking about right this topic that's so
alive in your heart Jeff but that's
where I got that idea of siloing myself
and it doesn't make sense right really
really good for me
it sure does and so we want to say like
don't silo yourself what I mean don't
isolate yourself and I had done that and
found that I was in a desert wasteland
mm-hmm when I did it yep and last week
Jeff you mentioned that you you have a
story along those lines yeah I see not a
lot of stories on this show yeah I like
your stories well I don't keep coming
let's say I don't know what you're gonna
do this week but I can't wait to hear
all about it sometime in the future make
sure a great story yeah you're right we
do I mean my wife and I there was a
point in our walk where we had we'd
walked away from the church and just the
impact that that had on so many elements
of our life okay so you walked away from
the church none of you personally I
think I know the answer as well to this
question but church was a part of your
life yeah grew up in the church like
from like cradle sort of thing or was it
young the church that I grew up in my
grandparents actually helped found oh
that's right yeah I knew that so my
grandparents helped start the church and
you know they've you know they would got
older and have since passed away my
parents continued in the church and so
you know I was born and raised in that
church you know and so you know the time
that I you know my wife and I in left
that church was I think I was 25 okay so
like I'd been in the church for 25 years
that's a broader century Jim yeah yeah
and I mean one building but seeing all
these people growing up and so I mean
for thinking of last week with that
element of the family yeah you know and
we're part of the body of Christ I mean
you see how it impacts as people come
and go and the changes it causes and all
that kind of stuff but yeah yeah the
family is definitely a dynamic reality
it's not static
no it definitely not I mean all of us
we're all growing we're all changing and
sometimes we're getting better sometimes
maybe we hit a speed bump and it's not
so good so your wife now was Church part
of her childhood growing up yeah so she
grew up
oddly enough for her the church that her
grandparents helped started so you know
though yourself some founding nature
there which is kind of neat a different
denomination and so you know when we
came when we got married and came
together there was definitely some
challenges between the differences in
what those denominations were built on
both solid denominations but you know it
creates for some well why that right
what we do at all baptism and did you do
infant baptism and what does that mean
right so there was a lot of those
challenges in fertilizer but you know it
worked out but it it you know presented
some challenges in our relationship in
what is it that we actually believe what
is biblical and what is you know
religious now Jeff I'm hearing it like
see I know you guys today yeah so okay
that was a challenge and I'm just
relating to what you're saying cuz I too
am married for those of you who are
married you probably went through
similar things whether it was about your
church denomination your religiously
we're all bringing in different
worldviews and it's like two storm
clouds that are gonna be there or
whatever yeah right yeah okay and yet at
this point in the game do you think you
can already just look back at the
situation and say that it made you
stronger 100% without it yeah yeah
interesting so diversity is okay oh it's
I would HIGHLY encourage it and yet at
the time maybe there's times where we
think it isn't well you know I still I
loved it I mean I I am um I'm the kind
of person I love to educate myself I
love to push myself and go okay I think
this way but why do I think that way and
is there another way of thinking and you
know why does two plus two have to equal
four yeah I admire you you know and so
you know to be married to my wife and
have these you know sometimes opposing
views yeah in some time
very similar views but slightly
different perspective on it and you know
I feel made me a better person and not
even just from a spiritual standpoint
but you know a general life standpoint I
mean she had a whole different I mean
she grew up on a farm in a rural
atmosphere I grew up in the city and so
you know like you know you gotta kind of
how that whole Green Acres feel and you
know the two of those meshing it's like
well you know what do you do with that
and I love it I mean to this day I mean
we've been married now over 13 years and
it's I wouldn't change a thing
I really wouldn't despite everything
we've gone through I wouldn't change a
thing no of course not and I think it's
great I'm sure many of you would say the
same thing I remember as a younger man
hearing married couples say oh you know
we love each other now more than we did
when we first got married 100% you know
and boy how easy it is having been on
that journey ourselves to you know to
say yep that's exactly the case but
that's because of some of the tough
roads that we experienced but that we
did it together that's right and made
the decision I'm speaking of my wife and
I and obviously you and your wife that
you know pardon me the phrase has come
hell or high water we're not givin up on
each other yeah and boy am I ever glad
we just made that decision you know it's
and and and how much the richer we are
today because of it well so I say you
have a church background but there was a
time Jeff when I wrote the phrase when
maybe he just didn't fancy the church
quite like you used to that's correct
and so like like hey tell us tell us a
bit about like what happened man yeah so
I mean there's there's like a thousand
elements to it but to boil it down you
know to the basic raw bones is that we
were struggling with the difference
between a relational church atmosphere
and a religious church atmosphere and
the difference of what it meant in your
Christian walk and and so we kind of hit
this point where despite spending time
in the Bible despite spending time in
prayer
even chatting with you know some
seasoned veterans so to speak within the
church we just couldn't get past you
know what was religion there's is what
was a real you know faith-based
relationship and we found that the
religion was clouding out through the
realness of a relationship with God and
I guess the best way to describe it is
we consciously chose to flip the power
switch we we didn't know how to separate
you know you know like a quarter of a
century worth of years of rules and you
don't and you know you can't and you do
this because I mean I even remember as a
youth going to my youth pastor and I
remember sitting down for coffee I'm
like I have these questions you know how
I find these answers and one of his
answers was well it's just the way we've
always done it
and it's like but that's you know and so
we said we have to hit the reset button
we have to walk away from this and
figure out what our relationship with
God is and that's not a decision to make
lightly but it's one we made yeah and it
also happened to be coinciding at a time
in over life where things weren't the
greatest I had a job that was a
wonderful job but a very dark atmosphere
very heavy spiritual impression within
the workplace a lot of broken marriages
a lot of negativity substance abuse all
the kind of stuff and that weighs on you
and that impacts you so you in my
hearing you say that even your external
circumstances or like just the reality
of your life as it was unfolding and in
particular relative your job the the
darkness of that situation was actually
clouding your own lives even your
marriage or is that what do you mean
yeah absolutely yeah and you know and
because of work I became angry okay and
you know so that kind of plays into it
but then when you're wrestling through
figuring out a new marriage and
what do we believe yeah and you're
challenged with well everybody works
says this is ok show me in the Bible
where it says you can't and you start
having those conversations and Matt with
well that's just what we always do
yeah you kind of go so what is it to be
a Christian it's gotta be more yeah and
so yes that's not float in my boat right
now so we walked up to the news panel of
the house and went mmm you know and let
the dinosaurs out of the cage Wow and it
didn't go so well I'd say you got to
come back now for the Jurassic time
period just gonna tell us just what kind
of dinosaurs were let up oh this is
great
listen this is great we're gonna be back
with more of Jeff's story and the Word
of God we're so glad you're with us
we'll see you back in a bit stick around
for more from new every day for a
limited time get your hands on limited
edition shirts from the category 5 TV
network these high quality shirts are
manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5
TV slash shirts to support us and get
your official Network shirt today cat5
dot TV slash shirts hi everyone we're
back
we just telling you I was just getting
ready to run fast because I was feared
being chased by a big t-rex raptor or
something like that yeah we are very
close to Toronto you know so it could
happen the Toronto Raptors yes thank you
friends I'm here all week try the veal
that's right that's called the dad joke
I hear about it all the time and I'm
sorry I just apologized now all right I
never apologize for that they're classic
so Jeff talk to us man okay you had us
Oh sand like oh you went up and you to
the panel and we end with your left hand
I notice you just turned off the power
yeah what did you mean by that what were
you doing at that point we said enough a
church we we needed to figure out what
it meant to have a relationship with God
in a way that we didn't feel influenced
by the religion of the church oh just a
minute here so somehow and all of this
cloudiness going on in your life right
you talked about like external
circumstances darkness of the job other
things you're working through the
adjustment of the marriage the church
wasn't cutting it for you no and
actually one you know when we were at
kind of our lowest point I remember
sitting down with our pastor and
explaining where we were at and the
response was very non-committal and and
it was at that moment that we said okay
if we can't get an answer from the
pastor why are we here yeah and you know
and so you know we left and we found out
years after the fact that it even went
so far as there was others who wanted to
reach out and they were told no
give them space leave them on their own
oh and you know and so you know I look
back at that stuff and I go it hurts to
hear that but at the same time it was
100% God ordained because we we needed
that time and that's not saying that it
was a great decision and I mean when we
made the decision I remember my wife
saying she was she was praying about it
and God said you have that choice you
can make the choice to stay or go if you
choose to go there will be implications
it's not going to be easy but I'm not
going to leave you alone that's what God
was saying to your wife at the time when
you guys were flipping the switch off
yeah was she in favor Jeff if you know
that's which we both were yeah yeah
we've I guess yeah it sounds almost like
maybe you were numb or just overwhelmed
or didn't know what to do I think
overwhelmed and just beyond the point of
being able to process it you know we
just you know it's kind of like that
moment where you just go I need a break
I mean you leave the room you go sit and
just just kind of clear your head what's
going and that's that's what we did and
it was it wasn't a lengthy period of
time but I would say that it was a solid
year where we just didn't engage the
church and even though we still were
attending and we checked out we there
was no relationship there was no
commitment to anything you know we just
we weren't there it was nothing more
than a shell and a Pew okay wow that I'm
hearing that what would you say were you
disappointed with something do you think
maybe not I mean at the time I didn't
know what I was okay but you know
looking back on it yeah there there was
a lot of hurt there was a lot of
disappointment there was a lot of
resentment there was a lot of confusion
and some of it was you know with family
was
why wouldn't family guide me through
this they've been in the church forever
don't they see what we're going through
mmm but I look back on it and I go no
you know what we didn't really talk we
didn't let people into that inner room
it was all surface stuff and we tried to
you know show that we've got it all
figured out we're Joe Christian we've
been around for 25 years we've got the
answers and then when we started asking
you know I don't think people took it
seriously that we were actually hurting
and crying out for help
mm-hmm and and you know a very short you
know explanation it led us to a point
where I was looking to leave my wife
you know I there been conversations you
know jokingly with a lawyer like hey
what would it cost me if and he's like
that's cheaper to kill her because you
know wow that's how much it's gonna cost
you in divorce and it was like oh okay
well that options out the window so you
know I can't do that but you know that
was a thought process I was going
through and you know I was looking to
move us across the country just to get a
fresh start to run away from everything
we were struggling with and and after
about that year you know we hopped in
the car and we're driving to the church
again just going through the motions of
Oh we'll show up in the church because
you don't want to be those people that
aren't in church and I'm not looking at
my wife and I go I can't do this I can't
do this anymore I can't be fake I kid
like we're either in or were out I don't
want to just show up for the sake of
showing up so we said okay fine we're
not going back to that church where are
we gonna go and we came through the
doors of our current church and for a
three-week period you know to make a
very you know animated it was like God
took us into you know a UFC ring and
beat the snot out of us for five rounds
you know for the three weeks he would
just you know you walk in and the sermon
nails yeah exactly where you're at and
then you leave and I remember us driving
away the first Sunday we're going wow
that
was really like hitting the mark of
where we're at we should come back next
week you know so we came back then
actually get it was round do okay it was
like you're getting a good whooping yeah
exactly yeah and and then that third
week I had to work but my wife decided
I'm gonna go myself to make sure that
it's not just us trying to hear
something I want to know is this
something different and yeah I mean why
that's an interesting perspective to
yeah yeah because she needed to know on
her own without me there is this right
or is this just us feeding off each
other yeah and that third week like I
remember to this day she talks about
she's like I had to tell God to stop
give me a moment to breathe because I
can't handle the onslaught and it wasn't
like God going but it was okay
you're ready now you're ready for what
it means to have relationship with me
I'm you're ready to come back to the
body to be a part of the body in the
rule that I've made for you and now here
we are nine years later and we've never
been better we've never been stronger my
wife is very gifted in you know prophecy
she's got prophetic words and giftings
and here and our family's never been
stronger and I look at what our kids are
going through and they are exceeding in
life because we have set apart what was
religious to have a relationship with
God to take part in the body in the way
we were meant to be and it's you know I
I don't like to use the word perfect but
it's perfect I wouldn't change a thing
Jeff thank you so much for sharing this
a my hair did you would it be right to
say like I'm asking did was God maybe
dismantling some things in you is that
maybe maybe that was necessary like I
don't think of this this song a picture
an old pastor mind singing refiners fire
right break me mold me right I think
it's making me feel me yeah like
when we were going through this
reevaluating moment that song was
regularly running through my head I'm
going okay this is our breaking moment
like this is this is where God's going
okay I've got a different purpose for
your cup you know here let's remake you
and I got something better for you and
that's exactly what it was yeah it was
God's hand was in every aspect though we
chose to make the decision to walk away
God was there
and we look at it now we go he never
left us he was always guiding us he was
always he was kind of like that you know
on the football field that that
defenseman who was going stay away from
my runner and he was protecting us from
where Satan really wanted to make sure
we never came back to the church and I
look back and I see it now it's God was
everywhere but nothing will take us out
of the palm of his hand Amen yeah like
I'm hearing that I thought about that
verse earlier like like earlier as you
were chatting friends our time is up and
Jeff I want to say thank you I'm loving
listening to that current that like that
river of life the Bible talks about in
John chapter 7 that's welling up from
within you and we give God praise for
his faithfulness and never letting us go
and at the same time not imposing his
will on us he waited for you to submit
and you could have walked away and you
did for a bit and said no I I don't want
to leave God and maybe there's a place
for me and by His grace he used and dare
I say it another part of the body mm-hmm
to reach out to you because you even
said in hindsight you know what that
Pastor said maybe it was all
orchestrated of the Lord so God was
using that part of the body brought you
to another part you know we could reach
and say no it's all of us working
together but when we submit with the
heart this is God I'm ready to reach out
to you and receive what you've got for
me and I'm willing also to give of that
which I am so that I can make somebody
else's life better like as humble as it
is Lord Here I am
it's amazing what
will do hey in US and through us to the
glory of his name Jeff thank you so much
for sharing your story god bless you
each one you belong here where is that
right in the middle of the will of God
as part of his body god bless each and
every one of you catch a new episode of
new every day every Friday morning at
new every day TV
we're also on roku buco d-plex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
