ol√° hey guys thanks for joining us on
hangouts tonight hey Rowley we aren't
really cool you didn't notice that wow
I'm amazed that you didn't I don't know
if I can if I can hear them or not can
as somebody got a mic that you can say
something I probably can't hear you yeah
I can say something you probably don't
hear me no oh well I can yell out go
like this right now
Arthur okay can you hear me I'm still
working out how to get the Hangouts
working but we don't hear you guys
through the show but oh and I think that
might be it that's what it is
one sec there we go I can hear you now
yeah whoa
oh yes even Twitter to your potato guy
oh thanks you know the potato head I
think it was I couldn't resist
Twitty - cheers guys it's kind of weird
being able to see someone else's
roommate and what they're up to
away from down here I didn't quite get
on that early but I uh yeah I got a
little bit after that and it's
interesting seeing you rehearse for some
of the show beforehand it's kind of good
yeah
Kristen was early tight plates I'm okay
with Star Wars I dunno anti start why
would you be like that drink my beer I
am copying the stuff over not moving I
did get them but it worried me in that
oh yeah I got some I know
so Krista can hear me so oh you can hear
me - okay
it's probably pretty much making you go
on Twitter well there's only one guy
that ends a million dollars on butter
all the rest of the people don't very
much by having a Twitter account
okay what you building I'm just them
doing maintenance I'm one of my record
show cows though ah
yes oh nice what's DMP oh yeah I like
looking down on you guys
so yeah I tried out that Google Plus on
my blog post this week and I got 50 hits
in one hour after posting on my blog
yeah I thought I was amazing
that was all within one hour of posting
on Google+ so then I tried out Facebook
and I got one hit from Facebook and I
try to try to Twitter and I got nothing
so yeah according to my am like like I
like I have only 400 followers on
Google+ and a hundred followers on
Twitter and and but so it can't vary a
little bit that way but yeah I got like
a hundred times more on Google+ then and
you have the other social networks yeah
I think yeah well even on my searching
you know like yeah
I think it's probably to do with some of
the fact that on Twitter you kind of get
washed and you know your tweets just
kind of go by in five minutes or so
whereas in Google+ that's much less
posting activity you know there's not
opposed to grid ten seconds so it stays
up for a bit longer yeah thanks I guess
it is again like how the surprised to
see that number of like in the month
later since I posted I'm still getting
about ten ten hits a day from it Cheers
cheers guys tears
I should get one dude I'd love to get
one but you know it's only like 12 in
the in the midday so one thing I learned
to sleep if you're if you're trying to
send your tweets via email to Facebook
they have the right to rearrange your
email so you can't I go is to the
fastest email Facebook to get my tweets
up it doesn't it doesn't work that way
Facebook rearranges my my tweet so that
it doesn't look the same as my email
hmm I thought that was very rude
I made it we tried HootSuite no I
haven't Oh before is this the first time
no I have five before but I don't like
those ads like say posted by HootSuite
and stuff like that oh yeah well that's
that's inevitable I mean you you post
from any app and it's gonna say that
that's just part of the app thing right
that's part of the Twitter API isn't it
just what it says what it's posted so
that's that's exactly right so that's
why like if you log into Twitter comm
it'll say like posted by web
something like that yeah post different
web interface a poster from Weber or the
time no matter what application you use
like we used to use we've used all
different kinds it's always the same
just it's the day I used to use Seesmic
but then it kind of stopped yeah I kind
of died that was an Adobe AIR app so oh
okay I just been copying and pasting if
I want it in another place yeah I tell
you though using HootSuite just save so
much time and the the scheduler I can't
stress enough how cool the scheduler is
because I say to my customers you can
just you can plan out your whole week
and you just program in you know for
them it's usually start with one a day
because anything beyond that is
overwhelming you'd start with one a day
and you program it so you sit down on a
Saturday you write seven tweets and you
schedule them Monday Tuesday Wednesday
Thursday Friday kind of thing but I
always thought the key is to get on to
the trending topics otherwise you not
really noticed that's certainly part of
it but you know we got to start
somewhere right get them familiar with
the interface get them in and set up
with accounts and then we start doing
you know the marketing
where is that coming from
I think that's pyres wrong what am i
doing yeah what music is that you killed
music well I don't know what I don't
know what music it is I mean mum mum
playing saxophone up in the front of the
house but it's not that registry what
music oh yeah well I mean let me go
stand in there playing the saxophone you
see any good
that'd be the question of the uh-uh okay
does she know this is being broadcast
like all around the world right now she
does she does a FEMA nursing home gigs
and stuff like that
how was the turnout in hangouts tonight
just only did four people that I made oh
yeah Toby booth here is uh you know take
a while for people to catch on like
we've only been on Google+ for what a
couple or four weeks there's nothing
like that
yeah I should probably share it one of
these days okay
I had one of my post shared with someone
that has 20,000 Google+ followers oh
yeah I did that that make a difference
rehan I guess like people watch on on
YouTube too without being in the Hangout
itself
ha are you are you still in there
we don't use a green screen it's it's a
it's a Muslim background it's hard to
consolidate everything because there's
we're in so many places right now
all right guys
I'm gonna I'm gonna kind of start
shutting things down so I gotta do the
post prod and then get everything up and
running for the week so yeah thanks have
a good day
in future weeks like +1 s or whatever or
whatever you need to do share the fact
that we're on the hangout last week it
wasn't working it was weird
did you guys notice that yeah I was
annoyed I had to go back to the old fee
it was weird though it was what did it
do it came up and it said we'll be right
back but no matter what we did it was
just a error message yeah I got I'm like
within 30 seconds I got 30 seconds at
the start and then it just unsaid this
hangout is no longer on the air or yeah
it was kind of weird it looks like it
worked this week so that's it all right
guys
yeah thankfully I'm doing it anyone else
watching on YouTube have a good night
