here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
several US newspapers suffered major
printing and delivery disruptions on
Saturday following a cyber attack India
will ban ecommerce companies such as
Amazon and Walmart owned Flipkart from
selling products in - from companies in
which they have an equity interest the
first autonomous freight train network
is fully operational and Elon Musk
claims to be on track for 2026 Mars
colony mission and reveals who will be
on board the first trips these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
let's light Linux by us
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand new beautiful website what
aren't you you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host just
quickly before we get into it I heard
that breath just want to let you all
know that some of the news stories were
submitted this week by Roy W Nash we
hear that he has been doing well and and
it's so great to receive some emails
from him this week and we look forward
to updates there but just thought I'd
give you a quick update so Thank You Roy
and here's the speedy health and a
wonderful 2019 I'm Sasha Rickman and
here are the top stories were following
this week several US newspapers suffered
major printing and delivery disruptions
on Saturday following a cyber attack the
attack led to delayed distribution of
the Los Angeles Times Chicago Tribune
Baltimore Sun and other titles belonging
to Tribune publishing the company said
it first detected the malware on Friday
which hit papers sharing the same
printing plant the LA Times said the
attack is believed to have come from
outside the US an anonymous source with
knowledge of the attack told the LA
Times we believe the intention of the
attack was to disable infrastructure
more specifically servers as opposed to
looking to steal information West Coast
editions of The Wall Street Journal and
New York Times which share the same
production platform in Los Angeles were
also affected the virus heard back
office systems used to publish and
produce the newspapers another
publication the Fort Lauderdale Sun
Centennial was also crippled this
weekend by a computer virus that shut
down production and hamper
phone lines according to a story on its
website a department of homeland
security officials said in a statement
we are aware of reports of a potential
cyber incident affecting several news
outlets and are working with our
government and industry partners to
better understand the situation
investigators at the Federal Bureau of
Investigations were not immediately
available for comment okay so that's
scary because so begins the year yeah
you can get in to the news I'm eager to
hear more about how the attack occurred
mm-hmm but yeah I mean that can what do
you say to that that we have such a
digital connected I think about
newspapers and think about how
old-school the technology of a newspaper
is and yet they are reliant now as much
as we are on the technology that's
internet connected and everything else
so there's so many news stations whether
it be TV paper whatever they have remote
correspondence that in a lot of cases
probably write into a network yeah and
so if their network is regularly getting
data traffic coming in from outside the
network I mean you've got a lot of holes
that you need to have protected and if
they are connected stations say through
a network you know you hit one you could
potentially hit them all I mean so often
they share content and it's like where
is that vulnerability mm-hmm but at the
same time I just kind of go well it's
another story
move it on I'm gonna have my coffee well
yeah a little bit
but it kind of speaks to the the
infrastructure issues that companies
have to like these are and these are big
companies but these are old companies
yes so you know as the infrastructure
progressed along with the technology has
the security measures that are in place
progressed along with that technology so
we have to look at you know as as you
know maybe the businesses that we work
at grow and evolve into today you know
are the technologies that are in place
to
act us against cyberattack are they up
to snuff I still feel like a lot of
times it's somebody who's just not
security conscious it could be one user
on the network that clicked on a file in
an email right who knows right I think
of those cities that we've heard of in
the past we covered on the news where
suddenly all of their city computers get
the old pay the Bitcoin because we've
ransomware to your computer it's like
yeah all it took was one person you know
who just wanders yeah it's true you know
it's scary because you really you don't
know what causes something like that and
like you said in a situation where
people are just constantly putting
information in how do you know when it's
malicious I'm just glad they didn't
change the teleprompter and go all Ron
Burgundy ha ha India will ban ecommerce
companies such as Amazon and Walmart
owned Flipkart from selling products
from which they the companies have an
equity interest in a statement the
government also said that the companies
will be prevented from entering into
exclusive agreements with sellers the
new rules will be applicable from
February first
the new regulations follow complaints
from Indian retailers and traders who
say the giant ecommerce companies are
using their control over inventory from
their affiliates and through exclusive
sales agreements to create an unfair
marketplace that allows them to sell
some products at very low prices the
all-india online vendors Association in
October filed a petition with the
antitrust body Competition Commission of
India alleging is that Amazon favors
merchants that it partly owns the lobby
group filed a similar petition against
Flipkart in May alleging violations of
competition rules through preferential
treatment for select sellers the new
rules said that services provided to
vendors on an e-commerce platform and by
that entity's affiliates should be done
so at an arm's length and in fair and
non-discriminatory manner new rules will
appease small traders and farmers who
fear that US companies are making a
backdoor entry into India's retail
market and could squeeze out small
corner shops that dominate in the
retailing the Confederation of all India
traders in a statement said that if the
order is implemented in full then mal
practices predatory pricing policies and
deep discounting by e-commerce players
will no longer occur Amazon India said
that it is currently evaluating the new
rules while Flipkart did not immediately
respond to a request for comment on the
fence about this one you know what so
was I yeah when I saw it I was like I
love the idea of preventing like the big
guy going to all the little yes but at
the same time I think this is gone too
far in its response like here in Canada
we've got grocery stores you can go to
their website purchase your groceries
for pickup at the store right it's not
right you know
does that classifies ecommerce and if
you've got a grocery store that now
sells their own brand are they
restricted from doing that in India if
if the store was in India like how far
does this go because when I read the
definition of what they're talking about
it's very wide open to just about
anything yeah and I mean you look at a
company like coca-cola who's got a ton
of subsidiary companies underneath but
they're all under the same corporate
umbrella might be four or five times
removed but under this rule they all
apply but what do what's true about that
is they have policies in place that you
can't have a Pepsi machine next to it I
know right it's just funny it's tough
because like I have to look at this one
in the perspective of okay this is the
Indian government protecting the small
marketplace yeah right but in in the
terminology it comes across as more like
such a controlling mm-hmm like I think
about if I walk into a grocery store and
that grocery store has their brand like
I'm thinking President's Choice right so
if I walk in and there's the President's
Choice ketchup and there's the Heinz
well they have the loss leaders up at
the front
all the press yeah you know like
who's to say that they can't do that
they own the brands because that's their
industry Amazon has bought companies and
invested companies and created companies
in order to sell products at a better
price right I buy some Amazon basic
stuff
quite often yep and yeah it it's just
the way it is and it's so tough Sears is
out of business I know and it's like
they were crushed
but Sears didn't keep up with the
technology and so in India I can
understand the marketplace is not able
to keep up with the technology
necessarily right there are probably
larger companies definitely are
yep that can but the little guys would
be done for if Sears can be put out of
business
sure absolutely it's this is such a
double-edged sword situation and I
you're right I think I'm on the fence
I don't know how I think it's gone too
far but I like the notion of it mm-hmm
it's really tough and I think it just
boils down to this is the time that we
are in yeah because there's a transition
that has been occurring for the past
three four years with Amazon becoming
the biggest retailer in the world it is
legit how I shop that's it right going
to a store it's like a foreign concept
to me now I don't I do I go to stores
but a lot of like Christmas shopping is
a perfect example this year and last
year as well where most of the stuff
other than stuff for stockings and
things like that
yeah bought online and most of that
through Amazon right I would say like
95% of the gifts I bought this year were
from Amazon yeah yeah mm-hmm what about
you what are your thoughts on this we're
kind of I think we're all three on the
fence on this one yeah yeah support it I
I have absolute support for the little
guys and I understand that market
mentality and we need that maybe the
government needs to take a different
approach and subsidize the marketplace
subsidize the the little guy and give
them incentives to and and capabilities
flourish if they can't match the prices
give them tax breaks I also wonder if
part of this is country economics
because you look at a country like India
and it's such a massive country and not
all areas are equal in their wealth
distribution or their consumerism so
maybe there's an element of country
specific commerce scenarios that have
driven this and so we're looking at it
from our perspective that way and not
understanding this scenario so maybe
it's just a matter of North American
ignorance to the true probably I do feel
that way and that's why I like I'm
awkward and this whole thing because I
don't really know what are you watching
our show from India and our impact here
by this share your thoughts if you have
family or loved ones in India what are
your thoughts on this particular
governance yeah we'd love to hear I'd
love your your perspective on this the
is fully operational on Friday major
mining corporation Rio Tinto announced
that its auto haul autonomous train
system in Western Australia had logged
more than 1 million kilometers since
July Rio Tinto now calls its fully
operational autonomous train system the
biggest robot in the world the train
system serves fourteen mines that
deliver to four port terminals to mines
that are closest to a port terminal will
retain human engineers because they are
very short lines the train system took
ten years to build and cost Rio Tinto
nine hundred and sixteen million dollars
us to implement the trains are remotely
monitored by a crew located 1500
kilometres away in Perth according to
the mining company the autonomous trains
make sure the rails are clear ahead and
monitor internal systems set as well
checking for faulty wheels or couplers
and bringing the train to a complete
stop if there's a problem
the autonomous train system will allow
Rio Tinto to cut down on the number of
stops at the two point four kilometer
long iron or hauling trains have to make
to change drivers prior to the operation
of the autonomous train system the
mining company shuttle train drivers 1.5
million kilometers per year due to shift
changes the average return distance of
these trains is about 800 kilometers
with the average journey cycle including
loading and dumping taking about 40
hours
additionally the trains will be able to
run 6% faster by removing acceleration
and braking variations caused by human
drivers Rio Tinto expects that it's Auto
Hall system will allow it to increase
the region's iron ore production
capacity by 20 million tons
that is super that's a neat story yeah
that's a big robot again this is gonna
be two-sided because yeah this is gonna
mean loss of jobs right absolutely but
it's going to be and I feel like you're
driving a train 440 at like it's a
40-hour trip you have to be shuttled to
and from because they have to do shift
changes I feel like those jobs
themselves aren't the ideal job it's
about having a job yeah I mean like you
take that mindset you got road
construction why can't they just put a
little rotator on the bottom of a stop
sign that flips every you know minute
and it's blue you know connected to
something on the other side then the
sign Turner's have lost their jobs like
it's right but I'm thinking that this
will allow for things like being the
controller like they've remote remote
controller it's like the remote access
operator you think the the operators
1500 kilometers away right and
presumably a great force of IT to thwart
any attack on this system right because
that would be my next fear I mean about
I think you're gonna lose one job you're
gonna get another job but a sure Italian
job different skill set and the person
who's out of work may not be able to get
this new job for maybe
programming the trains or something but
the concept of it is very neat it needs
some of that bulk so to speak out of the
workload right you know I mean at the
end of that I mean as a computer guy I
mean your automated software that you
created
I think remember you're talking about
the AI for a while to help with some of
your workload your Jewish one Jeff well
but I mean so some of that bulk of his
name's Jason he's a real person right
okay you can make that can help but it's
just like at what cost to the human
impact mmhmm right so and I get both
sides but it's a neat story I just like
the fact that they've automated dreams I
liked it I do made it faster because
humans brake and accelerate oddly that's
interesting too is that yeah what I want
to know though is are there sensors on
it for track runners
well it's presumably I mean it's
monitoring things around it it's gonna
have lidar yeah once per show and so
it's gonna know that there's things
moving and you know if there are
kangaroos hopping in front of the train
they're gonna have to deal with that
right I just that's just that they've
addressed that sure because there's
nothing more just like sad than to hear
that there was of course a car is it
Linton it's of course right Oh although
I will say if that were to be the case
there isn't a human witness witnessing
it now no nice attempt on putting a
lighter spin on it but you just made it
worse Elon Musk claims to be on track
for 2026 Mars colony mission and reveals
who will be on board for the first trips
messaging the billionaire on Twitter
musk fan asked how soon will the first
group group go to colonize Mars and musk
replied seven to ten years that's in
line with previous estimations from musk
who has said he hopes to launch missions
between 2024 and 2030 musk also recently
admitted that there was a 70%
chance he himself would move to Mars the
tesla boss also replied to another
twitter user who said i only hope the
first wave of explorers will be poets
and not real-estate developers must
respond so was that the initial Mars
colonization flights would be populated
with creatives engineers artists and
creators of all kind there is so much to
build he said it's not the first time
musk has suggested that he'll send
creative types to space back in 2018
musk revealed that Japanese billionaire
art collector yuusaku Misawa would be
the first passenger on board his SpaceX
trip to the moon the 43 year old
entrepreneur didn't reveal how much he'd
pay for the trip but musk said he has
made a significant deposit on the price
which is a significant price yuusaku
told a thrilled conference in California
I thought long and hard how valuable it
would be to become the first private
passenger to go to the moon I thought
about how this could contribute to world
peace this is my lifelong dream that
mission to the moon doesn't have a
launch date yet but is expected to take
place within the next few years reaching
the moon is a far easier feet than
Musk's planned Mars missions
the billionaire recently admitted early
travelers have a good chance of dying on
the way spacex is currently working on a
vessel named starship it's believed to
that starship will be able to make the
voyage to Mars with humans on board
within the next seven years spacex hopes
to eventually create spacefaring
civilization which would include Martian
colonies populated by humans tickets for
the trip would cost around a couple
hundred thousand dollars according to
musk musk however reckons that living on
Mars won't be cheery and certainly not a
luxury retreat your probability of dying
on Mars is much higher than on earth the
billionaire explained he also said that
early Mars colonists would be working
nonstop to build the base and this would
leave not much time for a leisure
and even after doing all this it's a
very harsh environment he said and even
if you survive the trip to Mars it's
entirely possible that you'll never be
able to return to Earth there's a good
chance you die there Musquin
he said you can think come back you can
come back but we're not sure now that
does sound like an escape hatch for rich
people so I love this story on so many
levels of stupidity what I do appreciate
his honesty yes well it's true yes I
can't believe that it's actually going
to happen like I'm that soon you can't
believe like you don't believe or you
can't believe like oh my harshly I mean
do you look at his track record and you
know he's a visionary obviously but he
has the capabilities he projects you
know we're I like to over promise
under promise and over perform right
he's has to over promise and under
perform so when he you know announces
the new Tesla and then it takes several
years before it's you know beyond the
day I just don't know that it's going to
happen but so there's that doubt because
of his track record but at the same time
I know that if anyone can do it it is
Iron Man I mean Elon Musk that's true
what I find interesting about this story
though is the fact that we don't know
the long-term impacts of space residency
sure I mean we've had people on the
International Space Station for extended
periods of time I mean look at the the
twins one wasn't one was an astronaut
one was not the brother came back from
space and genetically he has changed
from his brother mm-hmm so we don't know
what this is going to mean if it's like
we're gonna send you to Mars you gonna
get there in a year and you may never
come back what's five years impact from
now I think before we start jumping at
Mars put something on the moon where
things go bad you're only three days
away sounds like that's what he's doing
but at the same time he's being really a
downer to his own program by being
realistic and honest to say you know you
can pay to go to Mars I'll fly you there
you probably gonna die well that's has
nothing to do with his product that's
the environment of space I mean that'd
be like hey we can get you a wetsuit
that allows you to swim with great white
sharks but there's a risk you could get
even but this is progress that is
stupidity there is a fair chance if you
decide to go to Mars you know you're not
coming back sure you know like you know
it you've lived your life in your soul
you know you're not coming back there
even if they say that there's a chance
there is no chance there is you might
get to Mars and live on Mars for a blip
but there is one benefit to go into Mars
what is that you're not gonna have to
shovel the snow yeah you might just
quickly according to coin gecko here's
how the crypto market looked as of 1800
hours Eastern Time on Wednesday January
the 2nd 2019 Bitcoin is up gaining 165
dollars and 62 cents US and is presently
at three thousand eight hundred and
fifty five dollars and six cents
litecoin similarly up and going up by
three dollars and eighty three cents us
hitting thirty two dollars and seventy
six cents etherium likewise up fifty
three dollars and 34 cents at one
hundred and fifty three dollars and
thirty cents remember three weeks ago is
that only $99.99 Manero also gaining the
slider game at fifty one dollars and 49
cents as this week's where it hit
stellite looking at the little guys is
also on its way up at $2 not two dollars
pardon me I keep doing that two point
three one ten-thousandth of a sin
when I need if stellite was $2.00 turtle
coin and even littler gay 1.2 for 10
thousandths of a cent also gaining point
seven eight ten thousandth of a cent
remember that cryptocurrency is always
changing the market is always open and
it's always volatile so be careful and
be mindful of that fact
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Lester
[Music]
[Applause]
