hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and have
you ever considered what it means to
finish well are you coming to the end of
a journey and wondering how do I end
well how do I bless others
well on today's show we're gonna talk
about that we will be right back
this is new everyday with Jen wagger and
Carrie Webb
[Music]
hi everyone thank you so much for tuning
in again to new every day we are glad
that you have and Jen today's topic is
finishing well yes it is and you might
be wondering why we're talking about
finishing well and Kerri and I have been
on this journey with you for the last
three years and we have faithfully gone
before the Lord had beginning of most
seasons and said okay Lord how how would
you have us do this and would you have
us to continue on and for the last three
seasons the Lord
we have felt has said yes and then we
came to the beginning of season four and
we said what does the Lord saying to us
and at this point we are firmly
believing that our time on new every day
is coming to an end and so the question
that we ask then is how to be finished
well and we realize that we are not
alone in this journey there are so many
people that are coming to the end of a
contract coming to the end of a work
stay coming to the end of a pastor if
you're a pastor are coming to at the end
of a time like maybe you're at camp and
how do you finish well or maybe who says
that you're coming to the end of a
friendship and how do you finish well
and it's all of these things like how do
you finish well the closing of a chapter
it can either like make or break a
chapter or a book yes right like when
you when you're reading a good book and
you're like oh it's a real page-turner
then you get to the end you're like huh
that just didn't been as strong yeah and
you know now that you can grab too many
analogies from that to apply to life but
you're right Jen when you're coming to
transition points in your life and when
we're coming to the end of life yeah
it's a good time to pause and reflect
and say where have I come yes and then
how do I actually finish strong yes and
I gotta say Jen like looking at the
people that I have engaged with in my
life or or seen from a distance there
are those that I can look at and say
they finished really well and we're
gonna talk about some of those people
with a lot of joy and there are people
that I've looked at and you know in the
workplace or different jobs I've had
where I've seen them you know they they
will just quit they just quit and
they're gone they don't even get there
two weeks OH
or you know they'll give some notice but
after they've given the notice it's like
yep I'm blowing this popsicle stand and
nothing else really matters yeah and
there's not that investment to finish
well or to pass a torch yes and so what
does that mean to pass the torch what
does it mean to finish well what does it
mean to tie up loose ends like often as
you know you've traveled with us many
places when Kerry and I leave the house
on vacation the last thing we do is
clean it yeah like that is one of the
loose ends that we tie up we make sure
the bathroom is clean too everything is
a vacuum our rooms are in place so that
when we come back it's welcoming yeah to
us rather than coming into a mess of
going oh what did we do so one of the
things that we do to finish well is to
make sure everything's sort of cleaned
up before we go and so for the next
three or so shows we'll see how it goes
but we want to talk about what it means
to finish well and so we actually want
to pick up one of our previous
storylines which was when we ran in
Ghana and you had the opportunity to
talk with pastor Paul yeah and you sort
of discussed some of the things that he
was in need of for his ministry and we
have an update so
is part of a finishing Wallace it's a
little story lines and tell us more
about what's happening there yeah so
Paul he's a zonal leader if you haven't
seen it go back and watch the episode
because it was a real privilege to
interview him and Paul is working as a
pastor but also as a zonal leader and he
oversees um I believe it's five
different churches in the northern
region right well in his immediate area
there is five but if as you're right at
least five Oh at least five because
there he's looking after five people
Tania asters and they have a number of
churches yeah
so as is on the leader he has to touch
base with them and he encourages them
and he also is pastoring a church and
also encouraging people so he's got a
lot of road to travel conflict on what
so he was hoping for a motorbike the way
they I'm doing every day after New
Evangelization yeah yes evident market
in the market it was Green Day Tuesday
that's why I requested the mood to the
motor because our place is very far so
you can't go so up to work every day
after going do it if if I am missing a
birthday or two days and I didn't good
I'll just it's just like like fire fire
fire in in there as fire inside Jimmy
Bennett yeah so and I won't have peace
of mind
unless ago and and deliver the word so
anytime I went with the web after our
future pushing the word and I'm coming
back yeah I can see some kind of laugh
or some kind of happiness yes yes yeah
me and is it that joy of the Lord that's
your strength to go back at the next CEO
every day I'm going to do the evangelism
and the Ghana mission was able to
provide him with
yes so it just makes things so much
easier for him and we're so excited to
be able to report that and we're
continuing to pray for Paul and the
other pastors in Ghana and I feel
inspired by their story hmm and you know
if we look to Paul in the Bible and he
he spoke so much gen about about
finishing well and if you look in 2nd
Timothy 4 verse 7 and and I believe 2nd
Timothy was written when Paul he was
actually in prison he was in the end of
his life and he's writing this letter to
Timothy his protege and in he's he's
admonishing him to keep going he's tying
up loose ends he's encouraging him and
in 1st in 2nd Timothy 4:7 he says I have
fought the good fight I have finished
the race I have kept that the
and what a final statement and also
looking to verse six just before that
for I am already being poured out as a
drink offering and the time of my
departure is at hand I'm getting married
well you know what I have bought a face
I've kept the faith I've been well and
over and over again through his letters
he talks about
living for Christ as a race living her
price as a journey and that it's
actually going to be arduous
so you have to keep going and he talks a
lot about how to how to prepare yourself
to keep going cuz it's not just like go
and do it he actually is very clear he
has he has set up a plan for Timothy as
far as how do you run the race well
because at the end of the day often how
you finish the race is what people
remember and so one of the verses that
came to mind was Galatians 6:9 which is
do not grow weary in doing good well how
do you not grow weary like that's one of
the questions often we think well you
just have to go go go go go and yet then
first Corinthians 9:24 which I want to
read and it was interesting as I was
reading this because so often we say
well no you just have to go like you
know make the most of today because you
don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow
that's so often is our mantra in life
and so first Corinthians 9:24 says do
you not know that in a race all the
runners run but only one gets the prize
run in such a way to get the prize
everyone who competes in the race goes
into strict training they do it to get a
crown that will not last but we do it to
get a crown that will last forever
therefore do not I do not run like a man
running aimlessly I do not fight like a
man heating the air no I beat my body
and make it a slave so that after I have
preached to others i myself will not
need qualified for the prize so there's
a training aspect of it there's
self-control and discipline so it's not
like well whatever you want to do
because like you might not have another
chance tomorrow and that's like one of
the things I often caution people is
like if something for me is a pastor I
do not stay out late on a Saturday
evening because Sunday is the Lord's Day
and I have to meet and interact with
people and some people would say well
they should live every day as if it's
like the only opportunity but if you
live like that then your action by the
be broke you'd be broke and there's
nothing the internal tank is gone
like there's nothing to draw on and so
when he talks about running with
discipline it's so that you can actually
finish the race well and what's
interesting is when you watch marathon
runners the winner isn't normally at the
beginning of the race the whole way you
are so right actually one of my
colleagues is an ultra-marathoner so
they'll run like 100 kilometers
why I don't really know but she loves it
but yeah you she said if you don't pace
yourself from the start you're gonna get
tuckered out and you're gonna
not not finish strong but you're right
they're not often first-rate at the
beginning if they know how to run the
course and they discipline themselves
when you see everybody running around
you it's easy it's hard not to just keep
up with them but to know your self yeah
and it is hard because you're like yeah
but they're getting farther ahead and
it's like that's why it's so important
to to know yourself to know like what
you are capable of and realize yes we're
we're with the Lord so he can equip us
to do so much more than we could ever
imagine but that discipline and
self-control and watch one of the verses
that I looked at also was 2nd John 1:8
which so second John is this wee little
book at the back of your Bible and it
says 2nd John 1:8 watch out that you do
not lose what you have worked for but
that you may be rewarded like you're so
supposed to watch as well that means
what I mean like lose what you have
worked for well but that we may receive
a full reward so if we want to take that
I think the marathon image right - watch
out so you don't lose it so it's like be
aware like are you getting thirsty like
are you drinking like are you filling up
your your water like thirst tank like
are you drinking as you're going like
you have to monitor that's a watching
are you watching what's going on inside
of you are you listening to your body
because if you don't then you're gonna
get a muscle cramp you're maybe you're
not watching the road and you're gonna
stumble and then all these people go
past you and you end up losing
everything that you've worked for
because you actually weren't watching so
what is that like then causing that to
be looking at that parallel to your life
what is that actually
mean what what is the what are you
likening the water to hmm Wow there's a
couple things I think you have to watch
how much time you spend with the Lord
like are you spending time with the Lord
are you praying are you reading the word
whether you feel it or not because you
might and that's the thing a thirst
right like thirst tells you you're
thirsty but actually you're supposed to
be drinking before you get thirsty
mm-hmm and so that is so important that
that you watch like so even though you
might not be feeling like reading the
Bible yes or feeling like praying you'd
you still need it like it still needs to
go in so that's part of the watching
right yeah also like guarding the types
of people that you hang out with like if
you always hang out with people that
drain or that would actually live a life
that is not conducive to the things of
the Lord then you actually start turning
away from the Lord if if they're the
only types of people that you hang out
with and Jesus was very clear we are to
hang out with people who don't know him
but he also hung out with his disciples
like so there were a group of people
that loved God that he also poured his
life into so there is the bow so I think
we do need to be careful with who we
spend the bulk of our time with so being
careful who we spend time with being
careful that we're in the word every day
and and praying every day and and you
mentioned something before we started
talking as well that will idea of
continual surrender to God hmm continual
surrender like every day waking up and
just saying okay God like this is this
is your day like you brings me the
people you want me to interact with you
keep away the distractions right so it's
like we have to surrender our day and
our time to the Lord so that he is the
one that's guiding and directing us or
else we're gonna get off on a path that
isn't where he would have us to go so
when when we talk about keeping in mind
to the prize well the end goal is God
but if we start thinking about what we
want then we start turning and
and we have to you know make our way
back and it's much more
yeah and I think there's definitely
pearls that we can learn from by looking
at other people's lives and and from
reading the word and the life of someone
like Paul that we can then apply to our
own lives so we're gonna take a quick
break here and we'll be back enough
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts hi everyone welcome back
thank you for staying with us on new
every day and we really as we start to
wrap things up here in finish well we
really want to thank the sponsors for
new every day if you go to our website
new every day TV go to our partners page
we have had faithful partners and all of
these years and we are so very grateful
that you have made this show a
possibility and we don't really know
what it's gonna look like in the future
moving forward but we are sure grateful
so thank you thank you so Jen you talked
about how there are certain pearls that
we can look to and grab a hold of but
there's also pitfalls that can get in
the way of finishing well whether it's
finishing a job well finishing life well
and I was looking through some resources
on how to finish well and
John Piper and some of his associates
have have written an article about that
and they highlighted four essentials to
finishing Wow okay and the first one was
daily communion with God so you just
mentioned that so important in that
everybody think of water jesus said I'm
the living water I'm the bread of life
and in the Old Testament when the
Israelites were wandering around the
desert every day they went out and there
was fresh man on the ground that was
like Jesus the bread of life mm-hmm
every day being provided for them that
they could pick it up eat and be
refreshed and strengthened for the day
yeah and Jen I mean how many times have
have you in the morning been reading
something in the word and there have
there has been like like a piece of
fresh bread but no yeah eat and it
nourishes you you know or it's like that
that fresh glass of cold water as you
actually meet with Jesus
and so many people say I can't I can't
even begin the day without a cup of
coffee like don't even come near me
until I have a cup of coffee and for me
I'm like I can't do a day without being
in the word like if I they're hard the
times where it's like okay it's just I'm
gonna read a few verses and which isn't
my normal time that I spend and then how
do I go and then before I go to bed that
night I will finish off what I was
supposed to read that takes I feel like
I am NOT full in my spirit I've had like
an appetizer and we can't live on
appetizers like with regards to reading
the word so it has to be a daily meals
yeah with the Lord just like we would we
would not even begin to think that we
wouldn't eat you know three meals or
five small meals a day or even snacks
you could almost think like worship
songs are snacks oh man like it right
where it's like I'm gonna I need serve
like I'm hungry in my spirit so I'm
gonna play a worship song or you know
maybe it's that verse that's written at
the top of like on your phone where it's
like you just have to flick your phone
on and see that verse a friend of mine
she actually times up on her phone to
send her verses throughout the day as
notifications that's cool so it's like
little spiritual snacks I like I like
that because she needs those reminders
every day and that's what it needs to be
yes in the word communing with God every
day so that is the first Perl home on
like good Perl good Perl excellent Perl
yeah
the next Perl was appropriating the
gospel for yourself every day
this is not mean
but what they were describing in this
article is understanding the gospel in
its truest form
that God loves you he made you for
himself he made you to represent him but
that image has been tarnished through
sin and that he sent Jesus His only Son
because the punishment for sin was death
and Jesus took on that measurement for
you and died in your place but then rose
again and conquered death yes and so
when we believe in him and we
appropriate the gospel when we receive
that and understand yes I have done
wrong but now look Jesus has done this I
take on his righteousness they put it on
myself yes not because I earn it but I
put on his righteousness and he's been
raised to life and now I have a new life
in Christ that I can live out here and
also look forward to spending life in
heaven with God forever that's the good
news yes and when and the softer was
saying when you have prayed that to
yourself every day and when it keeps you
humble because you know that in him it's
not by works that we've been saved we've
been saved by grace through this and
we're told blessed are those that are
poor in spirit for they will inherit the
kingdom of God so it is that very thing
like me seeing your need for the gospel
yeah seeing your need for the gospel and
then I think also celebrating that it is
a finished work that when Christ died on
the cross he said in here it is finished
he breathed his last he had dealt with
sin and then he rose from the dead yes
and I think that's an important piece of
the gospel to appropriate under
that it's finished another verse that
that Paul talks about is that when he's
running the race he forgets what is
behind yes and strings towards what is
ahead
I think that's also important yes if you
forget that you've been cleansed from
your past sins yes then you can't grow
in love and kindness and all the fruits
of the Spirit because you're being
dragged down by your past so we need to
be in the word in prayer communion with
God every day we need to appropriate the
gospel for ourselves daily it's not just
like oh yes any morning no no it's it's
everyday we need to be reminded of what
we have been saved from yeah and what we
are being saved for yeah that's
appropriating the gospel yeah so what is
the third thing the third thing is to
daily offer yourself as a living
sacrifice
how do I do that that's a great question
Jen would you talk about surrendering
yourself
I think part of that is knowing like a
living sacrifice refers to the Old
Testament when they would actually
sacrifice animal hmm they'd have to tie
them up and they would kill them for
their for the forgiveness of sins right
and for offering ourselves to God as a
living sacrifice you're giving over your
life I think like physically in a way
but I'm in your hands
mm-hmm but also emotionally
understanding that I want God to speak
to me through
and do what he want then what life's no
longer about me and those
it's a sacrifice but it's also
wonderfully freeing his life's not about
us okay so we are to to be with the Lord
every day communing with God
appropriating the gospel every day
continually like every day these are
everyday things every day in the word
every day of appropriate gospel every
day sacrifice what is the fourth one the
fourth one is two
continually remember that God's love and
sovereignty are individual and that it
is actually his grace that gives us the
ability to live the life that we to live
the life that we do so if we're
finishing well it's actually also by the
grace of God but yes we're being
disciplined but also understand that
it's the grace of God
okay so so the pearls of finishing well
are our spending time with God every day
appropriating the gospel for ourselves
every day what was the third one third
is soft for yourself as a living
sacrifice everyday and then the fourth
one is to really to remember God's
sovereignty and His grace the thing the
way that he can work all things together
like he's gonna and he's his presence
right that grace his presence and His
grace is gonna go with us every day so
it's not as if we sacrifice ourselves
and and he lets us go on our own no his
sovereignty and grace and his love goes
with us so those are things that we have
to remember every day so just like an
athlete would would train every day that
we need in order to finish well you need
to train every day so we look forward to
sharing next week we're already out of
time for this one but I'm looking
forward to sharing a story about people
in my life who have blue eyes I've seen
finished really well so please stay
tuned as we wrap up just catch a new
episode of new every day every Friday
morning at new every day dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku flex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
