[Music]
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple W category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson's welcome to episode number 183
of category 5 TV it's Tuesday March the
22nd 2011 and I guess I'm supposed to
talk like that today why is that it's
the third annual talk like William
Shatner oh you're kidding yeah no I'm
serious it's a good thing turns 80 today
I mean this morning that's good it was
terrible but everyone's supposed to talk
like William Shatner and that was my
attempt he doesn't get it he's the only
guy on the planet who doesn't get it
it's been working for him why would you
change success
hey Jay Pia yeah Wow good to see
everybody okay what do we got going on
tonight we are we are gonna be learning
to install Firefox 4 which was just
released this morning we're gonna be
installing it on Ubuntu Linux also we're
gonna be coding that website that we've
been working on over the past couple of
weeks so that's pretty exciting stuff
can be learning a little bit about PHP
and HTML and CSS too
yeah looking forward to it nice to see
you join us in the chatroom category
five dot TV and we'd love to have you in
our chat room there and you can help me
out if I start coughing tonight actually
I'm very reliant on the cough medicine
tonight so I think I'm gonna think I'm
gonna make it through nice to see
everybody who is joining us in the chat
room so far shatner 80 years old yeah it
is pretty amazing cool you know who
wants a try I have an inkling yes okay
Star Trek yes yeah I'm moving on up in
the world
mmm James D the original star dude in
there all right I guess so we've got a
lot to cover tonight I'll let check out
our mailbox and see what's coming in
there you can email us live at
category-five dot TV a Jameson 55 79
saying I just can't talk without
dramatic pauses someone please stop me
and it's actually drum attic not
dramatic so better you go okay yeah
kudos to Bill Shatner all right to the
mailbox live at category five TV all
right got one here from Kevin who joins
us from I believe Kenya actually nice to
have you you're joining us at our
website category 5 TV very nice let's
see there we go okay Kevin the question
which file do I need to edit to change
the activation link sent to Joomla sent
by Joomla to a new user for them to join
my new website I installed a community
and a sub domain and the link sent to
the new member is broken so the
subdomain folder twice shows twice
resulting in a 404 error however if I
delete an instance on
of the folder name the link will work
okay what do I do it sounds to me Kevin
like what is happening there as you've
got when you've set up your
configuration for the domain you've put
in what your website addresses which
might be you're saying a subdomain I
think what you mean is a subfolder so
like WWE my domain comm slash Kevin's
site for example that's more what it
sounds like you're encountering so then
it's trying to hit sang okay we're in
the folder Kevin site so it appends
Kevin site onto the end of what you
already entered which is Kevin site so
that's what it sounds like is happening
as far as what what files to add it
first of all you might want to try just
resolving the issue through traditional
means editing your configuration and
fixing it that way otherwise let's see
if I can get my Joomla site up of course
it's it's gonna matter which version of
Joomla you're using I'm using version
1.5 we won't go any any older than that
as far as for demonstration let me just
log into our FTP here and we're going to
need to edit two files in order to do
that first of all okay
there we go okay so I've got just here's
my Joomla folder I'm gonna go into
language find the language that your
website is set to mine is en-gb go down
to component user there it is there
so Eng b.com underscore user and edit
that file I'm using FileZilla which
allows me to edit it directly do a
search for send underscore message and
just find a couple times
they're real so you've got the first
message is just once they've active once
they're actually active second message
is the activation email which is
probably the one that you're looking for
so hello percent s thank you for
registering at percent s your account is
created and must be activated before you
can use it to activate so on and so
forth so scroll right back to pate it
click on the following link or copy and
paste it into your browser and then okay
so login to so there's a percent s so
that means it's being defined by the
component itself so what we need to do
is we need to we can either change the
wording there and heard set the URL so
you could replace the percent s with the
hard-set of your URL right whatever it
is okay but that could cause problems
and if you do that you're gonna have to
change what is being sent because
percent s is basically like a string
that's been sent to the script to the
template so if you delete one of the
percent s's than the one that's supposed
to be over here is now going to be over
here it's not gonna work and it's going
to mess up your site or at least that
email so I'll jump back to the FTP here
I'm gonna scroll way up go into dot dot
dot dot and I'm gonna go into components
and in components you'll find com
underscore user you'll find the
controller file we're gonna edit that so
probably easy us to game just to do a
search for send underscore msg there
they are
so this is where it's actually telling
it to send this message okay so in the
language file the language the text is
defined however in the controller file
it's actually configured and sent so
each one of these is percent s so dollar
sign name dollar sign site name dollar
sign site URL and so on so if we go back
to your language file starts with name
site name so if we go back here look at
that language
hello % ass we know that the first one
is gonna be name so it's gonna say hello
krysta thank you for registering at site
name right
because that's what was designated in
the controller so that % ass is gonna be
replaced with category 5 TV scroll over
more your account is created it must be
activated before you use it to activate
click on the following link and it gives
you another percent s and that percent s
is giving you site URL dot index dot PHP
com user tasks activate here is where
you can go delete delete so there's no
more site URL there's no more period
because the period means also so just
like this okay so you're actually hard
setting it and bypassing the automatic
detection of your site URL from your
configuration file so if you save that
file keep a backup always keep a backup
of your files because you don't want to
you don't want to accidentally break
your site easiest way to do a backup
when you're working with page P simply
copy that entire line comment it out
with two slashes okay and then paste a
game so now you've got a commented
version of the entire message as it was
and then you can edit away on this
second version and if you'd break it
just recopy from up here and you'll be
good to go answer the question Kevin I
hope that helps you out and yeah do keep
commented lines backups don't want to
break your website on you okay this is
category five technology TV you can
email us live at category five TV I'm
Robbie Ferguson she is so lots of
exciting stuff going on tonight I'm very
excited to be getting into the next step
of our series on web development if
you're interested in web development at
all email me your questions live at
category-five TV and we'll be sure to
get those on the show enter it's good
also to to have gotten Jim
question tonight Joomla being a content
management system so that's a different
form of website where it's powered by a
pre-designed pre created content
management system and then customized
from there so I hope that helps you
Kevin let's see we've got more questions
here I'm gonna get as many questions in
and if I don't get your question in
tonight we'll definitely try to get it
in on a very soon future show as well so
if you send a question that I can't get
you to you tonight I apologize but we'll
definitely do our best okay I've got old
mr. B who joins us and has emailed us at
live a category 5 TV and asks as you can
see I've got an HP Pavilion Elite HP e
Intel Core i7 so the 64-bit I'm having
trouble with Ubuntu and Linux Mint
running on the 64-bit platform I suspect
that some of the software is not quite
ready
can I still run my 32-bit on my 32-bit
distribution on my 64-bit operating
system for a bit computer
thanks for molding mr. B and the answer
to that is yes you can you can go
backwards you can run a 32-bit operating
system even though your processor is
compatible with 64 it's just the other
way around you can't go you couldn't
have 64-bit Linux running on a 32-bit
platform that doesn't have 64-bit
extensions they only or the your biggest
disadvantages they're old mr. B are
essentially you're gonna lose the
ability to go beyond 4 gigabytes of RAM
that's a big limitation if you're gonna
be doing anything that's gonna require
more than that so for me so keep that in
mind and I want to I cut face with
Hillary who joins us tonight Hillary
it's nice to see you but I'd love to
hear what's coming up in the news room
oh well coming up in the news I threw
that oh yeah how well how are you this
week I'm good I'm much better I found
probably a little better than last week
but I'm doing all right
yeah is it stuffy you were a bit stuffy
last week but you sound a lot better
this week son
like things just it was just bad yeah
well it's nice to have you here thank
you I'm glad to be here and so I have
lots to say but what's coming up
dun-da-da-da yesterday twitter
celebrated its fifth birthday hmm
Apple has filed the most idiotic lawsuit
ever the RSA SecurID have been
compromised and its users no longer feel
protected and lastly Firefox 4 is here
and it's faster than ever so stick
around for the latest news from the
category-five TV newsroom who only
thanks for that update I can't do it but
there are some fantastic kudos for
trying they'll be saying all right
so speaking of Firefox we're gonna
actually install that on Ubuntu Linux
love to jump right into that and we do
have very you know we've got so much to
cover tonight once again so we're just
gonna jump right into that Firefox of
course was released this morning Firefox
4 it is meant to be the ultimate the
fastest Firefox that has ever existed
said to be up to 6 times faster than the
3.6 previous release so that is awfully
substantial what we're gonna do is we're
gonna use a PPA repository to install
the stable edition of that browser so we
are going to type in this line on our
terminal on Linux basically to get into
terminal we go to applications
accessories terminal and Here I am on -
boom - and I've got the line sudo for
Super User do this is giving us access
to install things or do changes to our
system because it gives us super user
access apt key or add apt repository so
we're adding an apt repository as the
command PPA : Mozilla team / Firefox -
Abell that line again sudo apt - app or
ad - apt - repository PPA :
Mozilla team / Firefox - stable and if
you're having trouble seeing that on the
screen at all I will post that in the
show notes for episode number 183 as
well and you can just copy and paste
it's then going to potentially ask you
for your super user password and I'm
gonna do that it's gonna grab me the key
for that the GPG key to allow me to
access that repository it's added it to
my apt apt sources list and we're ready
to go next step sudo apt-get update and
that is going to simply update our app
list so that we can now install things
from this newly added repository it's
done so we're gonna go sudo apt-get
install Firefox there it is one newly
installed three upgraded nothing removed
are we good to go yes so here we go and
I should note that we are presently on
firefox 3.6.13
and that's just going through the
repository they're installing the needed
components to run Firefox 4 on our loon
2 computer system and super super fast
they've done a lot of changes to the
interface itself you're gonna see that
that it has changed substantially and
doesn't it doesn't take a long time to
install either what's what's your
browser of choice Christine Firefox
Firefox and you're on the Mac and
hanging it there you're on I guess Ford
just came out today so chances are
you're on like 3.6 there yeah I think I
have I haven't updated today yeah there
we go it's it's just zipping through
these these files unpacking replacement
Firefox there it goes and it's done so
now next step is we want to actually
basically close down all of our running
instances of Firefox you see that I do
indeed have Firefox running so I'm not
gonna be able to get the latest version
going just yet so what I want to do it's
a nice little command called kill all
sorry kill all and I'm gonna go - 9
Firefox - VIN when I hit enter on that
there it is kill all - 9 Firefox - pin I
hit enter on that and now if I go back
to the other screen you see Firefox is
nowhere to be found it's gone the reason
that I've gone with the kill all command
is it basically simulates a crash on
Firefox so Firefox just closes and and
has no control over the fact that you
just closed it doesn't prompt you for
anything reason I do that is because
it's gonna save all my tabs all my open
tabs Firefox is fantastic for that and
so we're able to now when we open it it
should if all goes well restore our tabs
right back to the place that they were
sewing to open Firefox using the same
link that I used to use
it's gonna check for new versions of my
toolbars and things like that I go check
now I'm gonna get the brand new version
of the category 5 community toolbar for
Firefox 4 so I'll allow that to install
there we go and finish and now here we
go
welcome to Firefox 4 again I'm on Ubuntu
Linux and you'll see that my tabs that I
did have open are indeed still open so
there you go again I will post the step
by step code in the chat in the show
notes for episode number 183 and I think
you'll find that that the browser is
substantially faster and there are some
cool features I'll tell you real quick
one of the things that I do like about
Firefox 4 if as you look at it I don't
know if it happens to you but sometimes
when I'm working especially on websites
I get a lot of tabs open and it can get
really really confusing or I do this I
do exactly what you see me doing there
okay that tab that tab that tab that tab
and I actually manually pan through my
tabs in order to find which tab it is
that I want to be working on right so in
Firefox for shift control II is going to
give us our new group of tabs and you
can actually reposition your tabs you
can actually see thumbnails of each tab
and then you can click on it and it will
zoom in just like that pretty cool yeah
Firefox 4 of course is compatible with
Windows Linux and Mac and you can get
that from get Firefox com
if you're using a platform other than
Linux or you can follow this tutorial in
order to get it on whoo - this is
category 5 TV
huh nice to have you here category five
dot TV you're laughing at me with you
okay laughing with you
that was a laugh it wasn't a laugh it
was I got the new glasses this week and
they're taking some getting used to
the whole room just pan yeah it's so
weird it's like it's a different
prescription and so anytime I go if I
move my head too fast as like to pass
out and then I snapped it again cuz it's
just like it's so dizzy I think it's so
weird yeah yeah it's like narcolepsy I
just instantly I'm out and then I'm back
again
so it's all good it's kind of kind of
neat yeah sure Nick awesome great for
driving you should see if I'm driving
over 80 kilometers an hour it's just it
just pass out every every time your
passenger II could not really can't wear
them nice to see everyone in the
chatroom and you can join us there
category 5 dot TV would be nice to have
you join us so tonight we are going to
be stepping back into our series on web
development and what I want to do is
actually help you to be able to follow
along with the with the show if you go
over to category 5 TV you can go to
watch the show and features and
tutorials and within there you're gonna
see our web development tutorial
alternatively real quick way to get
there
cat5 TV / web dev for web development
hit enter that's gonna take you right to
our web series and this is good actually
can contain the entire series at one
point once once we're finished
broadcasting it and you'll notice that
we've made available these files for you
in order to actually participate in the
in the program
or if you want to actually give some of
the things that we're demoing a try
you'll be able to download those files
so Krista has has very graciously said
that that we can use the comp dot PSD so
feel free to download that if you'd like
to take a look at the file as we see it
it has been rendered the shadows have
been rendered for cross compatibility
with the GIMP so it will open in both
Photoshop and the GIMP just fine and
then we have a new file and this is
blank index dot zip which I'm just
introducing this week and I open that up
and within that file you'll see that
there's an index dot PHP we're gonna
extract that to our website folder there
we go and now here's our website folder
with our images and an index dot PHP
index dot HTML index dot PHP whichever
it is is basically the the main the
first page that loads when someone goes
to your website that's like home if you
will or it's the first if they don't
type in a file name it's gonna default
to in most case in most scenarios it's
going to default to an index dot HTML
index dot PHP indexed is P if that's the
language that you're working in things
like that so what the blank index dot
PHP is is something that I've put
together for you to simply save us time
this evening because it is basically
just a template a mock-up of a very
basic website structure so it contains
our doctype at the top it contains meta
tags it contains some robot tags for
search engines contains an IU fix for
ping transparencies on anything under
ie7 and then all of the necessary codes
in order to basically create a website
from this so so this is going to be our
building block this is going to be our
kind of square one and this is what
we're going to build upon
over the next couple of shows and
certainly tonight so if you'd like to
download that you can feel free cat5 TV
slash web dev so last week
you remember Krista we were looking at
while we finished up slicing the site
you've got you've got the same files and
we ended up with this Polaroid file and
for me this wound up being what I would
say is too big for web 167 kilobytes and
what it did end up for you my jet 308
now so I invited so you're yeah you're
twice as much as me so what we want to
do is we want to make that smaller and
as promised I thought you know let's
let's actually do that
there are ping compression tools free
software that you can install on your
computer it's fantastic things like trim
edge T RI ma GE which is compatible with
Windows Linux and Mac but they won't do
a thing for you not tonight with this
particular file the problem that we run
into is that our transparencies have
drop shadows so there's a lot of data
there right because we see the grid
pattern there that's all transparent but
then there's a drop shadow around it so
there's an alpha you know different
blending around the edges and then
there's this big beautiful photo in the
middle that has quite a bit of detail so
in order to get that down in size
compression is just not going to do it
for us something like trim äj-- let's
give it a go you know open that software
which is we'll post a link to download
that and install it on your Linux
Windows or Mac computer in the show
notes for episode number 183 so this is
Tremec it's a dragon drop compression
system so my file is 167 point 6
kilobits kilobytes for me drag the file
over it says compressing and some cases
this may work especially for JPEG or
other lossy formats
here we are we've we've discovered I
think one of the things that we kind of
determine last week is that the GIMP
tends to compress a little better than
Photoshop as far as the pings go we
found that the pings were quite a bit
smaller on again yeah yeah and you don't
lose any quality because it's lossless
but I did find that with that said
perhaps it's just that the GIMP is
already you know compressing them as
well as possible trimming is done here
and you'll see it was only able to get
another 0.4 percent out of that file so
essentially not enough that file is now
160 6.9 kilobytes so it gave us a little
tiny little bit in this particular
scenario on your system it might do a
lot better because it's a 200k file it
might take that 200k file or 300k file
and take it down to yeah but this looks
like that's about as small as we can get
it so what we can do is we can
reappropriation how small we can get
this I'm going to make a box around the
photo itself this is a square marquee
I'm gonna copy that
into my clipboard ctrl C then my
background color is white so I'm gonna
go edit fill with background color and
now I just have the Polaroid but I have
that in my clipboard which I can then
using CSS reposition over top so what's
gonna happen is this is going to become
our background
and it looks just like that so I'm gonna
save that and Krista's doing the same
over on the Mac I'm gonna save that into
the same folder I'm gonna call this
Polaroid VG for background and save that
save it with compression level 9 I'm
gonna right click and go edit paste as
new image
pardon me now I've got that other
portion of the of the image
I'm gonna go image Auto crop and it gets
rid of the white area around the edge
now here's what we're actually
accomplishing here there's krysta get
into that same point with the with the
photo what's happening is we've
effectively cut this image down to a
much less intense image as far as how
much image data is a part of that image
we've taken it and we've basically
created this it's really just a white
image with a border very very basic
image data because it has the cool
transparencies it has to be a pain we
need that transparency in order to
overlay it on top of other images but
because we have now transferred this
over to another image and this image now
doesn't eat a transparency this part
which is what's causing the file to be
so large because of the level of image
data can now be saved as a JPEG so we're
gonna call this photo 1 or photo 0 1 I
usually do just so I can always add more
photos and add a rotation or something
down the road we call that a JPEG JPEG
of course is a lossy file format it's
going to compress the image down to a
very small file I'm gonna export in the
GIMP you're gonna want to in Photoshop
to a file save for web and that's going
to give us the smaller size JPEG back in
the GIMP I'm going to keep it at about
85% quality because I want it to be
really good I'm gonna save that
after the news we're gonna come back and
we're gonna see on the Mac and on Linux
with Photoshop and the GIMP respectively
we're gonna see what kind of difference
that has had on the file size of our
overall website so stick around and
we're gonna hand things over to Hillary
in the newsroom I'm from the category 5
TV news yesterday marked five years
since Jack Dorsey Twitter's co-founder
and the first tweet which simply said
inviting coworkers according to Jack
himself
further investigation shows that around
12 minutes prior Jack posted the words
just setting up my Twitter so where are
they now that they're 5 years old on
average of 140 million tweets are sent
each day which is up nearly a hundred
million on the amount posted on a daily
basis a year ago more than 460,000 new
accounts have been added every day over
the last month and the number of global
Twitter users has increased by one
hundred and eighty two percent over the
last year however the company has not
revealed how many people actually use
the service via their phones you can
wish Twitter a happy birthday with the
hashtag numbers pound symbol
happy birthday Twitter in what tom
coburn a--from OS news.com is calling an
idiotic lawsuit Apple is suing Amazon
because Amazon's mobile app development
program is using the free app store
which Apple has trademarked overton
believes this is not that this not only
looks bad on Apple but on the patent
office of the USA he states in his post
at this short for application and a
source where he saw stuff the fact that
a trademark has been granted for
something as idiotic as putting these
two things in a name further illustrates
the utter incompetence of the US Patent
and Trademark Office Amazon is giving a
little reply to the lawsuit and time
will tell if the courts will uphold
aquas trademark or if Amazon will simply
bow and change their naming conventions
to something less Apple egg perhaps
applications shop or
we are promenade who will make a
suitable alternative quick somebody'd
remarked that what are your thoughts
about Apple's tactics post your comments
on this news story on newsroom category
five TV users of the RSA SecurID are in
for a shock this week as their trusted
to factor authentication has been
compromised in an open letter art yellow
the executive chairman of RSA may public
the fact that the company has suffered a
breach and a loss following an extremely
sophisticated cyberattack calm yellow
continues to say while at this time we
are confident that the information
extracted does not enable a successful
direct attack on any of our RSA SecurID
customers this information could
potentially be used to reduce the
effectiveness of a current two-factor
authentication implementation as a part
of a broader attack according to ZDNet
security expert Dan Dan Kaminsky says
and it's not impossible that the
attackers would be able to know all
generated tokens at any given time and
even know which organizations are using
them no further details about the
incident have been revealed at this time
since the investigation is also mounted
by the authorities
very unlikely by the government security
agencies and lastly Mozilla the global
nonprofit organization dedicated to
making the web better is proud to
release Mozilla Firefox for the fastest
version of Firefox today Firefox 4 is up
to 6 times faster than the previous
release with improved startup and page
load times speedy web app performance
and the hardware accelerated graphics
Firefox is optimized for rich
interactive websites Firefox 4 has full
HTML 5 support improved security
features and a new sleek interface best
of all it's available as a free download
for Windows Mac OS X and Linux in more
than 80 languages our Explorer will also
be available on Android and Maemo
devices very soon you can get the full
stories a category IgE slash newsroom
the category finds I TV newsroom search
by Roy W Nash with contributions from
gadget wisdom guru and our community of
viewers if you have a new story thanks
worthy on a worthy of over there
mentioned send us an email
I'm user category five TV on the
category five TV newsroom I'm Hillary
Rumble yeah thanks Hillary no problemo
once again great to have you here
tonight appreciate you being here and
sharing the news with us thank you my
pleasure I always love to be here when I
can you can say hi to Hillary and any of
us here at category 5 in the chat room
category 5 TV this is category 5
technology TV you'll find us online at
triple W category 5 TV and tonight we
are continuing our series on web
development as we take the design that
Krista developed back on episode number
181 and then sliced on episode number
182 and we begin coding it at this point
we've now taken that image and sliced it
up a little bit further how are things
looking on the Mac oh they look great on
the Mac in the file size Oh
are you are you ready for them I'll tell
you what it is on on Linux okay
just based on what we covered just
before the break there before we did the
news 160 6.9 kilobytes is how large that
file was what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
select my new Polaroid background and
the new photo and you'll see that both
of those are now selected and the file
size at the bottom 27.4 kilobytes right
click see I've got both of those photos
highlighted right click properties to
files 27.4 k which is much more
acceptable for the web how's that look
on the map
a little higher
yeah my polaroid just the picture is 147
kilobytes Oh which I could actually
that's going and reduce okay but the
background is 70 kilobytes the
background went down to 70 from yeah the
whole thing together before was $2.99
versus vs. on the GIMP we're just the
background is 7.1 kilobytes so there is
a substantial difference as far as
Photoshop saving files and the GIMP
saving files as far as file size go
you'll find that if you go file save for
web or in your case with cs4 cs5 save
for web and devices I think it's it's
gone yeah that will greatly decrease the
file size so what we're gonna do is
that's the way we're gonna do it I can
delete that original 166 kilobyte file
because we no longer need it and there
we are so our entire website so far all
those images as they are are only 80 1.6
kilobytes it is
indeed even though we we live in a world
where high speed is is pretty much prom
prominent it's very important to think
about the speed of your websites and how
quickly they load it's very very easy to
fall into oh it's a hundred sixty-six
kilobytes just that's fine that'll take
one second to download no big deal right
it's easy to fall into that but you're
right it adds up because then the
customer says well I also want a photo
gallery ok well now the website is 600
kilobytes now it's all of a sudden 2
kilobytes on one page load or 2
megabytes I mean on one page load and
that is just excessive and it can one it
causes you'd be using a lot of bandwidth
unnecessarily as far as the server goes
to it can cause people's browsers to
cache things in such a way that you
don't if you make changes to files they
may not see those changes without having
to redownload the website so it can
cause all kinds of issues but really
it's about having super super speedy
websites that's what we're all going for
and so let's take it to the next level
got this index dot PHP which again I've
downloaded from cat5 dot TV slash web
dev we're going to open that file for me
on Linux I'm gonna open it just by
clicking on display that's gonna bring
it up in G edit first thing I want to do
because it's the first time I've ever
additive PHP files on my G edit
I'm gonna go view highlight mode scripts
PHP it's already selected in my case
there we go and now let's configure G
edit for PHP development go into edit
preferences this is on Linux make sure
enable text wrapping is disabled you
don't want your lines to be split
display line numbers by default they may
be off by turning them on that gives you
a reference point on the left hand
column there highlight current line some
people may like that where your cursor
is gets highlighted
I personally don't display right margin
don't need that highlight matching
bracket that by default is turned off I
believe it's a brilliant feature which
basically is going to allow you to do
things like in PHP
now you'll see if I click on this
bracket here the end bracket is
highlighted so that I know that that's
the bracket because what happens when
you get into nested if statements nested
for each loops and things like that
which you'll learn about is that it can
be hard to keep track of which is your
opening and closing bracket brace and
also that's where indentation comes in
indentation meaning the way that I've
structured the file so that the title is
a part of the head element and so
therefore it's indented sometimes I'll
indent things just for the sake of
separating it out logically there's no
reason that the JavaScript should be
indented from the head however it makes
it stand out as this is strictly the
JavaScript and there's the end of the
script there so then the head ends and
the body begins in the body again we're
gonna indent two spaces or whatever
indentation like being able to highlight
our our braces is gonna allow us to see
visually where a site starts where it
ends this file is set up to load a style
dot C perme style dot CSS so what we're
gonna do is we create a new file
immediately and save it into that folder
and call it style dot CSS this is our
style sheet for the file we're gonna
start with body this is the body tag of
our website background and we're gonna
set a color so we need to get that color
I've set it to black you need to get
that from the GIMP so bring up our
images we're gonna grab that body BG
that was that great big tall thing that
we created the other last week
there it is I'm gonna zoom way in I
can't get hey we're gonna get that very
very bottom color I'm a trooper all
right I am a trooper it's funny cuz it's
not happening to me
if I hilarious I should Coughlin on
lower direction
next week we'll see okay so I've clicked
the Doppler tool selected the bottom
color see how I've scrolled way way down
okay
Krista's following along as well on the
Mac doing the exact same thing in
Photoshop I've got that color and there
it is
800,000 gonna copy that to my clipboard
that is the HTML notation aka
hexadecimal reference for that color so
now if I paste that in remember that you
have to have the pound to specify that
this is the hexadecimal color and then a
semicolon to end off the statement save
that style sheet go back to my index and
you'll see style dot CSS is actually
being loaded by this so even as it is
let's get connected to our FTP and get
this uploaded and you can see this in
real time if you're watching the show
live head over to demo dot cat five dot
TV
there's a folder called zero zero one so
now with FileZilla and upload mic images
index and style that CSS now those are
all up on a server so now if I go to
demo cat five dot TV there's a folder
called zero zero one and you'll notice
that the color is that rich ruby red
so now FileZilla gives us a really cool
thing which is to right-click and go
view or edit and that would allow us to
edit right right within our browser or
right within FileZilla through G edit so
every time you save it automatically
uploads it's brilliant
in this case because we've got a local
copy we're gonna edit locally and then
upload every change zoom in on our style
dot CSS we're gonna go back to our
images folder and we're gonna copy the
file body BG in Linux that's what we're
gonna do in Mac you're gonna have to
type images slash like actually typed it
differently cuz what happens here in
Linux is when I paste it actually gives
me the file location so it's really
really handy so what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna append to background I'm gonna go
URL like that okay I'm gonna paste in
the file reference I'm gonna get rid of
the file locations so it's relative to
the index dot PHP relative to means it
is right there
slash images slash body BG dot jpg okay
now we need to tell it how we want it to
repeat I want to repeat on the
horizontal axis because this is that
great big tall thing we want it to loop
across the site but not down
so we've got repeat - X of course repeat
- y would be vertical and just leaving
it off
we'll make it repeat both now we're
gonna go top so that it automatically
puts it right at the top and it doesn't
Center that background image so now
we've told it the background for body
it's our first CSS file ever so body
element that's basically our website the
background is gonna be this image okay
it's gonna be repeated on the x-axis
it's gonna be aligned to the top of the
site and where it extends where the site
extends beyond the image it's gonna be
that color so I'm gonna save that file
I'm going to upload style dot CSS to my
FTP server refresh and you'll see that I
have that gradient up at the top of the
page that wasn't there before
this is category 5 TV you'll find us
online at triple W category 5 TV and
tonight we are coding our very first
website there we go okay so that's our
background as it is and let's take a
look at that comp dot PSD once again
just to refresh our memory as to how
this thing is gonna be laid out we've
got these elements our logo a menu the
woodgrain with some text and things
floating above it so pretty simple as
far as how we want to position things we
can probably go with absolute
positioning which means the top of the
page becomes the positioning anchor for
everything that is below that the top so
you'll understand that in a little bit
probably next show so aspire logo we
need to find out where we want to put
that but essentially what we're gonna do
first of all so now we're gonna create
our first div
we're gonna call it ID equals rapper and
that rapper is going to help us to
control elements that are within our
website so that they don't fall without
like they don't go outside of this
rapper we're gonna go back to our style
sheet because we've created an ID called
rapper so we're gonna say and just to
test I'm going to create my rapper as
background black and we're just gonna
see what this looks like height 100
picks with 100 picks this is gonna be a
black square if all goes well save both
files and reupload we're only uploading
the files that we've changed
there we go now we have our black box
okay so that is our first div it's
obviously not what we're going for we
just wanted to test because we're just
learning what it's like to create a div
and stylize it at a background one of
the things going back to our edit
preferences in G edit notice I'm just
using a text editor one of the next
things we want to do enable automatic
indentation okay and we can also change
the fonts and colors usually I work with
oblivion it's a little bit more hack or
ask so we can do that if we like for now
we can just use the traditional color
scheme what the automatic indentation
does is you'll notice that these ones
ended up two spaces back if I were to
have automatic indentation on I hit
enter and it's automatically there see
that very nice feature of G edit so
there's our wrapper what we're gonna do
is we're going to change this we're
gonna go height 500 pix
with we need to know the width of the
actual website so we're gonna go back to
our mock-up the comp we're gonna grab
from well you know what the width is
actually going to be that wood grain
because the wood grain extends the
entire width of the page so we want it
to match because we don't want to have
any elements that are breaking the flow
of the website so we're gonna go back to
my images folder here open my wood grain
you'll see that's 951 pixels
okay there's nothing else extending I'm
a little bit silly this way and Krista
knows this about me 951 pixels I'm gonna
actually bring that up in the GIMP I'm
gonna right-click and go image canvas
size uncheck the link here and change it
to 951 I'm actually just gonna slice off
one pixel because I'd rather do that
than to have a website that's off by one
pixel just for the sake of when I copied
it it was off by one pixel so I'm gonna
resave that image I know I'm silly I
just like things to be uniform right so
when I'm typing at 950 pixels 950 it's
one pixel off so now that image is 950
so we're gonna create this website at
950 pixels width remember rapper is
basically going to become our website
the frame of our website and we throw a
red border on that just so that we can
see if we've been successful uploading
it again and refreshing and you can
refresh along with us at demo cat 5 TV
slash 0 0 1 refresh and you'll see there
is a red border that is 950 pixels even
and 500 pixels 500 pixels high so that's
exactly what we're going for
it's working so next step is to Center
the website we want it to be centered on
the page itself so and I leave the
border going because that border is
gonna help us with something I'm gonna
show you in just a few minutes go back
to our wrapper in the CSS I'm going to
go margin:0 auto now that's a little bit
advanced what I'm actually doing there
is I'm saying this is what I'm actually
saying margin left pardon me
margin-left:auto margin-right:auto okay
so that's this statement right here but
then the zero represents margin top zero
margin-bottom zero so this statement
here is saying the exact same thing has
all four lines of these combined so what
I've done is I've streamlined it made it
a lot smaller and again that's gonna
create a smaller CSS file it's gonna be
a faster load time for our website
especially when this file gets large so
now what's gonna happen is save that
zoom out save re-upload my site and go
back here and refresh and you'll see
that that box has now become centered
within the website there's an equal
amount of space at the left as there is
on the right to that red frame I was
talking about leaving this border here
because there's something we need to do
we need to get rid of this a little bit
of space that's there that we have no
control over that little bit of space is
being created by the user's browser so
it's not uniform it's not something that
we have actually specified and it go
back to the body element here we're
gonna remove all margins we're gonna
remove all padding that's the body
element so now because remember the
wrapper is within the body we learn that
when we're looking at indentation I've
uploaded that now if I scroll in and
refresh that border is still there but
it's actually very very close
touching absolutely touching the frame
of the browser so now next week when we
come back we're going to be looking at
actually positioning the elements within
that wrapper we're gonna be able to
place the logo and because it's right up
to the top we're gonna be able to
position that exactly to the mock-up so
that everything looks exactly the way
Krista intended it to look with the with
the site itself when she presented the
mock-up so that's demo dot cat5 dot TV /
2 0 0 1 in order to take a look at where
we're at so far this week and of course
that will be changing over the course of
this demonstration and this tutorial
lesson but you can also
me follow-along act cat5 TV / web dev
we'd love to have you follow along let
us know what you've learned
cool I'm gonna hop over to the chat room
in category 5 TV only got a couple of
minutes left so just wanted to say hey
and see how everyone's doing
if you have any questions for me right
off the top happy to answer them for you
in particular with regards to the
feature hey John
math man cool em agamotto - otto
greg in texas nice to see is lots of
people active in the chat room tonight
let's see
category five is a free service you can
get your questions in through the week
live a category five TV happy to do what
we can to help you with your tech woes
or even just provide tutorials for show
you have to have them do things we'd be
happy to do that tonight we're using
Linux to develop a website and Christa's
over on on the Mac platform are you
following along with the text aspect of
this as well yeah yeah what text editor
you're using I just Dreamweaver Oh dream
leave here okay so Dreamweaver actually
is a commercial application but do you
still have it up yeah no okay it does
the similar kind of thing where it's
gonna colorize which is very helpful
sounds all fancy and stuff but
colorization on your file is actually
very important that's my computer there
we are
so there it is on Christus system very
very similar as far as how that works
and what we'll do there are so many
different editors that you can use
whether you're on Windows Linux Mac
doesn't matter we'll be able to find
something for you that is gonna give you
very similar feature set trying to think
of the one that I use on on Windows but
they don't use it much because I don't
get any windows much but when I do need
to there are there is a good one that I
would recommend so what I'll do is maybe
make a note of that this week and
provide that for you on next week's show
so if you're on Windows platform don't
despair you don't need to use notepad
because that's terrible
let's see if I can find anything
it's just the name cuz it escaped me
yeah I'll get it for next week for us
any other questions in the chat room
nice to see you get your firefox 4
installed if you're using linux tonight
you can get that in it's fantastic
that's Auto you can catch the show at
cat 5 TV slash web dev after the fact if
you want to follow along with our web
development tutorials we're teaching you
how to build a website from scratch
right from the design phase all the way
through to programming and actually
getting an online submitted to search
engines everything
Dom's net is recommending nope nope add
plus plus it's not the one that I have
in mind but certainly that's one of them
that has PHP functions as well doing a
couple quick searches but because it
slipped my figures day
wait I think it's coming back with 30
seconds left of the show
I will get it for you my prominent no
the website that I found for it is I
don't think is the one that I'm looking
for so will that says NetBeans NetBeans
is a good one as well yeah that's like a
full ID so you can check that it but
there are many many ones so by the end
of this it's gonna be a whole repository
at cat5 dot TV slash web dev any
suggestions that you have email us live
at category 5 TV and we will get those
as in as a part of the tutorial as well
so thanks I hope you're having fun and I
can't wait to see you next week and nice
having you here again Krista thanks
again and we'll see you next Tuesday
night yeah
