here are the stories were covering this
week and the category 5 TV newsroom
Equifax as IT leaders have retired as it
the company reveals it knew about the
bug that allowed hackers to access their
data long before it happened
malicious Android apps with more than a
million downloads of slip past Google's
defenses twice Best Buy has pulled
Kaspersky from their store shelves
worried that the Russians are using it
to spy on American computer users and
have you downloaded a CCleaner lately on
one of your Windows machines if you have
you should know that it was loaded with
malware these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category-five TV network by shopping
gearbest
that's the right Jeff cat 5 dot TV slash
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cat 5 TV slash gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you can ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices
did that cellphones you betcha cap 5 TV
slash gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked Android cell phones and tablets
what about computer consumer electronics
those make a great gift
absolutely from hi-tech watches to
action cameras headphones even virtual
reality headsets cat 5 dot TV slash
gearbest has you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb yeah
there's no way they have it all it's
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket it's available for less than $30
plus free shipping at camp five dot TV
slash gear best yeah all right you kind
of got me there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff now
that the winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals on savers oh my
goodness well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's web set again well you're gonna
find your best on our partners pages for
any of your favorite category 5 TV shows
like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat 5 dot TV slash gearbest
so that's easy Tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right happy shopping
I'm Sacha Rickman and here are the top
stories for the week of September 20th
2017 chief information officer and chief
security officer are retiring and the
company has admitted it new Apache
struts needed patching in March but
looks to have fluffed attempts to secure
the software the retirements and more
details about the company's mega breach
are revealed in a new entry to Equifax
the security Equifax security 2017
dot-com in which the company describes
what it knew when it knew it and how it
responded the update reveals that the
attack hit the company's us online
disputes portal web application and that
the source of its woes was CVE - 2017 -
56 30
which allows remote access attackers to
execute arbitrary commands via pound CMD
equals string in a crafted content type
HTTP header equifax acknowledges that
the bug was disclosed in early March
2017 the next point on the company's
list says Equifax the security
organization was aware of this
vulnerability at the time and took
efforts to identify and patch any
vulnerable systems in the company's IT
infrastructure but elsewhere in the
statement Equifax just about confesses
that those efforts either missed the
struts implementation or fail to patch
it properly the company observes
suspicious network traffic on July 29th
continue to monitor network traffic and
observed additional suspicious activity
on the 30th and took offline the
affected web application that day it was
only then that Equifax patched the
affected web application before bringing
it back online
the company says its investigations are
ongoing and that it continues to assist
the FBI with its probe into the matter
researchers recently found at least 50
apps in the official Google Play market
that made that made changes for fee
based services without the knowledge or
permission of users the apps were
downloaded as many as 4.2 million times
Google quickly removed the apps after
the researchers reported them but within
days apps from the same malicious family
we're back and infected more than 5,000
devices the apps all from the family of
malware that security firm checkpoint
calls expensive walls Europe
surreptitiously uploaded phone numbers
locations and unique Hardware ident
identifiers to attacker controlled
servers the apps then use the phone
numbers to sign up unwitting users to
premium services and to sent fraudulent
premium text messages a move that caused
users to be billed checkpoint
researchers didn't know how much revenue
was generated by the apps Google Play
showed that the apps had from 1 million
to 4.2 million down
loads expensive wall named after one of
the individual apps called lovely wall
used a common opps offs for office
keishon technique known as packing by
compressing or encrypting the executable
file before it's uploaded to play
attackers can hide its maliciousness
from google's malware scanners he
included in the package then reassembled
executable once the file was safely on
the targeted device although packing is
more than a decade old Google's failure
to catch the apps even after the first
batch was removed underscores how
effective this technique remains even
after Google removed the apps from play
many phones will remain affected
infected until users explicitly
uninstalled the malicious titles Google
reminds users that a security feature
known as play protect previously called
verify apps will automatically remove
malicious act apps from affected phones
u.s. big big box retailer Best Buy has
pulled from its shelves capper skis lab
labs PC security software admit fears of
Kremlin spies using the antivirus tool
to snoop on Americans despite there
being no concrete evidence to indicate
that the security software is a threat
the retail chain is ending its long
relationship with Kasper Kaspersky a
Best Buy spokesperson confirmed on
Friday as to the reasoning the store
chain has just said that it doesn't
comment on contracts with specific
vendors it was a lousy week for
Kaspersky on Monday US Senator jeanne
shaheen introduced an amendment to the
National Defense Authorization Act that
would ban Kaspersky software from any
federal computer following on from her
earlier band on the software being used
by the Department of Defense she said
because Kaspersky service
servers are in Russia sensitive United
States data is constantly cycled through
haha a hostile country under Russian
laws and according to this Percy's lab
certificate certification by Russian
Security Service FSB the company is
required to assist
to the spy agency in its operations and
the FSB can assign agency officers to
work at the company
Russian law requires telecommunication
services service providers such as
Kaspersky Lab to install communication
interception equipment that allows the
FSB to monitor all of the company's data
transmissions do you use CCleaner on
your Windows machines the official build
was laced with malware antivirus firm
Avast has admitted inadvertently
distributing a trojan eyes version of
ccleaner a popular PC to tune-up tool
for nearly a month infecting an
estimated 2.2 7 million users Cisco
Talos Cisco Talos discovered the servers
distributing the program were leveraged
to deliver malware to unsuspecting
victims
researchers explained pardon me for a
period of time the legitimate site
version of CCleaner 5.33 being
distributed by Avast also contained a
multi-stage malware payload that wrote
on top of the installation of CCleaner
on September 13 2017 Cisco's Hallows
immediately notified Avast of our
findings so that they could initiate
appropriate response activities
apparently attackers hijacked and hid
malware inside versions of Avast
ccleaner application by application
available for download between August
15th and September 12th anyone who
downloaded the 5.33 version or updated
their existing product during this
timeframe became infected with a covert
backdoor capable of spying on everything
they did big tanks this week - Roy W
Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting story sauce this week thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your attack news with
a slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
sorry Richmond
[Music]
[Applause]
