a Canadian telus mobility customer lost
his cell phone mm-hmm so it could happen
any one it can happen you might want to
cancel your service at that point maybe
you think oh well maybe it's you know
touching the cushion somewhere maybe I
left it at a friend on our summer like
yeah you don't necessarily think
somebody and running around the world
with my smartphone well that's kind of
know what it seems happen because they
got a bill that was well over there
regular 64 dollars per month in the
range of twenty four thousand dollars it
seems laughably hi like that's
ridiculously high I think they were to
eventually catch on and just say
something that many something's wrong
here but that's yeah they do catch on
and they say okay well we need to verify
this we got to figure out what's going
on here so what do they do they send a
text message to the person using the
phone and say no no is this really you
and you know are you sure you want to
run up this bill and you have to be
reply whoever it is is going to reply
yes yes please I met in cash advance and
let's just ran money while we're at it
well tonight we're going to be speaking
with a gentleman who's been on the show
before you remember him from episode
number 4 79 of category 5 technology TV
just back in November when we spoke
about a compromising attack on a local
casino cuz I drama here in Ontario
Canada Robert cap Robert caps pardon me
is is the vp of business development for
vancouver-based new data security and
basically what they do is they predict
and prevent online fraud for companies
and I'm going to let him share a little
bit more about new data and what they do
Robert it is so great to see you thanks
for joining us once again tonight thanks
for having me now could you just for the
for the viewers who maybe didn't catch
episode number 4 79 I'd like to give you
a chance right off the bat just to
introduce your company this is new data
security you can find out more about
them and now it's nu not any W so new
data security com I'll give you a chance
just to introduce yourself Robert
sure yeah rubber caps from new native
security we do a positive consumer
identification online so so you've seen
multi-factor authentication you've seen
those challenges text messages pincodes
whatever they happen to be we do all of
that stuff behind the scenes without
friction and allowing our customers to
understand who the real customers are
when they're interacting and this you
know this is a case we're talking off
the top of the show I'm sure you heard
where this this particular gentleman in
Canada here had this Telus bill that
went through the roof and tell us as am
i right provider just so you know and so
you know what what does tell us really
do in order to protect their users to
make sure that the user who is operating
the cell phone is in fact the the end
user that's paying the bill it's a
really hard problem because a lot of the
technology that there are a lot of the
techniques that folks use to do
identification of the legitimate user
have to do with that one of the three
main factors that we look at it's either
something you know like a password or a
passcode something you are so a physical
biometric like a fingerprint or an is
iris scan traditionally or something you
have like a cell phone right a lot of
people has they carry their phone around
with them it's always in their pocket
unless of course they've lost it in this
case it looks like the carrier was
relying on the presence of that physical
phone being in the possession of
legitimate account holder band and that
sounds good it sounds like two factor
authentication but when you are the
mobile provider and you're yeah yeah
vile phone as the authentication
mechanism it seems like there's a little
bit of a disconnect there from security
that standpoint yeah I mean there's also
the concept that if the phone is gone
for a significant period of time you
might want to report it to your carrier
right it's a lot like a credit card or
even the debit card or even a checkbook
right vessel they feel about how quickly
do you know just in this particular this
is how quickly do you jump on oh well
maybe my phone has been stolen because
it may think that you just lost it
between the couch cushions or the right
hid it somewhere somewhere for the
weekend and then you think okay well
I'll just be back there in a couple of
weeks I'll just tell them you know right
yeah I know it's right with my phone and
the holes of fun but they may also want
to hold the surface yeah and we put it
on hold me yeah you know the best thing
for consumer to do is to call the
carrier immediately and say hey I can't
find my phone can you help me with it
right they might be able to locate where
it is I may be able to sing it and
identify a general region where you
might have left it but in the case where
it's stolen or missing you know it get
that reporter to the carrier as quickly
as possible to minimize any
possibilities now it isn't just the
physical phone loss that causes these
sort of a scenarios to happen we've seen
since we've seen situations where
someone impersonates legitimate user and
has a brand new song out of the account
taking picking over the old person's
phone and phone number and such and
basically just tricking the call centers
and then rolling a new phone on the
customer's account not just as charged
up the bills but also to take possession
of their cell phone number so they can
get SMS messages and things from the
bank in order to commit fraud so you
know the cell phone really has become
the gateway to consumers identity not
just you know for the purpose of billing
in a huge some of the money as people
travel but also as that second factor
for authentication for high-value
transactions sure now how big of an
issue is this is this something that we
you know carrying a smartphone in our
pockets that we really need to be
concerned with at this point yes you
know yeah absolutely yeah any technology
of pocket I would be worryin the day and
age with malware and other sorts of
attacks being present when we talk about
things like cell phones being second
authenticators you know we're so
attached to them as soon as they go
missing in our pockets we tend to notice
faster than we noticed that a credit
card is missing or a checkbook or even
cash so I mean from that perspective at
least we're in a good position to to
know when these things go missing pretty
quickly and you know you can then you
know take take the right steps to to get
that maybe device deactivated or or or
in some way shape or form secure that
that access but at the end of the day
right it is yet another form factor
authentication that we have is yet
another device you have to keep track of
and you know the consumer really needs
to be aware that there are so many
things tied to this technology and they
may not think about
day to day basis right we're speaking
with Robert caps from new data security
he says data I say data that's just a
minute now okay when I think about you
know I see so many customers and people
who and we have viewers on the show who
have who have had accounts compromise we
had one this week who had a gmail
account compromised and not at all
related to their phone but if I lost my
phone and if we found out you know if we
were that person who oh my goodness
somebody is using my phone what kind of
things can those compromising users do
with my phone what can they do that I
need to be concerned about because
sometimes we think well it doesn't
really matter I'll just cancel my fam
service and but what are the what are
the threats any data on there can be
used against you so if you think about
what data might be stored on the device
you think about your address book in a
smartphone really it has it has fields
for date of birth it has fields for
family members you know the assistants
name for her business contact
anniversaries all of these data points
that are useful potentially to it to a
to a processor or a hacker to assume
someone's identity maybe not even your
own so this is just your own information
you're losing on a device it could be
that of your friends and family or
business associates and so you know it
is it really it really is incumbent on
the owner of that device the person
retaining that data on that mobile
mobile phone to take every step possible
to secure it you know inclusive of
things like pasta codes of device every
major smartphone today has the ability
for you to enable a passcode for that
theoretically only you can access it who
you've got more advanced films and out
biometric locks you know like like like
the Apple touch ID and they're similar
things coming in from Samsung and
kyocera and other manufacturers of
devices are producing these these
physical biometric unlock capabilities
using those technologies using the
ability to do remote wiping of the
device through your service provider or
through the phone manufacturer all very
important things to protect the data on
they sound really important Robert but
they also found very
flex and and as a parent I mean we
talked about yeah add up for add some
protection add some two-factor
authentication to unlock your phone and
and these kyra so but if my kids are
playing a game on my phone and and all
of a sudden it goes to sleep they need
to come to me to get me to unlock it and
as a parent we know and I'm sure there
are viewing on that hasn't going yeah
you know what I have that disabled
specifically because my kids are using
my device and and that can lead to
problems it can even jump even just as
recently a couple of days ago I reached
my data cap on my phone which was we
gotta cops know that I need no idea ya
know that i had my Wi-Fi turned off i
have Wi-Fi at home I so I have a low
data service thing and I had I had
forgotten that i turned my Wi-Fi off so
I'd reach my cat ok so my provider who
isn't tell us but still texted me you're
at ninety percent right now right
respond with one to increase by a
certain number of megabytes Gordon 2241
I'm so bad I can get you right through
this is right right this has crtc
written all over it regulations that
have been put in place by the Canadian
government so that when we're on our
mobile devices those kinds of things
happen so i press to and bright but and
so i added like an extra twenty dollars
to my bill to save myself to thirty-five
dollars right 4,000 I but at the same
time if it wasn't me right like yeah how
did they know that right what and they
couldn't and we're going to we're going
to talk about that in just a moment
Robert because I know there are some
solutions out there but just backing up
for just a moment because I think it's
important to note we're talking about
and you brought to mind the thought of
identity theft and it sounds so serious
and it sounds like one of those things
that could never happen to me but we're
starting to see more and more for
example CEO identity theft and it's not
even somebody compromising my accounts
and locking me out of my bank accounts
and out of my personal data or
traveling the world on my passport it's
not that we can't think of identity
theft as that big because what can
happen as you know Robert somebody could
find a ceo's phone or somebody who's at
a certain level that is a buyer for a
company and is able to then message
somebody within the company and say okay
I'm in the Caymans I need you to
transfer $10,000 to my account right
away now yeah and because they now
appear to be that person so the identity
theft is not even a grand scheme it's
just simply I've got the contacts I know
the names of the people to reach out to
and I can trick them into thinking you
know using tactics that we see in
phishing scams and things like that
social engineering to trick people into
transferring funds and so this is a
really really big issue but what as
sasha was alluding to what can people do
that are just average users i bring up
c128 d commented on our youtube channel
and said here's the problem even if we
are capable technologically of creating
a dummy proof technological
infrastructure the problem is that it
would be so unwieldy and so complicated
that the average computer user who is
probably not even qualified to use a
computer would not be able to operate it
so there has to be a fine line so what
can we do because it is just average
users who are in companies so how can
how can companies truly protect
themselves oh man there's a lot of
questions in there look at me go a
little bit yeah we were talking about
identity theft and one of the things
that I think it's mixed up a little bit
in the media specifically is that
identity theft has a very specific
definition and that is where someone
uses your information your identity
information your name your address date
of birth maybe your family's family
information to open new credit in your
name or to access an account that has
value that we already have not by using
those data points what we're talking
about here specifically is impersonation
of a legitimate user
and this has been a scheme we've been
seeing for a long time with with
broad-reaching effect especially at the
treasury management the CEO level of an
organization these schemes tend to
happen after the credentials for an
email account have been taken
specifically the CEOs credentials for
their email account now if you get a
hold of their physical phone with the
credentials already embedded and makes
it that much easier but it's a little
harder to get ahold of those phones to
enact those sorts of attacks in mass to
do traditionally we'll see these things
happen just through key logging or
malware or some other technological
scheme to get that consent that CEOs
username and password and they'll just
login to webmail look send the message
without ever having to have physical
access to the individual of their
devices at all and and and you know what
do you do in those cases if you're an
employee in the treasury management
department or accounting department or
whoever it happens to be and you get a
weird request don't action on it pick up
the phone and call them and if you can't
get ahold of that person call their
assistant call someone else and other
travel plans there are places you can go
to verify those interactions these sort
of scheme happen because people
inherently want to please their their
employers they want to do whatever they
can to do a good job for them and end to
to be responsive to their needs and so
people that are using these sort of
attacks are preying on the human human
behavior and basically that people want
to be helpful and they expect that these
be more dramatic and the more demanding
the request the fact or someone's going
to react to it trying to be helpful and
you know if anyone gets one of these
like I said pick up the phone make a
phone call to someone of authority in
the organization just verify this person
really is in the Cayman Islands me as a
million bucks wired right now yeah it
sounds like simple but but that's that's
the best way to sort these sort of
issues it's out of the ordinary take em
phone and ask very good okay we're
speaking with Robert caps from new data
security we've got to take a really
quick break and when we come back we're
going to flip the coin take the
different approach the opposite approach
and say you know hey what can companies
do to recognize whether the person they
are talking to is in fact the
consumer their customer stick around
we're gonna be right back after this
Jeff Westham Yellin you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
alright you're terrible actor what this
we're acting comes into play I don't
know where Arctic you're supposed to add
okay building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own comm
site to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site five sign up cat five dot TV /
dreamhost don't potato the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folk fest feel you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost welcome back
this is category five technology TV and
this evening we are speaking with Robert
caps from new data security and we're
talking about well we're using the
example of a recent attack that happened
by simply well not even attack but
somebody lost their phone and a person
who found it ran up a twenty four
thousand dollar bill Robert great to
have you here free beer Robert when we
when we think about this okay so we're
looking at let's say the mobility
provider they sent a text message to the
VA end user or so they thought that said
hey we're about to hit that cap just
like Sasha had do you want to authorize
this and of course the end user who was
not the actual person paying the bill
said yes what can companies lower yeah
what can companies like that mobility
provider do in order to do a better job
of protecting their end users yeah is so
first and foremost using the device
they've issued to the consumer and
verifying that's the legitimate device
using the techniques that they have they
can they can verify the devices as
serial number on the IM can be you know
is the same device that's on the network
that they issued to the customer they
can verify that that device hasn't been
tampered with and that it's still
geographically in a specific area they
can do these sort of things behind the
scene to do some verification of whether
or not the device is where it should be
when a device is lost when physical
device is lost that's very difficult for
an organization to be able to Texas
pecially if it stays within the same
geographic region that normally does in
the case where the bill gets that high
you know going over by twenty or thirty
dollars it's pretty easy to send them a
text messages verify when you get over a
thousand you might need to make a phone
call of a customer and just verify some
additional information the other thing
that can be done is to push those
customers back to the the web portal to
log in and verify their credentials and
maybe do some additional verification
that it still possess the device yeah
that makes a lot of sense so I could see
them picking up the phone and calling
the customer's cell phone and actually
saying yeah what is your date of birth
what is where their home phone
that big of a billion already jar
because they might have that I did the
device that could be locked yeah very
good okay do we have any questions
coming in the chat room join us on cat
its category 5 on freenode if you have
any questions we're speaking with Robert
caps from new data security and it's
always a pleasure having you here Robert
what we hear about two-factor
authentication and I think about this in
terms of our login credentials for
websites and things like that obviously
it doesn't help us if we lose something
like a passport or some other personally
identifying information our wallet and
things like that but we're in a
progressively more and more digital
world where our cell phone becomes our
wallet our cell phone becomes our
personal identification our
communications device so is there is two
factor authentication something that is
going to fix this thank you know a
little bit of a leading question so
what's your multi factor is really what
we talked about it isn't just looking at
two factors is looking as many factors
as we can about the consumers
interaction the behavior in real time to
make an assessment of whether or not
they are physically present in that
interaction and you know and if they are
just verifying that it is the right
person so when we talk about
multi-factor authentication again it's
something you have like a cell phone or
one of those little two-factor tokens
that if you ever seen a bank employee or
a corporate employee how there's a
little thing from the keychain with the
numbers rotates all the time this is
something you physically have that it's
provable to you they're a good example
of something you have that everybody has
in their wallet a chip and pin card the
chip card itself is a factor of
authentication that is something you
physically have issue juice by the banks
that can be verified by the bank when
it's placed into the slot reader
something you are again we talked about
physical biometrics but also its
behavior when we go online using a
fingerprint irish scam it's not really
easy to use in most online interactions
but how you use your device how you type
your username and password how you go
through the motions of interacting with
a form a login form you know
even down to your behaviors of whether
or not use the tab key to move between
form fields or use the mouse all these
things are very unique to an individual
human so when you take the things they
have like a device or a car or a past
code generator you take things that they
are like the behavior and some of the
physical interactions they make with
their technology any couple that with
things they know like you use them or
password or secret questions or even you
know knowledge of their credit history
or where they've lived in the past or
what color cars they don't when you take
all those things together along with the
context of where they're interacting
from and the other signals are available
in our online such transaction you get a
very clear picture of whether or not
this consumer is really severe and and
so you know in a lot of cases the reason
why we can't tell who someone is at the
other end of the wire so they haven't
looked enough of the data points that
are available to us to evaluate so is
this an issue of needing a technological
solution that just doesn't exist yet to
really get there or is this all about
educating not just the end users to
protect themselves but also the the
people who work for these companies to
know that okay I need to pick up the
phone and call this customer like is
that just now it's just an educational
thing there's no silver bullet I mean is
there's no one solution security is a
series of layers if you think of it that
way you know some people will say the
layers of an onion or even the layers of
gumball if you think about it on the EO
at the end of the day you need a healthy
dose of education for those users to
know that there are threats and to you
know to understand that you know they
need to ask questions if it's something
doesn't smell quite right human
intuitions are really good a really good
arbitrate of risk and then you know on
top of that we need technology you know
everything I've talked about today so
far our real-world technologies that
exist today and can be adopted by
organizations they just either choose
not to because you know they don't
believe that the risks are there for
them as too small the problems to deploy
that you know technology that might be
expensive or difficult I think a lot of
times we think that these attacks are
tar
and quite often they're not there
they're very blanketed you know
attacking vulnerable systems and that's
as simple as it is yeah I mean if you go
either way it really depends what
they're after when we see CEO attacks
when we see issues where they're trying
to get to the to the CFO account so they
can issue orders to transact those are
very targeted attacks they're not
generally you know crimes of opportunity
they've done their homework they have
the org charts for for who in the
organization we need to contact whose
accounts need to take over and they're
very deliberate about going after those
people when we talk about general
consumers not so much on the targeted
side it's very opportunistic you know
their data was released in a data breach
there might be a phishing attack that's
against that consumer based on the email
address that was stolen may their name
and some other information to make that
attack look legitimate um where we see
use names and passwords stolen we see
those run across the login pages of the
top 500 websites ecommerce banking
whatever they happen to be and and
they'll run those database they're
looking for overlap and valid account
and they know that consumers that they
tend to reuse the same user names and
passwords over and over again and so
there's going to be a hit rate for them
and they'll go after those account I
think here in Canada more so than then
it maybe in the States the consumer is
also the like there's so many mom and
pop shops up here north of the border
there's so many small businesses that
are just you know at six or ten people
that really each individual is just a
consumer they're not educated in cyber
security right they're not a copy in any
way which leads me to dooley's question
Julie to do Leda Vulcan do it are there
tools for dummies to put in to use for
protection so people right aren't really
talking guys rule yeah so like for
people who need like relatives that need
protected or like right if you work in a
small office and maybe some of you or
more savvy than others you know yeah I
would think about you know six to ten
you know right smbs or even vs be very
you're not going to invest a hundred
thousand dollars in endpoint protection
alright so what can I do well I mean
when you talk
endpoint protection you're talking about
that few of number of employees you're
talking about commercial products to be
honest you're looking for the same
products that a consumer would possibly
deploying their own you know laptop or
PC on in those cases you know any
off-the-shelf malware solutions that
have you know in diverse malware and
potentially even web content filtering
right those products are going to have
some capabilities to help against some
of these attacks but keep in mind the
attacks for their most powerful are the
ones that are not against the technology
but against the human psyche they're the
really confident attack those are cons
those that have just moved online their
confidence cancer they're trying to prey
on people's desire to respond quickly
and be helpful to other humans and you
know they're looking for you to you know
just there or or they're trying to prey
on your fear of online transactions you
see a lot of phishing attacks disguised
as account warnings that someone's tried
to access your account please login
right now so we can protect you no
better way to get someone to jump on
that right now is I think they're about
to be scams only to be scammed so I mean
it's just that's that's the kind of
thing that it's really hard to protect
against those schemes in those scenarios
and so it comes down to the not
necessarily the consumers to protect
themselves and may need to educate
themselves whether they're a small
business or an actual at home consumer
education first like we'll figure out a
way to get people aware there are
problems and questioning things yeah
I've been on glad yeah but beyond that
it's up to their institutions they do
business with for banking it's up to
their e-commerce providers they do
business the suppliers website then they
are taking the steps to make sure that
when someone comes in logging in as them
that their accounts are protected and
through multi-factor authentication or
keep strokin gesture verification or
Cassandra whatever happens to be a nun
thinking about you know how these things
fall so flat in like you online banking
that ask the name of your dog as a
second factor yeah what okay well what's
your favorite food most people are
probably gonna say past
maybe pizza yeah didn't so you know it
kind of falls flat so if it's if there's
not a technological solution and it's
largely about education and that's what
we're hearing here tonight from our
guest Robert Capps who joins us from new
data security calm and that's nu so I
get the impression that we really need
to educate ourselves that's really what
it boils down to because if the entire
declare their tactics is what they are
right there tapping into our fears and
tricking us into doing things that we
shouldn't do and we probably know we
shouldn't do but by the time you get
there and you realize oh I'm being
scammed it might be too late and that's
you know not always the case maybe
you've lost your phone and someone's
walked away with it it's all about
education and knowing that we need to
now follow up with our provider and
cancel service or get them to track down
at the phone through geolocation
technology sorry now we need to
understand though for those consumers
who are getting these demands / text
message or email or anything else most
legitimate corporations and institutions
are not going to put dire warnings and
tell you if you didn't click on this
link you're gonna have your attention
they're not going to send those via
email they're going to pick up the phone
they're going to call you as a consumer
or they're going to send you a letter to
your registered address they're not
going to do these some of these emails
because they know these organizations
know that that is the techniques
extinguished by the fraudsters and so
they're going to educate consumers
they'll never make those demands over
you as an end user consumer you still
can't win because you've registered a
dot-com and your name and your address
are part of the who is which is a public
record and so you're getting these fake
banking query use and things like that
and so you know you can't win so where
can we go to get more education I mean
there's their podcasts like category 5
technology TV that deal a lot with cyber
security there are you know security
blogs out there do you have resources
for us that you can recommend that yes
to keep us safe there's a great resource
in the stay safe online campaign that
has been I know it's been translated
into a number of different
languages and localized to a number of
different places around the world so I
mean I I'd have to go look up the actual
URL for each country country but I think
it's a day stay safe online org in the
US and canada and then it goes beyond
that into other countries as well that's
a great resource great educational
content it's focused not only on
consumers but also small businesses and
other areas and you know it's a great
place to start and it will point you in
other directions as well but just
understanding through there are risks
that the internet is not necessarily a
safe place if you don't know what you're
doing you know it isn't to dissuade
people from you know don't think online
during those things I'm not saying that
at all the internet is a very safe place
to transact business if you can follow
some distinct rules and just keep your
wits about you it's like walking down a
street at night in a town you're not
familiar with you don't just hang out
you know all the money out of your
pockets and you pull the chains out
there all visible and things you take
precautions to look around and
understanding where you're at and you
need to sort of blend in and when
someone walks up to you and says yeah
I'm with the bank I need you to give me
money v-guard yeah be skeletal October
to the branch of attack we'll talk there
it's like you know the famous saying
from TV trust no one and I hate to say
it but really we have to take that
approach where we just don't be too
overly automatically trusting of
everything that comes into your inbox or
every phone call that comes to your to
your telephone because there are people
have to get you that even leads me right
back to the Ted the poor guy from telus
yeah we're not from telus the poor guy
that we know and not you know that is
not about tell us this could happen to
any prior for sure but he probably
thought entrusted that oh yeah if my
account looks weird for sure able to
shut it down like they're not going to
let me run 65 thousand dollars worth of
dead boy without shutting it down what
if that was his only source of contact a
lot of people don't have anything but
their cell phones sure right so he
didn't have a way to contact tell list
now I'm in his defense I'm obviously on
his defense team
yeah I'd be very surprised if he ended
up paying any of even a moderate
fraction of that bill at the end of the
day because you know it appears that
that well I mean just I'm only seeing
what's in the media so far but it
appears like there might have been a
failure to to really put up put
constraints on that account when it was
clearly going in this normal spin
pattern we're speaking with Robert caps
from new data security you can find
their website at new data security com
and that's spelled nu you see that the
bottom of your screen thank you so much
for joining us once again here Robert we
appreciate you sharing your knowledge is
there anything that we haven't covered
here tonight oh man we said hi know much
but if you're sitting at home right now
and you're watching this whether you be
watching live or whether you're watching
this on demand maybe you're on YouTube
watching this after the fact make sure
you send us an email you can actually
contact us at live at category five dot
TV and if there are some questions that
we can help you through whether it be
with regards to cybersecurity or just
keeping your identity safe or protecting
your customers because really that's
what this is all about is is taking that
approach and realizing that hey we need
to we need to think about our end users
our customers as well as ourselves and
protect their identities then please
email us live at category 5 TV and
Robert is there a way we can contact you
directly or through the company yes so I
my website or the website you you talk
about new data security com starting
with nu that it has contact information
and a way to get in touch to the company
I'm also almost all the time also on
Twitter at RW caps so I also follow me
there but yeah well plenty of playing
with you go to touch with me or the
company thanks again for sharing your
knowledge and we appreciate your time
tonight thank you take care all the best
take care
[Music]
