here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV Ruth newsroom
Apple has been ordered to remove some
iPhone models from its stores in Germany
over a patent dispute with chip giant
Qualcomm Windows 10 Home Edition will
finally let you turn off automatic
updates hey I could reduce the tech in
your smartphone and a hidden world in
the NES Legend of Zelda was just
uncovered thirty years later these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
it's like Linux bias Jeff Westen Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what aren't you you're a
terrible actor what this where acting
comes into play you're supposed to act
ok I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than $6 per month
so sign up today cat 5 TV / dream host
I'm Sasha Rickman in here the top
stories were following this week Apple
has been ordered to remove some iPhone
models from its stores in Germany over a
patent dispute with chip giant Qualcomm
a court ruling in Munich on December
20th found Apple had infringed patents
on power saving technology on Thursday
Qualcomm paid a 1.3 billion dollar bond
trillion euro bond allowing the ban on
iPhone 7 and 8 models to go ahead the
bond will fund damages awarded to Apple
if the iPhone maker wins an appeal
against the injunction the German case
is Qualcomm's third attempt at blocking
the sale of iPhones the california-based
chip maker has made patent infringement
claims against Apple in the US and China
already
court ruling in Munich included the sale
of iPhones by third-party sellers such
as mobile phone operators shops and
other retailers as well as those sold in
Apple's 15 branded outlets however Apple
and some observers believe third-party
sellers will be able to continue selling
the iPhone models in question the iPhone
XS iPhone XS Macs and iPhone X our
models will still be available at Apple
stores and from other retailers when the
initial judgment was announced in
December Apple said that it would appeal
the decision an Apple spokesman at the
time said Qualcomm's campaign is a
desperate attempt to distract from the
real issues between our companies
qualcomm insists on charging exorbitant
fees based on the work they didn't do
and they are being investigated by
governments all around the world for
their behavior under German law
judgments become enforceable once the
winner of the patent dispute posts pawns
covering potential damages incurred by
the losing party in case the judgment is
overturned or amended on appeal in early
December Qualcomm won an injunction
against Apple that also banned the sale
of some iPhone models in China ranging
from the iPhone 6s to the iPhone X that
ban was the result of a different
dispute concerning software patents
however Apple said all its iPhone models
remains on sale in China following a
software update from Apple and a pending
further legal ruling there well isn't
that convenient you can just push out an
update yeah BAM I don't know what you're
talking about Qualcomm we're fine
doesn't have what you said it had say
what I just can't get is like I know
people who work for Apple and a lot of
their stuff is internally designed built
like you know a friend I know it like
well but chips and technology can be
from blueprints and from reverse
engineering I guess I don't know I just
and in this case it's like bad blood
between two companies who have work to
guess
right and that's the thing with this one
I'm thinking they did have a
relationship at one point it's fallen
apart and now they're just you know
they're nitpicky with each other but the
question becomes at what point does the
line between the coordinated efforts
separate between well that I said that
and therefore it's my idea therefore you
have to pay me like I don't want to deal
with patent infringement stuff for yeah
like no thank you way too technical
right
it feels like it's one of those things
that will flip-flop like you'll you'll
win and then you'll lose on appeal and
then you'll appeal that appeal and win
again like it just feels like it's that
sort of you know my Germany is it just
was it specifically I think because of
the bond practice in German is that why
the ability for a company to be able to
pay to have them stopped selling iPhones
you know you think with all the like is
Germany a massive company for iPhone se
oh yeah massive market absolutely yeah
like I would think oh you know and while
the challenge in Canada no well well cuz
Germany you think about Germany has a
market yeah it's huge but it also
influences other like European countries
right so you're you're really looking at
it's like you're stabbing it in the
heart there and and you know there's
gonna be ripple effects if the appeal
doesn't go through for Apple yeah okay
yeah I don't I'm not a legal guy you're
more in that end of things but that's
that's my perspective that's yeah and I
stay away from it because a lot of it is
like he said she said oh I'm I'm I
invented that right well I got the paper
to show I did oh well are mine is a
little bit different well yeah who has
the original patent that is if I were
the judge and I know nothing really
about Nikola Tesla right guaranteed
exactly that that's just how it would go
I mean you're really the rightful owner
of the idea and then you would write be
when you have a device that
millions of ideas in it right then it
becomes a really tough situation I again
I'm not interested or into patent
legalities and things but I can see that
it could be very very tough right on one
hand it kind of looks a bit and it piggy
on the other hand it kind of looks like
well just because you're a big company
you can't just take take my ideas right
Qualcomm is just trying to get a handle
on some market share Qualcomm has other
contracts well sure they do those
contracts will continue during the
litigation but why like I feel like if
they're gonna be known as that that
company that goes out there and kind of
legally tries to beat people up people
are gonna eventually say I don't want to
deal with you except when you are also a
company that is innovative and has the
product that the industry is begging for
right because we don't know if they're
actually trying to beat it beat them up
or whether or not they're just trying to
stand their ground and not be bulldozed
sure right cuz it could be that if I was
a company that manufactures a particular
component of a particular device and it
so use this Apple contract to build up
my company and now my company's
established now okay you know what we're
not going to take anything from you
we've got all these other contracts
we're working on and there are some
exciting things coming down the wire and
we know that Apple their entire release
mentality is let's hold back the
features right let's cut off the
features that we can have so that then
we can push for the next generation
that's right so that the next generation
come out and you have to buy that
because that has that feature that we
could have done three years ago but we
refused sure so there's that aspect of
it as well
Windows 10 Home Edition will finally let
you turn off automatic updates since the
initial release of Windows 10 back in
2015 users have continued to ask window
or Microsoft to give them control over
when and if they should install the
latest Windows updates trying to avoid
the disastrous Android like
fragmentation issues Microsoft pushes
monthly security and feet
your updates to every machine running
Windows 10 but they have more than often
resulted in compatibility issues and
other minor bugs and problems if not
major issues while the reasoning behind
aggressively pushing updates might be
legit
it isn't a user-friendly system when the
consumer is scared of the latest updates
breaking their machines Windows 10 Pro
users have are already have controls to
pause Windows updates but the settings
have remained different for Windows 10
home users up until now the upcoming
Windows 10 April 2019 of date is slated
to finally bring this control to Windows
10 home users currently being tested by
windows insiders the next version of
Windows codenamed 19 h1 shows this
change in its Windows Update settings
when paused Windows 10 won't install any
new updates for seven days you can then
either resume the updates when you are
ready to install the update or Windows
will resume installing them itself once
the seven day period expires if
everything goes as planned this setting
should arrive to all Windows 10 home
users when the next update arrives in
April well seven days might not sound
like enough time to sum Windows 10 users
the fact is Microsoft wants to keep as
many Windows 10 machines on the latest
version as possible that said it would
be nice if Microsoft would trust its
users to have their own reasons for
delaying or deferring certain updates
specifically since the company has quite
a history of delivering broken updates
and that's been growing to I I had it
happen last night I was uploaded I
upload a lot of video and I was
uploading them a show that has to be
online it's supposed to be online this
morning
so I uploaded on Tuesday nights and it
uploads overnight well I got up and saw
my laptop and windows have rebooted
during the upload it got to 98% and was
cut off because we must have rebooted it
so I was just like I wish I could just
turn off these updates and so yeah seven
days sucks yes really
like just let me decide when I want to
run my updates I love that I can do sudo
get update right enter when I want to do
it
on Linux Windows is not how Windows
rolls like that is just not it I mean
they they have now given you a seven-day
grace period and for them that's
generous so to be fair that seven-day
grace period would have helped me had I
thought last night right and if my
laptop happened to have that feature oh
well I'm about to upload a video I will
pause updates for seven days right but I
have to still remember to do that wise
it resets itself after seven days and it
keeps doing it and rebooting whenever it
feels like it's spectacularly bad for a
company that when I shut down my
computer's at work and I see that my
only option is update and shutdown it
gives me anxiety
mm-hm that's a bat is it gonna turn on
the next day right so I shut down the
computer so I today yeah so tomorrow
morning I'm gonna go in hoping
everything fires up now many times it
does and sometimes it doesn't right so
it's a gamble yeah and it's scary so if
I could pause that and then no okay well
what if I make it so that it just
updates at the end of my week right that
way I at least have the whole weekend if
sign for it right yeah instead of just
these random this is one we're doing it
updates
yeah yeah for me the Windows 10 updates
suck because I have an older version of
Photoshop on my computer you know I
think it's like 6 or 7 years old like I
haven't operated cuz I just I don't have
the I don't do don't want to pay for
their cloud service well yeah I don't
want it now that subscription fee but
something has transpired over the years
where now when Windows doesn't update it
wipes out my key know it's long software
but it wipes out the key but the problem
is you can't activate it their
activation server is gone right and so
now in order to get it to work I
literally every time Windows doesn't
update have to uninstall and reinstall
Photoshop oh my goodness drives me
hmm I so I hate that windows girls we're
gonna make those hoppin and seven days
quite frankly that's just a slap in the
face that's that's not it would have
helped me last night right it's better
than nothing like it's seven days it
would give me time to get to the end of
the work week
yeah it'll get you to your weekend
parent yet so presumably you know
hopefully you don't have anything going
on that weekend I was in the middle of
running financial numbers and stuff last
night I do a bunch of accounting for
company I'm with and I didn't notice the
alert for the update in the middle of
logging super sad I know I it's not fun
at all post your comments below about
Windows 10 updates your experiences give
us a thumbs up for liking this video
don't give us a thumbs down for hating
Microsoft updates okay it wasn't us who
likes Microsoft updates i bill only know
one yeah I'm talking about Bill Gates we
not not Bill Maher's all right bill
Marshall despises Windows updates yes
yes not for them hey I could reduce the
tech in your smart phone this after I
get 855 and XCX chips that Qualcomm
announced at its Snapdragon summit last
month include big leaps in virtually
every significant benchmark such as CPU
and GPU performance the demonstrations
made some of the strongest cases to date
about how AI based computations can
enhance the smartphone experience beyond
the photo enhancements that has been the
one of the leading manifestations to
date it begins with the most primal use
for your smartphone making voice calls
by using AI to identify the voice of the
speaker a phone would be able to
virtually eliminate any back
ground noise from a call be it some
reserved office chatter or a loud city
street noise this capability extended
far beyond that of even today's best
noise canceling technology and into the
realm of noise elimination another
demonstration showed the ability to
improve the focus and blur of a photo
that had already been taken or to change
it after the fact a third showed the
ability to change the hair color on the
fly of a woman swaying against a
colorful background in a 60fps video or
to replace that background on the fly in
a way that would typically require a
skilled video editor using sophisticated
software but what may be even more
impressive than how effective these
techniques are is how efficient they are
with when it comes to hardware
today's noise cancelling techniques for
example use multiple microphones in
order to capture and muffle distractions
such as jet engine noises that has
seeped into the cabin in contrast the AI
driven noise reduction demonstrated by
Qualcomm needed only one microphone
similarily while the kind of of depth
sensing that enables tasks such as
background blurring typically uses
multiple cameras the demonstration that
Qualcomm gave used just one Google of
course is already creating some of these
effects with the pixel threes Sol rear
camera Apple is as well on the iPhone XR
although they claim the two camera
approach on its iPhone X s phones
produces better results all these
applications highlight the ability of AI
to recognize and isolate different kinds
of media objects and then act on them to
improve an experience while the photo
and video capabilities are far more
visually compelling the conversation
noise elimination represents the kind of
utility that stands to dramatically
improve smartphone usage scenarios for a
broad base of users entry on a
transformative way of course taking best
advantage of them will only be possible
with the latest premium smartphone chips
which will easily counteract the cost
savings resulting by reducing the
components it's interesting that that
would come up because we're talking
about well does it
Qualcomm have
irons in the fire right oh yeah iPhones
this is a big deal yeah yeah yeah it's
gonna be maybe pricey because it's
amazing but but AI is so revolutionary
when it comes to the capability of of
computing information right look we
think of AI as like our Amazon echo and
whatever device and maybe like robots
and things but AI as a technology is so
vast oh yeah it's so fast that noise
elimination for a voice phone calls that
to me would change so much built into
your phone no other need for Bluetooth
headphones that make you look like a
crazy person right you know whatever
things that you're in don't need help to
look like a crazy person yeah you know
but it helps when you're walking around
the grocery store saying do we need
bacon do we need bacon I don't know do
we need bacon course we need bacon I
call my mom every Wednesday now I called
her on my way into work today I was
talking to her while I was driving
through my bluetooth and then I get I
was gonna get out of the car with my
phone and walk into work while talking
to her it was windy up so I said to her
mom okay I need to get off the phone
because you're gonna hate the sound of
the wind blowing into the microphone
yeah with the AI I'm assuming it would
just eliminate that blowing noise sound
I would say yeah my mom would be happy
all this screaming in the background
aside yeah conference calls for work
regularly yeah and there's nothing more
annoying than somebody being in a car
running between meetings who's joining
for this call but they forget to mute
their phone right and so then all you
hear in the background
exactly they're driving on the highway
and it's right could you read your
phones please could you meet your phone
and they think they're muted mm-hmm and
they can't stop now to mute their phone
because they're driving that's right so
if this eliminates those kind of things
all for it exactly I just don't want to
have to pay crazy amounts of money for
it because I'm not rich would that just
change like we have our mute buttons
right so if we had that sort of AI right
it would just automatic I think it's
more akin to have you ever been in a
busy restaurant and there's lots and
lots of noise and you're sitting across
from your husband and somehow by some
miracle of nature you're able to hear
every word that he speaks rights and in
your perception you don't even hear all
the other stuff that's going on around
you you're just so AI takes kind of what
is naturally available to us and turns
it into a technological item that can
now say okay I'm Sasha's phone right I
know Sasha's voice and so I'm gonna hone
in on that and I'm just gonna defo
cassell s-- and Sasha's voice is all I'm
going to hear right right and somehow
the AI is able to take that as a
technology and put that into our
telephones I'm okay with this I think
that's pretty neat I'm suddenly going oh
hearing aids like how oh sure would it
be for an AI powered hearing aid that
very quickly learns who is it that
you're having the conversation with and
wipes out every other sound except for
the banners up yeah boom automatically
that loans in on the frequency yes hones
in on the frequencies Jeff there's
unlimited capabilities here and so when
when people and sometimes I give you a
hard time about conspiracy theories
surrounding AI and surrounding the cloud
and stuff but the fact is but the
technology is driving in that direction
where it is amazing the things we'll be
able to do yes what if a hearing aid
could hear your voice and say okay
that's in a frequency that Robbie has
trouble hearing so let's adjust it so
that Robbie can hear it perfectly and
and let's also blank out all the noise
in the restaurant so now I'm able to
hear you absolutely perfectly thanks to
a
well that little chip in my ear doesn't
have an AI built into it it needs to be
able to connect to my phone through
bluetooth and my phone connects out to
the internet through the cloud and
utilizes an amazing multibillion-dollar
computer network in order to do all that
processing so am I going to be afraid of
that connectivity or am I going to your
gonna embrace it absolutely it's your
life in so many ways I have that's my
perspective so when I give you a hard
time
no but that's my perspective my issue
when it comes to things like that is it
always comes down to security and
marketability I don't want my need for
some sort of amended access to be a
marketed thing I would rather just say
hey we got this for service for you
because we're a nice company yes you
bought it you paid into it we don't want
to use it for data purposes that would
make me a happy camper and if that kind
of stuff was more secure I'd have no
issue I love technology in the way it's
going and this is really cool this this
like drives let's watch for it let's see
what happens next
yeah a hidden world in the NES Legend of
Zelda was just uncovered 30 years later
one of the more remarkable things about
the original Nintendo is that many of
the consoles more popular games from
Super Mario Brothers 3 to Tecmo Bowl are
still playable and thoroughly enjoyable
in 2019 sure the 8-bit graphics can't
hold a candle to what you'll find on the
more modern-day consoles but the wild
success of Nintendo Nintendo saw with
the NES classic underscores just how
much fun
many of these older games are of course
if we're talking about some of the
greatest NES games of all time there's
no denying that the Legend of Zelda
needs to be part of the discussion the
original Legend of Zelda which was
released all the way back in 1986 was
such an iconic hit that it would go on
to spawn well more than a dozen
offshoots across a number of different
consoles now seeing as how the original
Zelda game is more than 30 years old at
this point you'd be forgiven for
thinking that every single part of the
game had already been discovered and
conquered alas you'd be mistaken in
something of a fascinating story
recently managed to access the games -
world essentially another part of the
game where developers could try out
different gameplay dynamics naturally
develops developers implemented code to
prevent players from accessing the games
- world but a youtuber with the handle
skelux managed to figure out a way
around it
the gameplay on Zelda's - world is a bit
buggy though still playable which
shouldn't come as much of a surprise
given that it wasn't intended to be
playable in the first place that
notwithstanding the video skelux posted
it should be quite entertaining for fans
of the original classic you can watch
the video at cat5 TV slash Zelda that is
so cool just mind-bending yeah I love
retro gaming and to find out there's
something new I like I'm a huge Zelda
fan always there you go so go figure
that ring is like zelicah Belle goes
look at that like wow it's matched with
Zelda's triangle yes very cool
so like I'm a huge sell defense so this
is like get yourself a no droid go yeah
quit Legend of Zelda NES classic honor
beyond those rums right but is it a true
port which you legitimately own I know I
do
but is it a port over so that it's every
component okay
yeah rom is a copy of the of the YouTube
can't play in the - world my son speak
just quickly thinking of retro gaming
because this reminded me my son who is 8
years old said to me he came down after
a late night session on the old Roy go
which had Nintendo Entertainment System
on it and he said I can't decide daddy
I'm like what is it son he says whether
paperboy is better on the Sega Genesis
or the NES and it's 2019 and I have
never been so proud and he decided the
paperboy is better on the NES I agree
it's better on the I agree 100% we have
a handheld Sega Genesis which you
reviewed on
and we have an odor I go for NES classic
games right so he plays both of them and
he has both of those versions of the
game all right I've got to take a quick
look I sorry I thought it was you at the
crypto currency market at this point as
of 1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
January 9th 2019 according to Cohen
Gekko things are kind of on the gain
we're up 123 dollars and 18 cents us on
Bitcoin bringing us to three thousand
nine hundred seventy eight dollars and
twenty four cents per coin litecoin is
also up to thirty eight dollars and 82
cents a coin gaining six dollars and six
cents
etherium is the only one that we're
monitoring that's actually lost a little
bit it's down to 148 94 us Manero is up
to 52 stellite looking at the small guys
is up a little bit two point seven eight
ten thousandth of a cent and turtle coin
is sitting at one point four ten
thousandth of a cent remember the
cryptocurrency market never closes and
is always volatile so keep that in mind
if you decide to trade big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robby Ferguson and
I'm Jeff West
[Music]
[Applause]
