[Music]
welcome back to category five technology
TV tonight we are talking crypto
currency we're learning we're getting
there I know are you ready to install
our first yes miner so easy now we're
doing this on Linux tonight okay
I'm gonna head on over to cat five dot
TV slash miners it's as simple as that
that'll take you to our github page for
cat 5 TV miners now it's pretty
straightforward and you start looking
and you're like hey this looks like a
whole lot of code I don't know how to
work that all you need to do and that
I'm sorry if that's exactly how you
sound that's how I sound you scroll down
a little ways it's gonna tell you a
little bit about how this works it's
gonna explain some things and I want to
explain some things
well CPU versus GPU yes that's the first
thing that I explained here on this
entry cat 5.5 TV miners the CPU the
central processing unit of your computer
is capable of mining cryptocurrency not
Bitcoin because as we mentioned earlier
it's just out of reach for our consumer
hardware but things like Manero and
things like like turtle coin now we've
got the capability to mine that with CPU
GPU a graphics processing unit this is
your video card if you've got a really
good one sash you've got a really good
one so we're expecting good things out
of that I think it was a 1070 gtx 1070
so it's gonna do pretty well with 4 gigs
or something like that over clocked at
that so your graphics card has so many
cores and so much power to it that you
can usually get a really good hash rate
now I picked up a $200 graphics card and
I get about 350 hashes per second ok so
that's enough just from that one video
card to generate revenue for me just by
mining on that GPU so CPU versus GPU
your GPU if it's a good one is going to
give you a better hash right then a
standard CPU but something like a Xeon
we'll get a killer CPU rate hash rate so
it really boils down to trying it
try the CPU minor and see what kind of
hash rate you get try a GPU minor and
see what kind of hash rate you're gonna
get and what's interesting about it
because they're two different chips CPU
versus GPU you can run both simultaneous
lists so to maximize your hash rate
which is to say to maximize how much of
these crypto hashes your computer is
able to handle and and decode and figure
out and send back to the server
the higher your hash rate the better you
the the more revenue you're generating
essentially and when you put me on to
the software the other day yes I
downloaded both yeah I had both of them
running and it was interesting for me to
see cuz I thought I had a great graphics
card I couldn't tell you what it is cuz
I don't recall now it's sure you know a
couple years old and my dad is probably
a great graphics card but it may just
not have crypto mining right abilities
and so when I had the GPU running I
think I was getting about a hundred and
seventy hashes on GPU yeah yeah it was
good really good I flipped to the CPU
and I'm pulling out of consistent 298
what and I was like on a CPU on a CPU
Wow but I was like okay so you're
getting like 400 hashes per second on
this rig yeah so is it an Nvidia or an
AMD card I believe is an AMD okay so as
your since I built it as an AMD card you
can actually install their blockchain
driver that's a blockchain driver
apparently gives you better hash rates
that's just a different alternate driver
because you're on Windows yes now I I
also have that installed on my Linux
machine yes the card I bought was an AMD
card cuz apparently they're they mined
more hashes per second than Nvidia
apparently I did Sola yeah I I that's
just what I've heard I haven't put them
head-to-head cool yet we're gonna see on
sashes right cuz she's got an Nvidia ten
seven s so GPU versus CPU it really
comes down to start with CPU because
it's easier to get up and going yes you
can be a little more complex
but if you can get them both working
together then you're gonna get the best
hash rate possible from your computer
and again we're not building computers
we are simply using the hardware that we
already have mm-hmm so there's no
perceptible cost involved we're just
installing a program and letting it run
yeah so on this site you can learn more
about it how much bandwidth this is
gonna use basically none it's not an
internet thing it's a CPU GPU thing
you'll notice that there are several
options the automatic minor is the one
we're gonna focus on tonight there's
also specifically Manero mining turtle
turtle coin mining and Bitcoin CPU
mining which is really just proof of
concept but probably don't run it
because it's not actually going to
generate any revenue so automatic miner
for Linux what's cool about our
automatic miner is that it automatically
cycles between the different currencies
so it'll do a time of Manero and then it
will stop that and it will do a time for
turtle coin and it will rotate between
them so that we're kind of maximizing
the portfolio in right we're getting a
little bit of coin from each so that if
it's monaro that takes off we're good if
it's turtle coin that takes off then
we're good as well but we're not
investing our hashing our mining on
either on one currency right it rotates
so that's where the auto miner comes in
and that is currently available for
Linux but also will be available for
Windows as well so on Linux I'm just
gonna copy this line that's I've made it
as simple as I possibly can to get up
and running so jump into your terminal
so we're gonna actually see in real time
how hard it is to get a crypto mining
application running on your computer
here we go
paste enter your password and now let
her go so it updates apt repositories
because it's added a couple that are
needed it's going to install
dependencies these are applications that
are required in order to mine so even if
you don't want to use our software it's
prepared your system now to mine
so it's installed all the dependencies
that you will need in order to set up X
and rig for example so you can see it's
getting some ok it's getting some
headers now it's got the thing the the
application and it's
compiling it already so it's currently
compiling what's called Manero - CPU
which is the Monaro miner to use the CPU
and that's what I'm installing automatic
miner is currently only CPU a GPU
version will be coming out as well keep
in mind the information that I've
already provided now it's moved on to
installing turtle coin mining on the CPU
again it's gonna rotate between them or
you can if you decide you can just use
one or the other right if you want to
set up a particular wallet and get up
and going and start mining for yourself
you can use the cap 5tv miners software
to mine for yourself as well by default
see here's what's unique about cap 5tv
miners when you install it and and start
mining it will be mining to our wallet
which is a way of supporting category 5
TV so any crypto currency that's mined
with the software out of the box is
going to go into the wallet that
supports category 5 now as soon as
you're ready so that's a good way to get
up and running and see if your computer
is capable yes because you can run it
and you don't have to set up a wallet
and all that stuff once it's up and
running you can create your own wallets
and change the wallet user that it's
called a username but you can change the
wallet in the configuration file and
boom your mining to your own wallet
right so to kind of because this is an
introduction to crypto mining just so
you're aware there's there's a little
bit of an intricate e to the way that it
works in that when I'm mining I'm not
mining directly to my wallet I can do
that that's called solo mining but when
I do that I have to achieve the entire
block myself so where rather than
sending a bunch of hashes to a pool and
then getting rewarded for my
contribution I'm having to get the
entire block it might take weeks and
weeks if at all so you will see no
income whatsoever from your mining
efforts unless you get a block and the
chances of getting a block on your own
are pretty rare so instead what we use
is what's called a pool
so a pool is Jeff your computer is
connecting into this server me my
computer is connecting into the server
Sasha your computer is also connecting
into this server and it's called a pool
so now the power
of all of our hash rates is working
together and finding all the hashes and
collecting them and then finding the
blocks and once we find a block it Divis
it out here's a bit for you here's a bit
for you and here's a bit for me so much
much quicker quicker I start to see
cryptocurrency showing up in my wallet
and once I hit the threshold that's when
it's expelled to my wallet right until
then it's in the pool yeah so when you
sign up for a pool you'll see things
like 1,000 coin threshold that means
until you have mind a thousand coins you
will not get it in your wallet okay so
with turtle it starts at about a hundred
coins and so you probably be seeing two
or three payments a day No so it's
really really good right now
this has finished installing so I just
want to show you quickly how we can do
this so the the commands are here to
begin mining run this command and so I'm
just gonna copy that and paste it into
my terminal and if all went well there
you go
it's mining turtle boom turtle mining on
my laptop and then in fact I'm in
VirtualBox so in a virtual machine
mining cryptocurrency let's see what
happens here so I'm just waiting so
what's happened it's connected to the
pool and it's looking for jobs so it's
got a job but I have yet to complete
that job so my computer is essentially
figuring out the hash right the the pool
is saying here's the problem here's the
math problem my computer saying ok I'm
gonna work this out and then when I work
it out I send it to the pool and it's
all an automated process you can see the
pool has now sent me a second problem
and it's determined you can see that the
difficulty has gone down to 3000
so it has determined automatically that
a my CPU running in VirtualBox that's
not really all that powerful on this
laptop I I won I had won accepted there
you go so one of my hashes was found and
accepted and is a good hash there's
another one so I've now both of those
jobs that I was sent my computer has
figured out the hash sent it back to the
pool and the pool continues to work now
I start to see my hash rate
sixty 7.8 hashes per second so that's
what I'm getting on my laptop so that
gives me a bit of a gauge as to the
performance in crypto mining on my
laptop right that gets us up and going
the command to stop mining you see here
on the website is to be run in a
separate window don't just push ctrl C
because then when the timer goes it's
gonna start up again with the next miner
right so instead open another terminal
window terminal and then paste the stop
see the stop command which I've got in
my clipboard from the github there and
you'll notice that it has now stopped
it's in a sig hot and we're done so now
we've stopped mining I can go about
doing things now while it's mining I can
still use my computer especially if
you've got a decent computer like Jeff
obviously yes sachet your computer you
could still be working on that computer
and not even notice the difference
because you've got enough cores and
enough power that it's not going to
affect you GPU mining on the other hand
because it really grabs a hold of that
video card you're probably gonna have
very low frame rates and games and stuff
while it's running so you can kill off
the GPU mining and just do CPU mining
yep okay yep and I did notice that I
mean I I was mining in the background
with my CPU and didn't know what a
setting yeah I use it all the time it
was great just because before we take a
commercial break Jeff I know you're
eager to take a quick break because the
question is going to arise
you'll notice that auto mine - CPU is in
the folder user share local share cat5
dot TV miners so I'm just gonna change
directory to that and do an LS and you
see that there are SH files so when I
said you can change to your own coin
just do a nano turtle coin CPU and
you'll see the username if you just kind
of scroll over here there you go
- you so see the user name as my turtle
address for category five just change
that to your own and then when you start
your auto mining it will be mining to
your own wallet instead right okay I
have a question from the chat room
awesome the foo wants to know whether or
not or how
does mining impact SSD lifetime so
solid-state drive lifetime well I don't
know that there is much I owe you
suggesting
so what are you doing now I am
installing what's called Io top okay
which shows me the IO usage the input
output the data transmission and
reception from my IO so I'll be able to
tell if there's a lot of usage great
question
XM rig okay I saw it there XM rig is
currently using 0% it jumped up to a
little bit 99 percent now remember I'm
on a I'm on a virtual machine right so
my i/o is you know easy to max out so do
that on your system and see of course
that you can store it anywhere I don't
think that there's a real impact I don't
think there would be I haven't heard
because what it does is it loads it into
memory and it loads it on GPU it
actually uses the the memory on the GPU
itself so that's why you can't mine for
example Manero on a one gig card because
the hashes are like two gigs so and
those are not actual numbers but that
just to give you an idea because your
GPU if you don't have a four gig card
you can't mine it because there's not
enough memory in order to do it so that
would be one thing I would check so I
see like the occasional 14 kilobyte
right happening but that's not much no
so good questions good question
[Applause]
