here are the stories we're covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Germany's Supreme Court has rejected a
legal case that sought to stop people
using the popular adblock plus program
that removes ads from websites a Chinese
web giant has found a Windows zero day
and is keeping the details quiet while
working with Microsoft on the issue an
unpatched vulnerabilities been found in
the Nintendo switch that can be
exploited to run custom code and do you
run Drupal you need to upgrade
immediately these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website aren't you
you're terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV / dream host to sign
up for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bytes I'm Sacha Rickman and here
are the top stories were following this
week Germany's Supreme Court has
rejected a legal case that sought to
stop people using the popular adblock
plus program that removes ads from
websites the lawsuit was started three
years ago by German publishing a German
publishing giant Axel Springer it
alleged that the way adblock the bad
block plus stopped people seeing
advertisements on its sites amounted to
unfair competition Axel Springer said
that it would continue its legal
challenge by taking the issue to
Germany's Constitutional Court the
German publishing firm first complained
about adblock plus in 2015 alleging that
it broke competition laws by letting
firms pay to be on a whitelist to stop
their ads being blocked it took the case
to the Supreme Court after losing the
first round of legal action in 2015
either German media firms that also
launched related legal actions said the
simple blocking of ads was a violation
of local laws designed to promote
competition the Supreme Court disagreed
with Springer's allegations and said no
laws were being broken because it was up
to individual users whether or not they
used the software the creators of
adblock plus welcomed the ruling and
said in a statement that it was excited
that Germany's highest court upheld the
right every internet citizen possesses
to block unwanted advertising online
after the verdict class Hendrik showing
Springer's ahead of media law said the
ruling was an attack on the heart of the
free media so is it an attack on the
heart of free media no I don't think so
at all I don't think so nope not at all
I I think this is a great ruling and I
think it was a proper ruling no granted
it's probably based on German law so
depending on what each country has for
their own laws would dictate how the
court would be able to make a
determination but I completely 100%
stand behind Germany supreme court on
this because
if you if you say legally in court you
are not allowed to deny advertisements
you have just commercialized the human
race and quite frankly that's a right
that is individual so I stand with the
the German Court on this one if I don't
want to see ads I don't want to see that
I think that this is a very polarizing
topic in that if you're in the free
media that you have to be able to
generate revenue so here's the thing my
newsstand as a newspaper used to be a
physical newsstand I used to have paper
boys on the corner selling newspapers
for a nickel and that was my revenue
stream and people would buy the
newspaper from the local store now my
revenue stream if you will becomes a
website and it's very competitive it's
highly competitive because everything
that's on the Internet is expected to be
free so if I now put advertising on my
site in order to be the compensation for
the distribution of my news and then you
block it there's the other perspective
Jeff no and I get that perspective but
here's my take on it advertising on the
Internet is not like traditional
advertising if you turn on the TV you
get commercials you get a specific
commercial that's been purchased to air
at a certain time regardless of what
your personal life circumstances are you
go to online advertising and it's based
on the cookies and the data and the
information that's shared through your
internet usage so it's not generic
advertising it's specific targeted
advertising and that is what I think
acceptable to be blocked if somebody
says look I don't want my personal data
being used to advertise back to me thank
you leave me alone so if that was the
case then could we not say let's make it
so the adblock plus for example in the
in the case of this story was to give an
opt-out command to the advertising that
says no tracking no tracking code
and only display generic ads and the
only thing that they're allowed to
display are those generic ads that
traditional media would have been
purchasing would have been selling I'd
be okay with that
I really would because then it's not
targeted advertising based on your
individual online profile its generic
advertising a Chinese web giant has
found a Windows zero day and is keeping
the details quiet while working with
Microsoft on the issue Chinese company
qui ho 360 says it is found a zero a
Windows zero day in the wild but because
it has notified Microsoft it is not
telling anyone else how it works the
company announced an apt attack on the
unspecified zero day of the unspecified
zero day on a global scale it called the
vulnerability a double-kill bug said it
exploits the latest version of Internet
Explorer and applications that use the
IE kernel and how did that it's being
spread in Microsoft Office documents
that include a malicious web page if a
victim opens the document the post
claims the malicious code will run in
the background to execute the
unspecified attack program it's only
illustration of the attack is in the
Chinese language annotated image Chinese
language annotated image shown here
Microsoft would far prefer that users
stopped using Internet Explorer and
adopt its edge browser instead some
users are proven approving stubborn
however according to net market share ie
still has a arrested arrested on twelve
percent of the browser market that is
why it's why last week patch last week's
Patch Tuesday plugged a serious if
legacy IE vulnerability CVE 2014 - zero
322 a remote code execution bug I don't
use edge I don't I don't like edge I
think people are going to use edge so
what's the next best
I don't know Robbie can you weigh in on
this what's the next best browser to use
if
oK we've got internet explorer as the
first option edge is the second and her
question is what's the next what is what
is the browser that is apt to be
exploitable ensure and maybe conforms to
standards and is innovative is fast is
good on resources those kinds of things
so obviously you know we're gonna look
at the top two which are firefox and
chrome plain and simple now you can get
into other ones opera and if you want to
try out some of the obscure ones that's
fine too but realistically Chrome
Firefox they're about on par believe it
or not now especially with Firefox 57
which uses less memory than earlier
versions of Firefox is faster and even
boasts that it's faster than chrome I
don't know if that's true yet I haven't
benchmarked it myself
I've had problems with Firefox in the
past with memory leaks and I don't like
Firefox's approach to the app ecosystem
the attack the add-on ecosystem in that
I think that any browser that kills off
their entire developer base like they
did is with with Firefox 56 I think is
that's that's just a no-no to me I think
that they really needed to work with
their developers better so that was a
bit of a red flag now both browsers are
excellent Chrome Firefox Sasha can you
can you imagine you know my first
question to you is gonna be do you have
a Firefox phone or do you have an
Android phone I have an Android phone
you have an Android phone so we have to
just think about the fact that okay what
one is going to work better for you
Chrome or Firefox so if they're pretty
much matched up as far as the quality
the browser goes at this point which one
is going to work better for you now
chrome is developed by Google the same
company that manufactures your phone's
operating system Android so part of
chrome is that you can login to your
Google profile and it gives you access
to things like shared bookmarks with
your phone shared bookmarks with your
other computers using Chrome and it
gives you shared access to your history
and passwords and things that you do
within that Google ecosystem so as an
Android user would you find benefit to
the fact that you're accessing your
email in the same way on multiple
different platforms and you're nodding
and I think that the answer is probably
yeah in your case would then be Chrome
is probably the best browser for you
Firefox doesn't offer that same kind of
functionality that is going to be tied
into your phone the way that the Google
browser is so that's where I would
probably lean in your case and using
Chrome is safe against an attack like
this we have to work we have to be wise
we have to always be mindful that
fisher's which are folks that are out
there trying to get your information
they're out there tricking users they're
bringing up browser windows so web pages
essentially that look like error
messages that look like a Windows error
and click here to to fix it or call this
number to reach out to Microsoft because
we've got a patch for your computer
these kinds of things so as long as
you're privy to the fact that hey there
are web threats out there that you need
to watch out for on any browser you need
to be smart about those things and and
part of that is just knowing that you
need to watch out for those things then
yeah you're safer now what it boils down
to here with IE is that the things that
are happening do not require the user to
do an idiotic thing that's what it boils
down to so with the old Outlook Express
if you simply touched an email that had
malware on it boom you're infected you
didn't even have to open it you didn't
even have to click a link it was in your
system what is it with Microsoft
products that was a Microsoft product
now Internet Explorer same thing you
simply touch that link and boom you're
infected you've got this malware
whatever the zero day is that's the
exploit and it can get into your system
if you're not patched and they're you
know they're Microsoft's looking at it
and saying oh that's an old browser we
don't support it we don't want people
using it do we even want to patch it
I guess we'd better but they're not you
know that's not the game that they're
wanted to play so yes chrome is going to
be safer because those exploits are not
a part of chrome and the development
ecosystem of Chrome and Firefox indeed
is based on a completely different model
to that of Microsoft now one thing that
does give me pause for concern about
this story is in my experience in
dealing with government resources I
would say that generally governments lag
behind on updating and as of a year ago
I know when I was looking at some
government infrastructure for a client
of mine they were using Internet
Explorer because they still had Windows
and T right and I'm going wow I can't
believe this is on a government computer
so if you've got government computers
that potentially are still using a
software like operating systems that are
just full of holes but you're still
using Internet Explorer and you haven't
updated massive massive problems so it
would be better if just we switch to
Linux yes
well-played don't say that with the FRA
at the end it's not it's not a question
it's a statement if you wanted to go
there and I think you know you hit the
nail on the head there Jeff where you
know the government has trouble keeping
up with the technology because they
don't have the manpower they don't have
the resources to constantly be upgrading
and improving things and quite frankly
and a lot of government IT departments
are folks that went to school back in
the 90s and are trained based on 90s
tech and if you're running NT on your
server well that's probably because you
were educated in the 90s and haven't
improved upon that education but but
also there's the fact that some people
some companies are held back by
the technologies that they've invested
in so you think about an activex
development where they've paid tens of
thousands of dollars to build on the
internet explorer' architecture a piece
of software that is for their internal
intranet for example so now you tell
them they need to move to chrome and
they look at that twenty thousand dollar
bill that they paid ten years ago and
say oh you know what we're not going to
do it right we're not going to rebuild
our entire intranet an unmatchable
vulnerability has been found in the
Nintendo switch that can be exploited to
run custom code security researcher Kay
Temkin has released proof of concept
code dubbed fuse a chalet that exploits
a bug in Nvidia's Tegra chipsets to run
custom code on locked down devices temp
canoe participates in the Nintendo
switch hacking project Ries which has
developed a cold boot hack for the games
console that takes advantage of a none
patchable blender in the Tegra boot ROM
she's also working on a customized
switch firmware called atmosphere which
can be installed via fuse a gelée
essentially if you say jelly exploits a
vulnerability during a switches startup
to commandeer the gadget and executes
unofficial software this is useful for
unlocking the locked-down Nintendo
switch so that homebrew games custom
firmware and other code can be run
you'll need physical access to the
hardware during powerup to perform fuse
ala it's not something that can be
pulled off over-the-air in a blog post
outlining her findings earlier this
month
Temkin explained the relevant
vulnerability is the result of a coding
mistake in the read-only boot ROM found
in most Tegra devices Temkin reckoned
the issue is present in all Nintendo
switches the nature of the flaw is such
that it will require a hardware revision
to fix the boot rom which contains the
programming bug accepts minor patches in
the factory but cannot be updated
afterwards according to Tompkins
that means once a vulnerable machine
rolls off the assembly line the
vulnerability is baked in and cannot be
mitigated Temkin says that the exploit
was responsibly disclosed to and
forwarded to other vendors that use
Tegra embedded processors including
Nintendo successful exploitation
compromises the processors root of trust
and provides the attacker with access to
secrets burned into device fuses as well
as following arbitrary code execution
while such an exploit could be used for
malware that compromises the users
personal data due to the very nature of
the Nintendo switch being a gaming
console it's most likely that this will
be exploited to route the device and
create custom boot loaders for side
loading unofficial applications full
details of the bug is set to be revealed
on June 15 2018 unless it is made public
by others first a parallel effort to
create custom firmware for the switch
using the vulnerability or one
substantially similar is underway by a
group called team executors so I love my
switch I have one I love it I use it
often but that's besides the point
I use my switch and I wonder if it could
be dual booted like if I could have my
switch and then also have this alternate
thing where I could turn it into
something more we'll see I suppose at
the end of the day it's possible I mean
that's where the exploit is is in the
boot sequence so if you do have a way to
physically get to it and you know input
this code that gives you a dual startup
I mean it's it's entirely possible
absolutely but the one thing I was
wondering though is because it's I mean
because it's a physical you have to
physically be there to get the the code
in is this really going to be such an
issue with a concern for malware I mean
how many people are gonna break into
home hookup to a switch put the code in
now access your data on the network
I have to ask though Sasha how how do
you get games on the switch how do they
end up on the switch I have to buy them
do you remember the Nintendo DS yes yeah
Super D I see like sounds like a
cartridge yeah tiny like I'm like when
you say cartridge if they got thumbnail
cartridge case job could they not
exploit a cartridge could they not like
infect a run of games for example and
then as you turn on the switch and boom
you're in I suppose but there's always a
boot sequence before you load the game
so just where do you put the game in
before you boot it isn't that how you do
it well yes but you still have to boot
into into the software in order to be
able to read the game so you would go
pack this is my my guess from what the
story is you boot into the software
first then access the game it'd be no
different than starting up your
Raspberry Pi and then being able to
access retropie just by having retropie
on there doesn't change the boot
sequence unless there's a way to change
the coding somehow which I suppose as
possible but again it if it's a if it's
a line drive that you're sticking in
your switch you'd have to physically
impact that drive now so I mean who
knows it's possible I guess I mean it's
still a new exploit but it'd be
interested in severs definitely side
loading games custom games indie games
being able to release games that you can
play on a on a rooted switch that yeah
you can all of a sudden hey you know
well I mean imagine being will take all
those roms you've got from say your
retropie your switch now you've got
retropie on the go there you go it's
crazy stuff here it's a fun console and
it can be even more fun soon do you run
Drupal you need to upgrade immediately
as an in the wild exploit aims to take
over your server attackers are mass
exploiting a recently fixed
vulnerability in the Drupal content
management system that allows them to
take complete control of powerful
website servers at least three
different attack groups are exploiting a
Drupal getting to the name given to an
extremely critical vulnerability that
Drupal maintains maintain errs patched
in late March Drupal getting to makes it
easy for anyone on the internet to take
complete control of vulnerable servers
simply by accessing a URL and injecting
a publicly available exploit code
exploits allow attackers to run code of
their choice without having having to
have an account of any type of of any
pardon me of any type on a vulnerable
web site the mass exploitation of Drupal
servers reminds us of the epidemic of
unpatched Windows servers a decade ago
which gave criminal hackers access to
millions of pcs the attackers would then
use their widely distributed purchase to
launch new instructions because web
servers have significantly more
computing power and Internet bandwidth
than a desktop computer the new rash of
servers being compromised by this
exploit poses a much greater threat to
the Internet Drupal maintained errs have
patched the critical vulnerability in
both the seven point seven and eight
version families as well as the six
family which maintain errs stopped
supporting in 2016
administrators who have yet to install
the patch should assume their systems
are compromised and take immediate
action to disinfect them
scary stuff it happens every week I feel
[Laughter]
Drupal and insert you know anything else
WordPress so you have to just update and
like and you have to run you know your
security patches and everything you have
to install them and it has to happen all
the time my question is why exactly
would somebody not do that
I feel like wouldn't all of these news
stories be gone if people just updated
when they were supposed to
date yes but that would require the
human race to not be lazy and really
that's about the only way to put it it
for people who are going to run a server
run a website you have to have to be
security conscious so every day you
should be looking to see is there
something where my system is at risk
where my user data is at risk thinking
back to the government office who can't
keep up with the technology
you think about Drupal and content
management systems get put into place
because their cost savings we don't have
to develop the backend we can create a
content management site our cost goes
down now if our cost goes down part of
that mentality is let's keep costs down
so maintenance falls by the wayside and
nobody is keeping active maintenance
going with these websites so you know
you see it all the time people buy these
cheap websites based on its content
management website service because they
don't have to pay a lot of money upfront
but you do have to maintain it and if
you don't you're gonna be one of those
exploited thanks Robbie and big thanks
to Roy W Nash and our community of yours
for submitting story sauce this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
