for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 2 84 of
category 5 technology TV so great to see
ya it's Tuesday the twenty-sixth of
februari so it is gene was this is a
welcome everyone to the show the best
show ever hello this is not just this
show like category five but this episode
that's show ever who's getting better
every time every time everything up
until now is just been a practice that's
the 283 episodes of practice tonight
this is the real deal folks we've got an
amazing show for you stick around
Hillary's gonna tell us a little bit
about what's coming up listen people you
know how much I love free stuff you know
how much I love prizes and a good deal
Wow today we are giving away a net talk
duo to one lucky viewer like you but
what does this mean he'll this means
amazing savings on your phone bill so
you're not paying a million yen each
month wipe away your phone though we're
gonna give you a full year of
long-distance service and your own phone
number using a net talk to a Wi-Fi isn't
very cool stuff also tonight we're going
to show you how to install it how to
activate it and we've got Nelson hudis
is joining us tonight from net talk to
talk about to net talk to talk time
twisters already chattin with that with
Nelson about the device and and how it
differs from your traditional phone
service as well so yes and as well we
have lots of interesting news stories
here's little tease Fauria coming up in
the newsroom Apple may pay parents back
for in-app purchases made by their young
children hmm HP is selling web OS to LG
Gabe Newell from valve is being made a
fellow of the British Academy of Film
and Television Arts and lastly Kent
screams be heard in space stick around
these stories are coming up later in our
show interesting stuff mm-hmm hey don't
forget our mobile website is all
wuzzup m dot cat five dot scan that QR
code or visit the site from your mobile
device you'll be able to watch the show
you can actually tune in live right now
if you like through m dot cat five dot
TV pretty cool and we also have viewers
who are watching from YouTube lip TV I
love having you tube here so many cool
ways to tune in to the show I was saying
hi to chuck before the show who's
joining us on google+ hangouts as well
now what what is google plus hangouts
for those who don't well if you say you
know google+ is just another social
media platform to learn your way around
i have a google plus of course from
google offers hangouts which allows you
to tap into the live YouTube stream of
category 5 TV but in a unique way
because you can actually fire up your
webcam and we can chat back and forth
after the show we have a brief hangout
time where you can actually chat with
the host and the people here at the
studio after the show so if you're part
of the Google+ Hangout you can you can
actually participate in that
conversation afterwards if you have a
Google+ account all you have to do is go
to cap five dot TV / g plus that's felt
p lus right out and that will actually
take you there and you can join the
community and then you get notifications
each week as the as the hangouts take
place awesome that's pretty cool to me
we love our global audience I'm just
astounded you know where we started back
in July I don't know if you remember but
in july of last year we started our
syndication into china and it's such a
wonderful thing to have a growing
viewership there and that is actually
growing over the next couple of months
i'm pleased to be working with some
people in mainland china we're actually
working to develop a full syndicate site
of category 5 that's specific for
Chinese speaking individuals so so of
course the video will still be in
English but the website itself is going
to be in simplified and simplified
chinese mandarin and and so you're
actually going to be able to go to a
specific website which I'm not allowed
to announce just yet what's that is
secret yeah but the other
thing about it is that it gets around
the whole thing where yeah a lot of our
videos are hosted on YouTube or blip TV
and those are blocked in China so you
have trouble getting access to the to
the website without using a proxy or VPN
so we're going to be able to give you a
different way to watch by hosting the
video on our own CDN as well very very
very cool really lots of cool stuff
happening and if you're watching on
China yeah like pop us an e-mail say hey
yeah I can't wait for that will that
will pop you an email when the time
comes it's for that it's pretty sweet
hmm so we have people in China but we
also have people watching world wide
wide wide world wide due to the World
Wide Web but that's pretty new school
and I kind of love the old-school
technology of snail mail hello we have a
beautiful postcard wall from stuff all
over the world highlighting your town so
send us a little something something to
category 5 technology TV p.o.box to 9009
Barrie Ontario which of course is in
Canada l 4 and 7 w 7 waiting for to
receive one from China that would be I
don't believe now if we have received
when I'm sorry but I don't believe we
have received one from mainland China
yet don't think so if you're if you're
in in China we'd love to receive it
wherever you are we'd love to receive
your your postcard so we have to take a
really quick break Hillary's going to
step aside Nelson's going to join us and
when we're back where we talking to
Nelson who does from nettalk duo and
we've got lots of exciting stuff coming
up for you tonight so stick around we'll
be right back after this at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here
eko alkalines of the world's first and
only certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco outlines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm
well I've been getting lots of email
from friends and fans of the show who've
been saying I love seeing space fish we
have our major tom I thought that I
would actually grab another clip of him
tonight last week he was kind of
floating around on the surface because I
just just fed him there he is major time
as Nelson that just gets himself
comfortable and all set up major tom has
been with us for wow so long and is
still healthy and doing well you
obviously I eat not space books anymore
I decided to to get them a bigger bowl
because it's more comfortable for him
and the other one was it's quite small
that's major tom what a guy hillary says
and tonight i am joined by nelson Hudis
from nettalk duo it's good to see you
great thanks to have you on the show
good you made it on and yeah I'll miked
up yeah we're good to go good to finally
have you here to beg you about Nick over
the past few weeks really really
exciting product and an excellent way
for you to save some money just before
the show we were talking a little bit
behind the scenes just saying you know
how much are we really paying for our
phone bill it's it's too much it's
astronomical and you don't Lea I need
and you do not need to you can fire your
phone company and by one of our devices
and you can even as of January the first
this year if you've had if you've had a
number that you've had for 10 or 15 or
20 years you can port your number into
the device and you know you will not
lose the number that you had for a
million years that everybody has that's
that's really really cool i mean i've
worked with other voice over IP type
solutions and things and porting was
something that was never available here
yeah yeah so and what porting is is it
like nelson is saying just to simplify
it if you have a phone number already
with your phone provider one of the
things that might keep you back from
switching is losing that phone number
well with nettalk duo and then their
line of products their services you're
actually able to keep that phone yeah
you can do it with the nettalk duo you
can do it with our nettalk duo two or
the nettalk duo Wi-Fi which is our
coolest newest device that allows you to
hook it up three different ways in with
your computer your router or not at all
you just like you would roam wirelessly
in your house with your laptop you can
store your wireless to settings into the
device and plug it in anywhere in your
house you're a living room your bedroom
your family room go and plug a phone
into it and away you go it's all plug
and play so a lot of talk about the
device itself so we're going to
basically unplug the phone from the wall
plug into this device how does it
provide the internet and what's
different about it well the way
tradition well it saves the wireless
settings straight into the into the into
the duo Wi-Fi and so that's how you're
on Wi-Fi just like you would be with
your laptop right and then you can go
plug it in anywhere in your house and
plug the phone into it get pick it up
gotta dial tone start dialing tape like
double-sided carpet tape it to the back
of your bedside table or you could put
it yeah you can put it anywhere and you
know once you've fired your phone
company from a traditional telco you can
actually hook it up couple of different
ways if you want to make use of the
jacks that are in your house you can buy
a phone splitter and plug the phone
splitter into it and you can plug one
side of the splitter straight into a
dead jack on the wall and all your all
your jacks on in your house are live
again so then the phone in the kitchen
and everything works works perfectly or
you can buy a base station with multiple
handsets and put the handsets all around
the house and go you know go go go
wireless what I think is interesting
Nelson is is where we're living in a
time where the trends that that take
place over the course of technology
right you see monopolies and then those
monopolies fall and now there's there's
new up and rising companies such as net
talk where it gives us a different
option that can save us a ton of money I
mean we're like I started looking at the
numbers and we're thinking like 900 it's
about 900 in fact I just did it my port
out happens this week I've had a number
for 15 years in the 905 area in down in
toronto and i'm not going to pay them
anymore i refuse so look at your phone
bill at home and figure out okay how
much is it this month how much was the
last month find an average over you know
several months and then multiply that by
twelve how much money you're going to
say that's exactly right that's it you
do not need to
pay the monthly phone bills ever again
so what kind of bills do we see with net
tuck you don't see any monthly bills you
buy the device at retail you buy the duo
which you can get for the duo Wi-Fi is
7495 the duo is $75 plus HST at the duo
to which includes three months of
services about forty five dollars and
your monthly phone bills disappear
forever so at the end of the year is
that when we go there no you don't get
billed at all you buy the device at
retail that includes the first year
service if you buy the duo or the dual
Wi-Fi okay when the year is up yep you
pay a renewal fee of forty dollars plus
HST see that on the website or something
and just yeah they saw it inside your
account you'll get an email saying that
your your your your year is over time to
renew you see it's a different it's
almost like a different paradigm like as
I'm thinking in terms of okay here's my
bill no no bill it's like a subscription
you know it's a subscription no bills in
a year's time if you subscribe tomorrow
a year from tomorrow a couple of days
before then you'll get an email from
that talk saying time to renew yeah put
your credit card number in renew your
done for the year that's it it's just
it's so simple and internet connection
obviously this high speed as well as far
as technology goes this is going to use
your internet connection about to give
you phone service so with would like a
high speed light service be sufficient
or do you need high-speed ladle work but
it's better to have high speed yeah yeah
you're good yeah yeah I got to thinking
about that and the cost of like
upgrading your internet to a better
package with your ISP so you know you
get on something like that talk I do a
Wi-Fi for example to pick one of the
products and then you find that you know
what I'm on this high speed light it's a
little bit slow so I get a little bit of
choppiness I'm gonna upgrade my internet
for another five ten fifteen dollars a
month right you can even get you know if
you've got three services with one of
the providers you can bundle and save
money and get unlimited Bell just
started offering on
limited internet so you could get you
could get unlimited and still use our
device still you're getting better
internet service then and it's still way
way way too you can having way cheaper
yeah you don't you do not have to have
pay any of the look any other telcos
anymore so this works where i can buy
this in canada that you can buy it in
Canada you can buy it in the US or you
can buy it at any a big box store and
hook it up once you get home and you're
good to go they're cool it's very very
cool we're gonna take a look actually a
little bit later on the show because
people are wondering okay well how hard
is this thing to activate is it going to
be rocket science to get this thing to
work and switch over my phone line we're
going to actually activate one here it's
yeah it's really simple we also have
calling plans we have a North American
add-on calling plan which is 585 a month
or seventy dollars a year that that
includes the US canada puerto rico in
mexico ok so it adds yeah Rico in Mexico
yeah yeah yeah or you can buy an
international law add-on which includes
60 countries which is as low as 10
dollars a month or a hundred and twenty
dollars for flat rate and is that for
the year is that so 10 bucks a month do
I get to call jot you get to call 60
different countries and just at any time
and any time as many calls as I want yep
fantastic pretty yeah it's you know and
we've also got this month it's coming to
an end at the end of every but we've got
a month of love promotion on the cop
Romo code is love 2013 free unlimited
nettalk texting plan with a duo purchase
so that's still in effect until the end
of this month you've got another day to
do that and then you know marks the
first is Friday so it'll be we'll be
done with that but we've got a couple
couple of days so get a couple take
advantages thanks was that free service
I I think about I'm thinking along the
lines of you know I would as a
residential user want to drop my phone
company and switch to net talk duo right
but think about you've got kids that are
going away to school yeah absolutely
great for kids in dorms yeah I'm going
away right kit if you're traveling
overseas on a vacation for a couple of
months take it with you
if you got your laptop with you hook it
up in the hotel room ignore a repeat
ignore the hotel phone because you do
not want to pay those overseas charges
hook up your duo or your duo Wi-Fi hook
a phone into it start dialing done done
if you've got a smart phone your
messages will come straight to your
smartphone with your email address
you'll be able to listen to it on your
smartphone turn around pick up your duo
or you do a Wi-Fi call somebody back
they'll never know where you are it's
like they'll there are in North America
so it's Wi-Fi and you know there's Wi-Fi
available all over so I'm picturing you
know us a nostalgic type we're going to
get one of those old retro phones keep
it in our bag ready to Wi-Fi and they
will be sitting there in Tim Hortons
picking up the phone making calls making
them taking calls I'm BMA yeah yeah yeah
it's it's it's it's an absolutely great
product we've got lot you know great
great products available different price
points the dual Wi-Fi is far by the best
because it gives you the flexibility of
hooking it up wit with your right with
that's good i mean we're not limited to
having to plug it into the computer we
empower it and just plug it into
ethernet or get Wi-Fi so it's kind of
universally accessible right back to you
know if you've got kids that are going
away overseas anywhere in the world all
you have to do is activate it here at
home and then send them on their way
with the Wi-Fi duo or any of the the
nettalk devices and no matter where they
go you can phone them and it's a local
call that's right it's amazing like this
is a world that we live in hope you
mange them it's totally amazing and if
the way the future is going and save a
ton of cash we make ourselves more
mobile and carry our phone there's no
debt there's there's absolutely no
downside to it it's all up it's all up
it's all positive and it's an absolute
great way to save money very good okay
so let's okay I'm Joe I'm going into the
store I see these three different
products right which one do I want well
wait I've got I see the duo the duo two
and the dual Wi-Fi no I
let's just do the duo idea the duo 2 is
the same product as the duo except this
one comes with three months of service
as opposed to a year the duo okay so
this one is to the duo two is less it's
very much three months of service and
then you can renew it after three months
and get a year anshu or like but it
comes packaged with three months so I'm
better to buy the duo because I get a
year that's right the duo will give you
a year that's this one has to be plugged
into your computer or your router okay
and this is this is the duo Wi-Fi which
can be plugged into your computer your
router or save your wireless settings
straight into the device and then go
plug it in anywhere in your house
without being plugged into your computer
or your driver now does it well it just
as a bit of a technical question but
does it only remember one Wi-Fi network
know it's a you could save multiple
networks on oh no device yeah so I could
program so I'm thinking you know I could
program in my dad's Wi-Fi key yep and
then I can just take it with me when I
go there for Christmas holidays and
things like that absolutely there's my
phone yeah fantastic well that's awesome
Nelson it's great having you here on the
show and nice to learn about the full
product another way for our viewers to
save some money you can find out more
about the product at cat five dot TV /
phone we actually have quite a bit of
information there for you and an out
link to net a net talk you can go to net
talk dot CA for Canadians and anybody
watching in the u.s. they can go to
nettalk calm and get all the pricing
points on net talk calm right and net
talk dot CA has got all the Canadian
pricing points okay very good while I
have you here I see a toll-free number
on the side of the box what's the
support like supports great all you
gotta do is call them up if you got a
technical problem I'm gonna get somebody
like if I pick up the phone and make it
might take a little bit of a while but
you have to be patient yeah but yes
you'll get your questions answered on
the telephone and they'll help you
through it they can even take control of
your computer and and do a remote to
help you with whatever technical issues
you might have rock or a surround the
world do you mean activating or
purchasing elsewhere I believe this is
you can buy this and activate it with a
Canadian or an American phone Canadian
or omit yeah you can get a Canadian or
an american telephone number if you buy
it in Canada you know you'll its program
to give you the choice
picking a canadian phone number right if
you buy it in the US same thing it'll
give you the choice of picking a US
phone let's say I'm in Scotland can I
can I get one and activate it with a
canadian number so I can call my
Canadian friends in its local call no
you have to buy it in Canada or the US
and put a Canadian or US number on it
but you could take it over to Scotland
could i order it and get is there any
way I can get it there or do I have to
kill ya baby in somebody in the
Netherlands in the US yeah immediately
chase send me one yeah sure and they can
activate it with a canadian number now
it's local call for them to go yeah
absolutely in fact I was just talking to
somebody in Ontario the other day who
actually bought one and activated a
Vancouver number because they had lots
and lots of family in Vancouver and they
wanted to let their family call them for
free Oh in here and they're here in
Ontario they're here in Ontario they
sent it across they picked and a date no
no they activated the line in Toronto
and they activated a Vancouver number so
that their family yeah Western Canada
could call physically here their nests
Hawk is physically yeah they wanted to
be able to give their their family a an
option of calling them for free and its
local coffin it's a local call for them
Wow oh oh okay so the the features that
come with this we want to know about you
know people in chat room saying what
about 911 i mean this yes it has
enhanced 911 that comes with call call
waiting three-way calling caller ID call
forwarding everything that you would get
with your local telco company Mike's
coming up anything everything that you
would get with you good thank you with
your local telco company yeah you go
answer is a big one call call answer you
get you get you get an answering machine
yeah you get an answering it takes voice
mail and it does voicemail to email yes
in sends you the message and you can
listen to it on your smartphone like I
was saying before or you can hit pit if
your home and you can you can pick dial
star 98 and pick up your messages just
like regular phone just like a regular
phone service so how much extra just
like call answer nothing it's all
included it's all included all there
we've got call blocking block put put
numbers on names numbers on a list and
then if somebody calls that number if
they're on the list so I'll just get a
busy signal they won't get through to
you
we've got call ID like call ID blocking
if you want to call out you don't want
somebody to see your number yeah just
like with a telco company you hit star
67 with us at star 77 they won't see
your number on the other end well so it
comes with all the bells and whistles
all the feet same features there's
absolutely no reason in the world to be
paying your traditional telco company
for service anymore this is the way of
the future they can provide your
internet service and your dry loop
that's it there we go or or if you're
getting or if you're getting your
internet on cable yeah they can do all
that for you they do they do not need to
provide you a telephone line anymore
yeah excellent well that sounds super
cool rats is asking about whether or not
this is able to be activated in Linux
and you don't even need to touch that
because of course we're gonna try it
tonight right we're going to plug it
into a linux box we're going to see what
can be done and and see how this bad boy
when you're actually asking about 911
yes when you do it when you create an
account there's a spot in the paperwork
that asks you for an e 911 address and
so if you do need to call 911 they have
an address now if you're going on
vacation and you happen to take your duo
or you do a Wi-Fi with you you wouldn't
want to necessarily dial 911 on that you
would use the hotel phone if you did or
you'd have to change the e-911 address
even though your account address is
different they go by the e-911 address
to send you help so same sort of thing
with a cell phone right yeah cellphone
if I'm traveling around and i dial now
and when I got to tell them where I am
you need to do that because I think it
goes by the closest one whatever cell
tower your yet triangulated rather
exactly but it's not done that way with
void you actually fill out a form when
you create your account that says what
you're a 911 address is so that if you
do need help they know where you're
calling from and they know where to send
you an ambulance very good very good
indeed Wow okay well folks I know that
there are ton of questions that are
coming in and and we can't obviously
we're just about at a time to talk to
Nelson tonight but we're going to
activate one of these tonight because
cool
very excited to give it a good stand by
because I want you to anyone who wants
to receive a call from us here at the
studio you could even start now just
send me a private message double click
on my name in the chat and just just say
hi and and tell me where you're from and
give me your phone number that you can
be reached at and i'm going to call it
from a net talk to a Wi-Fi great is the
device that we're actually giving away
tonight as well with a year full of
service and the unlimited long distance
i'm going to call it from here and barry
and it's gonna be a local call so you've
got to be in Canada or the US because I
haven't signed up for one of those
overseas dialing plans right are you
about that if you're overseas but very
cool to know that we can do that for
about 10 bucks right that's really
awesome porting costs a little bit extra
how much is that going to cost us $29
it's a one-time fee so a check every
year nope you do it once and once your
number is poured it out you're good to
go let's say I'm not too sure if I want
to do the porting and I don't know that
I want to cancel my okay so that's
that's really simple so you've bought
the unit at retail yeah you've hooked
you've created an account you hooked it
up you've picked a phone number you have
a phone number from that talk you use
that number so actually assign me a new
day sign you a new number so you could
actually use it as a second line if you
want if you don't want to cancel your
existing line right try it out for 23
weeks months however long you want if
you're if you like it and you want a
port go online go into your account and
start and start you know check to see if
your number can be reported nine times
out of ten it'll say congratulations
success and then you can start the
paperwork it usually takes a couple of
weeks and you can do it that way then
once that's done the number that you got
when you set up the account goes away I
got you okay so so it gives us a chance
to me I could try it for three months if
I want you could try it for as long as
you want until your till you're
comfortable yeah enough to know that
this is just as good as a regular
landline why am I paying bail or Rogers
or whoever your your your telco company
is you don't need to do that anymore
fire them get rid of them and port your
number out and don't pay any more phone
bills anymore love it love it what are
you going to do with all the money
because we're here to save the public
money that's what he's here for folks
I'm here to save money so
oh thank you yeah we're gonna save you
money with these devices and giving you
this this is for you it's a nettalk duo
Wi-Fi not that yeah okay give you them
will get that one away with a full year
of service okay we're not doing another
three month thing I'm gonna get you on
there yet full year with unlimited long
distance and all that stuff for Canada
us you're going to get a net talk phone
number all that as we discussed here
tonight we're given that away a little
bit later of course you already casted
your ballot at cap 5 TV / phone thank
you for all of the ballots that have
come in we're going to be conducting
that draw a little bit later on so
Nelson great having you here rabbit me
on the show you know I'm going to watch
back at the episode I'm going to think
of all these wonderful questions I could
have asked in the chat room is you know
it's still flowing with questions and if
you've got if you've got if all your
viewers got work have more questions
that are going unanswered you're more
than welcome to forward to forward them
to me I will answer them offline and
i'll email everybody back that answers
asks a question so pop is an email live
at category five dot TV and will forward
those on to nelson directly perfect very
good all right thanks so much for being
with us tonight thank you for having me
now one of the things i had mentioned
now that switching modes you guys can
can switch now we showed space fish are
our guy Major Tom and major tom was
actually you know our longtime fish of
the studio but we just recently got
birds and last week I mentioned the
birds and so I wanted to show you
because people were actually I got a
number of emails saying what are the
birds like there they are I don't have
any sound on this camera but that one
there is pumpkin very original they're
orange so we had to think now that is
clementine and there they are all set up
and those are birds here at the studio
very quiet they really are not just
because I don't have a microphone on
them right now
so we're kind of combination tech / /
catch so at this point oh we do it all
here on the show all right well let's
get these set back up there we go Nelson
ball that is awesome excellent we are
watching category 5 TV and we're a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here as well we are
members of the International Association
of Internet broadcasters Thanks oh well
it is it's time for the news if you can
believe oh ho ki noodle time flies when
you're having fun but don't go anywhere
remember we've got that net talk to a
Wi-Fi to give away we're also going to
be activating one right here on the show
that was asking you know can you do it
on Linux let's give it a go what do you
say what are you saying we got this all
right you got this da da da here the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
full house proposed paying compensation
to us parents whose children made in-app
purchases without their permission the
ipod maker has been sued over
allegations that it failed to adequately
publicize the child targeted games in
its App Store included the facility the
judge will consider the proposal on
march first Apple acknowledged it would
need to tell more than 23 million itunes
account holders that they might qualify
affected users would receive in mail oh
sorry in an e-mail offering at least
five dollars in credit if they confirmed
that a minor had charged their account
without permission and that they did not
already made are already had the feed
deleted after making a complaint pretty
crazy stuff I know exactly what they're
talking about there because my kids are
say they always dad can i play with your
ipod and so then yeah of course so i put
on the free games right cuz i don't want
to spend a whole bunch of money when the
kids are bored of them in three days
anyways yes every single what those
screen is wrapped and buttons and one of
them makes them dance the other one
makes him groove the other one falls a
piano on his head
the other one boom takes you to buy the
actual full version of the app so what
happens if I yeah if I had my my credit
card number and everything programmed
into my itunes account then that would
definitely be easy it's so easy my niece
did that to me as well hmm how many some
ten dollars later you're like whoa
where's your dad but I've got this great
app that allows me to make a bird dance
and sing and repeat after me cool pretty
not so check your email people HP is
selling the off code staff and sorry
what am I even saying HP is selling off
the codes to have in technology involved
in its web OS software to LG HP acquired
the web OS operating system one at
bought palm in 2011 for 1.2 billion
dollars that was a good purchase
financial details of the deal have not
been disclosed but HP is not thought to
have recouped much of the money it paid
for the palm algae said that webos code
would be used to power its
next-generation smart TV technology hmm
interesting I'm just gonna go like that
thank you oh yeah that's better can you
hear me now can you hear me now there we
go live folks live TV Thank You world
next valve boss Gabe Newell is being
made a fellow of the British Academy of
Film and Television Arts for his
outstanding contribution to video games
valve had held to foster a vibrant
game-playing community creating
influential titles such as half-life
team fortress 2 and dota 2 mr. Newell
said it was an honor for himself and
everyone at valve the fellowship will
begin officially will be officially
bestowed during the BAFTA video game
awards on March fifth that's coming up
we'll be looking at valves steam gaming
engine on next week's show I'm excited
about that very gonna be very cool for
them very cool
lastly a smartphone has been blasted
into orbit from India by a team of
researchers from the University of
Surrey they hope to use a purpose-built
app to test the theory immortalize in
the film alien that in space no one can
hear you scream the phone will play out
several of the scream submitted by
people online and we know exactly how
that's going to go mm-hmm you can get
these full stories online at category
five dot TV / newsroom category farmer
sorry world I just love goats okay get
the full stories online a category 5 TV
/ newsroom the category 5 TV news room
is researched by Rory w Nash's
contributions from our amazing community
of viewers if you have a story you
think's worthy of on-air mention send us
an email at newsroom at category 5 TD
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary Rumble I like how because this
is not live we can just go back and
reesei things when we miss them oh wait
a minute we have to say it yeah I just
do voice tracking that's exactly what
you do you be plowing through and then
don't mess that one up and so I'll just
start the sentence again and then you
just cut out that part but we don't have
that advantage no we're we're real
people Nelson's can real time dancing
for us though thanks Nelson ma'am
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by quarter II electric they provide the
power here at category five technology
TV find out more about them quarter
electric com also get your free one
month trial of netflix cat five dot TV /
netflix they've renewed their contract
folks you've been so good to us by
getting your one month free we love you
you love netflix make sure you get their
cat five TV / Netflix you can't go wrong
we're like saving your money like crazy
yeah yeah you know just get all your
movies for seven dollars a month hey get
your phone service for like three bucks
a month pretty nuts what are you gonna
do with all that money that you save I
say buy a boat some say by a dog yes by
dog
save the life with all your savings save
a life there you go cool very cool well
hey we've got a lot to cover tonight I
know that the the even is just flying I
know hokey doodle move it along here all
right I want to see what the big deal
what's the big deal well just before the
show I'll be honest just before the show
I opened the box but don't worry i
recorded me opening the box because i
know you want to see the box opener
dayla but i think i will rule out the
fact you know we are live here at
category five so i figured we rule out
any kind of potential issues which i
didn't run into any oh but you know when
we're live it's risky to do those kinds
of things but I a was able to activate
this just before the show and so here we
are there's me entering the set here at
category 5 and this is a nettalk duo
Wi-Fi that that I'm looking at tonight
so we're actually going to activate this
hill and folks if you want me to give
you a call all you need to do is just
private message me in the chat room
category 5 on freenode just send me your
location where you're from and and what
your phone number is with area codes so
there's the duo Wi-Fi device it's
included a USB cable we've got ethernet
as well and under here we've actually
got an AC adapter which converts your
power into a USB port so that we can
plug this into power without having to
use a computer cool very cool stuff so
I'm just going to grab everything out of
the the packaging here this is the USB
cable that's going to power it give us
access to it through the computer so I'm
going to plug this in now i'm sitting at
the laptop here but i decided you know i
am going to try this as was requesting
the chat where we're gonna actually plug
this into my linux desktop machine so
we're not actually going to use the
laptop and going to plug that into to
linux and there I am on Zorin OS and you
see up at the top right i just plugged
it in and suddenly i've got some
activity going and then that talk to a
Wi-Fi is flashing I don't know what that
means but it seems to be getting power
so this is good
now back on my linux box look at what's
happened here I've got a wired network
which is the nettalk duo Wi-Fi and again
not so sure what that means like I don't
know if that has created some kind of a
network or it's just detected the device
but we're going to try to activate this
so in my box here I've got instructions
on how to do that I can actually bring
up a special website through my web
browser on my linux machine and that is
nettalk calm / activate so we'll just
head on over there looks pretty simple
start activation and username and
password is prompting me for I'm looking
inside the the front of the box here and
let's see if I can show you this there
you go so there's actually a printed
username and password on the box itself
so I'm just going to type that in and
now it's asking me for my user
information by my actual name and email
address there we go
what do I want my username to be I
suppose that would be for logging into
the website and things like that and my
password make sure you got a nice strong
password 18 or eight to 16 pardon me
characters everything is outlined there
and answer the captcha code just give a
glance at the Terms of Service always a
good idea to read those just for the
sake of the demonstration we're just
kind of skipping over them and approving
but you see my login credentials have
been updated and have been sent to my
email and without even any delay I'm
being prompted for my I guess my
physical location for the that's the
e-911 that Nelson was telling us about
so just fill in my home address and
again approve the e-911 terms of service
and and continue there we go
service has been successfully submitted
my service address for 911 so now it's
asking me to select a phone number so
I'm going to select for canada ontario
my local area code and then there's a
list of different cities you'll see
Barry is up there with 302 I'm going to
choose that because it's a berry phone
number and just like that it has
proceeded to activate a phone number so
be careful you don't accidentally click
on the wrong one because you notice that
it would have activated the wrong thing
so there's my number now 30 2016 0 so
private message me I'm going to give you
a call give me your phone number and I'd
love to give you a ring if you're in
Canada or the US so now I've proceeded
into the portal here and you can see in
my user dashboard I've got a lot of
settings over there at the left hand
side looks pretty intuitive I want to
find out how to port my number as I
mentioned the Nelson that we would do
that so I'm guessing it's gonna be under
phone numbers so we'll click on that I
see select auto forward and there's port
number 2 nettalk so we'll click on that
and that's all there is to it so i guess
i'll enter my my normal home phone
number there but now i've already got my
nettalk number so that's great I don't
need to port my phone number just yet I
can go with that with my nettalk number
for now we mentioned about some of the
other features like voicemail things
like that so there we go i guess it's
off by default so i can turn that on and
lo and behold save my settings and I've
got voicemail so feel free once you've
acted activated your net talk device
just go through each of the prompts
there on the left hand side and you'll
be good to go so now to actually get
this connected to your phone line I'm
going to disconnect it from my computer
so i want to show you that we don't
actually need a computer to make this
work so i'm going to take the provided
ethernet cable you could do Wi-Fi as
nelson was saying but and with the Wi-Fi
device i would suggest that you get that
set up if you want to use Wi-Fi it gives
you some portabella t I want to actually
do ethernet just because I've got a
router right here next to me so this
would plug into a router into a switch
that you've got connected into your
router so now I'm going to get this AC
adapter this gives me power
over the USB cable without actually
having to have it plugged into a
computer which is kind of brilliant
because then I can just plug it into AC
and the other thing there is you can
plug now your internet router your
internet modem and your nettalk duo
Wi-Fi as well as your portable phone or
whatever phone system using into an a
like a UPS and now you've got battery
backup and it'll never go down and a
power outage or anything like that so
then I just plug in the phone and boom
were good to go so the next thing now I
was like okay well that was weird
because I didn't actually activate any
yeah over the computer and I did it
through linux but then plugged in the
ethernet cable which now has my phone
plugged into it everything and the phone
rang wait a minute so I answered it
uh-huh and it was a dial tone so that's
how the activation takes places they
actually use your username and password
which is calm your device and as soon as
your device connects to the ethernet or
do you Wi-Fi or internet in general it
makes that connection to the nettalk
service it activates device in urea so
phone i give any one of you a call I'd
love to give you a ring yeah yeah send
me a text private message in the chat
room here anyone in Canada or the u.s. a
private message with your phone number
and in your city just so that I know
where I'm calling to I'd love to give
this thing try because this is the
moment of truth i mean if if i mean this
is this is it this is the moment of
truth yeah give us your number guess yo
D in Canada or the US sorry John just
cuz I don't have that oversees calling
plan know anyone in Canada the US
willing to give me your phone number
that I can give you a call would love to
give you a ring
well in the meantime I'm going to dial
the studio line do it just to be able to
test I've got some phone numbers coming
in thank you so much so we're gonna go
it's a local number i can never it's a
the cat lab no go yeah gamoto a gamoto
is in Illinois so I'm gonna dial yup so
be ready for my call here I'm dialing
this as it you'll notice I'm not dialing
one right I'm dialing this as a local
phone number interesting yes hmm okay so
there we go muffle the sound there for
just a moment and let's see if i can get
my volume up here mom the truth nega
moto Barrie Ontario I came up this
Barrie Ontario yeah well look at that we
aren't very Ontario it worked it works
now how's the sound quality to you a
gamoto pretty good yeah you sound
crystal clear now I've got you on
speakerphone here hopefully the the
viewers at home can hear you as well
sing me a song or we just got a little
bit of a delay but no worse than I skype
now do you have your speaker's on right
now like are you watching yeah I've got
to turn down low so it doesn't interfere
right because that would definitely
cause you some kind of a delay now what
kind of internet connection are you on
your i'm using the same internet
connection right now to broadcast as I
am to talk to you on the nettalk duo
Wi-Fi free megabit dsl okay all right
and you're watching the show it's
streaming to you live right now so you
do have a fair bit of network traffic
going on at the same time and it seems
like it seems like we're able to
converse perfectly fine just like it was
a phone call
right surprised folks agamotto thank you
so much from Illinois yeah thanks for
thanks for joining us on tonight's show
seems like a successful test I'd say
anyone else Thanks like a moto have a
great night have to send up some viewer
points or something oh definitely that's
good participation thank you if anyone
else would like a call from the category
five studio tonight just to give it a go
but that I mean sounded perfect to me of
course we're on speakerphone so that
that could be part of that too right
mm-hmm if I had the phone to my ear you
know how speakerphone sometimes gives
that yes sense of a delay didn't seem
like there was anything there to me
agamotto so cool that is very cool well
that at least gives us a chance to give
it a test if anyone else wants me to
give them a call i'll give you another
you know 30 seconds just to do that
while you bring up some of your
questions oh yeah always got my
questions here that's it folks I mean
that is as easy as it is and we're
giving one of these away tonight the the
nettalk duo Wi-Fi so stick around if you
got your ballots in make sure that you
that you stick around because we could
be awarding that to you and you'll be
able to make those long distance calls
as if they're local and we'll give you a
year full of service so cool so cool we
love it we thought just before you carry
on I'm gonna make another local call
Troy 74 whereabouts are you located
let's see let's see what we can do hmm
come on Troy pick up Troy 74 answer the
phone man pick up pick up this is high
technology right here this is my telus
right tell us not tell us
doesn't radiola know what I'm saying
Troy Saudi 4mon you're expecting our
call man now he's screening her call
yeah someone talked to Harry Ontario
like where the heck is this place Troy's
this a joke it's just a prank call so
try is your phone ringing it seems to
disappear from the chat room to he's
like maybe he's like don't know where
did I put my phone running around the
house yeah try to find us we'll give you
one more ring d la he lost his phone
Troy we didn't we didn't get to call you
tonight but you're not responding in the
chatroom item yeah he must have lost a
phone or something what can you do but
it works it was dialing me what I left
you a voicemail if you let us but I well
I will move along to your viewer
questions at this point but very pleased
that it seems to be working great I'm
excited to you know get my voicemail all
set up and all the other features that
are included with that service and just
to be able to make unlimited long
distance causes it's fantastic to yes
hello mm-hmm all right what do you got
for me okeydoke this comes to us from
johns em from atlanta georgia writing
hello all i am looking for a way to
change the color of folders but not all
at once I want to change a few at a time
two different colors haha I want to
change things in them and copy them to
other drives and whatnot and I want to
show which ones I've already done thanks
I always look forward to your show well
alright so it doesn't mention OS yeah
well particular I'm gonna make the
assumption that you're on linux and
probably something similar to me like
maybe we're going to resort is or debian
or some something like that yeah John if
you're in the chat room you can let us
know that and I can't I can't think of
any drop in kind of solution to making
your icons a certain color but what I
can think of is Nautilus allows you to
change the icons for anything in
nautilus so if i bring up my computer
here for example let's say I wanted to
take that 284 folder which is today's
episode i can actually right click on
that folder and go properties and you
see where that folder is I can actually
click on that and it will allow me to
browse to a custom icon so there's a
couple things I can do I can browse to
slash user slash share / icons and I can
browse through and find one that I want
to use probably let's I'm not sure which
theme i'm using but crystals SVG might
have some stuff i don't know so you can
download icons from anywhere right but
this is where the ones on your system
are but i'm not sure where the where the
ones for your nautilus are but what i
could do just as a the sake of the
demonstration let's use GIMP and just
have a little bit of fun and I bring up
the GNU image manipulation program i'm
going to actually screenshot and get
myself an icon that i can play with
because you're specifically asking for a
colorization so there's my screenshot
i'm going to crop this into that and
here's something cool about gimp i can
goat image auto crop and i love that it
takes it right in there cool now i'm
going to colorize that so let's make a
new layer and let's say we want this
folder to be red so i'm going to fill
that that entire layer with red and i'm
going to change the mode of that layer
to color now i have a red folder hmm see
that so now i can save that icon i'll
create a new folder and i'll call this
icons all caps just for fun and we'll
call this folder red dot ping notice I'm
not going all out and removing the white
space around the edge and stuff you
might want to do that you know to get
rid of thee yeah that's there but
because I've got a white background
anyways and we're just quickly doing
this for a demonstration we're not too
concerned about that so now that I've
saved that angle properties and I can
browse to that folder
and choose that one and now you'll see
that that folder is not know how easy is
that that's pretty good yeah i mean that
that can achieve the effect that you're
going for right yeah totally that's
nautilus and just create a bunch of
icons different colors cool or whatever
you want them to be I mean they don't
have to be folders you can make them
look like whatever you want but when I
do picture of your friends heads or
something hmm different friends head for
every Robbie's head my head different
color gloss my mouth red um squash yeah
blue man group that would be good I
could really fit in there or just in the
wizard of oz' you wouldn't you wouldn't
believe oh man was to get off my
goodness that's all I can think of well
there you go yeah all right cool here's
the question yes got another question
here coming to us from me how hi Robbie
my first question is for ubuntu mobile
can you install on other phones or just
the Galaxy Nexus and the other okay
first quote wait nope that's a lie can
you install on other phones or just the
Galaxy Nexus okay and the other if it
could could you explain how orc step by
step if I use the HTC One X well here's
the thing is that canonical is
purposefully being very vague about
which devices they're going to support
right off the bat because it's a new
product it's their new partnerships I'm
sure there are reasons that they're that
they're not saying everything but
definitely the nexus one or permit the
Galaxy Nexus is is a phone that they are
supporting clearly but as far as what
other devices it will work on really is
going to come down to community support
I think because it's going to be an open
source or it is an open source thing so
you're going to start to see through
their website people talking about
different different phones that have
been routed and then have the operating
system installed on it not really
something that we can show on the show
but something that you can certainly get
onto their website get into the dev
forums and find out how people are doing
it I'm sure that we're going to start to
see some step by steps over the next
little while cool and if you have a
specific device like the HTC one
post it and and say you know here's
here's my device can some do someone
else have one that wants to make it work
so good idea good luck second question
from him my second question is how to
use proxy chains under Debbie and six or
if there's some excellent program for
surfing anonymously on the Internet hmm
i don't i don't want to be lazy with the
answer but we are running low on time so
the first thing that comes to mind it is
skipping over proxy chains entirely
would be tour tio are that's the first
thing that I think of when I think about
anonymous surfing you can get actual
distributions of Linux that are that are
built to use tor entirely which is like
a proxying service that that masks your
information as you as you browse so you
get one of these live CDs or something
then all of a sudden you've got a free
way to browse anonymously you boot up to
the CD you do your browsing and then you
shut down and go back to your regular
operating system so and you know you can
use that to we've talked a little bit
you know our viewers in China who have
trouble watching yeah because we use
services that are blocked and that's
unfortunate but you can use some of
these proxying services to to get around
that which you know is at least a good
reason to use it I think so until we can
offer something better cool t 0 r 0 it's
like Thor is awesomeness but without the
h good thinkin yeah hey we've got time
for maybe one more question by another
viewer and then we've got this nettalk
duo Wi-Fi I want to give away tonight so
okay alright last question what do you
think of Firefox OS will it be better
than Android seems like an opinion
question that is but yes absolutely
which one do i do you think of Firefox
the last Firefox OS is a completely
different can of worms that's apples to
oranges right there android is a full
you know that there that's a operating
system that is built to for
functionality in mind more so than
openness
Firefox's specifically all open stuff
it's very much for the you know for
those who really want something that's
open source entirely but I'm the guy who
will install Ubuntu and then I'll
install restricted extras is one of the
first things that I install because i'm
not i'm more into functionality and free
as in cost and savings that way than i
am about having access to the source
code because really why you know how
many of us actually delve into the
source code of every program that we
install its to be realistic I don't so
fair enough apples to oranges I think
both have their place but I think
android is still you know that's
obviously the bigger option one see very
cool here yeah alright well Robbie who's
the big winner I do have to do I want to
take care of all your questions folks
and I love receiving your questions
where did I put that thing oh yes I here
it is here's the goods right here there
it is folks a nettalk duo Wi-Fi now
we've conducted the draw we got a ton of
ballots that came in over the past two
or three weeks since we announced the
nettalk duo Wi-Fi that we're giving away
just to reiterate I mean you saw the
interview at the top of the show with
Nelson and and we talked about what this
thing can do for you but we're including
the one year full service and that's
awesome talk time and you're going to be
calling all over Canada in the US
absolutely free cool i also mentioned
that you can if you want you can throw a
ten dollar plan per month on here is
that right is it for months nelson just
to be perfectly clear okay so it's about
10 bucks a month to get overseas dial
emitted so if i give this to you and you
want to be able to call where r sees
this is only going to cost you one
hundred and twenty dollars for the whole
year great if you have unlimited phone
service anywhere in canada that US 60
countries
well I'm going with this right oh cool
that's like less than two months phone
bill uh yeah and that's unlimited
everything right practically everywhere
it's so cool when it comes down to it so
our winner I don't know if you can give
me a beat box or a drum roll or
something deadly delayed I winner
tonight from all the ballots were cast
randomly drawn by random.org is hey-soos
jimenez q fanfare yeah gradual ations
hey hey Zeus that is going to be going
your way all I need you to do is pop me
another email live at category 5 TV send
me your full shipping address preferably
not a p.o box because sometimes we have
trouble shipping Bay send us your full
shipping address with your phone number
in case the courier needs it and your
name all the stuff that we would need to
ship this out to you and we're going to
pass that information along actually to
to Nelson who you met tonight and he'll
be shipping that out to you so now that
it's a local call we expect you to call
into the show once in a while and say
you know how you guys do on you got a
question you know that's that's your way
to do it you know pick up the phone dial
it it's local why not so is everyone
else you got that's very cool thanks
everybody i hope you had fun nelson hope
you had fun tonight and heather great to
see you nice to have you here and
Hillary q I loved it I love this place
thanks everybody wow the hour just flew
by unbelievable you guys see our
checklist I mean that's a lot of stuff
to cover in an hour but here we are we
did it have a great night everyone
fantastic week next week very excited
we're gonna be looking at Valve's Steam
and Sasha dear mitis is going to be here
on the show and I'm looking forward to
having her back as well but Sasha and I
are gonna actually looking at steam and
getting some games were linux and
showing you that Linux is a very viable
platform for gaming so don't miss it
that's happening next tuesday night at
seven eastern time and we'll see you
then week
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from very Ontario Canada
every tuesday at seven pm eastern if
you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show chimes in your area at category 5
got TV and find out when you can watch
live and interact in the community chat
room category 5 is a production of
quantity digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada missy you next
time thanks for tuning in
