hello this is bangle Fox 70 from the
pixel shadow in the first episode we are
going to be playing a game called Mon
test it's exactly like Minecraft but
it's absolutely free you can download it
on Windows and Linux today we are
playing in survival and we are going to
be showing you the basics of this game
it's a lot like Minecraft so if you are
a fan of some something like this
stampylongnose or dantdm then you'll
probably like this series too because
it's almost the exact same thing so
we're going to hop right into the game
and work on some survival here we go we
need um for starters we're going to need
some wood to make things like torches
and pickaxes so let's quickly go grab
some wood
also I have less hearts then when you
first start off because I was did a
little jumping around before I started
shooting and I lost a couple arts just
in case you were wondering also if you
get trapped in a spot like this where
you can't reach you can build blocks up
so that you can reach like I just did
with the leaves and now I'm gonna have I
don't think I'll be able to reach do
okay so once we've got the rest of this
tree we can get to work on building a
house and yeah so to make wooden planks
you just put right um left click your
pinewood or whatever type of what you're
using and right-click it into your
crafting grid and you will get pine wood
planks well or whatever type of what
you're using and to get to the crafting
grid you open your inventory and you can
just click all over hmm you press I to
get to inventory then so first we're
going to build the frame of this house
we're going to need some more planks so
you just keep doing that you can put all
of it just by left-clicking instead of
right clicking and keep left clicking to
get the items that your variable to
craft so let's just quickly build the
frame of this house it's going to be a
small house but in future episodes will
expand it
also you press W to go forward okay so
let's just make this we're going to need
some more wood for the poor also you
left click to break box and you right
click to place box but some blocks you
need special tools to break so don't be
worried if you can't break a block
so now we're going to need some more
trees and also when you break a tree
it'll give you um saplings so that you
can plant your own you just place the
saplings and they will grow on their own
so you can see here off camera I put a
couple saplings over here to demonstrate
this you just right click and you wait
like 10 15 minutes and they'll grow to
to another tree so that's how you spawn
your own trees without having to shape
them yourself so I'm just going to place
them here and let's go grab some more
wood why are the leaves here it's random
so let's just get like two pieces of log
and then we can crap an axe which makes
breaking um would much much faster so
that you don't have to spend a lot of
your time breaking blocks so what you do
is get your pond with planks then unlike
minecraft you just put one pine wood and
you will get four sticks then to craft a
wooden axe you put two sticks in the
crafting grid like this and then three
pine wood planks or whatever type of
planks are using to make the wooden axe
and I'll show you how it makes breaking
it a little bit faster you can get
different types of axes like diamond
Dax's and stone axes and we'll show you
how to get those in future episodes
so let's go get this done so we'll just
make some more planks 2 3 4 16 now we
have 24 which should be enough to fill
the floor and then we're going to need
some glass also we should make a shovel
so that we can get rid of this know very
quickly so you just place one what plank
write in this form then put two sticks
and you will get a wooden shovel which
also makes mining or breaking the blocks
much quicker so let's just get this done
need two more we've got another sapling
to place
this looks like a good tree just break a
couple because we don't need this right
now we don't need the whole tree I mean
just for hint you won't always spawn
inside of a snow biome you could spawn
spawn in lots of different biomes in a
biome is the biz um like what type of
trees are spawning so like there's
desert biomes where you can find lots of
sand and such so let's go get some sand
so that we can make some windows that's
another biome here the different types
of trees so let's just grab one two
three four just grab about 20 um sand
perhaps there now we're going to have to
make a furnace to break so that we can
smelt this sand into glass also if you
think running around like this is really
slow you can grant yourself on fast mode
so just press / grant then your for
example your name and then fast then you
press proceed but I'm not going to do
that cuz I already have that granted
then you just press J then press E and
you can go really really fast so that
you don't have to walk super slowly
which might be frustrating if you're
trying to get some workers um quickly
let's get a few more wood so you can
make a pickaxe
here we go is my house gone here it is
so let's make that into more planks then
let's make on eight more sticks then to
craft a pickaxe which is used to come
breaking box like stone blocks put two
sticks in this formation and three wood
planks like this and you will get the
wooden pickaxe then we want to go find
some stones so also you can grant
yourself fly unlike in Minecraft you
can't fly in survival you may think this
is kind of a cheat but um it's kind of a
good thing when you're like stuck and
everything you don't always have to use
it but if you think its a cheat you
don't have to use it but we're going to
use this just to get places quickly
because we don't have so much time to
make this episode so we press / grant
and then whatever your username is and
then fly proceed and you will grab
anywhere you will gain the fly privilege
press K and you will be able to fly just
like this then you can find yourself
some stone and we're going to need to
grab some coal which is also used for
smelting because we need something to
burn so let's grab like four pieces of
coal maybe five yeah 5 would be good
then to make a furnace we need eight
pieces of stone one two three four five
six seven eight although when you break
stone you get a block called cobblestone
because um you're going to have to smelt
that to make more regulars don't because
you're breaking it up so that you can
gain in your inventory so to craft a
furnace which is used for smelting
objects like the sand put put each one
on the outer blocks to get a furnace so
that now we can smelt our sand to make
some glass
I am lost okay so place a block here and
left-click put your coal on the bottom
one and put the item here and okay it is
really really dark so I'll quickly go
sleep I have some more built over here
in my survival world if you're wondering
what this big thing is so we'll just
quickly sleep so that you can see in the
screen because this must be frustrating
you can't see anything sleep if you're
not on a public server you can skip the
night so let's go back to our little
house by creative and we'll go back to
what we are working on so we need so we
were smelting arse and three glass so
you just left click any one place except
you see that how they're connecting
actually um you can like when you go to
menu so let's do that um on settings you
can connect connected glass so that your
glass will connect so you just left
click and you'll be able to make it so
that your glass will connect let's just
quickly get back in
and let's see six more glass it looks
really nice when you connect it though
so I advise that you add that in your
settings so let's just keep placing our
glass okay almost done and then we can
get to work on the roof and chest
perfect we were one off it's amazing now
you probably also want to know how to
make a door so the basic door which is a
wooden door you take pine wood planks
but um we have a really cool mod called
the home decor mod which is from Vanessa
E and it um brings lots of different
types of stores so we want to get that a
fancy door because who does it who
doesn't it doesn't so let's get some
more glass why I'm trying to smell the
snow box so in order to craft what we're
doing today is we put one block there
one planks block there one planks block
there one playing Spock there and then
we'll put glass there but we need two
more glass I'm and we'll get to glass
and wood Oh colored Doris it is perfect
and now we have really nice glass doors
for our new home now let's get out of
fly mode and let's get to work on the
roof and why did I exit out of 5 mode I
need it for the roof silly me so just
keep doing that placing them
you have a four-block reach so you're
going to have to go closer to the block
right need more wood this is what really
it's really annoying about the basics of
the basic survival takes forever to
obtain all the wood you need to do do do
do do okay my producer just brighten the
screen which is why you might see a
little pause so hopefully we'll be able
to see this a bit better I've got this
sapling snows in the way smelt it all
our glass okay so let's just make some
more pine trees oh also in Minecraft you
have crafting tables but in mine test
you have your a whole crafting grid in
in your inventory which is pretty handy
if you don't if you're not carrying any
wood around to make a crafting table and
you need a pack axwell your mining for
example so let's just make a simple
house so not too fancy like no shingles
or anything which also comes with
Vanessa's so um home decor mod and no we
need more wood so annoying
let's just do it breaking block stance
to pass the time I'm dancing I'm dancin
and dancin and dancin okay so now we
have eight more should be enough because
I've been saying this the entire time
and it's never been enough man
see I said I knew it say there's going
to be enough wood but there never is so
let's go back to the dancing tree okay
so sorry if my coughing is bugging you
and now we've got a pretty good survival
house now we also want to get a chest to
store our personal belongings and
finally we have exactly enough wood so
you take Boyd planks any type and put
them in the same form as a furnace to
get a chest and we finally had exactly
enough you look um right click and it
will give you a selection for you to put
blocks in so you don't have to carry
everything around so let's keep the
pickaxe because you might want to do
some mining if we have time so now let's
make mine but first we're going to need
some ladders of course because then how
would we get down without flying we're
also going to need another pickaxe
because this one's going to die soon
because the durability you can't have a
forever pickaxe can you least some games
are realistic let's just break these
because we don't need very much wood and
only take a couple minutes
so what we're going to use special edits
to make the tree chopping much faster
than it actually is so you're not
sitting there for 20 minutes watching me
chop down trees so to make a ladder you
just craft all these into wood planks
then you make lots and lots and lots of
sticks because you need a lot of sticks
for this brace yourselves so in mind
tests that I'm each item stacks up to 99
so a quick way to do it is if you
right-click it will spread it in half so
keep splitting it in half so that it's
all equal so split that in half but that
in halves but had it that have and every
um see a stack only got as 12 ladders
that's why we're going to need a lot of
sticks oh and I mean a lot so we're
going to need to craft this up I'll try
and speed this up too because you don't
need to watch me crafting ladders all
day
and we used almost 48 planks and we only
got 28 ladders so I'm gonna have to do a
lot of ladder making off camera cuz I
don't think you guys want to watch a
show where we'll only making ladders
because that would be pretty boring so
Oh have another one of these make one
more nope drawn it so let's get to this
so right now I'm fine mode let's get out
of that because that's kind of cheating
so the pickaxe minds up stone and you
can put bladders down make it so you go
but we're going to have to do that in
the next episode because we're running
out of time and if you like what you see
then please leave leave a like and
subscribe for these montes videos also
please like us on Twitter and follow us
and we will try and do as many episodes
as possible oh just so you're wondering
my um my username is mega fuck 70
because you can't see it right now and
why why night pneus have ruined my outro
why well anyway guys goodbye
a
