welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob a
Ferguson welcome to the show is category
5 episode number 253 nice to see you
nice to see everyone yes i'm in a while
i'm doing good husband number of weeks
I'm okay yeah it's been a while good
summer yes and I'm in a great summer I
am turned 18 right after celebrate after
exams i graduated with honors and when
you go in rats buddy yeah and now I'm
dad must be proud oh yeah I thought I
just gonna cry at my graduation yeah but
also after that I checked out the
university I was going to it looks
pretty cool like it'll be AI qual Humber
and then now for the rest of summer I'm
working as a prep cook at the della
wanna in and honey harbour we were we
were talking before the show so now
anyone who wants to you know go go meet
Erica now you know how we were talking
about the show when I was younger I
worked at Muskoka woods up
north of here in Muskoka obviously and
and and I were in the camp and I stayed
there all summer long it's just a riot
so but now we had access to the fridge
in such a way that they would they would
roast like these massive carcasses of
meat if you're vegetarian I'm sorry this
is going to get very graphic these
things were massive and they would they
would serve it to the guests at the camp
and then whatever was left in the fridge
it's like okay we'll cut off a piece and
take it home with you because it's just
gonna go bad this is wild that was the
best part of the summer right there was
the meat well you're working in the
kitchen yeah like I've never worked in a
kitchen before so I was very clueless on
my first day and but you know like I had
a lot of people who are helping me out
and I'm just like I you prepare like
salads and all kind of stuff but the
same time pretty much whenever I like
something that I'm making it put it side
just munch on it so you have a passion
for cooking as well now or well just I
never I never was a good cook before
that's the thing so now that I don't
know it's actually making me a better
cook and now I can make my own food and
I know that when I'm on my own I'll be
okay that's probably where it's a good
experience here you go okay you don't
want to be eaten mr. noodle ramen
noodles every night hmm not every night
now most nights yes no but I get to
prepare the staff dinners and breakfasts
those out loans so i get like people
from like others like the other staff
buildings are constantly coming up to me
like like what's for dinner what's for
lunch what's for breakfast i'm like i
don't know whatever's left over like
that that's what you guys get his
leftovers I icon word on your twitter
account Erica lalonde one I don't know
why I put the one I think you said okay
to the wrong question be careful Erica
galland one on Twitter I saw a picture
of the mural that you had completed yeah
and actually your dad is is such a kind
of gentleman
you're my provided us right now provided
us with photos which i'm not i'm not
quite sure if that's a nice thing for
him to do to you or if that is there
there ok ok you so you you had the
chance to filter these late i don't know
what's going on here you're gonna have
to tell us the story um that was to band
around um right after my exam he was
trying to get me off the two but
actually at the same time my legs were
90 degrees in the air and he calls it
the soup kitchen so he was driving the
boat and he goes around in a circle and
crazy and he's just going over ways and
you fly up in the air but he didn't
didn't get a pretty epic shop yeah but
that's the first one all right okay um
that was Amanda country kettle a nice
little restaurant by the hose you just
happen to be up on the jumbotron on the
bus okay yeah iceland said that they
caught a nice can determining look um
nothing i graduate yeah that's my
graduation um very funny story she asked
me if i was a nice of my auntie Tammy
and I said nephew exelis my phone on you
at that point I know and they didn't
even say my quote card like it's just
what I think when you go to graduate you
say something that you've always wanted
to say so we got a lot of yoga Becca I
don't know and I just said like focus on
the good old times and they just said
nothing and then said I come on and I
was like oh I am her nephew I was scared
she's like shaking my hand and she said
you know Tammy you know Tammy and i'm
like 'i nephew and it's just like what
you just nervous waitin out i'm like
okay and then yeah that's the finished
mural ya know this is what I saw tweeted
on Twitter mm-hmm Erica lalonde one very
cool I know you've been working on that
for some time yeah
two and a half months and I don't know
it's it's nice because we don't have
anything in our school like that's the
first time in ten years that we actually
have art of some sort kind of bringing
in some like I don't know some nice
colorful joyful feelings rather than a
white kind of right you know the
brownish school very good well well done
and congratulations on the graduation
glad you're having a good summer yeah
it's going really good how's your summer
going it's nice to see everybody thanks
for joining us in the chat room category
5 on freenode and you can visit our
website triple w category five dot TV
and then also coming up in the show room
or in the newsroom sorry Apple has been
as dealt an interesting in your face
blow to the benefit of samsung linux
kernel 3.5 is now available and
microsoft made a loss for the first time
since it joined the stock market in 1986
Wow also want to transfer data in bird
songs there's now an app for that so
stick around for these stories that are
coming up later in the show cool we've
got your viewer questions tonight you
can email us live at category five dot
TV again join us in the chat room we're
gonna do our best to keep up with you
there nice to see Chris Reich and jot a
gamoto Garvey who joins us quite often
through the week as well gwg a jameson
we've got tons of you an honest man nice
to see you yeah thanks for the belated
birthdays and yeah I know it's kind of
hard I no one really knew about it but
whatever it's okay but we have a viewer
question from chas lennox from athletics
kitchener so Robbie install Lubuntu on
my IBM thinkpad t23 it can't seem to get
the flash working under the chronium or
firefox installed and boon to restricted
extras manually installed flash as per
adult think the problem is the hardware
since I've done this a lot flash video
we just got back on firefox on Chrome
and it says it's missing a plug-in but
both work fine on my leave
Leonov o 3000 OBO look I'm me I'm oh
yeah yeah c100 using same install
process reinstalled regular and boon to
same problems do you think that the low
end video card in the laptop might be
causing the flash problems hmm it can
what I'm looking at here is I just
brought up YouTube I should probably go
to something that I know is safe which
is category 5 TV and you'll see you know
when i when i launched a youtube video
for example just because this taps into
flash that's a good idea to test if i
right click on and go settings you'll
notice that there's something here that
i've got turned off their transplant x
and it's enabled hardware acceleration
in linux under certain situations with
certain drivers and graphics and things
that checkbox can cause some very
strange anomalies that that will in fact
break your flash for for video playback
so i'm not sure if that's necessarily
what it could very well be what the
problem is that would be the first thing
that i would check with regard to the
modern flash also there have been some
known issues with I think version 11 the
latest version anyways since upgrading
and so you might try if if absolutely
everything else fails you might try
reverting to a slightly older version
flash from version to version tends to
be fairly similar these days so you know
if the latest and greatest doesn't work
for you then you can step back just a
little bit but try turning off that
hardware acceleration in the settings
first and foremost just bring up a video
right click on a go settings and disable
that that will that will hopefully bring
back for you that fixed it for me I was
getting black windows for flash videos
and some pink you know the faces would
come in and that would look all pink and
blocky mm-hmm it was very strange I hope
that helps for you Erika we have to take
a quick break and and
we're going to be back with more viewer
questions after the break but stick
around and of course we're going to be
looking at that app we're going to be
looking at tonight we're going to be
talking about backups and I may even
have something really kind of cool to
show you if we have time so stick around
we're we're going to be right back after
this at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but here here and here but
with one exception you should also be
able to trust your batteries here Eco
alkalines of the world's first and only
certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference Eco alkalines
calm this is category 5 technology TV
we're online at triple w category five
dot TV and of course our mobile site is
m dot cat five dot TV in category five
TV is also a member of the tech podcast
network and if it's tech it's here and
the international association of
internet broadcasters now I just looked
at the sea like the type and feed and
care yeah the chat room I love the
comment by Maggie moto at IE college
agra modem agra boat oh uh but your
shirt blowing out the color filters was
the first comment was the first thing I
said to you yeah yeah whoa look at your
shirt I said oh this is this is me
clinging desperately on to my youth
that's take it or leave it whatever
young backstage pass can read the back
perhaps if you're on backstage pass well
i was thinking plaid but it pledged in
its always we're totally hip and styling
today lagers is kind of like red and
blue so yeah my 3d glasses it'll be whoa
trippy like a scene from tron
so we have another question from Garvey
Hagar me so hello guys i was watching
the episode 250 250 when Robbie was
explaining a virtual box set up to me
late network setup eric was trying to
think of something that would need to be
changed between the clones for them to
be unique I think she was trying to come
up with a hostname the hostname for a
system must also be unique on a network
virtual box itself should manage the mac
address so they will be unique but the
hostname would remain the same and
should be changed in order to run many
copies of a system on a network right
thanks Garvey yes oh i wish erik was
here to hear that because a couple weeks
ago when Eric was here he was trying to
explain hostname and you're absolutely
right that's exactly what he was going
for and I was thinking MAC address he
wasn't explaining that he was saying s
ID which made me think about Wi-Fi with
ssids and stuff so yes hostname that is
your identity on the network so if you
if you clone a virtual machine for
example you've got windows seven
installed in a virtual machine and you
make a copy of that machine we I was
trying to grasp what Eric was saying I
was saying oh you need to change the
uuid of that virtual hard drive
obviously because otherwise it's going
to think that it's two of the exact same
hard drive and it's going to conflict
but what he was saying is you know once
you've booted it up you need to change
the hostname so that they can both run
on the same network otherwise you're
going to have that hostname conflict so
DNS won't work properly and stuff like
that so cool thanks Garvey
um well we have another question this is
more requests at the moment rather than
a question okay um but I'm sure it's
been covered before so would it be
possible to show our series of shows
that goes on goes into the principles of
networking I what IP addresses are in
internal external and how to find your
internal external IP what a network
gateway is how to port forward ports etc
something that is targeted towards
beginners who wish to get into
networking if this is not possible could
you direct me to sites are targeted to
beginners that that's a license Robbie
thanks Robert it's a pretty vast yeah to
say you know can you cover this in in
the course of a question I and I
understand from the beginning of your
email that you and you you get that that
would take up a whole show practically
to get into I wouldn't mind knowing a
little bit more about where you're at
and what what kind of things you're
hoping to do networking is is something
that's great to know because the things
that you can do are just limitless I
mean if you want you can if you
understand networking well enough you
can be you can optimize the way that
your backups are done I've got a
pogoplug sitting at work for example so
that my backups can just be done to the
pogoplug and my server that's here
thinks that the pogoplug is another
computer on our network so it's you know
it's knowing how to do networking and
it's it's it can be fairly basic it can
be quite advanced and when you
understand things like hostname as
Garvey says then you're flying but let
me know Robert what I guess where you
it's tough that's that's such a wide why
think that's like it's almost like
saying like can you can you tell us
about audio like it'sit's that that wide
of the spectrum there's so much stuff
that that we could get into and you know
we're talking IP addresses okay so we're
looking at multiple levels of IP you
you're probably using ipv4 we probably
need to get into ipv6 the same
different versions of the IP addresses
but yeah let's let's let's chip away at
it let's so let me know what what
specifically one on what you want to
learn how to do might help me to grasp
what it is that you're hoping for be
happy to help Thanks well we have tons
of questions tonight so let's try get
through them all we have one another one
from swiss and I and so it says in lenox
one of the more discouraging
productivities is the process of
installing software that doesn't come
via the respiratory in windows also
talking repository sorry in windows all
we have to do is start the setup etc and
answer a few questions to get things
started in a few seconds but to a below
geeky Lennox user like me installing
often comes as a rather lengthy and
frustrating process hmm ya well what
what they're saying there and and I
thought it was interesting off the top
Erica read your name is Swiss and I
because it's it's that's how it's
spelled exactly i've always said swiss
Andy oh but isn't that's so funny how
two different ways that's just how i've
read it so let us know which is the
correct pronunciation whoever got it
right will win a prize hope it's me hope
it's me i'm going to say swiss Andy just
because that's what I've always said
using a repository and Linux is is the
dreamiest way to install programs on
your computer I'll show you Erika what
what a repository is is capable level
just bring one I'm going to bring up
synaptic package manager on my computer
which is basically a program that you
can use to install programs on your
linux computer and I say this is if you
know I really I want you to I want you
to switch to linux okay I did but I had
issues installing you need to talk to me
but these bring it in let's get it on
the show okay for the next month I have
no internet
that's unreasonable in any time I come
back I have like a hundred new messages
that I have to read because I've only
been back off twice now and I've been
there for a week but I had a good my
orientation so if I email you and it
takes you six months to get back to me
I'll know why no no no I'll be back
before sit ever check out check out what
a repository does here so here are the
repositories so you see that you know
i'm subscribed to the main the universe
the restricted the multiverse each one
has different kinds of software main is
essentially you know the the free open
source stuff universe is kind of out
there stuff restricted could be stuff
that is considered possibly not legal in
certain countries and things like that
mp3 codecs and stuff like that that's
its wide what you can do so with the
repository erica what you can do is type
in the name of a program last week we
were talking and looking at key pass X
for example and so we installed that
just by clicking mark for installation
and go so with a repository
installations on Linux are so easy and I
think that's what's with Andy is saying
on windows though you typically download
a setup.exe file you run it it works
what you know is there an equivalent to
that in Linux and usually there is and
and usually that is comes in the form of
an RPM or in our case using a debian
based distribution we're going to have
de be packages de be packages are for
the debian package manager and they they
will open on your computer if you're
using a punto they'll open in ubuntu
software center and there will just be a
button that says install and it will
actually show you a screenshot it will
let you do it all that way so look for
DB packages um I think Swiss Andy was
going on to talk about yeah what pulse
so I want I thought you know let's take
a look at this and see what's what's up
well you said fairies an example the
Linux version of the web pulse
application
all I want to do is install it in a boon
to 12.4 or similar and make it start
automatically at boot time but it seems
to it seems I'm even two different all
still oh don't say that no it's nothing
like that is it can be complex and it's
a learning curve right everything is a
learning curve I had issues installing
it as well so yeah and and it's always
like when you're used to windows as the
example because you're used to being a
click on a set up dot exe you you are
gonna think along that that way mhm
right if you're used to doing it this
way if you always drive on the right
hand side of the road and you go
somewhere where they're driving on the
left it seems weird and it seems
difficult and challenging so now I've
just brought up what pulse on their
website so this is what pulse org now
are what Paul's team is cat five dot TV
/ pulse that will take you to our actual
team so you'll be able to participate in
that once you get this installed so I've
clicked on the download of version 1.2
32-bit I didn't bother with the setup
script maybe I will need to let's take a
look keep yes ah yes I do need that yeah
see they don't really outline okay so
let me explain to you what's going on
here see how can I understand this stuff
so you know we take it for granted and
maybe that's what it is somebody who
designed this website is somebody who
understands all this stuff and I'm sorry
that they're not giving you everything
all the information that you need
download both of those things okay
because the setup script is actually if
we look at it it's actually a script
that's going to set up the permissions
for your kernel because the thing is is
that what pulse basically taps into your
keyboard driver at the colonel colonel
level so that you're able to run what
pulse and it's able to track your
keystrokes it doesn't track any of the
the words that you type or anything like
that it simply tracks the
the number of times that I click the
letter F for example so you'll notice if
I open that file set up permissions Sh
it's just it's a Bosch script it's just
goes through no problem so what I'm
gonna do or a shell script or whatever
there we go i'm gonna go to terminal i'm
going to show you how to do this so
we've got that set up permissions SH
we're gonna go into the folder where I
did sorry going to go into the folder
where I downloaded it to there we are
and oh no that's not it CD downloads and
the there we go I'm there downloads
plural the file name is set up dash
permissions dot SH so the first thing
that I need to do this is what they're
not telling you under once we understand
what what these files are and I'm really
just showing you how to do what pulse
because it shouldn't be overly
complicated but what pulse is a script
it's not really a program that you're
installing like a windows program it's
just a script that's running on your
computer linux is a is a whole different
can of worms when it comes to that kind
of stuff because you can create like
basically what windows had is bat files
you can do entire applications based on
the same kind of premise just creating a
text file and that's what they've done
here with what pulse so knowing that
okay this file needs to be executive all
see watch what happens if I go dot slash
okay because i'm running a current
folder file I need to go dot slash and
then the file name is set up dash
permissions set up dash permissions SH
if I try to run it it says permission
denied the reason for that is because
I've downloaded this in my computer to
protect me linux has said this is not an
executive ol program unless you tell it
that I'm allowed to execute it so I'm
going to do that now I'm going to do it
through the terminal so that you learn a
little bit better you can right-click on
it in in nautilus or your my computer or
folder browsing kind of thing in
your GUI and just go properties and run
it as a program but what I'm going to do
is going to go CH mod + X set up and and
just hit tab now what I'm doing is I'm
adding the executive will bit to that
program so now when I run it it's
actually going to go see that so that
that's being output now is in fact the
first line of the script it's being
echoed to my terminal window so now if i
run it what it's going to do is it's
going to allow my system to to get the
permissions now it's telling me here
that it needs to be rude so what we need
to do is go sudo dot slash set tab and
that does the setup permission stop SH
run that now it's going to ask you for a
password sudo now is going to allow this
to run as root which means basically it
has administrator access again to
protect you you from malicious software
and things Linux is is very strict so it
will not run things as the administrator
unless you force them to that's where
sudo comes in so now I'm going to hit
return and I've obviously already run
this so you'll be able to go through
that step and be able to run that no
problem okay so the next step is we've
got that file here and what on earth do
you do with that where's the executive
all where's the etc etc but again
realizing that this is in fact strictly
a script let's see what it actually
looks like maybe it's not a shell script
maybe it's something else who knows
let's take a look CD dot slash desktop
there's my what pulse file I'm going to
again chmod plus X what pulse because
I'm telling it is executive all and it
is case sensitive so capital W capital p
what pulse enter okay so you can see now
it runs
and you get all that kind of stuff oh
well yeah yeah I might actually fail to
load let's try sudo dot slash what ah I
gotta run it as pseudo there you go now
it's monitoring alright so now you can
see it's actually running on my system
grand there it is well see that so all
that to get you there it's so I totally
feel for I totally understand but know
that you can see that once you get that
it's really just a script it's not even
a program and you got to just set it as
executive all and run it and you got to
run it as superuser I think you know
when you're on Windows you double click
on something and it can do anything to
your system and that's ease of use but
at the same time it's very very
dangerous because you can change up
something oh they don't know how many
computers come in for service that
somebody clicked ok on the wrong thing
like which you know you did on Twitter
and it happens you get so many prompts
day in day out ok ok ok ok leaving it
where's to leave me alone button and
you're just pushing them and and it does
it because it exactly I tell you what
the internet is it ok to do this is it
okay to do that hmm ok and you just kind
of at that point it's ok ok ok yeah
leave me alone and when you're likewise
my screen are popping up oh they're all
my files gone so you can see there that
it's not it's not overly complex once
you get it as far as the concepts behind
it but it would have been nice if on the
what pulse page if they had a shown you
how to do that a little help line yeah
food yeah I'm in the same decision yeah
and a typical scenarios look for a de be
packaged there easy breezy because you
just double click on them just like a
setup.exe brilliant and they also take
care of dependencies we're running
something in the terminal doesn't always
a Debian package will install what that
means is if in order to install this
program and use it I have to have this
program a deb package primarily a
repository package as well we'll go out
to the repositories download the
necessary programs and install them
for you automatically so you don't need
to go out and find those additional
things repositories are the best way to
do it because using a repository means
as new versions of the software come out
you're going to automatically get the
brand new version of that software
unlike windows updates which typically
only updates the operating system and
Microsoft specific products like office
the repositories anything that you
install if i install any program
whatsoever if they bring out a new
version and release it in the
repositories I will get that update so
all of my stuff stays up-to-date if you
use a Debian package or if you use
scripts like this you're going to have
to manually update them as you go
because it doesn't know where you got
those from so stick to the repositories
if you can cool awesome well thanks for
all your questions will come back with
more questions after the news I think
because we do have a ton of your
questions to to address oh yes but here
in the top stories from the category 5
news with a UK judge has ordered Apple
to publish announcements that Samsung
did not copy the design of its iPad
according to bloomberg news agency it
says that I said the judge said one
notice should remain up on apple's
website for at least six months while
other adverts should be placed in
various newspapers and magazines it
follows the US companies failed attempt
to block sales out of South Korean firms
galaxy tab tablets at the time of the
story was written Apple had not
commented on the news that sounds like
it would be embarrassing for a company
that they've lived they have to make
commercials that say no they didn't copy
us that's that doesn't look too good but
they'll probably find some of their
apple right the point if I don't get
some cool guy in a leather jacket to be
like Oh leather yeah you know he'll
he'll make it seem suave that they took
and make it very grave or hip in a way
of that oh you know Apple better than
Microsoft Kenneth a well
linus torvalds proudly announced on
Saturday the immediate availability of
Lennox Colonel 3.5 the new version of
the colonel bringing support for some
new hardware plus various interesting
features such as the support for
metadata base checksums in the ax t
force filesystem and improvements such
as memory management fixes networking
and vertel ization security and a ton
more nice is it just me or is it a nice
thing that it is not version three point
four point three point two six point
eight nine point three I 386 point 73.5
it is thank you find 5 mr. Torvalds and
Microsoft has made the first quality
loss in in history after it rode off of
the value of its online advertising
business the lost came after it wrote
down the value of equality by 6.2
billion which failed to bring the
profits expected by Microsoft that led
to a 492 million loss in the three
months to the end of june compared with
a profit of 5.9 billion a year ago the
company has not made a loss since it
joined the stock market in 1986 it took
over a quantum in 2007 but it struggled
to compete with rival Google Microsoft
is doing well in other areas despite the
client popularity if it's micra Windows
operating system which dominated the
personal computer market for many years
hmm you can see that and today like a
lot of people aren't always going for
Microsoft you know like I find that very
cool like we don't write these news
stories these these come to us and
that's actually from BBC and the fact
that that they say despite the decline
in popularity of its Windows operating
system I think that that is
is a sign right there the gathers there
are so many alternatives now with Linux
being kind of at the forefront and Mac
if you if you really want to switch
hardware too well macadam at that I find
even is for people my age like when I
talk about what I talked about
installing linux as an operating system
people are like I said the little
penguin sign and I'm like that I saw
like when I was like a five I got like
five years ago or something to store and
I'm like no it's not a store like you
keep it's free like you can get it
online and like I just gotta learn how
to use it there you go you gotta learn
how to unseal what pulse gallery you
know yeah but no like I definitely
noticed that Apple like as marketing
towards you know people my age and
they're now switching from Microsoft
Apple because it's it like we have iPods
like all my friends talk about is their
ipod iphone and that connects to their
now i pad or their you know their imac
or ibooks oh there's Joe you got all the
teenagers in the world but anyways well
there's now a new app that trim that
transmits data at a burst of a data
birdsong it aims to simplify the way
users share images and other files
between smartphones chirp chirp plays a
two-second long noise that sounds as if
it was made by a robotic Bert when heard
by other devices it triggers a download
the software which is free to use was
developed by animal systems a spin-off
business from the University College of
London interesting I had to find out
more about chirp thank you for for doing
the news no problem tastic you can find
out more about the newsroom at newsroom
category 5 TV I'll hand you this I've
installed chirp on this ok iPad and it's
it's strictly available for iOS right
now so ipods iphones ipads i would think
that as the popularity increases though
we'll probably see other platforms
you mm-hmm you think about a room full
of people all with their iphones and
whatever and and chirp will just run in
the background and no problem because
there is multitasking on the iDevices
now as you know they introduced that
because it's it's probably a good thing
so now I've brought it up here you've
got it up there I don't know if you can
show the folks at home what it looks
like I'm kind of hard to see but just a
general kind of profile of what it's
going to look like okay so hold that up
I'm just simply going to chirp and if
you've got this installed at home feel
free to you know turn on your your
iPhone or whatever so we're not
connected by bluetooth we're not
connected by Wi-Fi we're not connected
by any kind of cables or you know we
don't have to bang our devices together
if you're in a room and 10 people have
chirp installed the theory is that it's
going to everybody's going to receive
that chirp adds the moment of truth
moment approve you ready okay let's see
okay here we go yeah this go well did it
did you guys hear that and I picked it
up again if this one on tap the world
which receives the there you go and open
in safari and so what I've actually just
done and you sent me the category 5 here
comes got it oh look at that that's true
that's awesome that's a neat idea as it
is just it's something you think of in
your hair to be so easy it's it brings
subliminal messages to a whole new level
cool that is that's available for free
in the App Store for your iDevice and
give it a try i mean rewind the video
and install it on your your iDevice and
push play I definitely
if I hadn't I'd advise I'd be using that
better than a bumpin all that actually
works like so yeah these kind of weird
new things and but doesn't work now I
wonder what kind of the range is like
how how well does this don't have to
test that you'd think let's bring up
chirp again sorry up true okay I'm gonna
I'm gonna like I'm gonna go way over
here okay yeah and it picked it up it's
still picked it it's still picked it up
well how did cool we'll have to maybe do
a test and see how the ring which works
see any way over there it's pretty high
frequencies all but your range is pretty
good like trip and then see if like
someone outside can get it hold the ipad
up over there and we'll go from that
this rosy okay as far as it end of both
rooms Oh still got it wow there's a good
you know 200 feet there cool that's true
get it from the the itunes store there
you go category five technology TV is
brought to you tonight by quarter eee
electric there the official electrical
sponsor of category 5 TV and find out
more about them at quarter electric com
also we've got one month free trials for
you of netflix put a cat five dot TV /
netflix that's going to give you all the
movies you can watch absolutely free for
one month and once you're done it's it's
eight bucks a month I look I actually I
don't like I've been using it now for a
month and I just love it like whenever
like spare time again she watched the
shows i want to watch like don't have to
go into finding new old shows that I
didn't know existed like sliders sliders
and mr. d mr. no hilarious I'm watching
dead like me I just finished it I used
to watch that show is about like grim
reapers living a very opposite loves
four types of TV shows
yeah I watched dead like me rested
development brought the rest of element
definitely but we've already seen that
so it because we've already seen it I
haven't seen it like like my friend show
it's me first time when I'm like what is
this I had no watch this before
hilarious and they're bringing out more
there's another season coming out and a
movie following the season yes as long
as they do a great job because the
people have done that before where
they've canceled the show and then 10
years later they bring out a following
is and it's a bomb but I'm sure they'll
do really well it was a good cast anyway
oh I like to buy a zoo my baby yeah we
actually do have a Netflix a question oh
yeah we got one from Jim Bob media and
it says JimBob I'm using netflix and
I've been a member for you now as you
probably know Canadians of a different
selection to choose from than the US yes
I realized that as well I came across a
site that allows members in Canada the
same selections as a US on netflix using
their server they say it's not a VPN and
supposedly fast i tried it for a free
7-day trial and it wasn't and i was
impressed with the speed but i have
fiber cable as well so I was um I was
able to receive Netflix us on my smart
TV upgrade box and a lot more services
on my WD live box but I like to get your
opinion on the service yeah the tricky
thing with that kind of stuff is that it
is kind of a gray area as far as legal
wise i'm not sure why netflix canada has
different programming the netflix us but
i would expect that it has to do with
copyright laws or something of that sort
so with with these kind of services as
you say they say they're not a VPN but
usually it's done through a VPN kind of
tunneling or something like that with
those types of services typically you
know if your travel
then it's a different kind of thing
because you're you own the service let's
say you own it in the United States and
you travel to Canada and you you want to
still be able to watch your shows that's
one thing but if you live in Canada you
don't have a United States address do
you have the legal right to watch a
service that is legally only available
in the United States so it would I would
think that would specifically be a
question probably for Netflix mm-hmm
which you can contact them by email not
by email by phone off of their website
and again it's right on camp 5 TV /
Netflix you'd probably ask them if
there's a legal issue there but again
it's a gray area because the the modern
web has progressed faster than the the
copyrights and the way that things are
copyrighted in today's modern internet
so I think that has something to do with
it so yeah for reason why it's different
know like i know the u.s. netflix has
let more selections yeah but a lot of
the the companies that are creating this
content okay our American yes so are
they saying no we won't allow it to be
distributed in Canada and so then if
you're tapping into a service that
allows you access to that you're you're
maybe not necessarily breaking the law
but it's possible that the service that
is providing that may be on the verge or
kind of on that line of maybe they're
stepping in somewhere that is as little
bit past the grey area so it's hard to
say but I mean those services can work
absolutely if you want my technical
opinion they can certainly work I think
they're a cool idea but I think it would
be really great if the world wide web
was a world wide web but it's kind of
like you know your cable TV is different
in the States versus canada to write so
mm-hmm take it for what it is I got
three channels in my room awesome and no
internet so you can't install in that
place Oak tragic but that was the thing
like I didn't bring a single movie yeah
I did I thought when I get up there I
tap into their internet because like
that's usually what you do tapped into
the
internet opened up google sorry reload
page okay net fence about going netflix
sorry reload page okay no Wi-Fi signals
nearby earn like they say they have it
but it doesn't work people brought their
xboxes people are trying to get on the
live and like we're all try to game and
stuff but no and I don't clean out
houses good guy I prep food that's for
housekeeping and I feel bad for them but
yeah but um no so I came back and
grabbed like a hundred different movies
that I could possibly find but it's hard
when oh I had netflix i just had
everything there is a pre-planned wrote
everything down I'm gonna watch so yeah
that's I could send you some VHS I think
I met my mic is my note did it you good
is it better now okay can you hear me
now America only Erica do you hear me
now it's a load old food and I got asked
like a million times iphone smartphone
no teen I that's what's up yeah we're
Garvey says where are the cat five bars
have we got three bars or four bars
signals good signals good you can see
that yeah oh yeah a signal red very good
I'm not very good with out of my first
nose what are you doing wit now you've
got a laptop computer mm-hmm we've
talked it before what are you doing for
your backups and be honest with me if
you're not doing anything tonight it
actually I have a little hard drive and
I've just been kind of putting it on
there but no you put it on there I've
just been copying and saving my files
good
mostly just my music my photos a lot of
the stuff that I've been doing on my
computer I've managed to actually
restore the last four years of high
school because I lost a lot of my files
and stuff that I did when my old laptop
kind of fried on me but now I have like
from grade 9 to grade 12 I can look at
the projects I've done and I'm able to
just like a little mini one but other
than that I haven't really had the time
to look into anything else as well as
backing up I had I mean I see people
coming in all the time with failed hard
drives and things like that and and a
particular gentleman came in this week
who had purchased an external hard drive
one of those mini external hard drives
and had in fact been clearing the files
off of his laptop on to that hard drive
so it's only mine doesn't do that though
so you're running a particular program
that actually runs a real backup we've
looked at some here on the show like The
click free device for example which are
fantastic for for that but if you buy
typically when you buy a piece of
hardware like that an external hard
drive it's it is just a hard drive you
plug it in and just comes up and it's
good its own Drive letter and you're
good to go so people and I see it all
the time take their photos and drag it
onto that and move them so what happens
then and unfortunately what happened to
this this guy is that I'm we live in a
digital age you've got digital cameras i
use digital video cameras all of our
family videos my kids the birthday
parties that they've had and everything
are all stored on like these kind of
deals yeah you know so then I import
them what do I do with them do I put
them on my computer and then move them
onto this Drive put him on both
unfortunately this guy had been moving
them off of his laptop thinking well I
need that space to import more so I'm
moving it onto this external hard drive
and then the hard drive crashed and of
course that means all of his digital
photos of him and his family and and you
know possibly loved ones that
have have moved on and that you know
those photos are priceless you can't
recreate that stuff and that was the one
place that it once was on this external
hard drive so if you get one of these
hard drive the important thing to
understand is that a backup is not
moving your files onto another medium
simply just making a second copy having
redundancy always having multiple copies
this guy said well can I not just get a
particular external hard drive that like
isn't there a brand that doesn't fail
like do they all like why are they all
junk no its you never know like that's
the thing my laptop you never know when
is just gonna stop working one day one
of the guys at work is famous line is
it's not if it's when yeah it's it's
going to happen your hard drive is going
to crash if your hard drive crashes
tonight it's not much we did we did not
try to you know spook anybody oh but it
just it happened I do want to spook
people though because I it's going to
happen when is it going to happen you
have no idea so this guy's moved all of
his files over and then hard drive
crashes and he's lost everything all of
his digital videos all of his digital
pictures music who cares i mean you can
get the music again but all of the
priceless stuff that you can't get again
this is technically gone like I don't
like all my little funky little projects
I did on my last laptop or just like
scripts ideas anything you want to type
down like I lost most of it i could only
like literally get i only got probably
two gigs out of 60 of what i had filled
on there right at the time which was a
lot but not anymore 47 47 in the
challenge says that a raid one is always
backed up and so that's another mindset
math man that is sword of let me give
you a scenario raid one is basically
when you have two hard drives or more
and they're always duplicates of each
other so if i save a file i now have it
on two hard drives so if one hard drive
crashes I
another hard drive is that a backup no
that's the same its redundancy which is
a good thing but what happens if you
have a fire what happens in a case like
that or what happens if you get hit by a
power surge I've had that happen you
know that we had some times here where
we had some power surges awesome
hardware and it's not selective as to
which of your two hard drives go good
guy mentioning in the in the chat room
what about robbers we had somebody break
into the studio and steal a whole bunch
of stuff what if our raid one set was
part of that it's not technically a
backup it's a fail-safe as far as in
business a raid one is great because if
a hard drive fails you're still up and
running your server doesn't stop working
it keeps going off the other hard drive
you replace that hard drive and it
rebuilds the set but it's not something
that you're taking off site it's not
something that is an actual backup a
backup is not is is is redundancy
obviously but it's redundancy that is
separate from your existing system if
it's an external hard drive it means
you're unplugging it and putting it away
putting in a safety deposit box getting
it somewhere else state is saving it at
a family member's house but definitely
getting it unplugged because I think of
power surges and if it's plugged into
USB in the same server that gets fried
or computer if your computer gets fried
in a power surge and then your hard
drive is attached to it guess what so
and that's also another thing like you
could have your hard drive attached to
your laptop but it's good to have that
may be hard drive put away in an old
laptop box or something of just all of
your older pitchers like buy a hard
drive to like once it's filled up well
if it's a terabyte or something yeah it
takes a while to the wash your back up
not everything is yeah yeah like it's
just a key like you could have like
years I don't know like the first years
of your life too I like the middle part
just all on one is my first tenure first
I like the idea of a safety deposit box
or if you have an office at work and
you've got a locking drawer or something
stick it
their cousin get it off site cuz now
that you know photo albums are slowly
disappearing that you know I still have
them but in the next generations like
they're not going to have as many photo
albums unless you're actually going to a
walmart to get it printed to get the
photos printed like like a safety
deposit box for one of those is like
it's it's definitely necessary if you
want to keep those memories at least if
you're anything happens to your computer
room flood anything like you never know
mm-hmm so what do you do at home with
regards to your backups and are you
keeping a redundant backup that's the
question tonight I want to know and and
I want you to have the confidence that
you have copies of your stuff in two
places at once a minimum two places
flash drives you know the USB drives are
very unreliable those kind of things
they are good for transferring stuff
back and forth from your computer to
your laptop and I've never even used it
as a backup work you can't don't ever
use it as a backup don't you don't store
anything on those things because they
fail and they fail hard and you can't
get your data off of them if they do in
most cases so and the nurse you know
I've seen it's been plugged into the
computer and the cleaning person came
through like this and snapped the USB
right off and it you know stuff happens
right so my guys I measure at school
like you would even plug them in and
then a little screen would pop up saying
they have to do a virus check because
people were putting viruses in this
school right and then they were just
people to steal I would never do a thing
like that let's plug it a virus is a
good school system shot is using unraid
but no external backup no place to store
it I would suggest now unraid is is a
redundant solution you've got single
drive failure protection and if more
than one drive fails you only lose the
data on one hard drive so that's pretty
decent yeah that's what I use is my
system here but then I've also taken it
one step further and I've thrown a
pogoplug across town and put it
somewhere
and I back up my stuff over the internet
on a regular basis so I always have a
redundant copy if that's not an option
for you and usually you can you know you
might be able to find a friend or
something that that you could swap you
know install a pogoplug at their place
and offer to let them back up their
stuff to your server for example just
encrypt it on his way over and you're
good to go there are ways to get your
stuff in other places but John I would
suggest that you get into a scenario if
you're using on raid you're obviously
you've got a fair bit of data get
yourself even if it needs to be just a
single hard drive you can buy 3 terabyte
hard drives now external drives for you
know the prices going down mm it was
very very high there for a while but
things are getting better since you know
since supply and demand is kind of
shifting so but get into a scenario
where you've got redundancy beyond just
the system itself make sure you've got
something that you can take away yeah
for sure one viewer in the chatroom I
didn't catch the name was mentioning
about using the cloud yes I was looking
at that as well and and that's fine too
but again now we used it before and what
the cloud is I mean the cloud is just a
pseudo term defining network storage on
the Internet it's not something new it's
been around since the 70s and they just
rebranded it to make it sound cool
really it's legit so the the cloud or
computers out there on the internet
where is your data being stored that's
kind of the question is if if I is a
Canadian citizen protected under the
Canadian Privacy Act am storing my stuff
in the cloud down in the United States
that is not protected by the Canadian
Privacy Act who has access to my data
can the government read my stuff and
look at my pictures I don't know why
they would but I'm just saying there are
privacy concerns there do you know where
your stuff is and also is it again is it
redundant again people will move their
stuff to the cloud and then what
as if the cloud goes down what happens
if something weird happens and for some
reason you lose access to your account
what if somebody hacks your account and
deletes all the stuff and it's gone what
if people get ahold of many cloud
accounts like yeah hackers are at work
who knows but then you're in a that's
again that's great for redundancy if
it's a secondary copy absolutely don't
ever move your stuff no always at least
coffee don't just move or replace also
Garvey was saying that carbonite is a
nice and secure or you can use Amazon
ec2 service and it builds up a backup
set up there as well oh yeah I feel like
an s3 account or something and you could
save your stuff but that's that's again
looking at cloud storage and things yeah
yeah so I hope if anything that you
understand tonight that we need them you
need to have more than one copy if you
have anything on your systems that is
important to you I think of family
photos make sure you copy them tonight
to another hard drive and if you don't
have another hard drive and you've got a
laptop at home do some kind of
fandangled thing and copy don't move
copy that stuff over to that laptop so
that if something happens to your
computer you've got an extra copy and
then don't let anyone steal your laptop
no yeah all right we're just we're
practically out of time here oh I we're
running on a solid state drive tonight I
put a solid state drive into the server
which is very very cool it runs at five
hundred and fifty five megabytes per
second read and 515 right but one of the
things that we're working on because
we've got the cottage special coming up
next Tuesday night mm-hmm we're going to
be in haliburton Ontario and hope that
you can join us there we've got lots of
great prizes sponsored by Ellie I
electronics and just thrilled to have
them as a part of it we're going to be
there we've got live music with Eric kid
and it's just gonna be a great time with
our cottage special this here looking
forward to being at Silver Beach
developments with Jerry
again this here you remember Jerry
Kowalski from last year so as part of
that we needed to make the server
portable you'll see in my blog bald nerd
calm that we really needed to make that
server portable because I had five of
these bad boys big ol heavy hard drives
you can feel the way to that it's it's
awfully heavy five of five of them
that's like a whole bag I don't like a
laptop these are enterprise drives that
were in to raid zeros I've got a weight
scale here here we go let's see ok we're
going to reset that the weight is 656
grams so five of those is almost three
and a half kilograms somewhere in around
there a little bit more than 30 matches
this is like light is not its home it
literally it's like it could be in there
and you wouldn't know the difference
there they weigh nothing and no moving
parts that's the key thing so that we've
cut down the weight but we've also
reduced the this was my concern is
jostling during move movements so we
have the kind of special next week we've
got the fifth anniversary party on the
twenty-fifth of September and of course
we're moving into our new studio before
that time August 27th I believe it is
that will be the new studio that's what
I check check the calendar at category 5
TV yeah Oh is confident so that's where
we're at hey thanks everybody for being
here Erica thank you for being here no
problem it's nice to go away from Cod's
country back in the Barry yeah yeah and
here I go on my way out so see you from
halliburton Ontario next Tuesday night
make sure you join us live and of course
if you are in haliburton make sure you
join us in studio at we call it in
studio but at Silver Beach developments
we've got lots of prizes to give away
we're looking forward to having you
there's our studio audience and again
Eric kid is going to be there with me co
hosting and performing live music as
well so I'm a great time yeah it's going
to be fun so looking forward to it I am
going to be a little bit more tanned a
little bit more relaxed I'll never beat
end and I'll be a little bit more
I cookin there you go take care everyone
have a fantastic week we'll see you
later yeah
