[Music]
first thing I notice is the power locus
has included a lovely hardshell case
that's always nice mm-hmm
but how can a pair of giant headphones
fit into that here we go
so they've got the hinge design okay
yes are you ready yeah tada
okay let's set that aside just for one
moment here and get a look at the
accessories okay we've got a standard
headphone cable so that you can use
these if the battery is dead for some
reason and you want to keep listening
you're going to be able to plug them
directly in that's fine
you've got a USB micro charging cable
I've got a couple of little manuals and
things like that we'll take a look at
those later no big deal okay so the
hardshell case the first thing I noticed
and I do love that and appreciate that
now these headphones have bluetooth 4.2
and EDR Jeff is wondering what does EDR
mean are you wondering that am i right
no I've heard of it I'm blanking well
when you see bluetooth EDR it means that
it has a technology in it that
essentially is like an encryption
blocking technology that prevents
man-in-the-middle attacks people being
able to listen to your what music but
Jeff why would you care if people are
man-in-the-middle attacking listening to
your music no these have a built-in
microphone and you can use these for
phone calls wirelessly to your phone it
has a traditional tactile power switch I
do kind of like that that's cool and you
just flip that on and off oK we've got
four point two Bluetooth low latency
we've got the EDR and you see that I've
chosen orange because that's just my
thing but there are several different
color options available to you Jeff what
frequency response would you be looking
for you can feel free to switch around
cameras if you want to say hi or ricans
frequency response so you're an
audiophile like me
what are you looking for in a pair of
headphones you know what I I don't know
I've never really paid attention lately
I can hear you but I can't see you Jeff
but okay fine
there IIIi don't know I am I
traditionally Jeff yep
I look for twenty to twenty thousand
Hertz because that's what I always
figured was full spectrum now these
headphones the one thing that was a bit
of a turn-off for me looking at the
specs is that they started 110 Hertz
so 110 Hertz is the lowest it goes and
it goes up to 20,000 Hertz
and normally that would make me say okay
I want to find something that's twenty
to twenty thousand because that's just
you know it's like it that's just what I
look for right but I started looking at
the reviews and people saying oh wow the
bass is fantastic it's so crystal clear
and I thought oh maybe maybe maybe
they've done something to this I mean
they've got giant drivers in here that's
gonna give it great bass even in spite
of the fact that it doesn't go down all
the way to 20 Hertz which I can't hear
anyways my human ears can't even hear
that right so these are 110 to 20,000
Hertz and I'm gonna give them a try in
just a moment to see if they actually
live up to the reviews playtime we're
gonna get about nine hours music
listening we're gonna get about six to
eight hours of talk time if we're using
them for phone calls and things like
that you can switch between the two and
it only takes two and a half hours to
fully charge these it's not bad now Jeff
you want to know what really sold me on
these from power locusts
yeah the cushiness is good they look
cool blah blah blah blah blah blah
headphones or headphones there are a
million to choose from an Amazon cooks
you breakfast
we've got tactile buttons for volume and
things like that great yeah that's cool
and then we have a micro SD port what's
these bluetooth 4.2 headphones
include a mic
as deport that allows me to put music on
a microSD card so that if I don't have
access to let's say I don't want to
stream music from my phone maybe my
phone's battery is low maybe I just want
to listen to music and go for a jog and
not take my phone with me well I can
just put them on an SD card I've got
that option no that's an option I've
never seen in bluetooth headphones and I
love it in addition to that I've never
seen that hidden somewhere in here is
also an FM radio built right in so this
is Jeff it's about everything you need
everything that you need in a Bluetooth
set of headphones I'm gonna bring this
over to you okay let's try it you ready
sure oh yeah yeah I can hear that this
is the impossible thing to review it's
true well we can review they just they
can't hear we'll be right back
just this is some good television right
here Jeff's pretty particular about the
headphones that he wears and they're
impossible to let you hear how they
sound or are they because we have a very
special friend here with us tonight I'm
just gonna miss the rest of the show
okay I'm gonna take these over to our
demo oh we've got a binaural dummy head
here Jeff stupid dummy head all right
I'll be right back okay you talked to
them you're leaving me again okay
that's some sweet sound that's got some
great low-end I like that
so am I being replaced by the dummy head
I'm jealous of the dummy head those are
some very very good now tell me if I'm
yelling yeah you are they do sound good
I'm excited about them they look cool
too they do but what's really impressive
is that your depth is not great on those
like as far as distance great but when
you were talking I'm assuming you were
talking you were just mouthing but I
couldn't hear a thing like they're great
for noise canceling speak to me speak to
me now I can't any things to you I can
yeah that actually has really good noise
can see a chopper very nice I felt like
I was on one of those game shows like
put on the headphones we did hear check
out the power locusts headphones if
you're interested in that I'm in love
with the fact that it also has the SD
card reader
you
