welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's Kim here's your host Rob a
Ferguson episode number 210 of category
5 technology TV it is Tuesday September
the 27th 2011 it's great to have you
here and Robbie Ferguson and I'm Christy
Wert mmm how are ya oh I missed you been
a long time it's been a really long time
and we missed you at the 200th episode I
never I don't issue the injury and I
didn't do it I didn't I didn't smash his
finger with a hammer I really when I
heard John Curtis is his hand with a
hammer I was wondering we know they're
there are easier ways to avoid coming on
out you know and less painful ways he
lost the draw he got the short straw
healing up well though and doing mom
yeah oh he's he's coming in hot yeah
he's no incidence today you stayed away
from home improvement projects today
wait yeah we discussed it but job yeah
pre-show jitters well do you want to do
it instead buddy's like know lots of
exciting stuff coming up to know yeah I
know you've got some exciting news story
and it's great to have you back in the
newsroom of course we thank you with all
your news experience so that's gonna be
awesome also and the weather reports too
that's they've already so great to bring
the weather reports ridiculous yeah yeah
speaking of weather reports and for
those who don't understand what that is
is referring to when Christy was here
many moons ago way well her way of
telling us you know where viewers were
from was to say okay well what's the
weather where you are and so people
would send in their reports but Christie
there's there's a new way that we can do
this we can actually see the viewers
that are watching category 5 wow I love
it look at that that is incredible so
based upon that we we don't even know it
need to know what what the weather
forecast looks like well okay so we we
won't mention that it's 22 23 Celsius in
the Netherlands and we won't mention
sleep you know about what Scorpio said
about it being 27 in the UK of course
that's about 85 Fahrenheit and Don
Clifton New Jersey can you imagine 73 ah
so one I mean yeah so we won't so don't
send in your weather reports and and and
don't talk about the weather thank you
tonight we're gonna be looking at a free
online photo editor that's very very
cool we're gonna be checking it out that
right there answer I'm very interested
in I'm back doing photojournalism
mughelli so on yeah well that's cool
show that for you oh yeah it's gonna let
you work from any computer any browser
any platform and you can be able to edit
your photos right there okay see this is
the place where you find out everything
you need to know and common issue on
Linux is detecting your hardware
figuring out you know what what command
do I run in the terminal to figure out
what hardware I've got I always wonder
that well it's a common question so I've
got a GUI application we're gonna be
looking at tonight awesome cool what are
you got coming oh we have lots of
interesting news that we're about to
talk about well about the halfway point
through the show we're going to talk
about hack against Canada's government
and that continues to leave workers with
limited internet and Microsoft's latest
lawsuits targets Cassio's use of Linux
Google+ is open for public consumption
and NASA's uars or as Rob because it you
are as satellite re-entered but NASA
doesn't know where or exactly when
doesn't them now you know what I call it
you arse yeah a hidden go a portrait has
been found using sophisticated art x-ray
technology and fears that linux won't
work on a Windows 8 certified pc are
somewhat unwarranted so stick around
these stories are coming up in about 20
minutes awesome hey listen Dave made you
join joins us tonight from deadly in the
west midlands neat and submitted a
picture of him using his device to watch
category 5 Nate now he's really excited
I was mentioned that he's he's expecting
to be getting a 20 inch device that he's
gonna be able to watch the show on so
definitely bigger than the one that he's
using nice very cool job Dave hundred
viewer points for you and it looks like
the conversation has been sparked this
one comes to us from Lalonde who says
that this looks like Robbie dr. wolf
from a dip impact and so it began well
that is intriguing hmm you don't really
think that he looks like do you have an
alias charles m smith mm-hmm you'd have
to throw a few years on you but you know
few years hopefully a few pounds a
little bit of a likeness going on there
Robbie a hmm but of course you're the
handsomest thanks Kristi what's the
weather
I do you guys I didn't do anything and
so the chat room fills up with weather
well let's head on into viewer questions
if you've got some questions for us live
at category 5 TV and of course you can
also submit your questions in the chat
room category five dot TV now and maybe
it'll start raining in Texas Greg there
are a couple of clouds you have some
questions therefore for us tonight here
sorry switch guys like I thought she was
literally going into a question ya know
I don't do it was it was just a comment
is 23 Celsius in Moline Illinois thanks
agamotto and in Switzerland at 1am clear
starry right Oh 284 degrees Kelvin see I
have I I actually have a um what is it
called you know that you can't you can't
perforate my shield might yet my shield
of whether my weather shield uh-huh and
you know what when I when I was leaving
last time Robbie gave me his his stick
he used to have a stick they would poke
me with of us doing the weather for too
long and he gave it to me and it's you
know what it's under my front porch at
home so I can keep doing the weather so
keep sending it in ok uh I'm looking for
more looking for more ok ok I don't see
any more for now so i guess i'll have to
go to the mail ok it's your casa good
idea your call from leland greetings
category five there do you know of any
open-source search engines it may be
necessary for the Linux community to
support their own search engine I'm
noticing more often than not my search
results are nearly useless due to
advertising may the open source be with
you interesting question I don't know of
an existing open-source search engine
but they're an operational search engine
um cozia or something there's one search
engine that I just kind of happened on
by mistake and every time you go to
save some rainforest or something I
don't know echo SIA esio SI a the green
search hmm that's interesting
considering we're gonna be giving away
some green batteries in a little bit
green batteries gift of a green camera
to putting green batteries Oh eco
alkalines oh the carbon neutral
environmentally friendly battery of
course you got your your ballots in so
we're going to be giving away a year
supply and just about a half hour time
so stick around sounds like fun what
comes to mind when I'm thinking about an
open-source search engine is I can't
think of one that will allow you to
crawl through open source sites but I
can think of something that comes to
mind is called spider music spider but
with an H and what this would allow you
to do is actually run your very own
search engine the PHP tool you can
download and get and put on your server
just a little tiny thing there it is
I've already got it so now with this
tool I can install that and it basically
places a MySQL database on my server it
uses Ajax for searching so then I
control what sites are indexed by the
search engine so you don't know a nigga
search engine that's fantastic pretty
cool it can be used for you know if you
run your own website you can use it for
internal search within your site because
if you would just tell it to crawl just
your website but if you wanted to create
an open-source search engine you might
add a bunch of open source web sites to
your index and let it run so every night
it will do a cron job that Reese pie
ders those sites and things like that
you could get some of that if anybody
knows an existing open-source search
engine I'd be open to hearing about it
and we'll mention it on the show so
spider dot EU not you hmm spider they
have a demo right here just type in test
there goes it's just it just looks like
a you know like a Google ask kind of
search engine yeah we actually use it on
our website
of course Wow
if you go to search category 5 TV and
just type in you know linux and you'll
see that results will come up for every
entry of the word linux within our site
well but it wasn't even tastic but
you'll see that it also it's searching
the wiki it's searching our main website
right it's searching the newsroom and
it's giving you the most relevant
results based on our entire network of
of sites known who's paid the most to be
on the first page nothing like that no
ads or anything like though but I don't
know it's great open source yes search
category 5 TV is a working model for
spider and get it from spider EU and
i'll post the links in the show notes
for episode number 210 wait tonight is
our fourth anniversary if you can
believe in and that what we're wondering
oh what's Christy doing back I didn't
know that she was still closed and a
little bit of nostalgia and a little bit
of reminiscing to have christy back in
the studio because this is indeed our
fourth anniversary of the show hard to
believe that so much time has gone by
that we're now gonna be starting season
5 next week this furry is with that yeah
well i am very honored to be here thank
you for inviting me i'm so glad you were
able to be here thank you more mail
normal more mail okay let's go to God
will hi guys well hello to whoever is
beside Robbie at the point in time of
reading or the Overlord himself God will
really likes my weather reports so you
know I think God will is right up there
with me with regards to the weather
reports yeah I know he he talks about
what he has to do five minutes before
the show instead of my weather um I was
wondering if it's possible to make the
background color dollar co lor function
also transparent no Drita's us okay oh
that's what am I get background ash
color that's a CSS yeah yeah okay yeah
so what is he asking for well my code is
relevant to the question it's good
mobile ID with a background image okay
hmm scroll down a little ways and then a
one of those funny bracket sure those
things called the places oh this
squiggly bracket is a break a brace okay
okay and then my middle Clinton the
background color of gray and that's it
hmm okay so what's the question at the
bottom there I would like to make the
function of the identity id id middle
content transparent in CSS if possible
basically I want it so that the user can
see the background image on a page in
full without it having only part of it
viewable so glad well I'm trying to
follow the question but you're
specifying that the background color is
gray on middle content and what that
does is that oh that is going to create
picture that ideas of box and your
coloring in gray so now whatever is
behind it is going to be masked what you
can do is you can go background colon
transparent semicolon and then your CSS
is going to take that middle content and
give it a transparent background so that
the background shows through but then
you don't have gray if that makes sense
you can also use transparency so that
your div is going to be semi-translucent
so the background shows through ever so
slightly and that you can you know just
a quick search for CSS transparency will
probably get you there I'm already there
opacity 0.4 works in firefox filter
alpha opacity 44 Internet Explorer so if
you copy those two lines that would give
you forty percent opacity opacity point
for is forty percent but then the
command for IE is 40 so an actual
percentage so you want to match those up
set it to 0 point six and then 60 and
there will be a sixty percent opacity
but the disadvantage to doing that is
that it can cause older browsers and
this is what we run into when we're
designing websites you're always wanting
to design it in such a way that it will
work with you know cross-browser
compatibility it's got to work well on
everybody's computer as soon as you have
a lot of transparency it starts to
become choppy as the user Scrolls down
the page if they're using an older
computer or a bad video card or
something like that so you want to be a
little bit wary of doing too much in
that regard the other option would be to
create a grape in and set the
transparency of that ping to forty
percent so then instead of specifying
your background color s gray you would
specify background image as that grade
ping which is at forty percent alpha so
then the div is not alpha the actual
background image is and that would work
as well but a game won't work in older
versions of Internet Explorer and you'll
hear me say that a lot as soon as you
get into web design that's what you're
gonna hear a lot of well this will work
great but not in internet explorer mmm
yeah running something other than
Internet Explorer that's what God will
said he said I ease what killed me and
he said needless to say i run a lamp
stack now for web dev at home right so
lamp stack be in that it means that he's
got his own server linux apache mysql
and PHP little stuff yeah sometimes in
web development you get to the point
where perfect compatibility from browser
to browser is not going to be an option
in our next floor microsoft browsers are
the worst so they'll you'll tend to you
know eventually you'll get to the point
where okay we'll make it look good in
all browsers but it's going to
always look better in WebKit and firefox
plain and simple because we've got css3
because we've got access to some you
know box shadows and text shadows that
IE does not support hmm all right we
have a question from Greg hey Greg hi
Robbie my android issue is resolved
thanks to God will any pyros rock in the
forums awesome Greg well that's cool so
that wasn't a question that was a happy
person that's great who got help us to
show live thing before him worldwide for
him well it just goes to show that the
community of category 5 is not
religiously on air that you were able to
solve your problem without even coming
on air with that issue so yeah that's
fantastic yeah really is great and thank
you to those of you who commit time we
made direct mention to gadwal and Pirus
rock mm-hmm thank you for taking the
time for the community and helping
people out it's all about and thanks for
providing the forum there we go God will
is very active in the farm and basically
is that going for me um there's that why
he doesn't want to spend time on the
weather quite possibly hmm there could
be other ulterior reasons um but the
forum basically is one of those things
where I don't have enough time to in my
day to be maintaining a forum and
maintaining a wiki and and running the
show and doing everything that I do hmm
so thanks to get well God will and a
couple of other viewers as well yeah
have really taken on those those
projects it means a lot and it helps us
to to grow as a show hi and as a
community open source cheers TV there
you go use our search engine that's
right that's right um ok we have
Alexandra Wow haven't heard from you for
a long time um and this I'll just
mention this one we actually read on the
show last week but I wanted to come back
to the question oh okay well what kind
of skim it i'll let you you know what
i'll let you read the question but just
know that we did touch on this last week
but then gap will and i were talking in
the chat room afterwards and I realize
oh there's a better way to do this Oh
awesome
okay I'll talk to you about the
Alexandra does a geeky gang sign so so I
don't know you know geeky whatever that
whatever yeah okay see that's better
yeah he raised mine and look at his yeah
I'm about to do a dual boot so so once
again this this question was already out
but a dual boot with windows 7 and 12 12
10 waiting for final release on my
laptop and I want to make sure i can
easily access my bun to home folder from
windows ideally home folder and my
documents would be combined folders that
possible the only way I can think of is
putting the home folder on a separate
partition so windows can read it but I
know you don't recommend that because
it'll shorten the life of my hard drive
and and Alexander says see I've been
paying attention so hey great master of
a bun to suggest that was it so how do
we do it last week I had suggested using
FS tab and going through the hoops of
doing that and then like I say gadwal
was talking to me in the chat room and
said you know I think he was having
trouble at that point getting FS tab to
to mount it because it was a part of
partition rather or trying to mount the
device versus you know using you you IDs
and blah blah so why don't we just use a
symlink this would make the best symlink
use a symlink to mount your windows hard
drives documents say i would have
thought of that i would have woken up at
midnight God sibling yes and that's
exactly what happened to me the guys in
the packer like they're laying there
awake at night on symlinks I knew it
yeah well what can what imagine a
scenario and this is I think what
Alexandra was going for where you've got
windows and you've got Lennox and your
dual booting you probably prefer Linux
because it's better and you probably
reach this here oh well it's safer to
use on the internet you don't have to
worry about the viruses
and all the junk that's out there and so
that you want to be using it for your
internet stuff but then you got to go
back into windows if you want to do you
know maybe you've got some windows games
or whatever it is that's keeping
Alexandra doing the dual boot but what's
a pain is well I want to be able to open
my documents in both Windows and Linux I
don't want to have to copy them to a
flash drive because it's the same
computer right right so using a symlink
we can now basically tell Linux that hey
the documents folder is in fact located
on the windows partition hmm and it
gives you a roundabout way to connect in
and you really wouldn't know the
difference so Alexandra head on over to
the wiki wiki dot category five dot TV
okay over here on search let's do a
search for home folder and you see here
linking home folders to another drive
and gad will has been wonderful in
putting together this detailed tutorial
which it looks like a lot but really
when it's all said and done creating a
symlink tier to your drive is not once
you understand it it's not that hard of
a thing to do so if you follow the
tutorial I think that that you'll do
quite well and do provide your feedback
as well and I think that's going to be
the best way to do it so if you want to
be able to do that access your you know
if you go into documents on Linux it's
the same folder as the documents my
documents in Windows that's essentially
what this is going to accomplish so it's
really cool stuff that is great and
thanks a game to God well and all of our
other contributors in the community who
take you know what we say on the air or
what's said in the chat room after the
show and is able to then compile it into
a lesson in this tutorial and of course
gad will took it way further and
actually tried this on his own system
and so that's where all the steps and
hmm made sure it was working
so check it out oh right can't we go to
Andy sure I and II Halen I hope I'm
pronouncing that right Andy thanks for
the great contest absolutely love it yes
I'm an audio file and a synthesizer
freak tool used for this project cubase
6 on a Windows XP on the sphere VST
synthesizer for the movie atmosphere
double dumb AKG c 2 14 studio microphone
yello-ha o3d digital mixing console look
at all this some vsts lucky no I'll tell
you what's happened here this is one of
our viewers who has grabbed ahold of the
concept of the stop-motion video from
episode number 207 and is putting
something together and check this out
this is quite the setup I mean it this
is I don't want to scare away other
other viewers who are going to be a part
of this competition because this this
students obviously got the rig there's
our stop motion video up there you can
see and oh my on this fear this is gonna
be good whoa sony vegas pro windows for
video production why have a fem peg
ubuntu to convert you're a VIP to an MPG
cubase sony vegas could read me Robin to
to watch the podcast there you go well
hey you're using open source to watch
the show wait we weren't we gonna have a
battle here I was looking forward to
well you'll have to tune in to edit a
207 to catch the real bow hmm and you
can download that episode and there is a
clip that you're gonna be able to I
didn't bring voiceover too hmm add your
own voice over 2 and so watch it yeah
and we're gonna be giving away a ton of
your points and the pogoplug so make
sure you check that out that's on
episode number 207 thanks for your
questions everybody live at category
five dot TV is where you want to email
your questions to
quite the setup indeed dman a 10 mm-hmm
you set with the news elite I have
passed just about all right from the
category 5 TV newsroom hackers may have
had a four day head start when they
broke into government systems in January
in an attack that continues to leave
many employees without full internet
access and revealed flaws in the
security of federal computers documents
obtained by The Canadian Press say the
Treasury Board and finance departments
were notified of harmful activity on
January 24th by the agency that oversees
communications as security in Canada the
department's whose networks are links
began to remove infected computers and
Institute a series of rolling internet
outages to get to the root of the attack
eight months later many government
employees affected in the attack are
still working with limited internet
access after the initial shut down
government employees were allowed access
to internal sites but in order to see
external sites they had to submit
specific requests for approval in order
to keep the government moving internet
kiosks with full access were set up and
they remain in place we're still
following procedures to protect the
integrity of the system said Jack abria
finance spokesman a spokeswoman for the
Treasury Board said the department has
taken the necessary measures to ensure
that employees have access to the
information and tools needed to meet
business requirements she declined to
comment further in the latest news from
the tech world's ongoing global hunt to
find someone to sue over deal on with
with patents Microsoft has signed a
licensing agreement with Cassio the
broad multi-year contract which neither
party will put a price to will help
protect casio devices that use linux
while linux is supposed to be open
source microsoft is claims to
and seven that more than 235 of its
patents are violated by the project in
the last four years the software giant
has been quietly threatening legal
action for any Linux using company that
refuses to sign patent deals with it
amazon Novell inspired turbo linux and
zandru's have all put their X on the
dotted line others like sat-nav maker
TomTom ended up in court but eventually
settled Microsoft has also used the
Linux related patents among others to
target Google's Android already
succeeding in getting HTC acer viewsonic
and a couple small hardware
manufacturers into licensing agreements
Google+ is being opened up for anyone to
join after two and a half months in
clothes testing the search firms latest
foray into social networking was
initially offered to journalists and
people working in technology related
fields however members ability to invite
friends meant its user base quickly grew
to tens of millions Google+ has been
praised for several innovative features
including its multi-person hangouts
video chat the prospect of social search
through google would appeal to
businesses according to social
networking specialist Matt roads from
fresh networks brands know that a lot of
people who come to them through search
and anything they can do make themselves
come up through the right terms or
higher up the rankings is important
commercially that's the opportunity he
said if you're logged into Google and
search for supermarkets if some of my
friends have plus one test score
commented about it that might push Tesco
above Sainsbury's in my search results
unquote the rise of Google+ has not gone
unnoticed by its competitors Facebook
has recently rolled out a number of
innovations which many observers have
characterized as a direct response to
the Google challenge although the
company argues that these have been in
the pipeline for far longer Vic Gundotra
Google's senior vice president of social
business told the BBC that he welcomed
the competition NASA's best guess is
that it's 6-ton uars satellite plunge to
earth over the
the ocean off the u.s. west coast
between Friday night and Saturday
morning isn't it reassuring that they
don't really know if their projected
times are correct any debris that
survived to the surface probably went
into water and not on land the upper
atmosphere research satellite uars is
the largest American space agency
satellite to return uncontrolled into
the atmosphere in about 30 years there
were some unconfirmed reports of glowing
wreckage moving across the sky in
Western Canada but NASA said it had yet
to receive credible evidence that this
is so less still that any debris items
had been found Nick Johnson NASA's chief
scientist for orbital debris says
because we don't know where the re-entry
point actually was we don't know where
the debris field might be if the
re-entry point was at the time that
jspoc has its best guess of 416 gross
mean time that all that debris wound up
in the Pacific Ocean a previously
unknown painting by francesco de goya
has been found hidden underneath one of
his masterpieces the Wright Museum in
Amsterdam has announced the unfinished
work was discovered underneath goys
portrait of Don Raymond satu and using a
new x-ray technique it's thought to
depict a french general and may even
portray napoleon bonaparte's brother
joseph bombarding a piece of art with
powerful x-rays causes atoms in the
pictures layers of paint to emit
fluorescent x-rays of their own which
indicate the chemicals they originated
from that enables a color map of the
hidden picture to be produced the
technique developed by the University of
Antwerp and delft university of
technology was successfully tried out on
a van gogh painting two years ago
revealing a portrait of a peasant woman
behind the work patch of grass from 1887
Microsoft cheered windows users earlier
this month when it demonstrated the
upcoming Windows 8 operating system
booting in 8 seconds part of the
technology behind the fast boots however
could enable Microsoft and its pc vendor
partners to block users from loading
linux
on a Windows 8 PC Matthew Garrett a
mobile Linux developer at Red Hat wrote
in the sep tember 20th blog post to gain
windows 8 certification pcs will be
required to use the unified extensible
firmware interface UEFI in revision to
point 3.1 or later this firmware
includes a secure boot mode intended to
block malware such as rootkit infections
when this mode is turned on the only
boot loaders that will run are those
whose signatures match those stored in a
database within the firmware according
to Microsoft Garrett charge that this
mechanism could not only keep users from
installing alternative operating systems
such as Linux but also preventing them
from using Hardware a new graphics card
for example that didn't come with
appropriately signed drivers he further
complained that there's no central
signing Authority for the keys employed
in UEFI secure boot effectively giving
each pc vendor control over what
software is products can load
potentially good news for linux users
however as microsoft program manager
Tony manifest responds by saying at the
end of the day the customer is in
control of their PC the security that
UEFI has to offer with secure boots
means that most customers will have
their systems protected against boot
loader attacks for the enthusiast who
wants to run older operating systems the
option is there to allow you to make
that decision get the full stories of
category five dot TV newsroom the
category five TV news room is researched
by roy w nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think is worthy of on-air
mentioned email newsroom at category
five dot TV for the category five TV
news room I'm Kristi Burton Chrissy
thank you so much I found it funny that
Microsoft's quote was that you can still
install older operating systems if you
so choose oh yes if they're it's like a
slight towards alternative operating
systems like as if they're obsolete or
something mm-hmm but we know better we
know better II know but thank you so
much
tonight's episode of category 5
technology TV is brought to you in part
by pogoplug at cat five dot TV /
pogoplug and planet calypso cat five dot
TV / calypso I promised that I would
take a look at a tool that is available
for you absolutely free that will let
you use a GUI and Linux to detect lots
of the hardware that you have in your
computer if you head on over to synaptic
package manager system administration
synaptic package manager on your linux
system i'm going to bring that up now
when often I hear the you know the
question well what what's software
should I use in the terminal in order to
get access to what hardware's is running
in my system and here's a great little
tool it's called LS HW which you
probably already have but we're going to
go dash gtk for the version that works
in the GUI now I've already installed
this just for the sake of the
demonstration now once its installed so
you click on that and install and then
go apply once its installed hit alt f2
to run an application and go GK pseudo l
s HW g TK and hit enter enter your
administrator password now here's a
great tool that's going to allow you to
not only see your hardware but your
firmware versions that you have in your
bios of your computer once it detects
here you'll see it's just scanning my
system gives you lots of great
information if i double click on my
computer my motherboard now there's my
bios with the bios version some of the
capabilities of my bios what's enabled
you can look at your CPU now if I double
click because it's bold I can actually
see more details even further into the
branch there if I for example click on
system memory I can see that I've got
four gigs of system memory if I double
click on it I can look at each
individual
them and find out more information about
what it is that I have running in that
system so check that out it's LS HW gtk
it is the gtk front end for LS HW which
you probably already have installed but
you can get the gtk version in synaptic
package manager just like that LS HW gtk
very happy tonight to have a good friend
Lionel lalonde how are you good good
yeah from eco alkalines calm and great
to have you here and there we go now you
got mikage like to talk a little bit
about eco alkalines and of course
tonight's an exciting night because
we've been taking ballots over the past
two months letting people get on to cat
five TV / free batteries in which case
they've entered ballots by following you
on twitter liking you on facebook or
retweeting one of your tweets as well
and so we've seen that a number of
people who have participated in that
contest we're going to be giving away a
year supply of eco alkalines batteries
today but one of the things that I'd
like to know and and the viewers are
probably curious is what actually makes
an eco alkaline battery eco-friendly
what makes our battery eco battery a
green battery is that it's it's landfill
safe it's earth friendly it has no
harmful chemicals no caddying letter
mercury zero trace amounts the batteries
can actually have a patent-pending leak
resistant seal so they will not leak the
batteries also are the world's first
carbon-neutral battery and what does
that mean it means that they've been
certified by carbonfund.org they did a
full life cycle analysis on the
batteries to determine its carbon
footprint we found that the
manufacturing process was eighty eight
percent efficient and their mating
twelve percent we you know supports and
me carbon credits that actually go to
some projects right here and actually in
North America we're doing reforestation
and various hit by Katrina we're doing
truck stop electrification and biofuels
research fantastic
so and then the being that you were
already efficient at the manufacturing
level it's that's pretty surprising
really I think of batteries is being
kind of a dirty quite potentially
anyways kind of a dirty operation as far
as the chemicals that go into them and
most of the factories that exist today
have been factors have been around for a
role you know many many years our
factory is fairly new and so we were a
more efficient right there and the
startup we were able to put in
efficiencies upfront so yeah that's what
made it more efficient mm-hmm now i use
i well i have been using nickel metal
hydrides prior to that I was using
rechargeable alkalines and and some
other just for chargeable batteries
because to me that was my way of being
more environmentally friendly because we
use microphones here that require
double-a batteries for example 9-volt
batteries so it makes sense to me that a
9-volt nickel metal hydride would be
better for the environment than buying a
whole bunch of alkaline batteries for
example that are disposable well the the
rechargeable batteries have been the the
greener choice for most retailers most
retailers have put those out and
basically you know during the life cycle
of a rechargeable battery it could take
up to most standard batter state today
can recharge up to a thousand times
right and basically the you know that's
the same carbon footprint of about 200
disposable alkaline batteries but the
real problem is is the disposable those
are just how the customers dispose of
those batteries we know today just from
our sistex in the US that only three
percent of the people actually properly
recycled batteries most of those
batteries are winding up in the landfill
and actually are about a thousand times
more harmful to the environment than
than a regular hook line battery right
Wow so really it boils down to how is it
treated at the end of life for that
battery I mean a lot of these batteries
basically rechargeable batteries will
have will have one or more
the harmful chemicals in a very high
percentage that's what's required to
operate and is yeah and I know like we
tend to think that a battery is you know
it's a little tiny thing it well what is
what does it do to to check it in the
garbage and with something like a nickel
metal hydride that would be from what
you're saying is quite harmful it is and
a lot of people i mean it's it's a lot
of work to put the batteries in a box
and take to a recycled for depot whether
it be the fire department or store that
support that I mean it it is a it's
arduous and it takes time and a lot of
people and their fast-paced life right
now don't want to take that time our
batteries I mean we certainly recommend
that they recycle them they are
ninety-eight percent recyclable okay but
I mean if thrown in the landfill that
you know people under know that they are
degradable they will break down in our
lifetime I will go back two marathons
you know that that's good to know
because I kind of wondered about that
landfill safe statement because I'm
still recycling my eco alkalines
batteries at the e-waste recycling
because to me it is you know they're
gonna be able to recycle the metals and
things yes so interesting to note that
well in fact it just means that they
will break down and they won't leak
harmful chemicals there's correct
understood okay very cool how how well
now I know the answer this but for the
benefit of the viewers and I found that
the batteries are fantastic they're
really good solid batteries they last
even longer I've found in all honesty
and just in my own usage they've lasted
longer than traditional alkaline
batteries that purchased as far as
comparatively to other alkaline
batteries to other available options
certainly my nickel metal hydrides how
does eco alkaline measure up to that
well to the little outperform the heavy
duty the mikkel nickel metal hydride the
young outperform I'll perform the loan
lost ur love the glass or something like
that yeah the the in regards to the
major brand batteries we've had our
batteries tested
and they're equivalent they're not the
best yet we're still working on that but
you know they're better than the the one
major brand a little bit less than the
other brand and based on the amperage
draw the continuous amp Astros about 20
minutes difference in one of the major
brands and ten minute allowing the other
brand so and that's over a fairly long
time yes so it's that's pretty minimal
Wow very good so do we have to pay a lot
for eco friendliness I I find you know I
started investing in eco-friendly light
bulbs and I'm paying a premium for that
I really aren't like LED light bulbs i
paid nineteen dollars for a single light
bulb know with our batteries I mean
we've done you know batteries are menu
the manufacturing process is not that
expensive you know wave haven't charged
a premium for a green product like you
see in detergents and in LED light bulbs
we basically our batteries on average or
anywhere from 3 99 to 499 for a a four
pack of batteries depending on the
regular it's a selling it's the same
price is pretty much any other battery
that's on the shelf so fantastic we can
be green and not even have to pay more
yes very good where can you buy them
that brings me to that point like where
are they available at this point at this
point our company is fairly new were
Canadian company we've been around since
we purchased the company back in
November we in Canada we are we have
distributed to a number of major
retailers selected home hardware stores
pharmasave farmath plus doors right we
just recently are in the process of
launching home outfitters online they're
available at costco.ca walmart CA and
future shop and best buy a we have
selected bundles in the US we're in the
process of launching whole foods we're
also the process of launching granger
it's in containers doors selected
colleges university you can start to
really see these batteries eco walk
lines available at many major retailers
in the UK we have distributors set up in
the UK and echoed austria is good
excellent and we're going to be a little
bit of a distributor tonight as we send
off a year supply of
of eco alkalines batteries to one of our
lucky viewers who is participated in
that contest and we are open to sending
those out anywhere in the world
absolutely so so let's let's grab the
quick ballot hatful you got what do you
got well you know what secure anything
like that we're technologically savvy
here no no this is secure this is the
way to do it you know kind of create the
anticipation get people all excited get
the draw my head of the phone drum roll
kind of kind of like that this could be
rigged never had it all absolute it let
no no Lionel lalonde no no no no that
that must be a misprint well I don't lon
okay what is this nothing hold on maybe
you should try your way then okay don't
know how that hapless yeah this wasn't
fixed don't you get all batteries as it
is so let's see this robot is going to
go out onto the internet grab all those
tweets grab all those retweets and grab
all those Facebook likes and we're going
to find out now who is going to be part
where so we get ready your supply of
equal outlines batteries is about to be
awarded we're going to cycle through the
names
every single name that robot has picked
up the time Twitter
from facebook
work its way through it's all send a
hoax iris wrong doniphan Olsen names
they recognized as you see your name
shout it out in the chat room
liar Cameron
Kirby
our way through a ton of names here this
is for a year supply of eco alkalines
batteries now Lionel how does the
universe apply work basically what we've
put together come to us is that it's
equal to 1 packet batteries your choice
for me
52 weeks so we can choose 9 volts or
delays triple A's contact you to get the
details
your fourth anniversary thank you very
much oh
he hasn't seen her name my way would
have been faster would have been faster
but then that it would have all been
your neck t shteyngart from very
now I saw a tour to a game and and
you'll see that a couple of people have
shown up a couple times and that means
they qualify by casting a ballot is one
of more than one of the three ways so
the chance is that the best they can do
is to have three ballots in which is to
follow at eco alkalines on Twitter to
retweet the special treat we're also to
like them on Facebook
you get the links at cat5 da TV / eco
it's going to take you straight over TV
co-op lines com if you all need training
about what it is that they do how they
do it differently here we go it's
starting to speed up until the robot is
running low on names we're just about to
the winter
TN hey goose John
and our winner tonight
of a year supply of eco outlines
batteries is mutant tasking
congratulations to tasking and eco
alkalines we'll be in touch with you on
twitter how to find out your particular
so they can send you out those those
batteries find out what kind of
batteries you would like and also what
I'll get you to do is send us an email
live at category five dot TV oh that's
not Christie van Newton she's over there
email me mutant asking email live at
category five TV with your email address
and phone number just in case we're
unable to get ahold of you on Twitter
and that will just be a fail safe and
I'll pass that along to to our friends
at eco alkalines why don't thank you
very much thank you here with us tonight
and thank you for your sponsorship of
category 5 if you don't know echoic
lines are the official battery of
category 5 technology TV as I said I
find them to be long-lasting and
exceptionally good batteries so it's a
it's a privilege to have you on the show
and to have your product as a part of
our our broadcast oh thank you very much
and I want to thank everyone out there
who what followed us on Facebook and
follow our tweets and participated in
the contest thank you very much it's not
too late even though we're not you know
that that has been awarded if you're
interested in the product do find out
more at cat five dot TV / eco that's ec
oh and that will let you find out more
about eco alkalines batteries but make
sure you follow them on twitter and also
like them on facebook thanks again for
me so one of things I do notice that
from watching your show and watch a cup
of why you're so focused on this great
this this is funny with all the people
chatting life yeah the chat room just
flying by for those of you who watch now
I get like I look in that way right why
I'm never making eye-contact with you
yeah we're talking a try anyway thanks
again thanks for having me cheers nice
to have here thanks this is category 5
technology TV you'll find us online
triple w dot category five dot TV we've
got a couple moments left Christie's
going to rejoin us we're going to take a
quick look at Pixlr which is a free
online
image editor if you can believe it's
fantastic and we're gonna actually be
able to use our web browser to do photo
editing and I'm not even talking about
basic you know your horrifico 9 photo
editing i think what is it it's going to
be like my microsoft paint or something
like really really root of magical
really ASIC yeah let's bring up I'm
going to bring up my web browser here
and here Christie I'm gonna go pee I XLR
calm and when I get there I'm going to
click on open photo editor and boom I
didn't have to install a thing well
that's amazing you could be on mac or
windows or whatever i'm going to create
a new image what size do you want it to
be I'll just do 800 x 600 default okay
now I've got my canvas it looks just
like a photoshop application or the gimp
or any you know a good-looking drawing
application without getting too far into
the feature set of Pixlr what I'll do is
I'll just show you you know how you know
it can create Starfleet emblems yeah but
you notice what happens here is it
actually adds the shading and all but I
love it and lets me actually kind of
look like it's a pretty lousy Starfleet
emblem but that's kind of my ds9 that's
what it's supposed to look like Christy
that's what it's supposed to look like I
knew that just so you know I watched
episode 5 39 and then we can save it to
our computer it's got full photo editing
I mean you can go through the whole
gamut of tools it's a layered photo
editing tool I love this little directly
on your browser I have to say I've been
I've been looking for something like
this I seriously this is like it's the
way I like the two point O taking us one
step further and saying okay now it's
blurring the line between application
and internet and that's where the
internet is going and has been going for
some time
I'm going to blur that fine line even
further i'm going to go into synaptic
package manager and I'm gonna what a
great episode for me to sit it on this
is fantastic i'm gonna type in the word
prism let's see if well hopefully i have
that in my repositories it doesn't look
like i do this is i'm using right now i
am on Zorn OS i can actually look for
prism for linux
you probably will have prism in your
synaptic package manager i'm a little
surprised that i don't have it in my in
synaptic but what prison does is it like
i say it further blurs the line between
web and application because what it does
is it lets you create an application
launcher for a website and then it will
load pics allure well as an application
so now you've got something on your
Start menu or your applications menu on
your desktop on linux or windows on your
on your dock bar on mac and using prism
it looks exactly like an application it
operates exactly like an application you
never had to install anything it's not
taking up any space on your hard drive
and it's super fast because you're not
relying on your computer anymore so you
could have an old computer it doesn't
matter it was actually running the the
processing is happening on the server
and their server of course is going to
be high-end good stuff I love this I'm
so happy I have to go home now go give
it a try no seriously the last two days
I've been messing around with pictures
and trying with different programs and
and really hot yeah I really have to try
this it's really quite quite cool mmm
there it is i mean that's what I really
quickly just zipped up but you can you
can open images from your own computer
you can open images from the web you can
save them like I say to your computer
you can save them as their proprietary
layered format and see it's it works
much like see I got layers over here
right it works just like your Photoshop
or camp there's my layers panel and
everything is drag and drop just like
you would expect but it's a web-based
application remember i'm looking at this
here in chrome well it's beautiful so i
encourage you to check that out oh wait
well no you it's really really cool
stuff that's P I ex-l are calm they do
offer some other stuff there i just
wanted to really quickly jump into that
because we are pretty much out of time
for the evening but they all have well
they also have you can choose here retro
vintage effects where you can actually
apply cool vintage photo effects too
photos so if you want to get that old
you know vignettes to your photos and
give it that colorization of an old
camera it's just really really like
sepia tones and things like that kind of
stuff is it is sepia then we have the
conversation last week on the show is it
sepia or CT yeah CPI all right it sounds
kind of like c-3po I don't know what
your vent is 6 lair is available for you
free you don't have to sign up or login
or anything just go over to pee I XLR
com in any web browser on any platform
and you'll be able to edit your photos
directly there online and that check
that out mm-hmm well hey it's been fun
category 5 is online at cat five dot TV
full form is category five dot TV if you
want to check us out hmm speaking of you
know free services our show is available
to you absolutely free and I'd encourage
you to go there and and all the advice
is free and yeah and the weather is free
it doesn't happen often but you know
it's it was nice a nice and warm here by
the way it was really on the way here
here it hasn't it yeah I am back sure it
they keep saying that it's it's going to
be a rainy day and and then you get a
few sprinkles and it's gorgeous again it
was it was like summer again I had Eric
it over for a barbecue two three weeks
ago it was freezing we were like this is
a bad idea and then just this past
weekend I had a BBQ just on my own and
it was like I was in a t-shirt and
shorts and it was it was hot so in other
words don't invite eric to a BBQ do you
think it was him that was bad luck
thanks I'm just saying you know makes
sense I understand no other co-host but
me you know as you know on the show we
have encountered some lag issues over
the past several weeks and that is
largely you know there were some
problems with justin TV we've had some
issues but we've been in touch with our
internet service providers they are
going to be installing fiber-optic lines
to the studio this week so starting with
season five we are going to be
broadcasting over fiber that's going to
open us up to a large
of better quality we're looking forward
to what that can mean though the UH make
any commitments because I don't really
know but there is potential for some HD
streaming and much better quality as far
as the video goes as well so looking
very much forward to that go with us
sniffing in the butt the issues that
we've had with justin TV so being able
to open back up with you stream and
things like that also this coming
saturday starting at nine a.m. eastern
time make sure you visit our website
category 5 TV we're going to be doing de
live unboxing and building of the new
broadcast server which is going in place
for tuesday's show which launches
episode one of season five so that's
going to be very exciting Hillary's
going to be here and this Saturday again
we're going to be building / me building
that system right here live you'll be
able to watch that get your questions in
and discuss as we're building that neat
yeah kind of learn right from the get-go
what it is to build a computer system
we're going to be building an i7 with 16
gigs of ram was gonna be going into a
thermaltake level 10 chassis from
thermaltake do p but the thermaltake USA
com make sure you check them out check
out the level 10 that's the chance we're
gonna be building this saturday starting
at 9am right here category 5 TV hmm
great having you here oh it's so great
to be here nice to see Lionel and
john-john him in a while nice to see ya
yeah yeah nice to see you done it's
great having you back it's all good have
you here in the studio so thank you well
it's great for me to be here and it's
changed a lot since the last time you
were here you say as he came in wow it's
like look at this place mmm and with
season five we're gonna be making some
further changes to the studio and really
looking forward to can't wait yeah
looking forward to season five
especially it's gonna be a lot of fun
we're gonna have a lot of cool stuff
going on here in the studio a category 5
so nice being back in the chat room and
yeah getting weather reports from
everybody and and other other less
important things
whether could there be anything hey hey
what my little battle all right take
care we'll be hanging out in the chat
room for a few minutes of category 5 TV
we'll see you next to good night good
morning all over the globe whatever it
is wherever you're at indeed
you
