welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 239
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
April v17 2012 yes yes yes are you doing
I am great don't you I weren't aware
during the intro I am the one in the
1970s spandex Jim McLean get up that was
me I just saw that for the very first
time just so amazing and I had no idea
that you were gonna look so professional
today I mean coming in so like business
woman like so and then had that intro
cuz I have a question for you yes sir
because your your bride-to-be party was
very themed and decked out with 1576
pendants where on earth seriously like
did you raid someone's closet who just
can't let go no this was a value village
/ goodwill type fine so your thrift
store my friend actually found it and it
was either that or a full-piece onesie
spandex I think they were either like
dance costumes oh well shaving figure
out that could definitely be like that's
what it was it wasn't like my Aunt Ida's
closet or anything i would have been a
better start it for mum that would have
been a better sorry but no it's like a
thrift store purchase but ya know pyrus
rock actually made
no you realize that we're talking about
her spandex outfit right I had no idea
your Dean stir yep that's hilarious nice
to see everybody greetings everyone in
the chat room big news for a gamoto huge
I go go got a new job now we're a little
concerned that this may take you away
from your your live interaction and
viewership but puppy fix having a new
job is pretty fabulous and we know that
we will definitely catch up with you
whenever we can yeah congratulations so
that's awesome congratulations he's got
the night off though so he's joining us
tonight nice to have you here mmm thanks
and everyone else in the chat room lots
of cool friends people joining us from
around the world literally quiet
literally nice to see you and we've got
lots coming up in the show I'm just
going to tell you a little something
something that's coming up in the
newsroom kibou tube will carry on
despite being dropped by canonical NASA
is hoping to hand routine trips over to
the private sector starting at the end
of this month google has been charged
after holding up the investigation into
street views collection of Wi-Fi data
and lastly the first batch of raspberry
pi computers is being issued to users
stick around disease stories are coming
up later in our show that's cool excited
to a Raspberry Pi $25 little mini
computes really cute and fit into like a
little box I would love that so cool
very cool so cool speaking of worldwide
we love receiving your postcards and we
received one today from Malaysia
Malaysia I'm just gonna zoom in so you
can see look at that beach oh wish i
were there wish i was with you
invincible mutants who sent us this
postcard which reads hi Robbie and gang
this is a some of the snail mail
postcards that you have been expecting
it is figuring oh this photo is one of
the white fine sandy beaches in the all
year round summer Malaysia he says smell
it does it smell like Malaysia or
rainforests yes I think it does a little
bit along with this i express my
gratitude to robbie and the gang for
giving support to the Linux community
and evangelizing free software you've
done a good job for the community oops
to be precise the world as it going to
suggest it is for humans thanks for the
humanitarian work hosting the TV show
for humans again thanks for the prizes
and thank you draw bought for drawing me
twice it is nice to know you all as the
best human species on earth keep up the
good job the world appreciates your
effort that's one of those cards where
you don't want to say thank you for
sending it because it's like thank you
for the thank you for the thank you for
the thank you for thanking me for
thinking you but thank you for the thank
you card we appreciate very much we
would love to receive your postcard all
you have to do is snail mail it to us
category 5 technology TV p.o box 29 00
09 very ontario canada l4 n7w 7 and
thank you to everyone who has sent in
their postcards so far and I was saying
to Hillary just before the show that the
stack is getting its growing weight
large look at our collection however you
can't even see my face oh I can't even
fan it that's that's how many are really
exciting yeah so send yours in we'd love
to receive it and we will give you a
hundred viewer point ooh la la there's
so many other money I'm dropping them
everywhere falling everywhere now if you
haven't had a chance to get to the post
office by stamp or whatever but your
computer is nearby you can drop us a
little note via viewer testimonials on
our website I have one here coming to us
from cyber Smurf which reads hi Robbie I
had the chance to watch Eric's
performance today and I really enjoyed
it thanks for uploading it tell eric he
should put more of his music on the web
he's a really gifted musician and i'm
sure he would eventually grow quite a
following just for grins i also watched
episode 1 of category 5 TV calf itv
certainly has come a long way in four
years but you had a real knack for the
interactive live on-air instruction
right from the start the first question
I
episode 1 was what do I need to
broadcast on the internet it was great
to compare your response then with your
studio Oh your responses end to your
studio tour that we just recently did an
episode 236 yeah a lot changes in five
years a pretty crazy you have boots
dropped and probably pioneered quite an
impressive operation technically and
organizationally i really enjoy how you
have maintained the welcoming community
oriented culture in the whole production
very impressive few people have both the
technical skills and the human touch
that you exude thanks again from cyber
smurf yeah thank cyber smurf it's very
nice appreciate your testimonial fun
also have another one here come in to us
from KY ok I have I watched the show of
Eric's and loved his performance his
music is so amazing that I would love to
hear more of him I hope to see more of
this in further episodes because it's
super fun best regards from KY awesome
so what is this this eric is two for two
what are they a couple of weeks ago Eric
actually picked up his guitar and and
performed live on the show let me check
it out you can head on over to cat five
dot TV / Eric for the mp3s very cool and
hint we appreciate you for your
testimonials you can send them in on our
website go to category five dot TV click
on interact and you'll see viewer
testimonials right there on the menu and
we love to receive those it's really
uplifting to hear how you love the show
what you've been taken away from it and
of course we love to hear from all of
our wonderful viewers from all around
the world as well and this week now
we've introduced the category five i
call it the cat phone new category five
telephone line it's 25 45 cat5 TV and we
have received a couple of voice mail
this week I've got one here and guys
that cat five this is brian murray and
edinburgh just a little follow-up on
last week you should my picture which
are sent you of me watching you guys on
an ipad 2 yes it was an ipad 2 and
marvin one night at work night shifts um
yes i'm a bit of an apple fanboy no
physical linux is 2007 but i'm also no
dual booting and play
with OS 10 on a mac pro and imac and
i've actually got an iphone 4s which i'm
recording this voice may mourn just oh
so mac and linux both unix of course and
that's about it from brian murray and
edinburgh scotland of course thank you
bye cheers thanks for the message bright
also Smitty Smith left us a voicemail
this week hey Robbie uh I name is
Michael Smith username Smitty Smith
anyway I'm just kind of bored on a
Saturday night and poking on the
internet and uh I've had the number just
curious what it would do anyway that's
kind of it um we'll catch you next
tuesday at 7pm alright cool dude and
thank you very much for everything later
thanks Minnie Smith so we love receiving
your voicemail and and just so you know
Smitty Smith was well he was wondering
new well what happens if I pick up the
phone and dial this number it rang on my
ipod touch standing up in the kitchen as
I was doing a stirfry or some crazing
thing and I was just about to grab it
and I just missed it so there you have
it we were this close to connecting but
I'd love to receive your questions via
voicemail if you'd like to leave us a
voicemail give us a call to 545 cat5 TV
very cool thanks we have to take a
really really quick break we're gonna be
right back after this stick around at
eco alkalines we believe you should be
able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here
eco alkalines of the world's first and
only certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco outlines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm you're watching category-five TV
and it is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's deck it's here thank you
your questions we'd love to receive them
live at category 5 TV as our email
address if you want to send us an email
join us in the chat room gonna do my
best to keep up with the chatroom and
certainly while I'm answering questions
yeah Hilary will be keeping an eye there
as well so let's get things let's get
things started oh really getting
questions I've been very impressed with
your questions as week lots of the kind
comments as well thank you very much
alright first email of the night coming
to us from Pyro's rock a pires rock hey
Robbie E is it possible to have my
external IP on my panel or desktop so i
can see it easily without going to
website like IP chicken to find out what
it is i love the show keep it up book PS
while v3 is fast even on my phone nuff
said hey v3 is the brand new category 5
website launching July first mmm and it
is very fast it's entirely driven by a
content distribution network so no
matter where you are in the world it's
going to be using a server as close as
possible to your physical locations
Staind interesting super fast super
feature packed and I appreciate the
comment glad to hear that it's working
very very well for you obviously on the
bed of team people will start saying
well how do I get to see this website
well you've got to be a part of the
betta and the betta is now a closed
betta there are no add more opening so
unfortunately just gonna have to wait
until July first but it's going to be a
very exciting day awesome okay so we
want to put an IP address on our like
our desktop or something so
without having to yeah I mean that would
be kind of handy wouldn't it because
your systems IP address is simply your
IP address for your computer on your
internal network so typically what you
could do is go over to google.ca or
google com or whatever i'm just using
google is the example because Google's
got a pretty good API and you can type
what is my IP and it actually shows you
hear your public IP address is and it
gives you your IP address hey quit
trying to ping me now that you know so
what you can do let's let's do things a
little bit differently let's bring up a
different website we're gonna actually
tap into external ip's oh my gosh why on
earth that is so frenchie good he's
dropping all these bombs on me like I
don't know any buts about this ahead of
time I'm just like looking at my
periphery and I see myself as a super a
flying space crazy Hillary quit trying
to distract the people sorry we're
heading over to external IP dotnet CC my
IP address there it is same sort of idea
but of course this is a useless
information because there's so much
content here there's so much stuff so
what we do is we click on need and API
at external IP net goes into a little
bit of an explanation there and then you
see how to retrieve the external IP
click on there and then it just gives
you an empty it all it is is a text file
with just your IP address so copy that
URL and let's create a script let's well
let's just throw something up on our
desktop here and create a new script I'm
just going to create an empty file and
let's call this IP get all right bring
that up we're going to do a little bit
of coding here and we're going to go a
little bin bash and we're going to go w
get dash 0 and we're going to throw this
in your temp folder will call it my IP
txt so dash 0
capitulo is telling it that I'm
outputting a file by this file name so
I've gone dash 0 / TMP / my IP txt from
the address that I have in my clipboard
okay so that's what it's going to grab
so next up okay let's run that script
just so that you can see what happens I
going to save that go to my terminal Oh
pick up these new keyboards in the old
key is literally in the wrong spot the
slash is where the alt is supposed to be
okay CD desktop the capital D there we
go ok so now I want to go chmod plus x4
executive all and in the name of the
script that I created was IP get so now
i can run it so now you can go dot slash
IP get now you see what it's done is
it's downloaded my IP address from that
API and it saved it to TMP my IP txt so
now if I go G edit TMP my IP txt you'll
see that that is now a text file that
has just my IP address so let's take our
script a little bit further we're going
to go let's go echo because what I'm
thinking immediately of course is I want
to do something with conky okay so we're
going to now take that text file and we
create a conky text output configuration
file so this is assuming you don't
already use conky and that's and if you
already do use conky then you probably
know how to do it anyways but so what
we're going to do is we're going to
create a base cocky file I'm going to go
echo text all caps and I'm going to go
single pipe okay we're going to create a
new file or overwrite an existing file
we're going to call this conky conf in
my temp folder because it's going to be
created every couple minutes or whatever
by my cron job we're going to create a
cron job I'm going to go cat which means
I'm going to find out the contents of
this file TMP my IP txt and now i'm
doing a double pipe because i'm going to
now append to TMP conky conf okay so I'm
going to save that
and I'm going to run that script again
okay so now if I go G edit TMP kanki
conf you'll see that file now contains
the word text on the first line and then
my IP address on the second line so I
have therefore created a cocky script
file automatically from this Bosh script
so now let's close it all that because
it's done we're going to go crontab dash
e we're going to edit our cron table
which is to say basically the equivalent
of a Windows scheduled task we're going
to schedule something to happen on a
recurring basis so here in crontab dash
e i'm doing it through nano because
that's my preferred editor when working
in terminal so you can set on which
minute so you could go star / 15 to do
every 15 minutes asterisk for every hour
asterisk for every day of the month
asterisk for every month and asterisk
for every day of the week and then
wherever you put that script so in my
case it's home demo desktop / and then
it was IP yet okay so that's my cron job
to run every 15 minutes find out more
about using cron and you can do more
with this if you want you can just set
it to a static setting like that and
that's going to run every at once an
hour and it's going to run every hour of
every day but it's only going to run on
the 30th minute so it's going to be of
132 3330 etcetera so instead by going
like that I'm running every 15 minutes
which means 1 115 130 145 etc okay so
now i can save that by going control oh
that's my right out for my cron job and
then hit ctrl x and you'll see that it's
in straw installed the new cron job and
it's good to go so now every 15 minutes
it's going to run that script it's going
to regenerate that TMP / conky conf so
now i can i'm going to close this just
so you can see my desktop i'm going to
go back to / TMP and i'm going to run
kaanchi dash see
II kaanchi dot conf now okay I don't
have conky installed so watch this what
install that I'm going to move on to a
clean desktop just so the chat room
isn't confusing things there okay sudo
apt-get install cocky enter your
password let her go cocky is like a kind
of like a desktop widget kind of system
kind of text-based it allows you to
display system stats or in this case
we're going to display a text file for
example on our desktop so very cool
stuff so now that I've installed that as
simple as that remember I didn't have to
find the website or anything i just used
app gap because i'm on a debian based
system i'm going to run that again cocky
see and then conky dot conf because
remember i'm already in /t MP but you
could if you want just specify / TMP
which is probably better form just so
that it's not hard to replicate in your
system so now when I run that there you
go there's my IP address on the desktop
and that's going to automatically see
how it's refreshing just disappeared so
it's kind of flashing but it's going to
automatically refresh by that cron job
every 15 minutes okay you can set up
your conky however you want that's a
very very basic cocky script just to
grab my IP address save it to a file
create a conky file from that and then
run cocky so now you've got the cron job
running so the cron job is going to run
every 15 minutes regardless of when you
reboot or whatever it's going to run
every 15 minutes so then you need to
start conky so perhaps you might want to
add that as an auto start application
and of course in Linux you'll do that on
your system administration
maybe it's under preferences actually I
think it is startup applications that's
right system preferences startup
applications and here we go ad we can
call this conky and we do give that
command exactly as I did there because I
included the slash TMP right so now I go
conky see TMP conky conf add that and
now my system is ready to every time I
reboot I've got that IP address on my
desktop thank you very much for your
question and thanks for sending it into
category 5 thank you very much that is
basically what you're looking for that's
one way works works for me yeah um and
missed all of this discussion mmm we've
been having some questions in the chat
room excellent so one coming to us from
Gulf geo saying he's having some
problems with what the Buddha's I'm
having some problems talking he's having
some problems with my realtek rtl8139 a
network card some of my latest purchases
include a net rom boot menu how do i get
rid of it or what versions of the chip
have the boot menu and what versions do
not so you're trying to boot from lamb
is that what I follow I'm afraid I don't
what is the problem you mentioned that
you're having some problems with the the
chip they've been kind of talking in the
chat room a little bit about it
certainly more conversation to that me I
don't know I think we should leave that
one to the chatroom just because it
sounds like I I hope that the chat room
is helping you out was that pires rock
no that was from golf cheese Oh golf to
you okay let me know if the chat room is
is able to help probably best with
something like that pop me an email live
at category 5 TV just so that I can
maybe community i'm aight be able to
communicate back and forth a couple
times because it sounds like that's
specific to a piece of hardware and i'm
not quite sure what your question is
about what what it is you're trying to
do and what you're unable to do so
alright sounds good to me Pyro's rock
did have a question don't ever if you
did say how do i add what pulse to boot
in a boon 20 what pulse is a tool that
allows you to track every keystroke
every mouse movement all this stuff so
so you can basically see how many
kilometers you've moved your mouse how
many times you've collected how many key
presses yeah it also allows you to see
and I'm using what pulse at my office oh
because what it allows me to see as it
allows me to see in a graphical
representation what keys I use the most
so I can really get a sense for well ok
I really don't use these keys over here
but I really am hardcore using these
ones so maybe that's why I'm having
problems you know with my hand hurting
or whatever at the end of the day so
then I'm looking at that and I'm saying
ok now what would this look like under
Dvorak layout so I'm using that what
Paul's data to figure out what is going
to be the best keyboard layout for me
i'm so used to qwerty but i'm wanting to
switch so so but what Paul's really at
its core is just it keeps track of how
many times clicking it's it's kind of
fun you might have seen me on Facebook
or Twitter a couple times where it says
I have clicked yeah six hundred thousand
quit never got it before but now that
makes a little bit more okay I'm gonna
head over to cat five dot TV / pulse and
when you go there this is actually
taking you to the category 5 TV team and
you'll see we've got garbey myself pyrus
rock crucial tortoise and G dog 1985
nice to have you guys as a part of the
team and you can join the team it's free
software and this will let you join in
so if I click on my name now garbey is
in the lead right now as far as our team
goes but you can see that my limit my
linux system is the red so I'm pretty
much exclusively using linux and and
sometimes using windows with the green
so here's my debian system 570 3000
pardon me keystrokes Wow and that's
since i joined just end of march kind of
time so with that software very very
cool stuff you can see graphs of your
computer usage and things like that and
like I say you can see what keys you use
the most it's very cool tool web-based
and so in order to get that to autostart
there's a little bit of a trick to it
I'm going to bring up my auto start
applications here I guess we reminded
them of the question because we were
talking about auto starting I'm gonna go
back to my startup applications and I
actually I don't think I have what pulse
running on this system no I don't
because because i use synergy and
unfortunately here's the sad thing I
don't have a keyboard plugged into my
computer because I've got the studio and
if you're watching backstage pass you
know that I'm not gonna have this many
keyboards in front of me I've got one
keyboard one mouse and synergy is a
brilliant tool that lets me share that
keyboard and mouse with all of my
computers in front of me right so
multiple computers and I drag them
across from one screen to the other but
unfortunately that makes it so what
pulse doesn't work so it you have to be
using the actual physical keyboard
installed in your laptop your desktop
things like that so in your system when
you create a what pulse autostart you're
obviously you've got of what pulse
working you've been you've been pulsing
so what pulse of course you can get if
you go to cap 5 TV / pulse you'll be
able to download the free software for
Windows Mac or Linux the trick is here's
the thing by default you're probably
going to say okay well I want to go you
know home / demo / scripts is where I
saved it and then what pulse is the name
of the file with capital W capital p
okay so wherever you save that script to
I'll zoom in a little bit just in case
you are in a lower resolution for you
but the problem with that is that
autostart applications take place a
little bit before your desktop is
finished loading and what paul says okay
well i can't load because the desktop
hasn't loaded then I don't have access
to the keyboard and mouse so what you
need to do is you need to go sleep 30
ampersand ampersand just before that
command what that's going to tell it is
when i boot my system when
I log into my system now I want you to
wait 30 seconds that's what sleep 30
means and then ampersand ampersand means
and then run the script so that way it
gives your desktop environment enough
time to boot up and run but then then it
loads what pulse and at that point you
should have absolutely no trouble it's
going to work just fine for you so a
little bit of a trick when it comes to
setting it up to autorun in linux but
very simple as you can see windows of
course has just a little checkbox that
says auto start and that's cool linux
works just a little bit differently so
good luck and we hope to see your pulses
at Camp 5 TV / pulse very cool thank you
for the question yeah I did not know you
could do that it's very me never I never
considered it firstly but I didn't know
see how whenever I saw posts how do you
know you did 6000 clicky tonight like
what on earth is he talking about well
unlike I say it won't allow me to use
synergy because it sees that as an
opportunity for someone to develop
software hmmm that will trick it into
logging keystrokes that didn't actually
happen so in order to avoid people
hacking the system they've said no I'm
sorry we're not going to support synergy
makes sense it does but it's too bad for
me because I tell you I've typed a lot
more than that I do all my v3
programming on a synergy based system so
all of the new website programming is
happening here and doesn't get locked
but what can you do oh wow I thought
about buying a second keyboard but that
would just be dumb no really did you
imagine just key words of all around me
yeah that's pretty funny you know what
I'm talking about that's hilarious yep
well you know what time it is newstime
news time it's time for the news
my new song here the top stories in the
category 5 TV news room kubuntu the
version of Ubuntu Linux that uses the
KDE desktop interface rather than the
standard unity desktop has a new sponsor
open source outfit blue systems will
take over the project after Ubuntu
sponsor canonical said it would no
longer pay for the development work on
kubuntu Jonathan Radel lead developer
for Kubuntu said in a blog post
canonical needs to make money and after
dropping support for gnome support for
KDE couldn't be far behind referring to
the two desktop interfaces dropped from
the Ubuntu project with the newfound
sponsorship riddle says kubuntu will
soon branch out into a RM chips the low
power processors that power many
smartphones and tablets he even hinted
that kubuntu could be transformed into a
server operating system blue system
sponsors open other open-source projects
such as netrunner and Linux Mint oh cool
very good very cool the first cargo
resupply mission to the space station to
be carried out by a commercial operator
is likely to be on April thirtieth the
US Space Agency says the flight of the
unmanned Dragon freighter is supposed to
be just a demonstration but its success
would mark a new era in space flight
NASA is keen to hand off routine space
transportation to the private sector
both for cargo and crew the upcoming
mission will be performed by the space X
company of California you may remember
our report in 2010 that google street
view cars had reported the log unsecured
Wi-Fi data well here's an update as the
FCC said Google deliberately impeded and
delayed the investigation google has now
been fined $25,000 after us authorities
found the internet giant stalled the
investigation into its Street View
mapping feature according to the FCC
information gathered by passing street
view cars is more than 30 countries
included passwords emails and other data
that was being transmitted wirelessly
over unprotected routers
the FCC said it still had significant
factual questions about the street new
project that have not been yet answered
and they subpoenaed a Google engineer
who developed the software that Google
used to collect the data the unnamed
engineer invoked his Fifth Amendment
rights against incriminating himself for
that he would not have to testify dear
me doesn't it seem to me like it seems
to me like 25 thousand dollars to the
big G done yeah no idea that's pocket
and whatever here you go no biggie I
hope that they're still pursuing this I
mean it's kind of scary stuff and we've
talked about it in the past about having
an open Wi-Fi network very dangerous
stuff or connecting taking your device
to a hotspot and can I take over an open
Wi-Fi very very dangerous because it can
be picked up by the google street car
mmm other people yeah and lastly a group
of schoolchildren in leeds are the first
to get their hands on production models
of the raspberry pi bare-bones computer
costing only 16 pounds the tiny computer
has been designed to inspire anyone
especially children to get started with
computer programming the pie is built
around the arm RM chip that is used in
the vast majority of mobile phones it
runs one version of the Linux operating
system and uses SD cards as its storage
medium you can get some full stories
online at category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
Rory w Nash with contributions from our
community of viewers if you have a story
you think's worthy of honorary mention
send us an email at newsroom at category
5 TV for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary Rumble Thank You Hillary tonight
the show is brought to you in part by
quarter II electric you can find them
online quarter electric com there the
official electrical company of category
five technology TV also garden gate
farms com for certified organic broccoli
sprout and wheatgrass juice visit them
at garden gate farms com this is
category five technology TV i'm your
host Robbie ferguson I'm
lurie rumble always a pleasure to have
you here thank you it's always fun to be
here yeah I never know what will happen
or what Robbie all due to potentially
embarrass me in front of the World Wide
Web so tree you're the one who wore the
spandex I know it's my own fault I
should have seen this coming I mean I
need to thank your friend who said on
facebook yeah go hell yeah usually use
yeah I gonna be talkin to her later yeah
yeah all right come for you hey we've
got a company that is going to be doing
some printing for us and they're going
to be doing USB flash drive so my
question for our viewers is well one
would you be interested in a USB flash
drive now we've got our fifth
anniversary party coming up we did very
excited about that I want to be able to
hand something out i want to be able to
have prizes that are branded to category
5 GTA we've got this company that is
going to do that for us fantastic stuff
and so they sent us a bunch of demos and
they said here's here's what they can
look like so we've got a couple to look
at here and giving you the chance to
decide all right so put out here's one
here and actually what I'll do I'll hop
up over here good idea yeah let's see
there we go oh yeah all right so this
one you know how cool is that one of the
things that we're looking for is a flash
drive that does not have any parts that
can be lost so the ones that you know
you pull a lid off and then what do you
do with the lid not too keen on that so
recall that the the flip out one all
right get onto backstage pass because
that's how you're going to vote for what
one you like that's a USB key now of
course it's going to have the category 5
technology TV logo on it next up I kind
of thought this was cool it's kind of
weird-looking but here's the thing as it
doubles as a flashlight double whammy
yeah so it goes on your keychain right
it's a flashlight and it's a USB so you
plug that into your attic floor and
there you go yeah kind of cool thing i
don't like about that is that it's a
round printed picture that goes in there
kind of hard to me to read that very
very very small text not too sure about
that aspect of it
next up we've got the pleather one I
really kind of like the design of this
it's you can see that it's very well
built very solid it's like a stainless
steel kind of feel to it and that
magnetically sucks itself in and locks
itself it's got a color logo on that
side and a stamp on the other side so we
can have our logo and the hacker guy
kind of thing and that of course becomes
key chain as well that's pleather and
then we've got this guy which I really
like not in orange but if we were to get
this in black we can get this with our
logo printed across it and here's what's
cool it's like a pen just kind of pops
in a net mm-hmm Hillary what are your
thoughts as far as you know which one is
no hell Robbie I do like the clickety
click yeah okay look it's kind of cool i
like that it keeps it safe yeah I do
like that yeah that's the thing and no
missing no parts believe yes yeah this
bad boy doubling as a flashlight I think
is very cool but this concerns me that
this is kind of exposed like that you
know I mean well but you would tuck it
in right dude does it feel like it's
protected or you mean the oh like you
can plug it in either way like it you
can put it in upside down without
knowing yeah like I just I don't but it
you know maybe that's just me this one I
actually um one of the camps I work for
ordered these with our logo on them ok
but this plastic you'll need to hold it
up a little bit discreet sorry world
yeah this plastic piece eventually kind
of snaps off and then like all of the
wires and hardware we're exposed so I
didn't really like huh oh really it
actually physically breaks yeah but
again maybe that's just me rough housing
yeah you're pretty rough with your stuff
yeah we talked about they're gonna
explain that in a minute but uh I don't
know I kind of like this one I feel like
but the plumber about here is hardly
sorry I wasn't looking at myself the
pleather bad boy I like that I see very
classy so i don't know i mean there's
lots of good options this is just too
difficult to decide
I don't know what do you think folks
okay backstage pass tells us that they
like the the pen clicks tile as well
clicky yeah like a thief I would get a
black one and i would put our logo on
that so it looks like that is the final
state now 00 pleather is kind of
creeping its way up there all right
we'll let that pole go for a few more
minutes and and we'll look at that at
the end of the show and make our final
decision so thanks for your sounds good
yeah people in the chat room also saying
pen click and click how cool was that so
what are we talking about you being
rough with your stuff oh I don't know if
it's just me or that I usually you okay
it's just me sometimes I break stuff you
may recall that I killed my fiancé's
laptop which Robbie managed to save by
the way hey how's it working it's not
great no it's perfect excellent yeah um
and so sometimes I don't know I just
break stuff so I'm just minding my own
business moving around talking on the
phone you know when you're like fiddling
around doing stuff you don't get busy
doing stuff to you oh i do i drop my
phone I've dropped this phone countless
times countless the back falls off in
the battery pops out no big deal we go
well look what I did look at this it is
shattered it is completely shattered but
it still works so I'm using it's like
it's destroyed it is no way it okay it
works and it's a touchscreen so i can
still like navigate and touch stuff on
it but if one of these little shards
falls out then it will yeah totally died
and i'll probably cut my finger yeah
well you i would think because you're
rubbing your fingers on top of a surface
that's all like chef like smooth like
there's definitely some pointy bits but
what am I to do I'm not forking out 400
bucks to get new top align phone I'm
waiting till my contract end
and I will get me oh dear that's yeah
I'm kind of a spaz and I killed this I
have a protective casing on this guy I
guess that one that's it's a little
larger a it's a little tougher donkey
it's thick and in the slide unit all
right it's like a good device but HTC
that's a nice Android it is an android
phone it is so I want to show you
something really really cool I mean how
many times have you well you know you
want to plug in a set of speakers right
to your phone cuz you listen to music oh
this probably has a headphone output I
believe it don't work Oh what are you
yeah it doesn't oh I thought it did how
does it how do you listen to this with
headphones oh there is no headphone ok
I'll see that's a horse of a different
color ok that's interesting no that's
good that's good i want that's even
better this has mine here I mean I've
got this and I've got a docking station
and that's great or i can plug into the
headphone jack and then run a wire to
the speakers and you know do this and
hope nobody trips over it it's it's so
old school so whole school hmm ifrogz
calm has brought out the boost speaker
this is the coolest thing this uses
magic real bona fide magic scary stuff
you know it takes three to double-a
batteries to do it though the boost is
it uses what they call me r fa which is
a near-field audio I believe but
basically you get your device close to
this device and all of a sudden with no
Wi-Fi with no bluetooth with no wires
with no connection with no syncing with
no pairing or anything it works I'm
going to demonstrate this for you it's
the boost from ifrogz calm and that's
with a zed zee for those of you this is
what it looks like there you are battery
compartment in the bottom takes three
double a batteries eco alkalines for the
win okay here we go their view I like
that it's just a little box like the
size of an ipod or socks
yeah there we go so let's let's take a
look I've got my ipod touch this is
gonna this is crazy stuff sign onto my
iphone here and if you want to get some
music ready on your device sure they're
providing it I've just got radio station
here yeah if it works ok I've got
shoutcast up and you know that the
internal speaker on these things are
terrible like how does that sound ok
here it it's super quiet watch this whoa
magic that's cool ok now you brought in
your device I did we've never hooked it
up before we never tried it let's see
this is risqué so I'll push play ok that
sounds just as bad as my ipod yeah it's
pretty good come on I front now now my
phone is funk so this could alter sure
it is too hmm is it supposed allowed a
work on phones or is it for yeah like
beat oh well maybe my phone isn't it was
reliable well then that was a risk that
we that I wanted to take live on the air
is will it work with all devices because
here the box says and it specifically
says that it's for idevices Apple's I
devices that said I held my phone up to
it because it has a speaker ah and it
worked so this particular device yours
for something about it is not compatible
I wonder why but compatibility goes it
is promises to work with your iPhone I
device things like that I've got an ipod
touch and you see that when i push play
here it's pretty impressive that is cool
it were to def my work
but nothing from the HTC a no I don't
know like I put the airplane mode on my
phone I don't think that that shouldn't
affect it like it's not like it's a
signal thing it's a sound thing I get a
little bit of a buzz so if you have an
HTC I would say this probably is not a
device that's going to work for you e
however if you're an iDevice user or you
know certainly go to their website see
what what devices they have tested it
that's how well it works that's cool
that's really cool six months of standby
time hmm on three double a batteries I
think it's it's very very cool but you
do have to have a device on as you see
here that is partly going to be
compatible with it let's take a look
ifrogz calm I am frogs with a Z dot com
hmm and on that website what you want to
look for this device is called the boost
so check it out ifrogz comet is that
this is category 5 technology TV and i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson Hillary rumble
breaker of Technology I break it he fix
it great it worked for me savviness I
think that quite a few different stuff
hey do we have any more viewer questions
I'd love to yes we do jump into one or
two certainly this comes to us from Ron
Smith here on hi Robbie and co-hosts
update i finished my insult of my
headless VirtualBox server to use my or
sorry to use sureños i had a video
driver issues with debian so we're in
the OS will just correct a suit Oh Zuri
no sorry I see it now it was just I'm
sorry world okay just the way it came
over my screen i'm using tight VNC to
connect to my linux um okay guess from
windows it seems more responsive than
VNC on my home network i am still trying
to get v rdp to work on the virtual
server so i have some more questions
number one using the web browser
interface I don't get the virtual box
pop-up window for the gas like I do when
using the server console is this normal
maybe we should do a question one of the
time he's got a three-part question so
you're trying to use the the interface
that we demonstrated a PHP VirtualBox
and you're not getting the window to
login homeboy that sounds like you've
possibly got them the files in the wrong
spot just make sure that when you're
connecting that hello what do you see
does it does actually try to load PHP
VirtualBox or do you just never get
there because using the web browser you
bring up VirtualBox to get to guess or
are you talking about it's too hard to
understand like are you talking about
actually using your when you're like are
you VN seen through your browser see I
don't I don't quite get you sorry I will
jump on to question number two just
because I'm unsure what you're asking
there if you're talking about PHP
virtual box which it sounds like it
could be then i would say you you're
probably connecting to like you've got
the files in the wrong folder or with
the wrong user credentials or something
like that but i'll need more information
in order to determine that for you so or
help you with that sure things part two
how do i get my virtual box server to
see my unraid server so i can copy over
images i created i'm using static IP
addresses on both servers okay do you
have access to browsing the network
accessing the internet for example first
thing on a on a virtual box computer
computer virtual machine I'll just bring
up VirtualBox here I hope I have it
installed for you there yes good good
that's recent okay so if you go settings
to your your virtual machine and then go
network first thing you want to
double-check is that you're not set tune
that right you were set to bridged you
need to have a bridged adapter otherwise
you're not going to have access to it's
basically going to be its own Beast you
want to have access to the
physical network also as far as
promiscuous mode goes you might want to
select allow all if you're having
trouble as that will just allow you to
get out and get in and you can use
software firewall if you need to on the
on the system itself that would be the
first thing I would check make sure that
you're using bridged mode if you're not
it's got its own can find little virtual
network you want to be a part of the
real physical Network real machines and
if you're not running in bridge mode
you're not going to be able to do that
you're not gonna be able to ping or
access any systems from there what was
the guest the guest is what operating
system hello server annex my linux from
windows that right linux guest from
windows okay so with linux being your
guests you'll go to you'll open your
let's see sorry i'm just trying to grasp
the whole setup that you're going for
here you're going to go into places it
wherever home folder whatever type SMB
colon slash slash and then your IP
address of the server right so SMB is
the samba protocol so SMB colon slash
slash 192 168 dot 0 dot seven if that's
your server is going to give you the
list of samba shares on that server
which might be your host computer might
be another computer on the network and
then you can browse that you can mount
them just as you normally would because
it's like it interprets it as a physical
computer on the network good okay and
part 3 of this question do I need a work
group on the Virtual Box server since
the unraid server is running samba if so
how would i add it to come no you don't
need a work group I think that it that
it will I mean the way a work group
works I think it will prompt you for one
during installation or something like
it's been so long since I actually
physically installed on right but I do
know that unraid shows up in a in a work
group category 5 on my network so at
some point I told it it was a part of
the category 5 work group so but whether
you need to have it on a specific work
group or not it doesn't matter I mean
because you can browse between work
groups it's not domains right so
but if you already are using a work
group then you might as well assign it a
work group that is the same and then
you'll be able to browse it on the same
workgroup but it's not it's not a
requirement at all so I like to just
quickly back up and thank you for your
question I hope that that's any amount
of help I'm not quite a hundred percent
following your the like the whole issue
but I hope that that's helpful I hope
that I've got it somewhat I just I had
brought up the I frog website and so
you're able to find more information
about this and there's the full URL I'm
gonna post that in the show notes for
episode number 1 239 and that's going to
give us more information it says that it
works with the ipod touch but it doesn't
really tell me a lot about what systems
it's compatible with which so that's
something that i would like to know cool
very cool I'm sure that information is
coming to the website brand new product
because I no way it's gonna be like a
well how do I know that it works well we
know what works with the Apple devices
but how many of you have apple devices
do you what do you use got a little uh
ipod nano oh ok now the one thing is
that it does have to have a built-in
speaker see that would be problematic
mm-hmm with the Nano so keep that in
mind ok uses magnetic magic to tap into
the speaker very cool um I have a I
don't I wouldn't call it a question okay
first of all I should just say Maxwell
6307 Greg in Texas 30 viewer points done
there any of your points for what what
did he do they put their foot down and
said just won't have any apple products
Wow android only g-dog okay you now ever
put in the chat room as good as a tooth
I don't have any apple products garbey
whatever yeah
way to go yeah Robbie yeah here they
come look at this yeah yeah okay we're
not just giving away these points yeah
just no first three and we don't know we
can't you might just be telling us
telling us stories yeah sheesh hey we've
got like literally just a couple of
minutes here can I tell a story yeah I
love stories had a lady coming to our
office this week and and well no last
week and she brought in her system like
Monday Tuesday Wednesday some I don't
know no it must been later in the week
should I thought this year Thursday she
came into the office dropped off her
computer we fix computers and she said
I've got a bad virus I can't I can't do
anything I think it might have been the
same thing that you had where a desktop
was wiped and they're all these pop-ups
coming up and I can't do anything with
my computer and the technician who was
putting the work order together for just
was asking her all the generic questions
and okay well what what were you doing
at the time and was there you know do
you have virus protection are you using
up-to-date virus signatures and what
have you got in regards to that and
turns out she didn't have a virus
scanner and this and that and totally
just made it so that her system was
inoperable and I'm sitting there and I'm
overhearing the conversation I'm
thinking you know I'm on linux at my
desk and we seen these viruses all the
time just destroying you know people's
ability to be productive with their
computers and I take for granted that
you myself my wife people who were on
lenox don't have this problem and it's
fantastic not to have that problem like
like I say we take it take it for
granted but so the technician was asking
her you know okay well how long have you
had this computer is it is it older I
bought it on Sunday she said only a few
days old she bought it on Sunday and to
Thursday she's bringing it in and it is
infected to the point of unuse ability
oh my goodness oh that summarizes
Microsoft Windows to me so much
that it's just wow I mean I was like at
my desk oh don't want to laugh but yeah
but doesn't that just kind of tell you a
little bit about what the problem is
mm-hmm right now and so you know i'm on
my linux system loving it and you saw
from my what pulse that i very minimally
when I need to I use windows we use
windows to broadcast because it's
necessary but we don't do anything else
with that system it's strictly
broadcasting I was never surf the
internet with windows yeah but that's so
unfortunate yeah man it's sad oh my
goodness and and what's the lesson that
she learned well because she doesn't
understand Linux vs windows doesn't
understand that well Linux is free and
you can actually download it yourself
put it on a disk and install it on your
computer replacing windows so what does
she leave knowing that well it's
expensive to run a computer because
there's all these threats out there well
no it's the operating system that you
that you're being forced to use so I'd
encourage you if you if you if you're
curious about linux if you've heard the
word linux you're not quite sure what it
is if it's a little bit scary for you
it's not a scary thing at all it's it's
actually a very sophisticated very easy
to use operating system I think you
notice when when I'm using it up here on
the screen this is actually Linux that
I'm using and i encourage you to become
a part of the show and and ask us
questions here at category 5 because
that's what we're here for pops and
email live at category 5 TV if you want
to step away from Microsoft Windows and
you don't want to spend a bunch of money
by buying a mac linux is the ultimate
alternative to two windows on the pc so
talk to me do it yeah can do that
through our chat room do that through
the website through the twitter machine
the twitter um send us emails yeah
there's a little way to get in contact
with us mm-hmm we try our best to make
it easy for you
it's all on our website category 5 TV if
you ever lost that's our home base so
category 5 TV will give you all that you
need to get access to our community get
access to to us the hosts and talk to us
can your questions in we've got a forum
that is becoming increasingly more and
more active since we just launched that
just under a month ago so very good
stuff mm-hmm folks we have a year supply
of eco alkalines batteries to give away
birthday is coming up and we want to do
our part for the environment by giving
you a year of environmentally friendly
certified carbon neutral batteries these
are fantastic batteries want you to find
out more at cat five dot TV / eco and
when you're there you'll see their
facebook profile their twitter profile
as well follow them on twitter make sure
you like them on facebook retweet them
on twitter like their posts on facebook
get active in their social media get
your friends to sign up and get your
family members to to you know they've
got facebook to they've got twitter as
well make sure that they get involved a
cap five TV / eco and we are going to be
putting your name in a draw for a year
supply of these and we're gonna be
giving them away just after earth day
the sounds good to me excellent that is
fun who doesn't love free stuff we love
free passes free stuff a year supply of
batteries folks that's so practical that
is a present nice who doesn't need that
and they're good batteries these aren't
like the dollar store batteries these
are the ones that you you actually got
yeah you get them from the from the
checkout aisle and you know they're
they're up there with the leading brands
I promise you that cat 5 TV / eco you'll
actually see a third-party comparison to
the leading national brands and you'll
see that they are just as good very cool
and they're better because they're
environmentally from out that over the
world I mean that has a lot to do with
it ninety-eight percent recyclable hmm
it was pretty good
pretty good i'd say they're not
rechargeable invincible mutant yeah they
will blow up if you try alkalines are
not generally not returnable they're
also not flammable and it can't eat them
no not what they're not edible no no
different Wow with I think we covered a
lot today it just seemed like the time
just flew by boom boom boom boom lots of
stuff yeah always happening thanks
everybody for your question thanks for
thanks for you being here always a
pleasure have a fantastic week everybody
that's that's all the time i got we're
on believable oh we should check our
poll which is doing how did we do which
memory stick it is gonna be looks like
it could be pleather the 61 point 960
1.9 that's what it looks like gonna have
the category 5 logo on it and we'll make
those available to you off of our
website as well when they arrive and
when they become available hey thanks
everybody have a great week thank you
for being here thank you and we'll see
you again soon next time you were on the
show that is indeed when we're going to
be talking about technology using
technology in order to save ourselves
money I made the mistake last week of
saying that it was this week it's
actually almost time you're on so check
out our Calendar cat5 TV / calendar to
find out what's coming up very exciting
stuff so take it easy bro wow thanks
everybody have a great week don't forget
to send your postcards
Oh
