hello and welcome to another episode of
new everyday by name is Carrie and my
name is Jen and I was day show we're
going to talk about how eight words can
change the city
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
well welcome back to another episode of
new everyday so glad that you've tuned
in thank you to our faithful viewers who
have been watching the episodes previous
we're just so glad that you have been
tuning in we really enjoy doing this and
I really find it encouraging in my own
life to be able to talk about what God
is doing in things that we're learning
and then to hear from you on facebook
and on our website new everyday TV I'm
just yeah it's been really neat journey
having started doing this broadcast so
thank you and thank you to category 5
for hosting the show to Robbie Ferguson
our producer and director thank you also
to our partners eco alkaline batteries
mmm whoo power our audio equipment and
our visual equipment and we've got some
new partners as well family christian
stores which is an online bookstore
where you can buy books and all sorts of
christian music and all of the proceeds
go to sponsor other ministries involved
with widows and orphans so we encourage
you to check them out online and we are
also on a shout out to the stitcher app
if you're not able to sit in front of a
computer and listen to us you can
download it using the stitcher app and
you can go anywhere and listen to the
podcast listen to the podcast very over
today going to talk about eight words
that can change the city yeah so we've
been this is our third episode talking
about the book of Jonas we've talked
about Jonah chapter 1 chapter 2 and now
we're on to chapter 3 Jonah was a
prophet in the Old Testament God asked
her to go to the city of Nineveh and to
tell them to repent essentially they
were really wicked people Jonah didn't
like them he decided to take off to
Tarshish on a boat God sent a storm
Jonah end up getting tossed overboard
because it was his fault because he was
running away from God that the storm
came so we got tossed over got swallowed
by a fish
and then chapter two is jonah's prayer
to God of repentance because he realized
that he couldn't run from him and that
God in His mercy had let him live and
then the fish vomited him up on the
shore and so now here we are in Chapter
three figuring out what is the next step
for Jonah he's on the shore he's come to
his senses he's turned back to God
essentially and we're going to find out
what happened so why don't we just dive
right in there Jen alright so we're
going to read from chapter 3 i'm reading
from the new century version and it goes
like this the Lord spoke his word to
Jonah again so I love the fact that God
is speaking to Jonah and said get up and
go to the great city city Nineveh and
preached to it and I would tell you what
to say so don't obey the Lord and got up
and went to Nineveh it was a very large
city just to walk across it took a
person three days after Jonah had
entered the city he walked for one day
he preached the people saying after 40
days Nineveh will be destroyed the
people of Nineveh believed God they
announced that he would that they would
fast for a while and they would put on
rough cloth to show their sadness all
the people in city did this from the
most important to the least important
when the king of Nineveh heard this news
he got it from his throne took off his
robe and covered himself with rough
cloth and sat in ashes to show how upset
he was he sent this announcement through
Nineveh by command of the king and his
important men no person or animal herd
or flock will be allowed to taste
anything do not let them eat food or
drink water but every person an animal
should be covered with rough cloth and
people should cried loudly to God
everyone must turn away from evil living
and stop doing harm all the time who
knows maybe God will change his mind
maybe he will stop being angry and then
we will not die when God saw what the
people did that they stopped doing evil
he changed his mind and did not do what
he warned he did not punish them huh
when I first when I stopped at the
beginning I was reminded that God's God
did not change his mission to Jonah just
because Jonah did not want to do it God
didn't change it he didn't put him on a
modified work schedule right is what
happens when something goes wrong with
our body we we changed the way we go
about our task yeah which is necessary
it is necessary and I have no problem
with that because we still like to work
and make money fair enough but God does
not do that with Jonah it is the same
deal you go to Nineveh you preach the
word are they still her enemies yes they
are does God still want Jonah to go yes
he does mm-hmm like part of me wants say
God why didn't you just find someone
else who was willing mm-hmm so yeah he
could use anybody he doesn't need to use
one person or another because of a
special quality but God does give us
gifts and expect us to use them but he
can use anybody you know when Jesus was
was coming into Jerusalem before he was
crucified everyone was praising him when
the Pharisee said to make everybody be
quiet he said if they be quiet the
stones will cry out yeah that he is the
Lord you know God doesn't need us he
could use the stones to worship him and
he could have used another prophet yeah
but I think of the first that says the
Lord disciplines those that he loves he
disciplines the sun's people that he
considers sons and daughters and really
when you think about in parenthood if
you see a really unruly kid and the
parents just don't give a rap there's
there's no love there and I mean people
can take a discipline totally the other
way and over overly chastise people but
it is loving to set parameters for your
kids because they don't know what can
hurt them yes and also
the parents does not change what they've
asked the child to do true I asked you
to do the dishes they throw a tantrum
they get sent to the room whatever
whatever whatever hmm when they come out
the dishes still need to be done laying
the parent has not changed what they've
asked the child to moved right and and
so I just find it very interesting that
got that is exactly what God is doing
yeah just because you whine and complain
and I've forgiven you and you've
repented here you go I often remember um
and it's not quite the same but my mom
would put a glass of milk for me on the
table and I would drink most of it I'd
get up I'd be excused and go in and then
I'd hear you're not finished your milk
and so many times I thought I could get
away with not finishing the whole glass
and every time every time I'd hear this
come back and finish drinking your milk
and I feel like oxide be war and it
gonna be like and I'd remember just
dragging my feet into the kitchen yeah
and there it was I made it finish it
that kind of highlights the joy that
comes from instant obedience yes when
God says do something or don't do
something or you're about to go do
something you're about to cheat your
vote to just tell a little white lie and
the Holy Spirit pricks your conscience
and you decide in that moment to obey
and you decide not to the joy that comes
from that and the reinforcement of the
goodness of God is instantaneous but if
you obey later on and there's a parable
about that in the new New Testament
about the son who obeyed later but he
still did it it's not the same sweetness
of relationship you know I mean when I
when a kid listens to you right away
it's like oh yeah that's I'm so thankful
you just don't bade me you know they
don't get swallowed by a whale yeah get
covered this line and then have to
repent and come back and oh
still do it on the flip side of that I
think you know sometimes God says no
don't do something because he knows that
it's going to be best for us no Jonah
don't go away from this mission because
it's going to be best for you too if
he's going obey me I remember as a kid
trying to be sneaky about that whereas
if I wanted a cookie about I knew I had
to ask for it so i would go i'd eat the
cookie first then I'd go ask okaeri yeah
so if they said no I already had a
cookie if they said yes I got 20 does
your mother know this I don't know she
watches the show so maybe she will now
sorry mom what but they would say no
because they know cookies are bad for me
but that's sneaky and you can't get away
from that that okay sorry sorry I raised
my face okay look creeps is that so
we're about repentance pageants okay hi
Colette but it's so true and people will
come to me and we've gotten off track
we're going to get back to Jonah to a
three in a minute but people will say
it's easier to ask for forgiveness than
it is to ask for permission hmm and that
might be kind of with Jonas doing a
little bit but it's and I've heard that
from godly people it is easier to ask
for forgiveness than it is to ask for
permission and I want to say to that I'm
like that is not that is that is taking
God's mercy and and for game day in vain
yeah and it's setting the wrong example
the people around you it means do I
actually I'm gonna take things into my
own hands and then just ask God to sweep
up the mess yea rather than if God is
truly called you to do something he's
gonna work it out yeah and so it's not
trusting him essentially yeah yeah I
agree ok back to John three right tons
of good that's sidetracked so the
message here so John obeys the Lord
guess if he goes to Nineveh huge City
and he preaches eight words after 40
days Nineveh will be destroyed Oh after
40 days in Ewa will be district 7 worse
have been words how many is it mine says
yet after 40 days yet okay so seven or
eight words but still eight words and
the entire city comes to know the Lord
and they turn and repent they turn and
repent it said nothing else it said
nothing else it says the people of
Nineveh believed God so they must have
known that Jonah was a prophet I mean
they certainly would have known he was
um an Israelite hmm and so be and they
also knew that the people of Israel
worshiped God uh-huh so they knew they
knew that Jonah was speaking the words
of the Lord and what I find interesting
is the fact that the entire city the
entire city including the King repents
and it's like it was just a worse from a
guy who just got thrown up by a fish I
know yeah and I find it so often we get
caught up in what am I going to say what
am I going to do right oh I can't
possibly share the Word of God where if
I muff up my words and it's like it's
not about a it's not about us it has
nothing actually do with the words um
and Robbie will magically put this
scripture at the bottom but it says dear
to always be ready to give a word it
doesn't say that we have to know the
words exact words that the ryans say we
actually had to be ready to give a word
yes and then I think that writing asst
put this in position where God then
speaks through us through the power of
the Holy Spirit and does what he's going
to do it's a spirit thing mmm and it's
like in in acts where Peter preaches at
Pentecost it's a good message but then
3,000 people come to know Jesus and
you're like whoa what happened it's a
sphere thing like we have we cannot
predict how God is going to move I
remember being at a Billy Graham crusade
so Billy Graham is a as a north american
an american evangelist very simple
message i was in
Ottawa at one of his Crusades are one of
his meetings and he gave this very
simple message and in my pride I'm
sitting there going that's not gonna
work what was he doing as if he thinks
that's gonna work like there was no
video there was no light show there was
nothing like that it was just this
simple simple simple message I'm like
really this is what all the talk has
been about like he gave the call yeah um
that I surrender all right and I felt
like the floodgates of heaven opened cuz
every single aisle in that place was
filled with people who went forward to
receive Jesus to declare at that point I
want to surrender my life to Jesus and I
was convicted I realized at that point
that it had nothing to do with his words
and everything to do with his obedience
Friday's ready at any time to give a
word of what God is doing in your life
and Here I am getting all teary night
again because I get passionate about
this it has nothing to do with us except
for are we willing to obey are we
willing despite our fears and our
insecurities are we willing to at least
say okay god I will surrender to you and
then allow God to do his spirit thing
yeah and like and it's so much more
awesome than if we try to contrive
anything yes yeah yes yeah I get
passionate about this it's a good thing
it's a good thing and it's that's why I
get challenged in this passage all the
time because here's Jonah covered in
slimed forgiven for past forgiving God
gives him the same message and God uses
him in a miraculous amazing way saves an
entire city saves an entire city and I'm
like okay Lord we can even think oh well
god could never use me to
win an entire city light but that's not
that's not celebrating who God is yes
it's like God can use you he wants to if
you surrender yourself to him yeah and
that's the key word if you surrender
yourself to even deciding to do this
show we thought well okay God will do it
and if you want to do make something of
it then yay yeah may you be like
glorified yeah and so it's all his work
whatever whatever we do is is for his
work and it's encouraging to know that
anyone can sow seed and God causes the
increase yes anyone anyone doesn't
matter if you're 10 or 110 doesn't
matter if you're male or female doesn't
matter if you're rich or poor like God
uses anyone who is willing come and he
is the one that gives the increase I
think that's so important that what you
said we so but it is God who does the
work it is and that actually takes the
pressure off of us to perform yes yeah
and puts it all on God and and I think
we can even say okay god help me to
share your word and let me release the
work of the Spirit hmm do you know me
not to contrive tell me to trust you
yeah so yeah haha the spirit thing it is
it is we are to simply believe and act
and then when when people come to Christ
or relationships are changed because of
him we there's no opportunity then to
celebrate the person we can celebrate
what God has done yes yeah yeah so one
of the questions I do ask about this
passage is why do you think God forgave
the people like those are bad yeah
they're real back their violent for
keeping the G
but they were really bad they're really
guy yeah why did he choose to forgive
them yeah because he actually rose up
against his his people right it rose up
again after this yeah yeah I think cuz
he's merciful he was showing us his
mercy and they chose to repent they
chose to acknowledge that he is god so
are we then to understand I'm playing
devil's advocate a little bit here are
we then to understand that no matter
where we're coming from even if it's
like the person who's been involved in
witchcraft or the Hells Angels I'm just
think you know I'm throwing out what we
would think are really really a bad but
really are all the same as really girls
yeah no matter how far away someone has
from not even if they rose up I'm
thinking about in the previous show I
believe it was the Jonah one episode
where we talked about Corrie ten Boom
and it was the German soldier who was
seeking repentance even though he had
watched many many people be brutally
yeah torture torture and from his hand
yes yeah and so I'm looking at this and
when it says you know and God heard them
hmm and he relented because of they were
genuinely repentant and the thing is
this is characteristic of God hmm manasa
King Manasseh it says that he gave his
own children over the fire he set up
idols all over and they actually carried
him away and he calls out to the Lord
and the Lord forgives him and you're
like what he was a bad dude he was a bad
dude yeah yeah but look at look at Paul
in the New Testament who was Saul yeah
he was killing the church he was going
from place to place capturing
individuals who are part of the
Christian faith the way and he was
putting them to death for putting them
in prison yeah making them blaspheme and
like speak against Jesus like that's bad
but he recognized it and surrendered
himself to God and he says he says in
the New Testament bear fruit in keeping
with repentance yeah so what's the fruit
of repentance what is the fruits of
repentance well they turned the
Ninevites turned from their ways they
were going this way and doing violent
things and they turned away from it yes
and I think repentance is doing that 180
yeah and turning away and then saying
God and hit by his power miraculously
suddenly you don't want to look at that
porn anymore yeah suddenly it tastes bad
in your mouth I think you made a very
important um statement right there
because so often we can think an enemy
is anyone who rise up against God hmm
but an enemy of God is anyone who sins
and the fact that you said you know I
don't want to look at that porn anymore
because we can often think well that's a
soft because it just impacts me because
it just impact study there is no one
righteous no not
it has nothing to do with how good you
are uh-huh but everything to do with are
you willing to surrender your life to
Jesus Christ and to be restored into
relationship with God because that's
what God is calling he's not he's not
the Bible is not saying be good be good
be good it's be restored come be
restored to me come be restored to me it
is yes is full of rules but for the
purpose that we could have a full and
wonderful late relationship yeah with
Jesus I think when we look at thin in
the world the world like the media can
sometimes portray this as like sickness
yeah people are sick but really were
sinful yeah Jesus didn't come to make
sick people healthy necessarily he came
to make dead people living yes yes and
that's exactly what he did in this
passage this entire city was dead in
their sin Jonah preached eight works the
spirit moved they repented and it says
when God saw what the people did that
they stopped do evil the fruit of
repentance which is what you said he
changed his mind and did not do what he
had warned eyesores he did not punish
them yeah our God is a compassionate God
there is nothing and we've said this
again so many times there is nothing
that can separate us from the love of G
of love of God that is in christ jesus
our lord His mercies are new every day
day if you send yesterday God will
forgive you today if you sin today which
I've already done God will forgive me
yeah like thank you Jesus that you are
so compassionate yeah so compassionate
yes I heard a good lyrics to a good song
by all sons and daughters that said
today's surrender is tomorrow's freedom
amen that's true choose today she was
today so I think that pretty much wraps
it up for another week Jen we've got one
more chapter of John and we hope that
you'll tune in next week as we conclude
the book and if you have any comments
to share we really invite you to post
them on our Facebook page visit us at
the website new everyday TV we just love
to interact with you if you want to post
a prayer request or send us a private
message we'd be really happy to pray for
you so why don't I pray now and wrap it
up Jen father God thank you so very much
for the wonderful new life that you
offer through Jesus Christ Lord would
you please forgive us for the times when
we have turned away from you but Lord
would you help us and help our viewers
to surrender to you a fresh the times of
my rough refreshing might come from you
I pray for those who are experiencing
the consequences of sin whether it's bad
relationships or addiction or guilt that
weighs them down or depression because
of bad decisions that they've made or
maybe they're feeling like their life is
not worth living maybe they're suicidal
Jonah didn't care to live anymore but
got you intervened and you restored him
you gave him a second chance and you
also gave the Ninevites a second chance
and I thank you that you do that for us
so I pray for those people that you
would intervene in their life that they
would experience the hope of Jesus
Christ and that they would turn from
what they know is wrong or thank you for
the upcoming week thank you for all that
you're going to do I want to thank you
Lord for helping one of our viewers go
through surgery and be restored God
thank you for that you're awesome and
just pray for Jen as she shares a
message this week they give her the
words to say lord thank you that you
hear us when we pray in jesus name amen
amen all right thank you so much for
turning into tuning in today
and may your week be blessed and may you
experience Spirit amen
you
