welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five 24 the sixth
of September 2017 I'm Robby Ferguson
Jeff Weston's here with me tonight sash
is off but we are gonna be unboxing her
gear but I think everything's arrived I
believe so so we're gonna get into the
box we're gonna show you everything that
we've come up with and get our first
look at everything that is there for her
gaming computer build so excited we're
also going to talk about security
mmm-hmm we're gonna learn a little bit
about how people use social engineering
in order to trick you your friends your
family into doing something you
shouldn't do and we're gonna get talking
about your kids as well and how we track
them yeah the internet through mobile
devices it's gonna be good good show
great show planned for you folks stick
around we're gonna we're gonna talk
about lots you've got some interesting
stories for us as well I do what do you
have tonight okay well here's what's
coming up on the category five dot TV
newsroom reddit is going closed source
iconic board games Settlers of Catan is
coming to virtual reality Amazon is
facing at least one lawsuit from those
recalled solar eclipse glasses and
nearly half a million pacemakers are
vulnerable to an easy hack attack that
could kill the user and a firmware
update is immediately required and a
huge breakthrough has been made in
cancer research as scientists developed
a nano bot capable of killing cancer
cells in under three minutes stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category five technology TV
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 dot TV
category 5 dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here cap 5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash IA IV
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV nice to have you here and
to my right your left
Jeff Weston hello I'm Robby Ferguson
Sasha terminus couldn't be here tonight
or ever gave her the week off yeah
she'll never be back with us folks now
before you get worried she's getting
married this weekend and Sasha Rickman
is going to be joining us in two weeks
time it's true yeah so they landed just
earlier this afternoon ready all geared
up for their wedding hopefully the
weather will treat them well and things
will go really really great we're
looking forward to having her back as
well yeah tonight as I mentioned at the
top of the show we are actually gonna be
looking at some of the gear that has
arrived so far so tonight is the most
amazing unboxing episode of category 5
technology TV ab ba it's true if you're
into unboxings this is for you if you're
not move along or just stick around and
feel the excitement
it is exciting man some of the stuff is
really cool I can't wait to get into it
Jeff how you been man I'm good actually
I've been very busy with work trying to
get back into things now that summer is
all done mm-hmm and I change of seasons
at work yeah yeah it goes from not so
slow - definitely not slow yeah it's one
of those things when I started they're
like oh yeah I think slowed down in the
summer because it takes a vacation
it's true though I'm still waiting for
that we've seen that where you know it's
customers are away and so you don't get
a lot of the same kind of stuff but
now as fall is approaching I'm getting a
lot of calls for websites yes my job
itself is technically programmer web
developer and so on and so forth so so
my skills are put to work when it comes
to customizing PHP backends and MySQL
databases and things like that right now
I'm working on connecting a massive
inventory system via secure encrypted
connections to MySQL Moorea DB and it's
it's pretty cool but I'm seeing that
real like the uptake the increase in
okay I've got meetings out the wazoo of
people that are wanting these new
websites and having to put them out like
that yes yeah I I'm I'm glad I don't
have that kind of demand mm-hmm it's
it's more so like hey I'm gonna send you
50 emails that I haven't sent you over
the summer and I need them answered
today so tell the viewers what it is
that you do so just so they understand
what it is that we're talking about here
I'm a negotiator I negotiate employment
contracts and deal with the enforcement
of said contracts deal with labor
dispute arbitration stuff like that so
it's you know it's wrong from case to
case is it fairly similar like you don't
have a whole lot of change in what you
do from one thing to the next day I
would say it's about as similar as a
hundred different people coming in with
their computer saying it doesn't work
and it's all different problems pretty
much even if it's the same problem it's
a different problem
no one case is I exactly similar no one
round of bargaining is exactly similar
you know you could follow the the
process that normally works and you're
always gonna end up all over the place
but that's why I love the job its
dynamic and it's fun and you know it's
it's an adventure every time being an IT
and being a programmer I find a real
Evan flow from I'll be doing sales like
crazy and then all of a sudden I'm doing
websites and then I'm doing customer
support and then I'm doing a computer
repair and all this kind of stuff so
it's a real like
it's a lot of fun because you're never
doing the same thing twice well exactly
they're always going from one thing to
the next to the next to the next and if
things are slow in one department I'm
busy in another right so it's pretty
cool and keeps me on my toes
well absolutely what and what I like and
I don't know maybe you get this in your
in your field what I like about mine is
when people don't realize that I know
other things right so like I was at a
meeting today where they're you know
someone who's trying to pass off
something that they were doing
technologically but like all we need to
make this change and you know they use
their catch phrases to make it sound
good and I'm like well if you're gonna
do that what about that and the guy just
stops and looks at me he's like you know
what I'm talking about
mmm like yes I do mm-hmm and then that
realization sunk in like oh I can't pull
one over all right well let's get into
the meat and potatoes of it then shall
we I'm like please let's cuz I like
technology it was there's good very cool
very cool chat room I see you there
storm chaser 3000 nice to see you I
can't wait to get to your questions
please Bank them for a moment's time
Jeff and I are gonna do our best to
watch the chat room without Sasha here
and and we'd love to get to that first
and foremost said the out the gate just
a real quick discussion about security
and we've talked about ransomware we've
talked about phishing scams and people
that their business if you will is to
trick users and usually a novice user
into providing banking information
providing lodging credentials or even
providing in some cases access to your
company network or your computer if it's
at home those kinds of things so we had
one recently that is is something that I
wanted to bring to your attention
because we don't always realize how
vulnerable we are and and I know that
our viewership a lot of you are quite
technical so if somebody phones you and
says hi I'm calling from Microsoft
we noticed that you've got a virus and
we need to access your computer we've
got free support we're gonna remote in
and help you out
you're probably gonna hang up the phone
tell them where to go you know
unfortunately mom or dad or grandma
grandpa brothers or sisters may not be
as savvy as you or I and fall for these
unfortunate decision it yeah so one
gentleman I was speaking with had that
happened where the call came in actually
no I think this guy actually got into
the search engines started looking for
help
it was seeking help and we got to
remember when you go to you know if you
if you are gonna go to Microsoft's
website its Microsoft comm so it's
important to understand the difference
between the address bar the top of your
browser versus a search yes because if I
search for Microsoft com I'm gonna get
30 million results and one of them is
Microsoft comm that's right so this guy
was looking for help on installing a
printer or some other thing and couldn't
get it going so got into Google and
started looking for help and found free
support oh we will remote in we will
remote in and take care of your printer
drivers for you and get everything up
and going oh no perfectly fine now in
this particular case the folks even know
he gave them access thought they were
legit the folks actually fixed this
printer for him service with a smile so
see how they're getting yes how smart
these folks are getting the the the
people who are creating these phishing
scams they actually fixed the problem
resolved it form now we've got this
amazing trust going on right wow you
guys did a great job thank you so much
how much do I owe you nothing what it's
free nothing is free now we also offer a
service that we can keep your computer
up and running for you and help you out
and and make sure that everything's
hunky-dory all the time and so he said
yeah opted into that sounds fantastic
along comes their remote administration
tool yep and now they've got access to
his computer 24/7 you don't really know
what they're doing with it anyways long
story short he started to get suspicious
okay started to think something is not
right about this like the they're
starting to creep me a little bit
remoting in and taking over the computer
at random times and things are not quite
what what he would expect so he called
them up and said you know what I I'm I'm
not feeling good about this I I'm going
to take my computer to my local computer
shop I want to I want to I want to I
want to close down our account so they
said cuz they're smart remember we're
just gonna need to remove our software
oh oh so no problem no problem at all
we're gonna we're gonna get our software
off of there we need you to punch in
this code go to this website and we're
going to access your computer do this
for you we're gonna cancel your account
cancel their account they did oh no you
ever heard of our M dash RF /d limited
oh no all of his files Oh No urged
everything that was dear to him his
business files all of his pictures
everything deleted oh he didn't have a
backup date he didn't have a backup no
who has a backup anymore Jeff so it
starts with tricking the user into
giving them access yeah it could be a
phone call it could be you actually
seeking it out and going on to Google
and finding somebody who's providing
this service for you giving them access
to your computer letting them in and
then now they're not going into
Destructo mode they're going into let's
build trust mode you know that's make
this person believe that they're dealing
with a legitimate company we're gonna do
do that first so now we've got that
trust don't violate that whoops yeah
now what would have happened with the
software if he had not have told them
just brought it in to you well there be
a fail-safe to the software or do you
think this is just their skin usually
well a lot of times what I've seen is
they're gonna install something like
TeamViewer and okay then what they do is
they remove somewhat like the
uninstalled entries they remove some of
the visible elements of TeamViewer so
that they can remote in now TeamViewer
is absolutely legitimate software tastic
as a matter of fact but
it can be used for for bad purposes
right so they they hide that TeamViewer
in the background so that you don't
actually know that it's happening you
don't know that it's it's watching your
computer right and so there's I haven't
yet seen like a Trojan horse where if
you don't let them access it it's going
to blow up all your files this was a
legitimate hey okay well you're gonna
close this down we're gonna wreak havoc
on your files and show you who's in
charge that's what happened that's
painful but I suppose they could you
know Trojan horse and the software that
if it doesn't dial home once a week then
guess what there go your files and
that's what we see with ransomware we
want to cry and you know cryptolocker
and all the derivatives of both of those
and everything else that gets into your
system infiltrates your files
encrypts them so that you don't have
access to your documents your email
anything at all and then requires you to
pay a ransom in order to get them back
so we see that that's unfortunate
I had a friend about six months ago she
got an email from Microsoft that her
system required a system update from
Microsoft yep yes from Microsoft said
required a system update she needed to
click this link to access the software
yeah and to connect with their live chat
support to make sure it installs
properly well not cluing in she did and
next thing you know she's locked out of
her computer and watching them here like
explore her computer if she can't do a
thing her mouse has turned off her
keyboards turned off that's right the
ethernet cable folks well that's yeah
she did not yeah what she did is she hit
the power button okay and then when she
turned her computer back on
they still had control oh yes so then
she was feeding on something yeah and
the other thing is that antivirus
doesn't stop it no because there's a
question that happens somewhere along
the lines of do you want to install this
application that's right and when you
have those folks on the line they're
gonna say oh press yes press ok press
approve press like you know whatever it
takes to get this thing in and their
smoke screen is pretty good folks
mm so all this to say
I mean if you've got folks in your life
that are potentially susceptible to
these kinds of attacks it's up to us to
educate them because as I say antivirus
is not going to stop this kind of thing
plain and simple it's not a virus it's
social engineering its smarts and it's
trickery and so if they click the wrong
thing or do the wrong thing or open the
wrong attachment and say yes and
sometimes windows doesn't even require I
mean user access control was put there
to make you know put the hoenn onus on
the user you know are you sure you want
to are you sure are you sure are you
sure are you sure are you sure people
get annoyed with that question are you
sure yes yes yes how do I turn off the
darn
are you sure question oh you just go
into control panel and turn off you a
see you can do that oh yeah oh yeah oh
fantastic I don't have to deal with that
are you sure are you sure every time I
open my program it asks says this is
from an unknown source are you sure you
want to run it yes this is going to
change your harddrive are you sure you
want to right yes see I've never turned
that off I didn't truthfully I didn't
know you could because I like to see the
warning and I if my kids are on the
computer really what it does though is
it just puts the responsibility on the
user right it's not it's it's not
protecting you in any way realistically
just cause you think security through
obscurity and by hiding things in the
background is not really security at all
but what it does yeah it makes you think
if it's activated but it causes the user
to say yes yes and a novice user is just
gonna say yes yes yes yes yes yeah get
out of my face yes yes just select the
hole read our User Agreement
nobody does I did once did you yeah I
did well your firstborn no sign up for
some kind of Wi-Fi and it was was pretty
knock yeah yeah it was it was actually
the Tim Hortons Wi-Fi oh yeah yeah I was
sitting there one day and I'm like what
does this actually say cuz I'm confident
my dad all the hot hit time on his hands
an unlimited free coffee it's true yeah
I read through it and it was pretty good
because I deal in contracts all the time
I actually
you gotta summarize it for people maybe
open a blog summarizing I shouldn't user
agreements yeah I was for the most part
it was you know blah blah blah you know
we won't sell your personal information
but you know we may use we have act your
information monitor it we can record
exactly yeah you know for marketing
purposes and our affiliates and
subsidiaries and blah blah blah so they
won't say who I was but they'll tell
everybody what I was doing
sure I was reading a User Agreement Wow
it goes back to encryption for example
you go on a website and it's encrypted
so you're safe right but the URL is
still known mm-hmm the URL is not
private that's right your ISP knows
exactly what websites you're going to
yep and that's how it works that's the
nature of the Internet
mm-hmm just when it's encrypted
presumably they can't read the passwords
and things like that that are being
transacted back and forth between the
servers so yep so educate your friends
educate your family and let folks know
that hey you've got to be really really
cautious that this don't turn off UAC
it really think about these questions I
had one today who called me up and said
I've got this pop up on my screen what
do I do
says do I want to accept or not accept
whatever the option do no I mhm and she
legitimately was not sure what to do and
I say okay well screenshot it for me she
took a picture with her phone and sent
it to me and it was some obscure website
that she's never been to she's never
heard of and it's trying to install
something on her computer
probably an infected advertisement on
one of the websites she's looking at
something like that I said do you ever
frequent that was just no I never even
heard of it and yet your computer is
saying that it's going to install
something on your computer do you want
to accept this how do we think we should
answer that question
she was smart Jeff she called
well she's grass to the question if it
was 9 a.m. on a Saturday morning she
might have just said ok because you know
I'm not at my office right right what do
you do in that case
people so it is about education knowing
these things so that we can protect
ourselves our family our friends that's
true
that is true oh speaking of education
quick question for our viewers I want to
put an app on my kids phones so my wife
and I we have gray in our phones we pass
them on to the kids yeah
that's cool you know that way they can
use our Wi-Fi play their games and stuff
like that yeah but I want to put an app
on my kids phones that I can control
when they use their phone I can lock
them out if they're using too much I can
remotely remove that lock but they can't
uninstall it I've tried a few software
that you can get for free through the
Google Play Store their Android phones
by the way okay through the Google Play
Store where you download it and you have
those features but all the kid has to do
is install it from the phone I want
something where they can't install it
unless I uninstall it or access them to
uninstall it so I'm looking for some
suggestions from our viewers Wow
so if you know of something please let
me know I'm willing to pay a little bit
but not a lot I'm looking one that was
$100 a year subscription I'm going I
don't need a hundred bucks for that okay
I'm looking at ESET mobile security
because it has some of those features
for it okay so but whether or not it's
what you see what you're describing now
this is a great tool that adds things
like filtering and anti-theft
anti-phishing protection kinds of things
yes and I have that on my program phone
yeah and this is a great product for
keeping your phone safe there is a free
version that has like real-time scanning
and remote locking remote siren GPS -
geolocation if someone steals your phone
that kind of thing and then a small fee
for ESET mobile security premium which
has additional features but you're right
they can circumvent that if they know
the Android password they can change
things right in the phone and most
likely you know every pairing either
removes the password or gives it to
their kids so that they aren't out
them every five minutes right now the
screen went black and now I can't open
the phone that's right they almost need
to have multi-level like an
administrator password for Android yes
but what you're actually describing to
me sounds like endpoint protector and it
is okay not cheap no like this is a
business product I don't know maybe our
viewers know of something that's for
home users that will do this but the
fact is Jeff that you have to have a
centralized server to manage these
things yeah I don't want that but you
have to have it for what you're asking
for you have to have a central
management console that's where
something like endpoint protector comes
in really or and one of the ESET
business lines like if you went with
ESET endpoint protection advanced it
comes with the business version of
mobile security right that has ESET
Remote Administrator and then you can
use Remote Administrator to block apps
run a phone Oh No that will you can set
up policies in remote administrator that
turn on and off the web browser on a
schedule oh cool so that would do it
that's that's pretty economical yeah
it's a couple hundred bucks will get you
five use or a EPA license
but is that per year or yeah you're
looking at annual subscription for users
yeah see and I don't want to spend a
couple hundred bucks yeah you know like
I was you know there I was looking at a
couple apps they were like you know five
bucks yeah you know for five bucks if it
works it works it's great you know and I
don't mind supporting developers but I
just I the big thing is I want like you
know through my home Wi-Fi I can set the
times that the internet works on them
yeah you can do that yeah but that
doesn't even what you want you want app
level control correct that's gonna
require endpoint some kind of endpoint
centralized server that's going to yeah
I know I know I heard about a an app I
think it's called call your mom we had a
couple years ago I think it was only on
an iPhone at the time but basically you
know if your mom has to call and you
don't answer she can lock your phone oh
if you could only unlock it by calling
her and then she'll put the password in
on her app and if she if you're not on
the phone with her it really yeah I was
pretty
$10 that's cool if the kids are you know
yes yeah now I'm picturing my mom doing
this to me have you ever heard of circle
this is a partnership a hardware
partnership with Disney and technology
companies circle no I hits a device that
you put on your home network and it's
built for this purpose but you have you
have to buy the device right and this
this device it connects with the app
that you've got on each of the phones
and gives you some control over these
kinds of things okay so I would say the
four for home this is probably the the
answer right and I haven't tried it
that's all so I just go by marketing
height but you know we get the press
releases and things like that 99 bucks
you buy it so what does it do manage
your family's devices across your
network kids can get into the action -
all marketing hype but essentially I
wonder if there's like a about you know
what is this thing watch video by circle
you can watch the video if you want Jeff
later but it's basically a little device
that you plug into your network connects
wirelessly with your home Wi-Fi allows
you to manage every device on your
network using the circle app families
can create unique profiles for each
family member from here kids will have a
connected experience that is designed
just for them time limits bedtime
filtering rewards if they're good pause
their connectivity off time meaning you
know can't be on the phone during that
time right and usage control hmm so if
they're yeah you can watch up to one gig
of YouTube right perfect so that's
called circle it's meet circle comm if
you do end up going that route now it's
available in Amazon so you can use our
partner like right yes and I'd love to
review that product I wouldn't mind
actually getting our hands on one and
seeing what it functions yeah and you'd
be a great use case because you're
actually looking for this kind of
exactly and if anyone in the community
has has experienced circle as of you
know it's brand-new it's it's a you know
we're still getting the press releases
right now to learn about it
but that may be the answer Jeff okay
well I don't something to think about so
if you know please comment below let us
know or shoot us an email and yeah be
good to have some options because I
don't know what to do yeah there's your
answers at least from my brain
speaking of circles we are spinning
around on our course tools tonight head
on over to cap five dot TV slash stool
these things are actually really really
comfortable you hear us talking about
them on the on the show but we've
switched from standing up to kind of
sort of sitting down yeah with our feet
on the floor almost half standing and
and I've got Sasha Stoll right
that is usually Sasha's stool okay how's
that feel I don't know why but I hers
moves better I think yours is Sasha's is
a second generation course tool oh and
it's quite comfortable it's my first
generation the one that we usually put
on the co-host desk is first generation
yes maybe that explains why I'm like I
always sit on the other one and it's
good but I'm sitting on her today I'm
going this is awesome oh he's gonna swap
I don't know what's different but I like
this check out cap five dot TV slash
stool to find out what we're on about
they are actually really really cool
they work your core as you're sitting
and it's not like sitting on a normal
chair because they say that that is not
good for you yeah and you've got the
elevation well tall yeah now we got to
readjust all of his cameras there you
have it hey our tenth anniversary is
coming up in just a couple of weeks time
September 27th is our 10th anniversary
here at category five technology TV can
you believe it how many of you have been
here since day one or at least you know
year what I'd be interested to know I
know a few of you have been I have been
yeah 520 weeks in here I am folks but
you can get free tickets we're opening
up the studio here to welcome you to
come and join us for the live taping of
the show and the live broadcast it's
gonna be a lot of fun we're gonna see
some familiar faces that you haven't
seen around here in a while
Carrie web is confirmed to be here
I'm gonna be here I'll be here you gonna
be here yeah nice so come meet us go to
category 5 dot TV and click on tickets
and you can pick up your free tickets
today seating is limited and so you want
to be one of the first to let us know
that you are on your way that is
September 27th Jeff we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back the
unboxer we have a ton of gear here for
sashes gaming computer build if you've
never built a computer before or if you
want to just see what's inside the box
stick around we'll be right back Jeff
Weston yelling you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com nice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a WordPress
site fine
sign up cat five dot TV slash dream host
just don't put that of a paper sorry
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
I'm your host Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston so nice to have you here
tonight we've got a great unboxing for
you and I mean great like oh yes epic
drool-worthy uh-huh uh-huh
first of all questions in the chat room
pertaining now I'll just let you know
this is part 5 of Sasha's gaming
computer built now Sasha couldn't be
here tonight because she's off getting
married yeah which is what this thing is
all about so Jeff and I are gonna get
into the boxes we're gonna have a little
private time with you and these boxes of
gear and we're gonna get into it even
though Sasha is not here and she's gonna
be back next week and we're gonna get
started on our belt is the next or not
next we do week two weeks yep pardon me
so you've got questions in the chat room
pertaining to to the build itself yes
your stuff yeah so strong chasers
actually we'll be building it yes just
so you know yeah we're just doing that
we're unboxing we can take things out of
the box it's true and look at them and
autumn much that's all were allowed to
do yep
that's right but storm chaser 3000 wants
to know he says if I wanted to get a
kingston SSD with 240 gig of storage
space how much would that cost because i
want to get an SSD for my new gnu/linux
laptop nice and the very simple answer
to that is go to our website check out
the shop we have them listed there and
it will you click the link you can check
out the SSDs and I believe the link
takes you right to em yeah but you know
what I would suggest you actually do
let's go to Kingston go to Kingston comm
that makes sense see this is this is the
neat thing you can shop around folks
figure it out first just like we did
here on the show with such as computer
build and then go back to our website
and use our links right to get there so
the way I would approach this and the
reason that we're tackling this during
part 5 of Sasha's computer build is it's
all related we're all learning how to
choose which hardware we're gonna go
with and we've picked and we're gonna
look at the HyperX savage we've got a 1
terabyte SSD to go into Sasha's I think
I've got the 250 yeah super fast so on
Kingston calm head on over there because
that's where you want to go to get you
know get information about the hard
drives and whatever it is that you want
to do so first and foremost find out do
you have em to support because m2 can
be a lot faster than traditional SSDs
why is that Jeff it bypasses the SATA
bus it bypasses the SATA bus that's what
you connect your SSD into that's not to
say SSDs are not screaming fast they are
but m2 can be a lot faster four times
faster because you're not bottlenecked
by that bus it goes through PCIe right
so yes if your motherboard supports it
that's cool if it doesn't support it you
can buy one of these guys they've got a
PCI II card with an m2 built into it and
they're screamin fast man so for your
case go into SSDs and you can see those
those back cards there as well you can
see the VM twos and things like that
what you're probably going to be looking
at is the consumer line of product so
you go into Kingston's consumer line of
SSDs and check these out
so let's see what we can come up with so
by doing this we're gonna be able to
compare specs on their website because I
know like the 240 gig is screaming fast
but if you up to
I think it's 460 or 480 it's a little
faster yes because the chips are more
condensed and you know there's more data
can flow a little bit faster so you look
at this website and so here's the a 400
for example is it goes from 120 gig to
480 gigs and it goes up to 500 megabytes
per second
Reed and 450 right now the UV 400 are a
little bit faster and a little bit
larger if you want to go that way they
go up to 550 megabytes per second and
500 megabytes per second - right that's
important only if you know if I'm
working in video so I need to be able to
write a lot of data really really fast
if you're just gaming and stuff then you
might want to look at the savage line
but you know I'm just looking at what's
available on their website you can you
can kind of go through so if I click on
the a 400 for example let's see what it
tells us so you're gonna find
information about the speed of the drive
the capacity of the drive and so on so
you're basically doing your pre-shopping
right you're deciding what it is that
you want to do now HyperX from kingston
the
is kind of the gamer line so if you're
gonna be doing some gaming that's where
you want to be looking for those and
you're gonna be able to get something
that's you know the its consumer product
it's fast it's super fast and it's more
bang for the buck but maybe you know
technically it's gonna be less reliable
I not that it's not reliable it's
reliable enterprise stuff is meant to
like be run in computers in an office
environment versus a gaming rig that
maybe you turn off your computer at
night you know that's it's kind of like
that so let's let's see what I can find
here I see a link there for HyperX
gaming comm that takes me to their hyper
X line like I'm saying this may be where
you want to look so you kind of look
through and see what what they have so
savage that's the one I wanted to look
at so again that's part of their hyper X
line so it's a Kingston Drive but it's
meant for gaming it's super super fast
for that kind of thing so what do we got
find out the specs you want you want 240
gigs there it is cool stuff you can find
out what how it compares so look at this
let's see speed 240 gigs we've got
that's that's how many reads and writes
are how fast I want to see like
megabytes a second that'll that'll be
really nice 240 gigs 480 gigs
ok so up to 480 gigs is 223 megabytes
per second 960 gigs is 260 so it's a
little faster on that particular
bandwidth test that's not read and write
speed let's see if we have that listed
here you kind of want to oh there we go
data transfer 560 megabytes per second
read 530 megabytes right
that's not raizy that's that's crazy
but you see what happens here now we
don't see it as much with the savage
line do we because these are all meant
to be really really fast like 500 20
megabytes read on the 240 and it's the
same all the way up to 960 so you get
away with the 240 but those are the
things that I like to compare right why
am I paying more it's not just capacity
a lot of times especially with the
enterprise level drives that larger it
is the faster it is right in the savage
line it looks like they're very very
similar as far as speed goes so
once you've decided then you can go over
to category 5 dot TV and from there
we're gonna go support us and then shop
with our partners ok
and from there find the Amazon site that
works well for you so if it's amazon.com
head on over there now we know that
we've already selected Kingston HyperX
savage 240 gigabyte there we go
so now we know ok I can get this is the
bundle kit which is sweet comes with a
little extra peripherals if I just need
the drive itself I can go with just the
drive by itself so I'm gonna be looking
at today based on Amazon's pricing 130
bucks which is nothing yeah so then you
might say hey how much is a 280 it's
twice as big is it twice the price so 4
oh they actually show them right here
that's handy so let's compare 240 gigs
480 gigs what did that do to the price
220 to 225 so it's a 100 bucks more and
you're getting twice as much capacity so
then gage that so that's the way I would
approach it figure out what you want to
buy first then head on over to our
website category 5 TV and use our
partner links and that supports the show
it's a cool way to do it because you're
not gonna pay any differently than
ordering it direct but by doing that we
get a commission on the sale which is
really a cool way to be able to support
category 5 TV sorry thanks man
alright are we ready to get into it oh
yeah check it out Jeff you want to head
on over here and like do you know look
whoa now I wanted this shot so that you
kind of get a sense for what we've got
here I know you can't see us right now
but who needs to see us right now this
is what we've got okay so so far what
has come in we've got a savage HyperX
drive from Kingston it's 960 gigs that's
like the terabyte SSD super scream and
fast super beautiful love it we've got
the keyboard mouse we've got an m2 card
we've got the Kingston fury RAM you know
you know I don't even have to get into
the specifications because you've been
following the show
and if you go over to cap five dot TV
slash CPU to zero one seven you're gonna
know exactly what we're getting into
here because the shopping list is right
there and you can check it out so over
here what else have we got
okay thermal paste yeah how cool is that
right the simplest thing in the world
but that's going to help us to put the
cpu fan on on there so what do we start
with Jeff look at all this stuff we got
the CPU and i7 we've got a beautiful
motherboard I kind of want to get into
that you know what this is the one I've
been waiting to get into the mobo yeah
nice okay let's do it move some of this
stuff out of the way could you just set
that down for me Jack because and I want
to weigh this thing does it not feel
heavier than you're expecting actually
yeah I was surprised at the weight when
I picked it up that's what I said I was
like this is a lot heavier than I
thought
so I brought out the trusty scale
specifically to find out how much this
thing weighs two kilograms 252 grams so
2.30 kilograms it's more than 2 kilos
that's what it is
that's what the Taylor scale tells us
Jeff this feels heavier than my kids
when they were born you guys ready for
this
Jeff do you want the honors oh boy do I
ever oh man
look at that it's the Maximus what is it
the iiiii so that's like eight yeah
something like that it's just beautiful
beautiful it is really really nice now
we went with one that has an m2 socket
and what we're doing is we're we're
actually installing a Kingston SATA m2
right so the the chip itself is an m2
chip but it's also SATA so it's not as
fast as a like a PCIe m2 but it gets
Sasha into the m2 market and using m2
component on her motherboard so that's
actually gonna go right here okay so the
hard drive if you will for the operating
system is a chip that's gonna go right
there and it looks like this it actually
looks like a ram module and that's gonna
go right into the motherboard okay
that's gonna hold the operating system
oh that's beautiful
it's it's about the same speed as a
traditional si
SATA SSD like about 500 megabytes per
second right for read and write but as I
say it gets her into the m2 it's got her
on a motherboard that supports it so you
know if she ever needs to upgrade she
can get into some screaming fast stuff
because it gets her off of the SATA bus
this is using the m2 component of the
motherboard so we've got four dams four
for RAM which we also have the kingston
fury ram which is super fast gaming ram
beautiful stuff and we've got a couple
of x1 headers for PCIe and then we've
got the x16 s as well oh we've got three
X ones that's cool so you can see there
we go so this is where the processor
goes the CPU not sure if you're familiar
with that there's a bunch of little kind
of contacts underneath of here and if I
remove this you can kind of see so the
processor is gonna make contact with all
those little itty-bitty pins mmm and
that's going to give us that's going to
give her her processor the brains know
this motherboard also comes with the
start button which Sasha was asking
about you guys see that can yes right
there yeah so I mean if you ever needed
to bypass the case for some reason yes
we used to do that back in the day man
I'd be like putting this on display real
nice yeah those are like backup switches
and everything we've got a lot of salt
to take caps see these capacitors
they're really high-end capacitors
they're not going to burst like the
old-style caps we do have some old-style
caps here but this is a you know a
decent motherboard you know that it's
going to run really well for them and
and treat them well I am so excited
that's that was an easy unboxing cuz he
just kind of opened the lid what else do
we have to have let's go with the
GeForce all right let's get into because
we're gonna need to there you go show
you get in there okay so this is the
video card this is the video card this
is okay now we went with a 1070 as
opposed to the 1060 it's a step up it's
it's more money but it's gonna it's
gonna do real well it's built for VR
all right you get to open this no man
you do it together together one two
three oh okay
okay get her out there look so OH dorm
trooper nice oh okay
grounding myself there we go okay Robbie
be grounded these things have gotten so
much bigger since I saw this is computer
this is not your average component Jeff
oh my there you have it so look at this
we've got a DVI output and for no -
DisplayPort and two HDMI okay and this
is full-sized HDMI so she's gonna be
able to use traditional HDMI cables no
adapters needed so two of those in to
display port and one DVI so we've got
lots of room for components is in that
gorgeous so there's the back we've got
dual silent fans and this again this is
the diocese gtx 1070 jeff have you got
some specs on the board you can share
with us as the or now we went with the
overclocked edition and I'll just let
you know now you can you can overclock
your your card yourself if you want but
Sasha's not that computer savvy I wanted
to put something in that was ready to go
out of the box it's overclocked it's
super fast the the base frequency is
going to be higher right that from the
moment we plug it in right no messing
around it's already built the way that
we want it to be okay specs eight gig
gddr5 video memory nice you talked about
the display poor it's Microsoft DirectX
12 opengl 4.5 opengl is the one that we
care about because we're gonna be
running linux on here mm-hmm what's it
got GPU tweak - looking for some other
specs on here it's just the generic
stuff on the box there you go oh this is
more under here that's Russian I can't
read Russian alright next up what else
do we got
all right here
throw the Box away all right there we go
who needs it all right we've got the
power supply yeah beaut
that's a nice power supply we went
Corsair and this is this is beaut
because it is modular yes Jeff you've
been through this before I have I have
this one but in the 750 okay not the 850
so we've went with a little bit more
power because we are sticking some
powerful components in there like the
video card yeah
and you know you can never go wrong with
too much power if you have too little
power you're gonna have some damage to
your peripherals yes and so on and so
forth so what do we got here let's just
get into the box shall we you know what
I like about this series from Corsair is
that the cables are not hardwired into
the actual that's the modularity of it
Jeff I know that's what I love you know
what I love about it 10 year warranty
that okay yeah you know a company stands
by their product if they put a 10 year
warranty on the thing oh yeah let's get
it around the other way no sorry guys
this is what you see okay let's take a
look here all right we got a bag of
goodies I'm gonna I'm gonna show you the
bag of goodies in just a minute but grab
that power supply right over there Jeff
oh it even comes with its own bag Wow
I'm gonna use it that's right now let's
see comes with a free bag everybody you
can use it to like put things in go
shopping okay there's all your
peripheral ports 850 watts now this is
the thing about this power supply
completely modular so there are no
cables coming out of this power supply
unless you need them right that's where
this bag comes in which I and it keeps
the case so clean I love it there you go
now these are beautifully wound cables
as well so this is the the motherboard
power connector so obviously you're
gonna need that we've got tons and tons
of different things there's a PCIe video
card adapter we've got like tons and
tons of this stuff look at that it's
like Christmas morning yeah just like it
so there you go so she's got all the
cables she needs but only going to use
what she needs
right
we don't have to clutter up your case
the other thing about clutter in your
case so when you're looking at a power
supply you've got to think about how
this is going to be inside of your
chassis the computer case itself because
airflow is going to keep that thing cool
and when you're dealing with a gaming
rig it's gonna be running pretty hot if
you don't have proper cooling and part
of it isn't just the fan but also the
airflow the ability for air to get
through and the more cables that are in
there the Messier it is the worse it's
gonna be this is just a process or Jeff
so I don't know how much you can really
see with this but note that the i7 that
we chose the 7700 K it's Jeff proof box
yeah it does not include the processor
fan right so there you have it we're
gonna leave it in the plastic folks but
this is the this is the brains this is
the chip that makes the computer able to
do all of the things that a computer
does now if I recall correctly you were
looking at different chipsets yes that's
why you went with this one do you recall
why this chipset well we've been over it
in the series Jeff so if you watch back
at camp five dot TV slash CPU 2017
you're really going to get a sense for
you know why did we choose the 7700 K
versus whatever else was there but
essentially this is good bang for the
buck it's it's tried-and-true the 7700 K
has been around for just long enough
that it's still new it's still current
but we know that it's good we know that
it's stable unlike the Rison processors
from AMD which I was also looking at
we're seeing all kinds of problems with
those especially on Linux so we wanted
rock-solid we wanted stability as well
as speed and game ability okay what do
you got here oh you're getting into the
into that before what before we even we
haven't even got to like processor fan
we've got I know right there's weight
these didn't show up on my place well
we've we've been we've all been working
together here deaf that's right because
we people were helping out yeah so we've
done okay we got the solid-state hard
drive from Kingston this is the hyper x
960 gig I don't even know if we really
need to get into this but this is the I
believe that it's the kit that we are
and so let's you've got the scissors
let's get into the box all right so just
so you know the you know a slight
difference between the Kingston kit
versus just the hard drive so the hard
drive is literally just this this
component right here versus the kit
which has and Jeff will show us so this
is your hard drive you nice beautiful
hard drive and as you're mounting plates
that's great for if your case doesn't
support correct the 3.5 millimeter tube
that 2.5 pardon me I got a couple of
various things in here I fat-fingers I
love this tool I use it all the time I
Jeff I know it's just a simple soda boy
I actually have one on the set it might
always sits right beside my computer
absolutely they make now this is my one
my one so this is just a tool that they
include but this it's a computer
screwdriver that's right it's really
good quality so it's like getting a
freebie and the external case so maybe
you don't want to put the hard drive
actually in your computer you want to
use and say maybe a portable backup
drive or something they provide a case
you just throw the hard drive in and
it's got your cables for connecting
directly to your computer you know what
else that's good for is that for example
in this case this is just her data drive
right this is only data this is not
Sasha's main computer hard drive the
hard like the the operating system
because that's going to be an m2 this is
going to contain all our pictures or
family videos and all that kind of stuff
saved games all that so if it ever came
down to it if something ever went wrong
she could pull the hard drive out put it
in the external drive chassis and plug
it into USB and be able to access it on
any computer alright so there you have
it now we've got the Kingston HyperX
fury ram now we've gone a little mad but
that's okay because we've got two
sixteen gig
ddr4 Sims here I don't really need to
open those up but you can see that we've
got a heatsink built into the RAM module
so that's going to keep it cool it's
going to help it to perform better
because it's a it's going to keep it
nice and cool which is as I say one of
the key things about a gaming rig you've
got to keep it cool
alright and then we've got the this is
the CPU cooler speaking of I'm gonna
open that up yeah guess we got a little
sticker there so this is the contact
silent 12 also from thermal take it
which is the brand that we went with for
the chassis and I really like their
stuff especially when it comes to
chassis x' CPU coolers I use their
liquid cooling and my systems oh yeah
look at the size of this thing
massive Wow ok so what do we have this
is the the fan here so we go we're gonna
have to set all of this up for Sasha so
we're not gonna take that off of this
because we want to keep that very very
clean but this is the heatsink how do
you like that for keeping your system
cool I don't even think the rad and my
car is that big 20 millimeter fan which
is going to blow the wind over top of
the heatsink and out the other side and
that's gonna do a really nice job I
don't know what's in the box
we're gonna find out here we go what
we've got an adapter for okay for
mounting to a different different type
of CPU socket and then we've got the
power adapters and pegs and things like
that because it's compatible with
various different types of sockets right
so like Intel LGA 1366 1156 1155 1151
which is what we're doing
11:57 75 plus AMD's a.m. for FM 2 FM one
am3+ a.m. 3 a.m. to plus and AM - so you
pretty much install this thing in any
modern system how brilliant is that so
this is this is also a component that
you can find out more about by going to
cap 5 TV slash CPU 2017 and Jeff this
brings us to the one that you want to
see oh yeah I want to see this
the chassis from thermaltake now we went
with the Versa c22 Black Edition I was
looking at the snow edition but Sasha
said you know what Dave loves a you know
he's gonna love it if it was a black
computer case oh come on pull come on
pull one push here let's do this let's
do this oh come on this is killing me
this is ridiculous
ah there we go oh now watch for static
shock yep
you know I am not afraid to admit that
the jealousy factor is going through the
roof right now there's something
satisfying about that's how he's peeling
plastic I'm touching the metal he's
stalking me okay let's cool the the
shock factor just for a moment okay I'm
gonna get these these chassis screws out
here which are just thumb screws so you
don't need your tools to get in there
that is a slick looking case oh boy okay
I want to get into the inside here so I
can show you what it looks like here
help me out Jeff there's a lot of thumb
screws it makes for some exciting TV
when I'm doing it all by myself yeah
that's true almost like dead air all
right you all right let's do it
oh there we go oh so this is like a
plexi yeah this is not even there's no
metal on this that's just a piece of
plexi how do you like that oh man that
is beautiful right there you folks see
that now this is a cable management case
as well so you'll see these guys right I
can hide everything in such a way that
the cables are all going in behind and
not even visible at
all it's like a nice I can feed the
cables from the power supply which is
going to go right here up through this
hole right here which has got a nice
little grommet and then out wherever it
needs to be beautiful okay nice we're
not firing this up to date folks oh I
can't wait I can't wait to do it but
what I want to show you is now there are
LEDs built into this light emitting
diodes it's got really cool light
effects and one of the things Jeff that
we were concerned about is making sure
that the lighting effects did not
require software rights a lot of times
then if you're on Linux maybe it's a
Windows program maybe we're gonna run
into that kind of a problem so this one
this particular chassis has a built-in
controller module on the top here we've
got USB just like Sasha wanted right off
the top so there's a USB 3 port there
there's another one right here and
another one right here look at all so
we've got three four four USB ports
we've got headphone and microphone jacks
and we've got the controller for the
lighting which we're gonna get into you
know in time looks like this is it
junction LED so I'll have a juncture it
just cycles through the different
options right
that's pretty sleek there we go there's
the front of it when it's - exactly
yeah I want to build this today July you
know what I do - she'll forgive us sorry
I don't even know how to get into it how
would you get into this maybe you don't
get into it maybe you don't maybe they
just say you know what people don't use
optical drives anymore we're gonna find
out though I don't see any release
mechanisms for the front I think it's
just that is what it is although there
are I see two cavities here for five and
a quarter bays and I've got a three and
a half inch bay here I can see that from
the other side but there's so there has
to be a way to get into it Jeff but we
don't know it it's like my computer yeah
well we're gonna find it
those are what raid slots I think or
what's that on Michael yeah we found you
have some kind of some kind of crazy
things come on join me here Jeff we've
got one more component to unbox you can
come around and what do we got is that
the keyboard Rose is it
all right this is the last thing folks
for sashes computer build and just want
to quickly say thank you to everyone who
has pitched in so far to make this
happen for Sasha she had a good budget
to get started and you know we decided
let's let's come together as a community
and really make this happen for and get
some of the better components so she's
not cheeping out on components just to
meet a budget that's cool this is a
cheap keyboard and mouse and I really
like the look that's the solid button
that's that's nice I don't hear you
clicking it it's very quiet really nice
you can came into the middle that yields
good - yeah it does it's kind of nice
yeah looks like it's got double-a
battery port on the bottom there yep
it's got a transmitter receiver there we
go
and there you go folks a 2.4 gigahertz
gaming keyboard completely wireless
looks great with the chassis I think
they're gonna be real happy with this
yep I think I'm gonna have to go over
and play at their house for a bit I
think so oh my goodness
I'm just a great bunch of gear right so
in the next few weeks we're going to be
building this into a gaming computer for
Sasha and Dave now they're off getting
married right now and well yeah this
weekend and she's back she comes back
sometime next week and she'll be back
with us two weeks from today so we're
really hoping to be able to get into it
at that point please do go to cap five
dot TV slash CPU 2017 to learn more
about the build how we selected this
Hardware why we did how you can buy it
how much it costs and also how you can
support the build in such a way that its
it's like a it's a wedding gift for Dave
and Sasha Sperry know Sasha tour made us
from the studio here and it's our little
way of saying to her hey you know what
we really appreciate you and here's a
little something something to put toward
this build so I think it looks great
cool huzzah cleanup you great wait no
you think she's yeah she's on the
organization think that's all right
perfect
yeah well makes her happy sounds good to
me it makes me happy how many boxes did
the stuff come in that's the question
coming from soviet-era
we must have had five or six shipments
anyways yeah pretty pretty much every
day for like a week maybe you know what
was something rolling in you know it was
kind of funny and a little ironic and we
say tongue-in-cheek like hey yeah the
thermal paste came this is for the CPU
so that you get a good contact between
the CPU and the fan tell them it was
like a six dollar product for like seven
dollars seven dollars
stupid nothing else had shipping cost it
was all bought on Amazon so it's free
shipping and the thing that frustrates
me is when it arrived it was like two
hours from my house no I could have got
it just picked it up and slightly detour
from work and how did it feel that all
this hardware is coming to your house
you know we're not allowed to it was
painful oh I am NOT gonna lie I so when
we decided with Sasha that it was all
going to come to my house so that Dave
didn't see any of the stuff because he
has no clue I had to go home and tell my
wife look there's gonna be a ton of
stuff to live it to the house I didn't
buy it uh just so you know she's like
okay that's fine I told her what was
going on but every day if something
would arrive and was like the possible
and it just pained me to not be able to
play with it no right and for those who
are wondering because I had said
originally I said oh well why don't you
just ship it to our address here our
studio to Sasha and it turns out she
can't do that from Amazon because we're
an Amazon partner right oh so you can't
ship things to us okay because we're the
partner it's just like this roundabout
way that Amazon works and how it ended
up going to you and yeah to me so which
I was okay because I got to work sit
there just druaga lit yo yes there was a
lot you can you can watch the video over
and over again folks mm-hmm go to cat
five dot TV slash CPU 2017 looking
forward to putting this thing together
Jeff you are in the newsroom and I can
feel it you are ready I got all this
stuff around you in the newsroom now
not be able to Rena news I'm just going
off it off look at everything and just
drool our newsroom it's like sitting
next to me that's our newsroom folks
yeah I've got a green screen over here I
got another studio over here we just
need more cameras don't have enough
cameras to bring in the other sets so
we'll get there we'll get there all
right well here are the stories that are
covering this week in the category five
dot TV newsroom reddit is going closed
source iconic board games Settlers of
Catan is coming to virtual reality
Amazon is facing at least one lawsuit
from those recalled solar eclipse
glasses nearly half a million pacemakers
are vulnerable to an easy hack attack
that could kill the user and a firmware
upgrade is immediately required and a
cancer research as scientists develop a
nano bot capable of killing cancer cells
in under three minutes these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category five dot TV network by shopping
your best that's right Jeff cat five dot
TV slash gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cat 5 TV slash gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you could ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices to their cellphones
you betcha
cat 5 dot TV slash gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those make a great gift absolutely from
hi-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 dot TV slash gearbest has you
covered
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
it's true it's just a bunch of random
electronic sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices how to like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping at camp five dot TV slash
gear best yeah all right it kind of got
me there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff now
that the winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals on say
comforters oh my goodness well check
this out dude they have everything check
out over 500 various runs and not only
that they're available marked down by
about 32 up to 63 percent off the
regular price love it
what's the website again well you're
gonna find gearbest on our partners
pages for any of your favorite category
5 TV shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest so
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right happy shopping
[Music]
I'm Jeff Wesson and here are the top
stories of the week of September 6 2017
nine years after going open-source
reddit is archiving the source code for
its website and mobile apps the source
code will still be accessible will no
longer be updated reddit cites concerns
about competition as one of the reasons
for the change in direction but reddit
is not completely turning its back on
open source while it will no longer be
possible to access the full source code
it will still be possible to access a
limited number of code bases such as
baseplate rolling pin and Mac Sunnah the
site says those who have been paying
attention will realize that this isn't
really a change to how we're doing
anything but rather making explicit
what's already been going on and users
are not convinced by that excellent
reddit explains that the initial
thinking behind open sourcing the
project was to ensure the site would
stay alive no matter what happened to
the company itself while nine years
later Retta has evolved into a gigantic
online beast and the company points out
that has done a terrible job of keeping
its open-source project repos updated in
a post explaining the changes founding
coder Christopher slow says open source
makes it hard for us to develop some
features in clear like recent video
launch without leaking our plans too far
in advance as reddit is now a large
player in the web it's hard for us to be
strategic in our planning when everyone
can see what code we're committing the
iconic board game Settlers of Catan is
coming to virtual reality a new version
is being developed by game studio
experiment 7 which previously created a
pair of VR take on a pair of VR to take
on chess with feedback from the original
minds behind Catan the VR game which is
coming to both oculus rift and gear VR
and called simply Catan VR is described
as true to the classic but optimized for
virtual reality with a fresh fully
immersive format unfortunately right now
the creators aren't showing off what the
new VR title looks like though it
appears that it will feature both a
single-player and online multiplayer
content I love Settlers of Catan when I
heard this I was stupid giddy VR is
getting like real man I know so I have
no clue you can play board games and VR
well I have no clue what its gonna look
like what I'm you know I'm picturing a
case that's gonna be like first-person
yeah walking around doing trading and
resources like I have no clue but that
would take it to the next level oh yeah
or remember battle chests when we were
kids where it was chess pieces that you
know as you move them then all of a
sudden they turn in they morph into a
real person and start slicing yes yeah
that was a lot of fun but imagine that
as a board game it's still a board game
but it took it to the next level Oh
something like that so cool I can't wait
for it to come out that's gonna be
exciting
all right
u.s. couple have filed a proposed class
action lawsuit against Amazon claiming
they sustained eye injuries from solar
eclipse Eclipse glasses purchased on the
site
Cory Payne and Kayla Harris said they
experienced headaches and vision
impairment after using the glasses to
which the u.s. eclipse to the US eclipse
on August 21st
Amazon issued a recall on potentially
hazardous Eclipse glasses on August 10th
which we reported on August 16th
the couple have were claimed that they
were not informed of the recall which
means they didn't watch cat 5 what are
they doing I know legal documents filed
by the pair say the warning was
tragically too little too late
amazon has declined to comment on the
lawsuit which was filed in a federal
court in South Carolina last Tuesday ok
pretty much every day for a week leading
up to this all you saw was glasses
recalled mm-hmm don't look directly at
the Sun blah blah blah so do not use
these glasses from Amazon I I saw it
everywhere so you'd have to be living in
a hole to have not seen that information
I'm not sure I buy it that they weren't
informed yeah that's such a hard thing
like whose responsibility does it become
an Amazon sells like people sell
products in Amazon as if it's almost
like it's developed into like
classifieds right in a way when you buy
something on Amazon you're probably not
buying it from Amazon unless you've
specifically selected it as Amazon right
they emailed everybody that but even
then it's not Amazon's product that's it
like yeah that's a tough thing and where
do where do you where D is you know do
you do you buy the cheap thing save a
couple bucks and find out that hey it's
gonna make you blind
see oddly enough for the Eclipse my
grandma's funeral was happening at the
time the clips happen
and we were all standing outside as they
were placing her casket and her stand
and somebody comes up to me with a paper
plate and they go look
I put a pinhole in this plate if you
hold it out and actually I see the
Eclipse on really the pavement so we had
this laid out and because the Sun
magnify through the whole whole bunch
footstep you know grandma's placed in
the the Hurst and then we turn and we
look and we watch the it happened it was
a it was a very memorable moment yeah
that's kind of special yeah but it was
it was numerating grandma yeah all right
talk about painful software updates and
estimate four hundred sixty-five
thousand people in the US are getting
notices that they should update the
firmware that runs their life sustaining
pacemakers or risk failing victim to
potentially fatal hacks cardiac
pacemakers are small devices that are
implanted in a patient's upper chest to
correct abnormal or irregular heart
rhythms pacemakers are generally
outfitted with small radiofrequency
equipment so the devices can be
maintained remotely that way new
surgeries aren't required after they're
implanted like many wireless devices
pacemakers from Abbott Laboratories
contain critical flaws that allow
hijackers within radio range to seize
control while the pacemakers are running
Abbott representatives wrote in an open
letter to doctors if there were a
successful attack an unauthorized
individual ie a nearby attacker could
gain access and issue commands to the
implanted medical device through radio
frequency RF transmission capability and
those unauthorized commands could modify
device settings example stop pacing or
impact device functionality the update
will require patients to visit a clinic
where doctors will put the pacemakers in
backup mode while the firmware is being
patched the Abbott letter said that
certain patients the update should be
performed in a facility where temporary
pacing and pacemaker generator change
are readily available due to the very
small estimated risk of firmware update
malfunction nanobots the drill into
cancer cells can kill the cancer in just
60 seconds
the tiny spinning molecules are driven
by light and so quickly that they can
burrow their way through cell linings
when activated and one test conducted
that Durham University the nano machines
took between one and three minutes to
break through the outer membrane of
prostate
or cell killing it instantly Wow the
motor is a rotor like chain of atoms
that can be prompted to move in one
direction causing the molecule to rotate
at high speed dr. Robert Powell of
Durham University said we're moving
towards realizing our ambition to be
able to use light activated nano
machines to target cancer cells such as
those in breast tumors and skin
melanomas including those that are
resistant to existing chemotherapy once
developed this approach could provide a
potential step change in non-invasive
cancer treatment and greatly improve
survival rates and patient welfare
globally the scientists whose work is
reported in the journal Nature created
several different light activated
motorized molecules designed to hone at
home in on specific cells
the researchers researchers are already
proceeding with experiments in
microorganisms and small fish and hope
to move to rodents soon ahead of a
clinical trial in humans if animal
testing is successful I love this
awesome I think it is probably one of
the coolest news stories we have ever
covered it's it's like life changing
literally oh it's not people but the
fact that you could take I mean when you
look at a picture of it it's all it's
not bad and we're talking literally
atoms like it's yeah more our picture is
an artist rendering so understand this
is something that is so incredibly
microscopic like you can fit tens of
thousands of them on a single hair oh
probably millions
I mean iliyan who knows like I don't
even but I think this is so neat and the
fact that it's just it's been something
that's been manufactured and it's
controlled by light and then it's gone
like you just you go in there and the
cancer is gone it's obliterated it's
killed I love this I think this is so
stinkin cool I can't wait to see how
what's next what's next for the tech
right how can this be you know obviously
they're they're still in trials but this
could be absolutely groundbreaking oh
for sure and something I've never
thought of yeah
let's stop it with chemotherapy and
let's do nanobots yeah oh so awesome I
think it's it's cool
big thanks this week - sparkly balls Roy
W - and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Jeff
Weston Thank You Jeff this is category
five technology TV and our website is
category five dot TV thank you again for
joining us this week and thank you to
all of our viewers who have taken us on
through our tip jar by just throwing
something in the tip jar donate category
five TV or especially those of you who
are our patrons and we appreciate you so
much and you can get there by going to
camp five dot TV slash patreon and
that's a cool way that you can support
category five by simply throwing a
little bit into the jar every single
week and that makes a world of
difference around here so thank you very
very much yeah so all the time that we
have folks we've gone over time I
appreciate you sticking with us Jeff
nice to have you here nice to see you
again and I will see you next week when
I am going to be taking a look at the
world's fastest data storage look
forward to seeing you bye
