I've got my amazon firetv stack okay and
to be honest we haven't been Boober
impressed with it right first of all
something that is incredibly lacking
from the amazon firetv stick there it is
do you notice it okay there's a power
Inlet but where is the USB where's the
capability to to plug in a keyboard or a
mouse or a receiver of any sort yeah how
do you you don't Jeff you don't oh okay
it has it has bluetooth so you can do
things with compatible Bluetooth devices
but all in all I mean it's an okay
device but for the price I think it
would be nicer to have a more robust
Android powered solution and this is
Android power the Amazon fire TV stick
but it's like branded Amazon is
proprietary in a lot of ways and the
fact that the hardware is so locked down
is pretty poor to me now the other thing
about the fire TV stick like the
Raspberry Pi of all generations that
include Wi-Fi doesn't have very good
Wi-Fi okay and my Wi-Fi in the house is
not the greatest but it's pretty good
and I would expect that it should work
on the TV that's you know only about 30
feet away one floor above very but it
doesn't work that great
that's unfortunate so it's a little
disappointing the Raspberry Pi same
thing so we set out to find a device
that had better Wi-Fi and just Android
something that we can bring up YouTube
and the kids can watch their shows and
stuff because to connect a Windows
computer like a set-top windows system
or something like that now I've got to
get antivirus for it which I'm not
opposed to but I have to worry about the
kids accidentally clicking on something
that is now malware because you know my
my seven year old he just searches I
wanted him to look up a video on YouTube
the other day and I told him what to
search for and he started searching for
it in the address bar rather than on
youtube.com so he's seven years old I'm
trying to teach him that hey that's not
the way you do it son
but when he does and he clicks on the
wrong link of the 10,000 results in
Google it's gonna take you to something
less your computer is infected with a
virus you've probably seen you know all
these things and then oh well ok so
click click click and all of a sudden
now you're really infected with a virus
because you said ok to the wrong
question so Android kind of protects the
skenes that kind of thing because it's
an Android and it's gonna keep us a
little bit safer so this device from oh
and you might want to actually see I was
doing this like Danah kind of style
waving and you didn't even get to see my
hand gestures
Kim tacks is a hardware creator and
seller who has sent us this to review
and we're just gonna get a quick look at
what this device gives us so there we go
it's a little bigger we can see right
out the gate then let's get it over the
packing here so this becomes an unboxing
video folks how do you like that little
bigger than the amazon firetv stick for
sure let's get the cable off of there
there we go there's the difference this
one looks more like a USB flash drive
this one looks more like a little itty
bitty computer kind of thing first
things we notice ok first of all it has
HDMI connection right there so that's
gonna plug right into your TV or a
little extension cord which I presume is
going to be in the box we'll take a look
but it does have SD card reader that's
lacking on the the amazon firetv stick
that card reader will only go up to 32
gigs though according to the
specifications which little
disappointing to be honest with you
we've got a power Inlet and then we've
got 2 USB ports so we've got USB 3 right
here this big one the full-size is USB 3
and then we've got a USB to micro which
is going to allow us to plug-in
peripherals so the side one is just for
providing 5 volts power to the device
now what's this red thing on the side I
mentioned about my desire to have better
Wi-Fi and this one includes a little bit
of a signal boosting antenna that's
going to hang off the back of our TV
there and give us better Wi-Fi so let's
look at the specifications here just a
little bit for
of all the CPU is a rockchip rk3288 X
853 and it goes up to 1.5 3 gigahertz so
for the form factor it's pretty good I
think that's pretty pretty impressive
and we'll see if it generates any heat I
haven't noticed any in my preliminary
tests GPU so the video output of this is
with a Mallee 450 mp2 and that has
OpenGL it's got 4k video output up to 60
frames per second so right there that's
blas the Raspberry Pi with a lot okay so
we've got pretty good video output at 60
frames a second in 4k 2k 1080p 720p I
presume but you plug this into your TV
and boom you've got instant access at up
to 4k resolutions but 2 gigs of RAM
inbuilt 16 gigabytes of storage there's
also an 8 gigabyte version as well so
that's like for your apps that you
install but remember we've got a 32 gig
SD card slot so I can increase that by
up to 32 gigs again I hear manufacturers
saying hey it'll support up to 32 gigs
and then I stick a 128 in it and it
works so so the specifications say 32
yeah you can try something bigger 32 is
pretty low for today's absolutely
specked so I kind of when I read that in
the specifications it was like so kin
tax I want to up that a little bit now
could that just simply be because if you
have a say you put a 128 in there it's
yeah full of data that it bogs down the
processing of it good though I don't see
how because it's storage right right so
it's the storage system of the like a
file system so basically the device is a
Linux device that sees that as a second
storage medium that you can save photos
to save apps to save app data to but
then again with something like this do
you really need more than that you're
not gonna be downloading huge
applications I mean that because it's
not a computer third it's a TV set-top
box that allows you to watch YouTube and
streaming video platforms presumably
category-five
technology TV yeah exactly otherwise out
the window and so you don't really I
don't think need an astronomical amount
of space now do keep in mind though USB
three so if you wanted to you could plug
in an external hard drive power with
external power to they don't want to
power it off of this and you're gonna
have full speed access to that hard
drive that's cool that's a temps really
good times Jeff really good times Wi-Fi
I mention okay so it's got 2.4 gigahertz
you know to 11 which is BGN and it has
five gigahertz Wi-Fi as well so you've
got the BGN AC and Bluetooth 4.1 so it's
not Bluetooth five but bluetooth 4.1 so
if you wanted to use wireless earbuds
from Chubby's right if you want to use
your wireless headphones from House of
Marley then you're able to do that with
this device and listen to your music
listen to your shows wirelessly which is
kind of a bonus I definitely like that
but also the other advantage to having
inbuilt bluetooth is a lot of keyboards
like you get something like what we use
for our teleprompter here this is a
Bluetooth keyboard so with this I simply
turn it on sync it to this and pair it
to this and now I've got a keyboard and
you can get a full-size Bluetooth
keyboard and mouse and get a combo unit
and you're good to go
and it operates a lot more like a
computer we're gonna plug it in and see
how much like a computer in just couple
of moments time one kind of final thing
I'll say because this is portable and
you think hey this is something that I
could take with me when I travel right
yes and you could because it's HDMI you
can plug it into the hotel TV and now
you've got because they provide Wi-Fi so
now you've got YouTube Netflix whatever
else the USB port supports a dongle from
your ISP so cool like a cellular dongle
I love that now with a like the that
with this stick here and then the like I
don't know if they call it like a rocket
hub or whatever from your ISP like a
cellular internet that you plug into
this now it provides its own internet so
just awesome
don't even need Wi-Fi at that point
perfect for the cottage all right so
let's let's actually let's get finally
into the box and see what else we've got
here because I want to plug it in for
you while there's still time
okay yeah okay well what do we got what
do we got okay let's get that aside
we've got USB cable presumably for power
we've got a little oh look at that USB
micro - full sized USB - so that's going
to allow us to plug in standard sized
peripherals to the micro port on the
device that's good we've got a power
adapter this is a 2 amp 5 volt adapter
USB micro and we've got that little HDMI
extension cord which makes it simply
easier for us to plug into the back of
our TV because maybe maybe maybe that's
not gonna yeah if it's too close or
whatever it may not plug directly into
the TV or maybe there's other
peripherals around so this gives you a
cable that you can kind of hang out or
you know double-sided tape it to the
back of your TV it's that kind of thing
should we plug this in and see how she
works all right so it's unanimous well
technically I didn't know what I was
gonna say no just to be smart oh come on
dad we looked at it but we're not gonna
actually look at it you're gonna see now
how how complicated it is to set this up
right right cuz that's okay so cables
okay so now down here I've got I'm gonna
grab an HDMI cable here I've got an HDMI
jack that I can use here we go you guys
talk amongst yourselves this looks like
something I could do well I got an HDMI
cable going out to my TV which is pretty
standard yeah and now an HDMI cable to
your device the only reason I have that
cable is because hey we're kind of far
away from you watching in California
right there we go it's plugged in all
right all right so let's switch over to
that screen and let's plug that in and
see what happens there's some juice give
it some power this instant all right
let's see what comes up
now I've got a Oh tea not some good
processing power right there yeah not
bad eh not bad
good performance good performance so far
I brought this with me and it's got a
USB dongle for a wireless keyboard so
I'm simply gonna plug this directly into
the device I know you can't see but you
can visualize yeah okay I'm gonna turn
on that keyboard switch back to the
screen for you and oh instantaneous
access boom chrome came with it what oh
yeah
somebody's been testing this bad boy so
performance wise I noticed that things
are pretty zippy to open up and that's
that nice Rockchip processor things
don't display absolutely perfectly on my
website but not bad not bad
oh you know what maybe it was just still
loading it does look pretty darn good
scroll down a little bit here the one
thing I don't like about these kinds of
devices is you've got to remember that
this is Android it's built for a tablet
it's built for a phone so you noticed
there's no scroll bar I can't grab it
like a computer and just scream and like
I'm flicking with my finger so that
means clicking the mouse is scrolling
click you know scrolling so it's a
little bit of a different experience you
got to get used to that but it's not
that bad and certainly performance wise
seems pretty good so I'm clicking on a
video here and I click and pull up and
click and pull not not the best UX but
that's not that's Android yeah okay I'm
gonna hit play and load times they're
always quick nice quick and nice shirt
I'm wearing I know right so one of the
things that is important to me because
this is going to be a set-top device is
you know full screen video is there is
it good is the framerate good and it
looks fantastic
that's some pretty clean video I'm
pretty impressed by that so this is just
off of our website category five dot TV
via YouTube that kind of stuff
it looks pretty good and it's flying out
of the box now keep in mind I did plug
it in I went to two websites I tried a
couple of different things but I didn't
I didn't install any drivers or anything
like that let's head on over directly to
YouTube which because I've got my my
stuff like my account in it wanted to
log me in first right and you know I
used to work with Ellie I before they
went out of business and so they wanted
me to log in as them sad day sad day
okay so this is YouTube it looks pretty
darn good so again you've got to get
used to this kind of clicking and
scrolling action looks like I kind of
got a oh I gotta use the keyboard to
maneuver now I will get that sometimes
doesn't matter what you're using I mean
our Android box at home yeah same deal I
mean we have I think the same remote oh
yeah so the quality the clarity is
brilliant I don't know how to turn it
off so that I can not breach copyright
but there you go I mean so that's
working really a treat a couple of the
features that we want to look at okay if
I go into all apps
I did try installing a game but I
couldn't get it working I'm not too sure
what's going on there but I did notice
that we've got things pre built in like
Wi-Fi display and I did a quick pair to
my smart phone and instantaneously I had
access to my phone really yeah I wanted
to show you this because sometimes web
apps maybe maybe I can't get Netflix
working on there because it's a Chinese
device and Netflix is pretty particular
about the the geolocation yes their
viewers kind of thing so maybe I want to
bring up Netflix on here just as an
example right or maybe I want to bring
up I watched the countdown every New
Year's on my phone and that gives me a
chance to now cast it to the device so
let's actually do that I'm just
I brought up miracast on my computer on
my phone here and I'm gonna click on my
phone which it already detected impaired
and hit okay and oh it's already
connecting and there we go
Wow so now I'm actually in my phone so
if I bring up like I guess YouTube
on my phone now what's that look like so
there we go
Wow right so now if I turn my phone
sideways I'm physically turning it
sideways there it's all adjustment it
adjusts it itself and this is done now
keep in mind this is done completely
wirelessly so what I'm seeing on the
screen here is being cast to the device
through my Wi-Fi network I didn't have
to serve all didn't even have to set
anything up it was so super simple so I
think there's some really good value in
that on its own and so then if I click
on my vlog from today for example for
patrons there's a there's some latency
there for sure
that maybe my network I don't know but
still the point is it's kind of it was
warming up yeah it's kind of you know
how you tube will kind of crap down the
quality if if your bandwidth is not very
good right so but it works it works
great there you go so well done okay so
now I'm stuck I can't bring you back so
I've got to actually turn off miracast
in order to get back there we go okay
now I'm back there I can escape back
right and there's our menu a couple of
other quick things here we've got the
Play Store obviously our KMC looks a lot
like you know like XBMC or Kodi that
kind of thing so that comes pre-built in
you can add your channels and to get out
of that it's the power button over here
so definitely worth checking out if
you're looking for a set-top box this is
obviously like a little tiny thing the
Wi-Fi on it is spectacular is really
really good Wi-Fi at my house no latency
no problem running YouTube so watching
YouTube videos that's really all we need
it for right and it works perfectly it
doesn't have an accelerometer like your
phone does so if games require that you
be able to turn the phone like this
obviously it's not going to work but
games I presume like Angry Birds that
kind of stuff rattle or house driven you
can you can do that yes
so yeah check that out it's cat five dot
TV slash r33 because that's the Kintex
r33 Android TV stick checks my today
[Music]
[Applause]
