[Music]
this is you every day with Jeff Weston
and nine screws
welcome back to new every day I'm
Lawrence Cruz Jeff Weston is away on
business if you're just joining us
you're about to dive into the second
half of a great interview that I was
privileged to have with Reverend Craig
Fitz on the subject of hell here's
another question this has been asked
over the years is there such a place as
purgatory is there such a place as
purgatory actually no the Bible does not
indicate a place of purgatory at all
maybe we should try and tell like what's
a what's a layman's definition of
purgatory it's kind of a place of the
Dead where you it's kind of a place of
limbo before it's kind of you don't go
to heaven you don't go to hell you're in
purgatory and if you've been not so bad
you might not have to be in purgatory
too long or somebody might be able to
pray you out or pay you out or something
like that actually purgatory was
invented by the Roman Catholic Church at
the end of the 6th century and actually
became an article of the Roman Catholic
faith in 1439 so you know just that many
years ago yeah ah it was actually
concocted as a way of making money for
the church because people could pay to
have their relatives taken out of
purgatory that was called indulgences
and so there was a great money raiser
for the church but the Bible makes it
clear first of all that Jesus paid the
price to get you out of hell okay pastor
I tell you that the reason why I brought
this question up is because of what you
just said I can put up with people as
well I think if I pay someone's getting
out of this not the thing I agree but I
can understand man's attempt but here's
where I draw the line when you start
meddling with the with Jesus Christ my
lord when we start to meddle with the
finished work of Christ on the cross
this
where we can go no further well there's
the key
you said the finished work yes a lot of
people feel that they can get into
heaven by their works the Bible says in
Titus it's not by works of righteousness
now I have done Jesus did the work it's
not a coincidence it's not a coincidence
that man when you study creation way
back in Genesis this is a principle that
starts in Genesis that man was created
on the sixth day that's important that's
like what's that got to do with this
I'll tell you what it has something man
was created on the sixth day in fact
there were two creative acts on the
sixth day animals and then men man was
created at the last of the sixth day so
what was man's first full day on earth
it was the seventh day and what do we
know about the seventh day it was a day
of rest man had nothing to do on his
very first day except rest in what God
had already finished work was done and
man comes on the scene and what he had
worked to do but had nothing to do with
what God had God had finished the work
so man now begins with rest every
principle of my walk with God begins
with resting in what Jesus has all this
is Jesus died on the cross the work was
done the work of my salvation not of
works as Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 9
lest anyone should boast it's not of
works of righteousness it's what Jesus
Jesus said it is finished and so
purgatory some people think well if I
just work my way if I do this if I do
that it's not a matter of being of doing
it's a matter that it's done resting and
what Jesus did because it's he is Jesus
who saves me I'm over here just come on
oh that's theirs I'm so thankful I have
I've had to grow in my understanding
that I know I I never could work I got
caught in this performance trap thinking
that if I was just good enough and maybe
Christ would accept me maybe you're
watching and you feel that way me maybe
you know what is you're listening to
pastor Craig teach you're like oh my
goodness the light is going on for you
and you're realizing there's nothing you
ever could do to be good enough friends
that's not a slam that's the best news
you could ever hear but there's someone
who is good enough his name is Jesus
absolutely and he's already paid the
price and he declares it he declared
2,000 years ago it is finished and he
didn't they didn't take his spirit he
gave up his spirit and willingly died to
pay the price for our sin amen
absolutely oh that's good news friends
we never could earn it we don't need to
try we don't need to be worried am I
good enough that I do enough no no no
none of that matters we get to love the
Lord because He first loved us he took
the initiative oh what a great God he
was well pastor a couple of questions
here as we're gonna we're gonna I'd like
to say this phrase we're gonna attempt
to land this plane okay alright and it
doesn't need to be a nosedive so we got
some time but we'll people in Hell have
only souls or will they have physical
bodies as well we talked we talked about
this a little bit already yeah yeah we
did because remember Jesus talked about
if your eye offends you pluck it out
right because he said it's better to
enter life he's talking about eternity
with one eye rather than to rather than
two that are sent to hell and he's
talking about physical limbs you know
your hand if your hand offend you and
and stuff that's one indication but
there's another the Bible says in fact
jesus said it in John chapter 5 verses
28 29 he said the hour is coming in
which all who are in the graves all who
are in the graves that's righteous son
right
believers unbelievers will hear his
voice and will come forth those who have
done good to the resurrection of life
those who have done evil to the
resurrection of dead remember
resurrection always refers to the body
coming back to a body right like when
Jesus again some people teach that when
Jesus was resurrected he was like a
ghost or something and when the
disciples saw him well they thought he
was a ghost at first and he said that's
me I'm flash I'm bones give me something
to eat which I like about heaven we're
going to eat would you learn on this
series well I learned that I'm going to
eat sure and so like physical bodies but
imagine now having a physical body
living forever but jesus said it will it
will never die like it's it's in the
state of death in the state of decay but
never able to that's horrible yeah
yeah and so you know there are there are
physical bodies we will have physical on
a day with physical bodies inhale inhale
thank you I like that yeah well yeah
well my goodness we don't want to go
there we've been saying that in our
series into you watching perhaps the
first time on this subject it's may I
quickly just get don't go there your
choice is ours today hell is a great
place to avoid and there's a there's a
heaven to gain and there's a hellfish on
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts posture it's one of the
final questions that I thought about
we're not limited only to this but
should Christians refer to hell in their
witness to the unsaved in their
conversation at work or maybe at home
around their own dinner table as was the
case with me like I knew the Lord and my
own father wasn't saved my own brother
has never ever called on Christ and yet
he called me last week at these and it's
interesting that God is at work in his
life even today and I'm thankful do you
think it would be a good idea for me
with my brother to refer to hell and in
my witness and my conversation
absolutely I think that that's the
reality of a Jesus spoke of hell
some people are offended by it I heard
you last week over the internet talking
about an experience you had at Camp when
a lady a mother of one of the kids was
very offended yes that you had mentioned
hell to the kids that you were
counseling but you did it in the spirit
of love I don't think that we need to
you know be fire-breathing as a year
going to hell I feel you know I don't
think we need to talk that way Jesus the
Bible says God is not willing that any
should perish Ezekiel said in in in
God's Word he said I have I take no
delight in punishing the wicked I don't
I mean God doesn't
God is more interested in bringing
people into heaven than he is to sending
them to hell crazy isn't looking for
people to send to hell right he's
looking for people to bring to heaven
like again hell was never known for any
and so when we talk about how we need to
mention hell but remember jesus said i
send you out as fishers of men
follow me he said Matthew chapter 4 19
and I'll make you fishers of men
now I like to fish but you know the
difference between fishing for fish and
the fishing for men when you fish for
fish you pull them out of life into
death when you fish for men you're
pulling them out of death into life well
I've never heard and so we're actually
rescuing them from the death of eternity
separated from God when we fish for men
and so with compassion with love with
with tenderness in our heart we need to
warn the wicked the Bible tells us to
warn the wicked Ezekiel chapter 3 verses
17 to 19 and Jesus himself in Matthew
chapter 10 verse 28 said you ought to
fear Him who can destroy both body and
soul in hell there's the body of and
soul in hell and remember John 3:16 that
God so loved the world that He sent His
Son Jesus everywhere watching those who
are listening and and then the next
verse after John 3:16 is God didn't send
him his son into the world to condemn
the world but that all the world should
be saved so as we are Christians talking
to others about the things of God it's
very very important for us to understand
that we are to reflect the heart of God
God doesn't hold his fist over us and
say you come to me or you're go to hell
he's warning us very kindly there is a
road that seems right on demand but the
end
there of his death and he's warning us
don't take that road it's not like are
you take that road do you go on down
there and you're going to it's not that
at all it's just that God's warning us
with tenderness and love and compassion
that's a bad choice that's the wrong
thing to do
Christ's love attracts me Jesus because
you love me because you gave your life
for me I want to serve you and not only
that I've discovered that everything
that you have for me
spells joy and peace and life and
eternity praise the Lord thank you it
was December 18 that go ahead you and
the live audience I can see why not we
give you praise Lord and see that's us
here in the live audience being stirred
with the truth and he caused me to
remember it was December 18th 1977
you've heard me say it over and over and
over again I was the I was 10 years old
well at Scarborough gospel temple and
what happened is the preacher Hudson
Hills Ninh a contemporary of yours back
in the day he's gone on to be with the
Lord today and he made a call he says
are you here what do you would you like
to have your sins forgiven and I began
to weep as a young boy and here's what
what happened I was being confronted
with the love of God I never felt like
someone was yelling at me wagging a
finger saying you're bad in fact I
didn't know at the time but now I
understand it was Romans chapter 2 in
verse 4 being lived out in my life what
was that it's God's kindness that was
leading me to repentance that's who I
was having a change of my understanding
as a man of God an ambassador is the
Kingdom Christ's ambassadors what were
involved as the ambassador of heaven
named Hudson Hills and said Lawrence
would you like to receive the the
kindness of the Lord and everything in
me said yes yes and so I I got up and
came and I walked down the aisle called
an altar call that day and I
wept as I just I didn't understand you
know you know everything about you I
still don't understand everything but
you know as a young boy but I here's
what I did understand is that God loved
me past and that he was inviting me to
have all my sins forgiven and at that
very moment God took all my sins away
can someone praise the Lord with me here
today and praise the name of the Lord
and his invitation is open to everyone
come on tell not like God is selective
and say well you know you're you're a
pretty bad guy I don't think I'll extend
this invitation of salvation in heaven
to you God doesn't do that is there
anybody so bad posit he said oh no
you've gone too far he came for sinners
yeah yeah when he was accused of hanging
out with sinners and said I didn't come
from people who are goody-goodies and
think they're too good you know I came
for those who realized they need a
Savior Jesus is our Savior oh how
wonderful how you know what a message
pastor would you would you mind looking
into this camera and us live today there
might be somebody watching who like me
when I was 10 and you sixty-eight years
ago who also knew God by his Spirit we
know the Bible teaches that can't happen
unless his spirit is at work maybe
there's someone watching and the Holy
Spirit has just awakened you and you
know right now you would like to be born
again would you lead a sure see see a
prayer from your heart you can repeat my
words if you want but but say it from
your own heart not just from my lips
okay dear Jesus I realize I am a sinner
and sin separates me from you and I
don't want to be separated anymore
either in this life or in the one to
come so Jesus forgive my sin you paid
the price for it
you did the work and I rest in your work
I receive you Jesus as my savior come
live in me live with me and help me to
walk your way all through this life
until the day I see you face to face in
Jesus name
amen amen yeah he's gone well pastor
Craig Fitz god bless you it's been an
absolute delight to have you here live
in the studio we are good God so god
bless you each one if you have just
prayed that prayer or you have other
questions or comments
then feel free would you to send us a
note we can Jeff and I would love to
hear from you if you've accepted Christ
I encourage you to do this get a Bible
there's many of them apps today I've
read my Bible on the phone and tell
someone of your decision find a good
church and just say I'd like to go and
worship the Lord there it'll change your
life forever it's a it's an opportunity
for you to live out what God has already
done to give you brand-new life god
bless you each one every day every
Friday morning at new everyday TV
we're also on roku Kodi Plex YouTube
Google Play Music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
