hey everyone and welcome to new every
day my name is Kari and my name is jet
owners today show we are in part three
Prison Break in Acts chapter 12 so stay
tuned busy as new every day with Jenn
Wagner and Gary Webb
[Music]
hello again everyone and thank you for
tuning into new everyday if you're just
joining us we're in part three of Acts
chapter 12 so Acts is in the New
Testament of the Bible and it's talking
about when the church just got started
so Jesus came he died he rose again and
now he's commissioned the Apostles to go
out they've been empowered by the Holy
Spirit to go out and share the good news
of Christ and a life with him but now
some opposition has presented itself to
the pasta the disciples and the Apostles
and so in in Chapter 12 we've already
talked about how Herod the King at the
time appointed by Rome has killed James
one of the disciples and now has
arrested Peter and the church is
earnestly praying for Peter he's in
prison he's got 16 guards watching him
sixteen sixteen guards yeah and the
church is praying the church is praying
and that's where we left off last week
and we just got so excited about talking
about that so we hope that this week you
spent some time praying yeah so we're
gonna do that right now we first start
all right so Jay Lord Jesus as we walk
through this next passage we ask that
you would help us to see what you want
us to see and hear what you want us to
hear and Lord that we would learn from
your word today
amen amen so I'm gonna start reading
Acts 12 verse 5
Peter was therefore kept in prison but
constant or earnest prayer was offered
to God for him by the church and when
Herod was about to bring him out that
night Peter was sleeping bound with two
chains between two soldiers and the
guards before the door were keeping the
prison now behold an angel of the Lord
stood by him and a light sean in the
prison and he struck Peter on the side
and raised him up saying arise quickly
and his chains fell off his hands then
the angel said to him gird yourself and
tie on your sandals and so he did and he
said to him put on your garment and
follow me so he went out and followed
him and did not know that what was done
by the angel was real but thought he was
seeing a vision
when they were passed the first and the
second guard posts they came to the iron
gate that leads to the city which opened
to them of its own accord and they went
out and went down one Street and
immediately the angel departed from him
maybe I'll just stop there Jen there's a
whole lot packed into that first couple
of verses so so Herod is about to bring
him out Peters Peters asleep like he's
not up stewing no he's sleeping soundly
yeah because the light didn't wake him
up because he would think it's a dark
prison cell yeah the light should wake
him up man the light did not wake him up
but the angel will come up yeah and now
you're says struck and the NIV says
struck and this says tapped so I'm not
really sure but the respondent form of
physical contact because the light
wasn't enough I gotta think like the
deans are like reach down and poke him
do that kick him did he not have to do
anything cuz like the power touched him
it says struck yeah so there was a
physical touching he's got a staff I
don't know I don't know but what it made
me think was because mine says D'Angelo
Lord and the light Shan in the cell and
he tapped Peter hmm and it just I got me
thinking how many times does God show up
to me I don't see it and then he he has
to tap me to get my attention like in
what way like just something is so clear
and obvious that he's speaking to me and
it's like I'm totally oblivious it's
like when we ask for a sign you know and
and God tells us and it's like I didn't
see it do it again and and so he has to
like do it again cuz we didn't see it
the first time like I think I think
sometimes we can be blind to what God is
actually telling us and so often it's in
his word right like what God asks us to
do is in his word there's like I don't
know what God wants me to do when it's
like have you read the Bible like happy
well yeah well it's very clear what he
would have us to go read it again
right it's that second tap like I think
we can be so like I don't want
associated a well do justice love mercy
walk humbly with your God don't be
uptight oh yeah like and so that part
struck me because I thought oh Lord
I want to see your light I don't want
you to have to hit me upside the head
yeah I didn't notice the light yeah and
and you know we were talking about
praying with expectation like I used to
think okay yeah like God's gonna he's
gonna I read the Bible and like that
will that will teach me yeah and and I
he and he does he does speak to us
through the word but I also believe that
God can speak to us in other ways
oh yes that I I didn't always have an
open mind to that we can ask God to
speak to us through the Holy Spirit
like with visions with dreams through
other people with impressions in our
mind like yeah God is bigger than then I
don't want to say just a text because
this is more than just a text but do you
know what I mean yes he does speak to us
through other people and as long as it
lines up with what scripture says yeah
like the Holy Spirit is never going to
say go kill that person right oh but I
had a serious impression that I was
supposed to go kill that person whole
time like Jesus himself said it's not
going to contradict yeah it's not going
to contradict and that's what's so
important so yeah you're right we God
speaks to us in so many ways and we need
to pick it up we that's where we need to
be attuned to the spirit like help
that's why I said help me to hear what
you want me to hear and see what you
want me to see yes
so yeah and I and people say like oh how
does that happen and I'm honestly like
still learning about this but I think
that that happens in the secret place
like the secret place being when you
spend time yes alone with God and you
actually like close your door and you
open the Bible and you maybe put on some
worship music or you like just start
praying and asking God to speak with you
believing in expectation that he can
speak to you
and spending that focused amount of time
every day and that's the secret place
where I think God means to us and
teaches us how to hear his voice yes and
so as we think about Peter it says he
was asleep and you know that makes me
think about two things but one he was
totally at peace yeah it was if you're
anxious you know it's lien but he was at
peace in prison in prison so he knew two
things well he knew one thing but two
outcomes God's got this right and if he
delivers me that's good and if I go
before Herod it's okay cuz I've been
there before I've spoken yeah and if I
go to boot but I guess there's three
things and if I die I'm gonna be with
Jesus right so there is peace there was
complete peace and that's why he was
able to sleep and that's why david says
i can lie down and rest for you alone o
Lord make me dwell in safety
yes I'm four eight yeah and so that's
why he is able chained up between two
Watchmen
he was able to sleep and be at peace
because he knew that God had it so
moving back right after this
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts hey everyone welcome
back you're still watching you every day
she's still Jan and I'm still Carrie and
we have some great partners who have
supported us Jen if you go to our
website new every day TV click on our
partners page you can see the
organizations who are helping us make
this show possible through category 5 TV
so if you do choose to support us how it
works is that we are under the umbrella
of category 5 TV we're just one
production under that umbrella so you go
in you're supporting category 5 and so
we're just so grateful for category 5
and for Robby Ferguson who makes this
show possible so check out our partners
page and if you would like to support us
that's awesome and we're very grateful
and we're still in chapter 12 chapter 12
early on and Jen so the angel has Sean
the light struck Peter in the side and
says arise quickly and this is the best
part this is the prison break the chains
fell off him there's no key they just
need that yellow off yeah it doesn't
matter that there were 16 guards and
like at this point it's no wonder that
Peter thought he was seeing a vision
because like why didn't the guards
intervene and be like hey what's going
on yeah like why didn't they wake up
with the light either like where they
put unconscious by the light I don't
know I don't know either
was he taken to another dimension this
is a delight Sean in the cell where they
all were a little match no like it shot
himself so where they just also
in a deep sleep Oh God put them in a
deep sleep
we don't know like Adam when he took the
rib yeah I don't know so but here he is
you know and the angel gives some very
clear statements he's not to leave
without his clothes get up get dressed
put your sandals on yeah last night we
were talking about this Jen's like I
didn't get undressed if he was chained
up I'm like I don't know I don't know
I'm also a miracle o miracle or maybe he
was yeah who knows he had no clothes on
or just an undergarment yes he had
because often they would wear an
undergarment underneath all of these
things well that makes sense we do that
too
we do that too and then he says get
dressed so gets dressed mm-hmm then he
says follow me and he takes it out do we
need another breakdown are you all right
sometime scriptures make you laugh yeah
and you can't help it cuz you just start
chuckling you're like because I think
sometimes we missed the boat when we
read scripture yeah like we're like oh I
shouldn't be thinking you know what was
he wearing
why not but the fact is it's very clear
like he was not where he put your belt
around yourself put your jacket on and
it's real life yeah and the fact is and
maybe they on purpose you know had him
like that we don't know because that was
part of shaming we don't know I don't
know but they're his clothes were still
there maybe it was a pillow I don't know
but this reminds me of the verse like
when Jesus was taken in the garden there
was a young man with him who tried to
run away and then the soldiers grabbed
his clothes and then he ended up just
running away naked I know how it was
like why is that there I don't know we
don't know why some of these things are
there but the fact is the angel did tell
him to put his clothes on because he was
going somewhere yeah and often when God
calls us to do something he tells us to
get ready like even when going back to
the Israelites right this is how you get
ready to go like we're just when he
tells us to go he's gonna tell us to go
we just have to get ready and go like
yeah
years ago and so the angel wrap your
cloak around
you and follow me so Peter followed him
out not knowing whether the angel what
the angel was doing in Israel and deal
Dede felt he was taking part in a vision
so they passed right through the first
and second guard points and came to the
iron gate that led out of the city this
opened for them on its own accord like
okay so when I read that I pictured like
being someone who was just you know
couldn't just a normal town spoke who
was up in the night maybe couldn't sleep
and and like conflict looking out your
window and seeing this guy walking by
himself and suddenly like the iron gate
opens like that is it's just so crazy I
know it's just so crazy and just imagine
it cuz every once in a while I like to
think door open itself use the force
right but then it is it's like use the
force or what and it's like really God
can open that door but he has no purpose
on opening that door like he is not
about showing himself like that mm-hmm
but this is what he did for Peter
well like he just you can do the
impossible and yeah it's just another
sign that's like didn't matter that
there were chains on him it didn't
matter that there were sixteen guards it
didn't matter that there were two iron
gates didn't matter can open he can open
away when there seems to be no way and
and maybe there's something going on
your life where right now you're like
there seems to be no way out of this
like I am changed to this problem yeah
or there's a there's a significant
impediment in front of me whether it's
like social financial situation maybe
it's your work your boss I don't know
there could be a million different
things that could be illness and I just
believe that God can make a way so I
just feel like there are people watching
or listening right now that there is an
illness and a family members life and
that God can lift that off and that God
can make a way in your social situation
so I just want to pray for you right now
and Lauren thank you for this example of
how the church came in expectation and
you moved in a way that seemed
impossible that you busted up
worth the chance and you opened the gate
and I think you that you still move in
amazing ways today and I pray for the
people watching who have those
impediments in their life that seem so
monstrous but God you are bigger than
all of those problems and I thank you
that you love them and I pray that you'd
speak to their heart even now that you
know them and see them and then you've
laid your hand upon them and then you
hedge them in behind him before and that
you think of them and I pray that you
wouldn't make away in their life even
now in Jesus name and maybe receive it
in faith in Jesus name Amen
yeah what's interesting as we were
reading this passage last night Amy
Grant and like 1980-something wrote
about a song about this passage yeah and
the second verse which is applicable to
us the first verse you know she tells
the story that we've just read mm-hmm
the second verse though goes god only
knows the times my life was threatened
just today a reckless car ran out of gas
before I ran my where wait near-misses
all around me accidents unknown then we
never see with human eyes the hands that
lead me home but I know they're all
around me all day and through the night
when the enemy is closing and I know
sometimes they fight to keep my feet
feet from falling I'll never turn away
if you're asking what's protecting me
then you're gonna hear me say God's got
angels watching go for me because we
don't know we don't know that the things
that he protects us from the things that
he brings us through like Peter didn't
know what was like he wasn't really
aware that that's what God was doing
that's what God was doing and so here he
is on the other side going wow that
wasn't a vision that was real that was
real and we need to believe as cari
prayed that God does protect he does
bring through and and it goes back to
like last week's show we don't know why
he says yes to some things and no to
others but we still that doesn't mean he
can't do the impossible and he is
willing yep
is willing so you know we read this
passage and the church earnestly prayed
and God did answer in a miraculously
powerful way that only God could and I
loved it because there was no like well
there was a guy with a key or Peter
found a key or no like the chains fell
off the he they walked past sixteen
prison guards the iron gate opened yeah
like well there is no way he makes away
yeah and God does use angels and and the
Bible says that angels are armed are
sent from God to minister to those who
will inherit salvation so they are at
work and like we don't know we don't
know what he's doing behind the scenes
but we can share we can share pray and
believing that he dies yes we can all
right that's so true it's time oh this
is so exciting so exciting believe that
guy can make away whatever impossible
situation you're facing today were you
know my chains fell off my chains fell
off you know we can be set free and
that's only by the power of God working
in us so yeah alright well have a good
week and next week Peters busted out of
prison and we're gonna see what happened
does he meet the church also stay tuned
so long back it later catch a new
episode of new every day every Friday
morning at new every day dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku flex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
