hello and welcome to new every day my
name is Jen and this is Jane and on
today's show we're in lesson three of
money matters so stay tuned
[Music]
turn
hi and welcome back to new every day and
we are here with our friend Jane who is
in the financial industry and she's been
giving us some really great financial
advice godly financial advices as far as
how do we get out of debt and so we
ended it off last week with okay we
worse we did took account of all of our
hos ending then we figured out what the
needs and the loss were and then so here
we are how do I actually pay my bills
like how do I actually you know I get my
paycheck now and I figured out that this
much money is going to Tim Hortons or
Dunkin Donuts and this much money is
going you know ice off at Walmart on the
way home and pick up the chicken or
whatever so I was like okay I've cleared
through I might even say I don't really
need to get a new pair of clothes like a
new outfit every month okay so I figured
out what the needs and wants are what
the discretionary stuff is here's my
paycheck how do I actually get out of
that like how do I actually order things
that's a great question and so now I'm
going to speak strictly to believers
right now the order of things is you
start by tithing and what is tighten me
I know what item means I'm a pastor
picked up like insisted Wow okay I was
raised from a very small age to tithe
but for those of you that are brand-new
believers or even and this is changed
correct I have heard of some people who
do not believe in God but they still die
like they still give a portion of their
money because they feel like they should
um so if I was to say to you I love the
fact that I'm the pastor I get to ask
these questions if I was to say to you
tithe what are you talking about how did
you explain that I would say tithing is
the first 10% of your income so if it's
the first 10% that means that's the line
the
or the government takes their tax
because it's the first 10% so it's not
based on what goes into your checking
account it's on your paycheck that
amount that you actually earned from
your employer before all the deductions
that is where you start and that is your
10% I totally agree with her if I'm
going to play devil's advocate for a
minute because when you get both sides
of story you don't think that we're
leading you down like a train track
so you're saying mm-hmm you tied on the
gross amount not on the net amount
correct now why would you make that
choice because when I get my income tax
statement back can I just tied on
whatever it says know your income no you
can't is going to be good like okay so
let's go way back in Genesis okay
chapter 18 no way before that Cain and
Abel yes chapter 4 Cain and Abel so Abel
chapter 4 verse 4 Abel brought fat
portions from the first board of his
flock and the Lord looked with favor on
Abel and his offering cans in the course
of time brought his offering to God
which suggests in biblical language that
when he got around to it that's what he
brought to God so the it was actually I
believe that is where the president has
already said set rather no government
there right so this is before the law so
when people say that tithing is you know
under the law and we are the New
Covenant Christians I would argue
actually Cain and Abel were before the
law and the precedent was already set
then
then it is further solidified in the
story of Abraham yes where Abraham ties
so yeah there's lots of different
examples that we can use but tithing is
also one of the things that God in
Malachi yes
encourages us to test him in tithing
test me in this he says mm-hmm let me
just read it this is yeah Malachi 4 I am
reading from NIV it says either Lord do
not change so starting through your chat
at verse 6 so you O descendants of Jacob
are not destroyed ever since the time of
your forefathers you have turned away
from my decrees and have not kept them
returned to me and I will return to you
says the Lord Almighty but you ask how
are we to return will a man Rob God yet
you rob me but you ask how do we rob you
in tithes and offerings you are under a
curse the whole nation of you because
you are robbing me bring the whole tithe
into the storehouse that there may be
food in my house test me in this says
the Lord Almighty and see if I will not
throw open the floodgates of heaven and
pour out so much blessing that you will
not have room enough for it I will
revenge pest from devouring your crops
and vines in your fields will not cast
the fruit and the vines in your fields
will not cast their fruit says the Lord
on my Ben all the nations will call you
blessed for yours will be a delightful
Lance as the Lord Almighty mm-hmm mm-hmm
if you're right it does they test me in
this mm-hmm
so right so if we want to get out of
debt
we start with tithing fair enough I grew
up with tithing like right from the very
beginning so it isn't it's always been
part of my mindset right like just don't
worry about it like I remember getting
my first paycheck babysitting like ten
dollars and mum said well are you going
to tile on that tomorrow I was like it's
only ten dollars I have to tile on the
sand
like yes yes you do mm-hmm and so right
from the very beginning it was instilled
into me and my parents like I can still
remember the tithing envelope every week
every week just mum she would see how
much they well she knew how much they
made overall and so she divided it out
every week so that that is just what
would went and then when there was a
special call and that's the difference
right between tithes an offer and a love
offering right so the offering is above
the 10% so when someone soul gets up at
the front of the church says I'm going
on a missions trip that is not like they
got from your tithe
no that was an offering that's correct
extra okay no because he's saying
Malachi saying the tithe goes to the
storehouse which right where wherever
you are going to church right and
actually God said that the people were
robbing him in tithes and offerings and
there again there are several different
places in the Bible that God
distinguishes between love offerings and
the normal offering or tide that the
Israelites were to give so God actually
makes that distinction and so as
believers we need to understand that as
well
that there actually is a distinction
between the tithes and offering there is
a distinction so we're going to pause
right there I want you to think about
that if you might not have ever thought
about that what is what is tithing what
is the difference between a tithe and an
offering or what do you mean I should be
giving my tithe to the place that I go
to church what if I don't even like
those people that's a totally different
story
no we're going to break right there and
we'll come back right after this we'll
stay tuned
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play I don't know what her acting you're
supposed to act okay fair enough I don't
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's true how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it well we've got an amazing
deal for you for a very limited time cap
five dot TV slash dream host for just
five dollars and a bit of change per
month you are going to get unlimited web
site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the root for your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cap five dot TV slash
dream house don't put a little papers on
it just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV slash DreamHost hi
and welcome back to new every day we are
so glad that you are sticking with us
through this money matters series that
we have going and if you would like to
support us financially out of the
offerings portion of your paycheck then
we encourage you to go to new every day
TV and click on our sponsors tab and
there's lots of places there that you
can support them and they in turn will
support us or if you want to make a
donation there should be a tab there as
well that you can click on and we would
be so grateful for that
so before we went to commercial break I
made a little bit of a dig mm-hmm
as a pastor people will often say well
the treasure will sometimes say keep
your eye on your finances because even
though the people number doesn't go down
but if there's something wrong in your
church the finances start to go and in
my mind I'm thinking but why
that doesn't make sense because you
don't give because you're happy with
what the church is doing or you give
because of what God is calling you to
give and so it really talks though and
this goes right back to our session
number one about surrendering our
finances to the Lord so that he can do
what he wants in this world that he has
placed this in so if Europe
if you're feeling challenged right now
mm-hmm that you have chosen not to give
to your place of worship because of
whatever is going on there or it could
even be the flipside oh they have lots
of money they don't need my money well
the thing is they might need your money
well they probably do in the sense up
because maybe God has given them a dream
and they are actually saving up those
finances to do whatever the dream is but
you are impeding them so this is where
it really comes back to surrendering all
things to the Lord with regards to
finances so that you can do what God is
calling you to do so jumping back in
very first thing you get your paycheck
you tie right and then what so that's 90
percent left that's right and so I get
my groceries first I have to eat you do
have to eat you have to eat and you have
to have some kind of a roof over your
head and you have to have some means of
getting from home to work if you have a
job right you have to have those things
what that looks like that's the part
that I think we have kind of twisted and
made it a need when it's really a want
okay Chloe I've done my right ten
percent to the Lord right what is how do
I go about sending that next 90 percent
in order to get out of debt right
because really this is where the whole
story started a few weeks ago but I
didn't want to gather day whether it's a
comma or a period mm-hmm okay 90 very
good now so for many of us we are visual
learners and money has become very
intangible here in North America
most of us use a debit card exclusively
we don't even carry cash or we use a
credit card so money has become we don't
actually even pay attention to how much
we're spending because literally people
will say well I just spend until it's
gone until it says no to me and then I
stop spending so if in order to get out
of debt we've already established where
our money is going and now we have to
figure out how much do I need so we have
to have a budget so how much do I need
for groceries how much do I need for gas
how much do I need to pay my rent or my
mortgage how much do you know so so you
set a that has to be in each little
compartment X number of dollars has to
go in each one so whether for you that
would be an envelope system where on pay
day you take your money out and put so
much in each envelope and you name those
envelopes if you've ever seen or heard
of a show till death do you part or til
death do us part sorry she uses a jar
system so it makes it even more visual
and she labels the jars and people have
to work with the cash that's in the jar
in terms of this is goes to here to here
to here and if you spent all your gas
money and you still have money in your
grocery jar then you have to make some
choices in terms of what you're not
going to buy if you still have to put
gas in your car for example so
separating your money and making little
pockets can be very very helpful
for me I have several different bank
accounts and I allocate on payday a
certain sum of money to know in each one
of those and each one of those accounts
is for a specific purpose and that just
helps me to stay on track and to make
sure when I need those things that that
funds are available for that purpose
right and I would do something very
similar to so my paycheck comes in the
tithe comes off first and there have
been times where I've sat in the gas
station mm-hmm and when okay I need to
get gas payday okay I go into my online
banking and I will
eyes first this before I will put my gas
in the car first so that's always the
first thing tide goes first and then I
have a couple different counts one I
always take out about two hundred and
fifty dollars and that's for my
groceries and gas and just the living of
life general life and then some money
goes towards I want to say the car
account huh and that's not the saving up
to buy a new car account even though
some money goes in I do have an account
that's the saving up to buy a new car
because in North America cars break down
so you you should be in your head
thinking I need to save up for this so I
know I go I have a general oh the car
has to run and that's not gas that's the
breaks might though or oil changes like
all that sort right sorts of things or
it could very well be in Canada we have
changing of seasons and so we do need to
rotate our clothes so it could very well
be like getting in a new snow suit for
that winter because the last one is worn
out without come out of that special
account or or haircuts would come out of
that special account and then I have
like a play account for our vacation
account because it is good to get away
but it's good to get away not on debt
right so that's a totally separate
account so there's this mindset of I
want to be and this is what we talked
about being prepared yes so don't just
like let that money come in never look
at his money I have it's like no you
need to actually when it comes in sort
it out into all these different places
and it was interesting so as you were -
as I said you know we need to eat we
need to drive we need to live in
somewhere what's interesting is the
mortgage payment is fixed mortgage
payments very fixed it does not change
things that change though our gas and
groceries and I did a little bit of an
experiment once when I was on a very
fixed income and I thought well let's
try driving the speed limit mm-hmm I
save like
oh ho like a tank of gas a month listen
by driving this a tank of gas a month by
driving the speed limit when you think
you know a tank a gas could be anywhere
between depending on your size of car in
Japan watch this like thirty to fifty to
sixty to seventy dollars mm-hmm like
okay that gives me 30 plus dollars or
safety to go and put somewhere else and
like groceries because you might think I
just got paid let's go get groceries so
you splurge right rather than oh no I do
have a mortgage payment and car payment
let's say and so it's like well actually
maybe I won't buy the t-bone steak I'm
going to get tuna right and I'm going to
fix tuna in so many different ways I'm
going to love to do them mm-hmm or
pastor or you know whatever it is I'm
going to learn to make things from
scratch because it's so much Jerry I can
save money and that's just one of those
things or it's like we often go for easy
not for what's right that's right that's
one thing I mean when you talk about you
know going the speed limit and how that
saves you a tank of gas I would say
think for yourself how many times do you
just hop in the car to run a particular
errand that perhaps you could actually
do with these hmm and what would that
look like and that could potentially
turn out to be a family outing right to
go yes together and it's healthy and I'm
just saying I'm not saying that's that's
true for everyone but I'm asking you to
think about that and in terms of
groceries yeah most of us will do one
big shop but I would ask you again to be
honest and say how much food have I
thrown out so and if I'm throwing out
food then am I being a good steward of
my money no and if I'm not then how can
I change that maybe it looks like
instead of doing a big shop that you're
doing much smaller ones and actually
finding some interesting ways of using
up what you have in your fridge before
you go out and
by something else I don't know I'm not
saying that that's true for you but I'm
saying we can all make changes new what
it is that we're doing if we are willing
and if we actually want to change we can
make changes yes I know my cousin's they
have six kids and so their grocery bill
can be quite large and and the mom my
cousin stays home and you're thinking
how can you possibly how can you
possibly stay home with six kids mm-hmm
and yet this is what they chosen through
this end how do they do this they
planted a garden mm-hmm and it's very
interesting because you talk to you talk
to my cousin and she's like oh we have
enough red currant to get through you
know the winter and we can make jam and
we can do this and this and I'm like and
she's like and potatoes yet we had our
enough four seed potatoes that I'm
thinking potatoes but I've been to her
house potatoes go by quickly but that
you know it when you think of corn
potatoes carrots like all of these
things that cost money and yet she's
choosing to grow them herself like they
have some trees for staff and so they
like harvesting their own maple syrup
and you're thinking but I don't have
time for this and it's like but we
choose and then we spend our time on and
so when that paycheck comes in and you
give your tithe to the Lord and then
it's at that point if I you start
thinking okay what are what are the
things that don't change like maybe it's
your mortgage payment or your credit
card payment like those things don't
change there's no wiggle room and there
could be wiggle room I don't know right
but I think I just want to take a step
backwards because we had actually ended
last week's show by saying that we need
to surrender yeah our finances to the
Lord so when we choose to give our
tithes to the Lord that is the first
step towards surrendering our finances
to the Lord
yeah and then asking him to show us what
are some of those other things that we
should make changes on and how freeing
you know can that be for us as a family
to
actually be able to do the things that
God has called us to and part of that is
training our children in the way that
they should go and showing them that
there is a different way of doing
finances not as the world sees it but as
God sees it okay so thank you so much
for joining us today and we're going to
do one more show so you've got to stay
tuned for next week because we're going
to start we're going to answer the
question how can I make my money work
for me right because we've been trying
to get out of this feeling of I'm
working for my money so now I'm going to
ask the question how do I get my money
working for me so thank you so much for
tuning in
may God bless you just please as we try
to sort out your finances and hydrating
and putting this perspective together
know that you're in our thoughts can be
worth less gonna see you later
you
