welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 3 31 for tuesday the
twenty first of January once a genuine
already January Oh janvier as they would
say yeah you Ferguson I'm Eric kid cares
what's coming up I'll tell you what's
coming up in the newsroom a European
spacecraft has awoken from its 10-year
journey close to Jupiter is that
European or europian depends where you
put the syllabic stress I see see and
it's about to do something amazing we
will tell you what was that what your
thought you thought he thought we
thought your fridge was only good for
storing leftover spam but now it can
pack its jit it can fax it up and send
it to an inbox near you wow that's
something we've got news about the
latest exploit turning smart appliances
into botnet super spammers okay then
Tendo released a report on Friday and by
Monday their shares plummeted by
eighteen percent find out what they said
tonight on category 5 TV also there's
controversial proposal being considered
by waste diversion Ontario that could
reduce the efficiency of battery
recycling in our beautiful province and
we won't have it stick around these
stories are coming up with later in the
show thanks hey you're welcome all right
eight tonight we are going to tackle the
mailbag we are going to I mean it is
full we're going to get right in there
you guys are going to control the topics
you're going to control the questions
you're going to control the comments
you're outta control about you they are
totally in control I am
it's gonna be awesome and both robbery
and I decided to grow our hair a little
bit oh so much time so little to do wait
a minute flip that reverse it thank you
don't go anywhere this is going to be a
great show this is category 5 technology
TV starring
Sasha germain des
Hillary rumble
Kristen wells
Eric kid and your host Ravi Ferguson
yeah this is category 5 technology TV
welcome back nice to have you here hey
it's nice to be here all right well you
know category 5 TV did you know it is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat5 TV / tpn and
the international association of
internet broadcasters cat5 TV / LA I be
I a I am its internet I that's I thought
that but oh ok you know what I'm at that
awkward age I know I need these specs
fixed i know i know a really fun blame
it on the specs you don't even know if i
actually sang that or was I lip-syncing
well Brittany I don't know hey don't
forget to check out our mobile website
scam that code hmm that's going to take
you over to mcat 5 TV live streaming
video live streaming audio on demand
video well all that cool stuff end we
have Wirecast 5 pro that we're going to
be giving away here category 5
technology TV you've been hearing about
it for the past few weeks we are still
taking your ballots we've got a lot last
week following our presentation about
DSLR cameras hmm so there's some stiff
competition there for that copy of
Wirecast 5 pro right all you gotta do is
email me live at category 5 TV include
in the subject line I want Wirecast and
in the body I need your registered
viewer named on category 5 TV you're not
already registered that's okay all you
have to do is go to category 5 TV you
can register it's free we do not share
your personal information with anybody
and we actually added it to our policy
this week that we're obligated to say
unless required by law but it's like
right really who's gonna call us up you
know hey I mean total is this is I'm a
police officer look at Genesis guys
email address no it's not gonna happen
right
we don't share with anybody planes Eric
I love your new shirt how do you like my
new shoes captain ya know you could get
this new category 5 merch at the new
category 5 merch store okay it's been
launched shop dot category five dot TV
can I bring it up yeah what I don't know
can you let's do it yes new mission
durability well let's do it shop dot dot
TV let's see let's see if you got a
sticker or other swag from our IndieGoGo
campaign please review it and get on to
the shop category 5 TV place your rip
but one of those on my Martin
guitar case there you go look at that
there's our merch store lots of shirts
and swag to increase your own so I
thought you'd never don't get in their
mind what nothing i'm not i have not
nothing alright I'm not repeating but
when my mind told me and it's rare when
I actually filter before something comes
out of my mouth very rare rare that I
actually filter but this time I did yes
indeed what do you think I'm excited
about the category 5 merch store you can
read all about it on that site like if
you go to shop category 5 TV it's good
quality gear like this is the this is
the contrast stitch T in dark chocolate
this is available it's a men's shirt we
have multiple different colors and it is
its high quality a hike well that's a
really good shirt this kids is an extra
large fits well just looks good and so
you can get one of those get on to our
store but here's the thing and I say but
meaning however however and yet and yet
no that doesn't really work grand
opening it's our grand opening today
folks so as you go to the store think
hey want that shirt want that sticker
want five of those stickers even which
by the way are already on sale for four
dollars off but you can also apply
another ten percent off your entire or
order just by typing in grand opening
although all one word all over K so that
is the coupon code is on code that's a
coupon grand opening grand opening all
one word all lower case that's going to
give you ten percent off your entire
order and that will also be on top of
that's a heck of a deal replaced
approach I know so it's a way a fun way
to support the show and what do you have
to do to get one of these really cool
six inch premium vinyl logos shop
category files you add one to your cart
you enter your coupon code you get a
little bit more of a discount we send it
to you sweet deal there you go how do
you like that of course he didn't
actually see me slide this one under my
I saw it and run away take it out of
this pay no no i've got negative pay i
know you owe me how did that work well
hey tonight is a viewer question
extravaganza you know that i love to
receive your questions thank you for
emailing us live at category five dot TV
but also get into our chat room right
now if you like it is a category five on
freenode a couple people wandering in
the chat room will they ship global yes
anything from our store can be shipped
anywhere in the world absolutely and it
automatically calculates the shipping
everything so so you know how is
shipping of you go overseas did you get
to quite good actually yeah we've we've
got a rather interesting partnership
with with Canada Post and they've set us
up with really good rates and you
actually get to choose what kind of
shipping method you want to go with very
cool so yeah oh yeah as you know new
guitar repairs and that sort of thing so
I was deciding to buy this guitar repair
vice from a place over the US yeah and
continental US shipping anything over
three hundred dollars is one thing is
1295 anywhere okay tell him you want it
to come to Canada all of a sudden this
one hundred and fifty dollar unit that I
was going to get 20 yes turned into a
hundred and ninety-eight dollars
shipping so I have a friend in Buffalo
well that's nice drive it up come pay
you a visit perfect so shall we get to
some questions yeah I think we shall all
right first
start up here down there whatever you
like here is a viewer question from Rafi
from Columbia Pennsylvania hey Rafi all
right oops I lost already make my plans
got a dell poweredge 2950 to gin second
generation okay operativo current system
does not have mind but I want to know if
it is a good machine for live video and
if it is good and want to know if the
Linux operating system is good for the
system can't have board and that's dell
poweredge 2950 roman numeral two right
that's the server units right now deal
yeah six x yeah i don't get 46 gigabyte
tak ok quad-core xeon quite likely
dual-core there's a couple different
options you don't really say or do that
actually it's got the Intel Xeon 2.33
get hurt we don't know if it's the dual
core or the quad core two point oh
probably this one because it's a 2.33
that's probably that one okay so dual
core intel low volt Zi on 5100 sequence
processor two point three three
gigahertz so processor ain't half bad
okay what else have we got as far as
Mexico 16-gauge didn't do the ransom
okay all right six times 146 gigs I
guess that's the damage is that would be
the raid array yeah sure okay I think
that's the extent of my information ok
so I think what's going to get you here
is that these servers are built for web
server file server setting up
virtualization machines with Zen those
kinds of things where it's going to fall
short when it comes to video playback
video production video broadcasting
anything like that is the video card the
GPU these days a lot of stuff is graphic
accelerated so it taps into the graphic
processing unit the GPU it's a chip on
your video card
that is its able to utilize because it's
really screaming fast and it's built
specifically for graphic encoding and
decoding and it's very screaming fast at
those things so with a server like this
a rackmount server that's meant to
probably have no monitor connected to it
whatsoever and you know you ssh in or
you remote desktop in they are not going
to have a good graphics card plain and
simple i'm looking here video embedded
80ies 1000 with 16 legs 16 megabytes of
memory 16 megabytes of memory not going
to do video whatsoever that's because of
the video card all the other specs are
fantastic right right you think all this
is a great you know very powerful system
of 16 gigs ram great hard drives raid
arrays screaming fast because we've got
146 gig hard drives are probably the 10k
and they're gonna be real good but the
video card is what gets us so are there
is there the option to upgrade the video
card and with the motherboard take it
those are the kinds of questions you
need to look at so open it up take a
look at what I'm kind of you know I'm
looking away from the camera here
because I'm actually looking at the
specifications and I'm yes he's already
gone if we just order dessert right yeah
so i'm looking here and everything else
looks good I don't see I don't I don't
know if what we have for extra slots I
don't know if there's an extra pci
express slot for example we go one step
further let's see what the motherboard
is and see if I can track that
information down from so it as well just
a little while swabs 3pcs laura it
doesn't say either pc season no then
tunes CCI x pci x is not pci express
there are three pci express slots it
doesn't say whether they're x1's or x8
sorex 16s oh it hasn't it has a single
x8 that's what it says looks like x8
so yeah you might be able to get like in
a video card a PCI Express x1 video card
from you know your favorite superstore
whatever or X 4 X 8 that's the the
length of the card so as long as it's
not an X 16 which is the longer one then
it would work as long as this here's the
other consideration though is it one you
to you so your server is going to be a
lot shorter the form factor is shorter
so a desktop card you can't plug it in
because you then couldn't put the lid on
it because it's too tall right so you'd
have to find a short form factor or low
low profile graphic card that's pci
express X 8 and that would do it so look
for you know look for something in there
and hop into a store and see what you
can find and I like to go into you know
a store where you can actually look at
the stuff we have like Canada computers
here in town yes belden it's kind of a
good little place but like because it's
got so much stock that you can go in you
can pick stuff up you can look at it you
can open up the box and see the actual
card and say oh yeah that'll work and
then you can decide whether you want to
buy it or you know whatever you want to
do so good luck hope that helps graphic
card is going to be your bottleneck at
this point for video so Hollyoaks find
it up linux yeah debian on it it'll love
debian alright alright so here's a
thanks for the question sorry we're also
watching the chat room it's it's
fantastic I don't even know what you're
talking about John we're gonna know
about a bit gonna have to backtrack okay
all right um hey Robbie and crew hey and
this is from our good friend Roy w Nash
Roy so there we go uh missing Oh fishing
fishing voice phishing voice phishing
hello I was wishing I was fishing
Microsoft's and I need remote access to
your computer
don't laugh I had a friend it happened
he gave them everything but a social
insurance card number before he actually
realized hey wait a minute this is kind
of weird it was he had to he had to
cancel his credit card he had to cancel
his bank like it was it was terrible and
yeah neither norton or microsoft is
going to call up and say hey we noticed
there was a virus on your computer and
if you give us all your money we can get
rid of it and that's why we like to talk
about this kind of stuff some viewers
already know this stuff and so they saw
they're not going to talk about fishing
and fishing again are they fact is ESET
is a fantastic antivirus it's not gonna
protect you from this it's hard to
really you know it's naughty orden is
not gonna protect you from this nothing
is gonna protect you from this except
this right yes cuz when that phone call
comes in and it's not even like you know
how stupid could somebody be like it's
something that they haven't encountered
in the enemies and you know they sound
very convincing totally and you're
you're caught off guard just maybe your
computer was a little slow yesterday and
you know they're just randomly calling
and and you never know they could be so
good that they've got some kind of
Trojan installed on your computer or
maybe they've tapped into your Wi-Fi
internet and they've been able to keep
track of some of the things that you do
on your computer and they can say things
like you know they can call up and say
i'm calling from TD canada trust exactly
i'm calling from scotia how many times
have you had the call you know hey we
can you know your current credit card
balance is maxed out yeah that that
wasn't pretty simple that when you call
me but yeah so now Roy's just saying
fishing appears to be on the increase
and maybe an idea to warn all our
viewers which we are doing about phone
callers just there from your bank if I'm
sure hang up and phone the bank using
the number on your back say please
absolutely it's the same strategy that
we use with email I get an email that
says it's from paypal it says click here
to log into your account I don't click
there no bring up my I bring up my
browser I go to paypal.com I log in and
I co the transaction that they're
telling me in this email didn't even
happen so I'm done so yeah bank calls me
and says I need this information from
you know you don't call your bank and
say do you need this information nope
okay thank you very much save yourself
some trouble so yourself identity theft
which you know my case what are they
gonna steal something from my overdraft
limit which I'm already maxed out on
well you wouldn't want to get arrested
for some terrible crime true that
somebody has committed in your name or
you know there are all kinds of things
that could happen it's not just monetary
yeah it's so I you know I mean it's it's
a good idea to anything that has any
identifying stuff like your address in
your name any account numbers shred it
you know even shredding doesn't
completely don't print landscape and
then shred yeah just foolishness yeah I
had a spreadsheet of my credit card
numbers like this and I a little bit
like this or shredded them like this and
I got all these strips and every strip
has a credit card number on it fantastic
beautiful hey this is from this is from
I mad or mad I mad from united kingdom
not hi there okay so hey I am relatively
new to linux and just welcome whoa
bought a new lenovo ideapad y500 laptop
intel core i7 8 gigs ram one terabyte
hard drive it comes with 15 gig SSD hard
drive nvidia geforce GT 650 and pre
installed windows 8 I managed to install
Ubuntu successfully but the machine is
slow for an i7 laptop also kept having
problems with my swap although it sets
to swapna's equals 1 so not using much
of it my linux route / boot and swap
partitions are installed on the SSD and
the hard drive i have slash home slash
USR and / VAR partitions
I wonder if there's something I can do
to get my machine faster then that least
when running Windows 7 I am thinking of
installing debian instead of ubuntu but
not sure if the linux distro is the
problem apart from being slow the
machine works just fine and i love using
linux any tips would be most appreciated
well the truth is is from flavor to
flavor of linux you're going to get
different performance different feature
set lubuntu uses an interface called
unity so if that maybe could be for some
reason having trouble with your system
could be a graphic card thing or
something like that then maybe trying a
different distro would fix it for you
and it doesn't hurt to boot up from a
live CD try several different
distributions try Debian that's the one
you know I really love Debian point
Linux is the one that we use here on the
show and point linux is Debian seven but
it's got some nice and Hansen's and
saves us having to do some of the things
that we'd want to do anyways check those
out try it see if it doesn t better as
far as SWA penis goes I would on a
system like that with those kind of
specs I would set sloppiness 20 you
don't want any swapping to your hard
drive it's not necessary these days so
with with the kind of specifications
you've got in a system like that beyond
that it's really you know try messing
with your BIOS get in there and make
sure that settings that are windows
specific are not enabled make sure that
it's not using like UEFI or something
that is going to be causing problems
with with Linux itself and then start
with a couple different distros like I
say though you can boot it from the boot
CD or DVD or flash drive however you
create it and try the OS before you even
install it and you'll be quite happy to
do that and I like to with a laptop
computer you know what i like to do eric
i like to have an extra hard drive no I
that I can pop into the laptop as a
laptop you can just pull the hard drive
out you know first turn it off unplug it
pull out the battery that's important
right that because remember that when
the battery is in there it's still got
power
so get the battery out holding the power
button for about 30 seconds to
completely discharged all the
electricity within a laptop then get a
screwdriver pull out the hard drive
carefully and put in a new hard drive
just a separate hard drive it doesn't
have to be good one and the reason that
I do that is because then I've got a
test system so now I can install all
different kinds of Linux and I'm not
affecting my windows 8 partition royal
seven partition if that's the case hard
drives are pretty cheap they have gotten
that way an SSD are driving get a really
good one for under 100 bucks and you
don't need a lot of space to install an
OS to test it it's a roof get whatever
you do experiment welcome to Linux part
of the fun about linux is that you get
to play around and try different distros
one of them is going to work really
really well and another one maybe not so
much Zorin OS is a fantastic linux
distribution we used to run it here on
the show and I love it but unfortunately
with one of their updates it broke
support on my particular system oops
just happen to be that way so then we
went looking and we found point Linux
and it works great but the next guy over
is still running Zorin OS and it works
perfectly on their system so what gives
it's just different architecture
different system they're developing on
you know a particular kind of system and
mine just happens to be so dissimilar
from that but it has broken it on mine
kind of thing so maybe it's a similar
situation for you with ubuntu and you
might want to try a couple different
distros so thank you very much for
emailing us and for watching the show
all right hi Robbie hello love the show
is this anyone who denies the voice this
is what's out back hey I'm back well
Peck sorry that was close hi Robbie love
the show I am new to linux and loving it
more and more each day I am even newer
to bash scripting and also loving it as
well however I'm having a problem with a
bash scripts requirement for computer
resources I've written a script to
execution on dd-wrt firmware on a
linksys router and it seems to work
great but after running for a day or
more execution time slows even sleep
commands take longer than programmed if
i stop process and restart everything is
fine again for another day or so I
realized this is not the forum to
discuss dd-wrt but what I really need
help with is Linux top command and how I
can interpret information that provides
to diagnose a resource program problem
my script reads gpio general purpose
input output and communicates status of
this input via NC command netcat to
either another linksys router computer
or educated got mark phone using TCP
commands whew I have been able to extend
runtime bure by requesting gpio
information less freaking frequently but
also being able to diagnose the issue
using limit whatever gpio requests are
doing is leaking somehow causing the
system the router at that which is kind
of an interesting fact that your semi
new to linux and here you are bash
scripting on a hacked firmware router
kudos yeah well done way to get your
feet wet yeah those when I was program
we will c plus plus I could bring any
computer to his knees ah yeah it sounds
like there's some kind of a memory leak
of some sort or something maybe
compounding process like as if you're
running with an ampersand at the end of
the line that's running your request and
so every time it executes it leaves
itself running in the background so that
eventually you've got you know a hundred
thousand processes running so what I
would do I would actually type PID of
space and then the command that you're
using so if I was using our sink I would
type PID of space our sink and it will
give me a list of all the PID s of the
running our sink process so i can then
go kill all dash nine kill all space
nine is really prejudiced right yes kill
all space dash nine space arcing or
whatever your
and is and that will kill all the
processes see if all of a sudden it
comes back to life without even having
to reboot then we know that those
processes are just bogging down the
system I think that's why you're looking
at top so top is a tool that is going to
show you the running processes on your
computer processes which a plurality oh
my goodness man and just saying we're
gonna have a fight over pronunciation
tonight aren't we careful pull your hair
keep it got here now crazy crazy but I'm
still shiny still shiny doing the road
reports you think I did this on purpose
it's so symmetrical a bear to Center
bear mmm-hmm right there's top alright
top admittedly a little bit confusing
things fly by a little fast things are
happening I don't really know what what
does it all mean so what we're gonna do
are going to clear out of that let's go
I think I need pseudo in here sudo
apt-get update enter your password we're
going to install a different tool
instead of top we're going to use
something called H top which stands for
those old runners used to get the hot
jobs no no no uh what could H top stand
for it's like top but better so it's
like oat no I don't know I wish it was
like a top i could make up like funny
name like awesome top or something I
have no idea okay sudo apt-get install h
top just like that do you want yeah it's
going didn't even ask there we go so now
instead of running top anytime i would
normally run top i'm gonna run h top
reason i want to do that it's like a
colorized version that's a little easier
to read up a little a lot so h top look
at that much easier to get right it's
the same thing but it shows me my cpus
there's my four cpus and what they're
doing there's my load average over here
which is you know current minute five
minutes ago in 15 minutes ago and then
there's all my running processes and
what's going on how that's awesome that
i've got some
running on Z Z colon as if i'm on
windows that's great obviously a wine
process so would be hyper top could it
be hyper talk how about hyper threaded
talk that was a suggestion from Red King
Reb D jank or Tennessee Frank was ranked
a hyper tub hyper top could do it let's
call it hyper top with an H top pipe
atop it sounds awesome well done ok
there we go sorry about that she's
getting that tattoo so now that works
pretty good that's H time that's pretty
cool yeah that one color coding for us
PID of PID of what do I have running
here I've got comp is right so I'm gonna
just gonna cancel here I just want to
show you what happens PID of comp is
there you go ok so i get this lead so i
know the compass is running little
notice though so let's say yeah yeah
yeah so if I let's bring up pluma and
let's bring it up a couple times if it
lets me file new can I bring it bring it
out into another window Oh move to a new
window ok so i should have two pluma
instances running no it's still running
under the same instance so that's a bad
example but typically you would see a
PID for two running processes and you
know ok kill it and it will kill gradual
so look I don't really hope that helps I
haven't seen your scrape feel free to
send it over and I'll hisham top there
you go I like typer top yeah but John
seems pretty sure he's top actually
means a sham Topsy HTTP colon slash we
settled on is it hyper top well that's
what we decided yeah but but John says
it's John you're wrong hm h top index
equals 5 ok frequently asked you a sham
top we learned something here tonight
folks Robbie's got a bad attitude do I
no I don't have a bad attitude what are
you talking about he struck me I have
witnesses thousands of them okay all
right here is a comment from old salt
old salt hello of old spice but old salt
mmm hi Robbie that's where it came from
that's awesome I have my wellies got it
I have a website I have to maintain all
right it was set up with Sharif web + x6
which is a program for those of us who
know nothing about programming do you
know of any Linux programs in that
category category 5 oh no aah sorry
sorry sorry composers the one that
instantly comes to mind if you're
looking for what you're looking for is
what's called a weiss a wig what you see
wysiwyg weiss a wig w-what what you see
is what we get why is the league where
are we no I'm something right now what
you see is what you get sorry yes siree
what you see is what you get editor is
what you're looking for because being a
guy who doesn't want to do programming
you want to work with an editor like
that that's that ok so you're working
with a site that's already built I would
say you know you're probably best to
look at something like wordpress or
something like that wordpress.org will
allow you to download it install it
deploy it on your own system wordpress
com will allow you to host it on their
system it'll cost you ninety nine
dollars a year if you want to do it
right let's take a look at what what I
can come up with here composer is a
linux tool at composer dotnet and it's
with a Z of all things composer dotnet
it's like should we make the reference
composer like you hoser that's very
Canadian very Canadian a cuckoo cuckoo
cuckoo cuckoo cuckoo cuckoo
take off a holder sorry all right I
don't know how many copyrights we just
breached but weird eyes yeah there you
go I mean composer screenshots let's
take a look I'm not gonna install it for
you you can go about and play around but
there you go it's a weiss awake editor
with a weird editor what you see is what
you get it's a graphic editor kind of
Allah you know n view or what's the
popular one on windows dreamweaver front
page wow that's been a couple years
since I've kids with that there you go
composer with a Zed Zed say that dotnet
oh you're not how to pronounce Weiss
awake wysiwyg however not wizard in
English in English let's that's well the
same language when you speak i'm not
sure i just clicked on something oh
let's see is this gonna be one of those
ones like that time we did me let's
let's see what um alright so this is
from this is from Mike Sam listen Oh
delicious speakers sorry wysiwyg wysiwyg
like I sezy wysiwyg no he says WYSIWYG
listen wysiwyg so I said was you nig
Weiss a wig WYSIWYG wizzy not all hazy
boys being like this why is he matter
gig that's man ok sir we're going back
to where was I you're digressing again
hey you want to do the news no no no no
Tennessee Frank wants to talk about
moose head or Labatt's Blue Canadian
beverages say it but I'm a Ferguson
we're going straight to Dublin's gate oh
yeah st. James TX I had a question from
the oarsmen from Ireland can I do that
or you want to do news we can do news
yeah we will will do news well kids here
it is it's time here the top stories
from the cat
35 TV news room after a ten-year journey
europe's rosetta spacecraft and its
hibernation yesterday in preparation for
an unprecedented mission to orbit a
comet and dispatch a lander to the
surface Wow Rosetta's onboard alarm
clock was set to go off at ten a.m.
greenwich mean time but it took the
spacecraft seven hours to warm up its
start writing navigation gear sounds
like you on a Saturday morning pretty
much so it took several hours to warm up
start tracking navigation gear fire up
rocket thrusters to slow as spin turn on
its transmitter and beam a message back
to earth the probe presently located
about 500 million miles from Earth and
just shy of Jupiter's orbit is so far
away that its radio transmissions
traveling at the speed of light take 45
minutes to reach listening stations in
california and australia way to go
humans yeah no seriously that's an
accomplishment that is like how right
there i'm going to nickname it how he'll
almost to jupiter that's pretty cool
nice okay now where was I
the spacecraft which carries a 220 pound
blander has been hibernating for most of
the past three years to save power it is
due to reach a 2.4 mile diameter comet
in August unlike previous comment probes
Rosetta won't just sail by the
spacecraft is designed to put itself
into orbit around the 67p comet for more
than a year of close-up studies and land
its payload on the surface that's cool
that is very cool we're seeing starting
to see some really interesting things
happening that you know we're set forth
10 20 30 years ago with the space
programs well and now finally we're
starting to see them come to fruition
right so interesting to see what we
learned that eyes how is just doing an
offset cipher of IBM one love yes a
little later off on the game or day yeah
there you go interesting fact okay last
week Eric you alia last week we had this
interesting story about smart appliances
they have brought out and announced a
smart slow cooker hey oh but now this
ring you my supper not a week later
we're questioning the intelligence of
the smart appliance get this a fridge
has been discovered sending out spam
after a web attack managed to camp
compromised smart gadgets the fridge was
one of more than 100,000 devices used in
order to take part in the spam attack
uncovered by security firm proof point
the attack also compromised computers
home routers media PCs and smart TVs
that did it sour your lil for just spam
foggers ice cubes it's believed that
this is one of the first times an attack
has exploited the lacs security on smart
appliances but it does remind me that
just a year or two ago we did have a
smart toilet that was being exploited
with the phone app people setting off
the bday from across the
hall would not be a shark wouldn't that
be a shock when the bday goes off and
nobody's sitting on it or somebody
wasn't expecting it never said good so
it's not the first time but it happens
that's being used for spam the report
said that they had about 750,000
messages 750,000 messages sent out as a
part of this junk mail campaign the
e-mails were routed through the
compromised gadgets imagine opening up
your fridge and there's a whole bunch of
email going out from the thing about
twenty five percent of the messages seen
by researchers did not pass through
laptops desktops smartphones instead the
malware in fact managed to get itself
installed on to smart devices such as
kitchen appliances the home media
systems on which people copy their dvds
and web connected televisions well
really come into what's it coming to
folks well I'll tell you what's coming
on Friday what's common nintendo said it
expects to make an operating loss of 335
million dollars for the financial year
ending 31st to march 2014 the company
blamed Robbie know how company blamed
weaker than expected sales of its Wii U
console during the holiday season for
the downgrade in its earnings forecast
as a result it lowered its global wii u
sales forecast for the business year
from nine million to 2.8 million units a
cut of nearly seventy percent okay
that's crazy Nintendo also reduced the
sales forecast for 3ds console from 18
million to 13.5 million units as a
result Nintendo's shares plunged as much
as eighteen percent yesterday yikes now
admittedly it's been a tough year for
Nintendo admittedly right they lost
their fearless leader of course but
really with Nintendo Wii is it is it
really about all the games i mean was
netflix not one of the big selling
points for wii netflix was a new Fang
won't at one point about
point when we came out right so yeah we
sold a lot of units metals like we
didn't come out that was we we Netflix
was reasonably new to the point where
there weren't smart TVs there weren't
Roku's there weren't other devices with
netflix on there weren't a lot i watch
there were some netflix lots of
different places though now everybody's
got every other device that has netflix
on it so what's to make me go out and
buy a Wii U it's not the games because
ps4 is gonna you know kick those is
Mario gonna come to the mobile platform
we don't really know at this point it's
medium oh I think it's about time Mario
for you to come on to the Android
platform come on come on Mario come on
well well raw materials company is an
innovative ontario-based company that
offers ethical battery recycling and
waste management services their partner
of eco alkalines batteries which you
know are committed to environmental
stewardship they use a mechanical
process that crushes old batteries to
separate out all of the component
materials a hundred percent get this a
hundred percent of each battery is
reused and ninety-two percent of it is
up cycled it was a good thing what's up
cycle up cycling is basically taking the
raw materials making new product out of
those materials that would otherwise
have been waste material okay so this is
material that would have had to go to a
landfill they have been able to reuse by
creating new product well so ninety-two
percent and one hundred percent recycle
so very good stuff that these guys are
doing raw materials company companies
process to recycle alkaline batteries
creates negligible greenhouse gas
emissions and produces zero secondary
waste none of the component materials at
all are sent to a landfill waste
diversion Ontario who oversees Ontario's
waste diversion program is actively
considering a controversial proposal
from call to recycle that could
potentially put raw materials company
the one we were just talking about
out of business the revelation has been
received with concerns ranging from
potential job losses compromised
environmental standards and questionable
environmental ethics here's the thing
call to recycle who represents major
battery brands Duracell energizer they
have historically been using the
smelting process to recycle their
batteries this basically means unlike
the raw materials company's method of
doing le proves their melting it down
guess they're melting it down there
creating greenhouse gases and they're
extracting extracting the the raw metals
as much as possible through this process
but a portion of each battery gets
converted into greenhouse gases and
there is a heavy metal rich by product
called slag that's left behind so
smelting is cheap but it's
environmentally the performance of of
smelting is very poor not efficient not
at all from the very low point of it
Michael Scott the CEO Michael Scott is
the CEO of waste diversion Ontario he
acknowledges that there's a potential of
an impact on jobs as well as the
environment but he claims that they are
required by law to consider call to
recycles plan seriously Lionel lalonde
one of our friends from eco alkaline
says that while call to recycle may be
able to quote a lower bid the cost of
the local Ontario economy and the impact
on the environment will far outweigh the
perceived benefits of a reduction in
government spending time is going to
tell what the outcome of this proposal
is but in the meantime you can get on
over to cat five dot TV / eco to find
out more and of course you can also
email them off of that website cat five
dot TV / eco and let them know what you
think share your support of ethical
battery recycling here in ontario
alright and those are the top stories
from the category 5 technology TV news
room you can get the full story category
5 TV / newsroom the category 5 TV news
room is researched by roy
Nash with contributions by our community
of yours if you have a news story that
you think is worthy of on-air mention
email newsroom at category five dot TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm Eric
Kidd I'm Robbie Ferguson hey welcome to
category 5 technology TV thanks for
sending in your questions we have no
time to do anything but ah we love it
live at category five dot TV hey chat
room hey cliff h Tennessee friend but
masterminds can we say hey to some of
our newly registered viewers on category
dive category five dot TV get over to
that website friend go over there it's
absolutely free it's amazing you're
gonna get like years of video to get a
bad accent so somewhere along the line I
have many bad sections order to hear
more no no we've heard enough okay sorry
I'm just my own bad acts ok is he
Scottish is the Irish is he Canadian you
never really know well orangemen
formerly Lapierre to try and delay yeah
yeah okay uh okay you got it yeah well
okay well why don't we just say hi to
timberland hey timberland timberland and
0 X 1 29 hello can I do one yeah rakh
Haj that was wondering how you're gonna
pronounce that i would say it akash
thanks for joining us here at category 5
technology TV matrix 5 it could be
rocco's she we're just gonna we're just
gonna hit it if we get your name wrong
I'm sorry I'm going LS phonetic did you
do matrix 5 I did how about Loki one or
loki loki hey no 925 blogger 247 well no
925 blogger 24-7 don't blog just 95 blog
all the time 00 league in early they
have a very active blog I wouldn't let's
go and check it out all right ok well
the hinge hey all again
um hey Nana Deborah nice to have you
joining us how about kiwi touch just
said hi from the Christchurch New
Zealand a Kiwi tux nice to have you here
is it now 55 also yeah a CD lee 99
welcome to the show these are people who
have just registered on our website
category five dot TV welcome how about
asp react excellent nice having a for CC
three SS all right nice to have you as
well swordfish I'm going with swordfish
nice to see ya mark Steele great to have
you here NT paw or NT PA or knit paw I'm
moving onto t-bird nice to see you both
toddy UK no I was gonna go on Todd yuck
but Go Go Johnny UK is gonna go without
me OK and say is it hot hot toddy you
can oh my only Todd yuck knows your
business I'll give is yeah alright hey
Bill m-tv I technologies there you go
don't go with that one yeah very well
done f frenzy for my friends used to
have you here and finally kaha ho eita
nice to have you here yeah wat tawa kita
did I do that right come hot Alicia tell
which are hard to either you didn't
write haja later I think so yeah well
done nice to have you joining us oh sure
our website please category five TV lets
you participate in the show a little
more it gives you access to some
contests where you can win stuff yes and
while we're talking about a big shout
out to all those new folks how about
coming by next week and saying hi to our
lovely and talented Sasha dramatis
she'll be here next week yeah looking
forward to seeing her I never see her
anymore except in the grocery store or
walmart or somewhere like that yeah what
time I ever see her anymore she runs the
other direction and pretend she's
looking at noodles or something I don't
ah alright do you okay did I mention the
orange Hartman from Ireland had a
question oh good morning go ahead yeah I
just really want to get to this after i
might just what this is is this a
question or is it just what is it might
I think he's uh he's in the end of the
little bit of the Jameson or something
well when the northern hemisphere is in
winter what day is coldest everyone said
it's December 21st short day of the year
where earth is the farthest away from
the Sun this is not true the coldest day
of the year is 19th through January what
are you talking about orange man
apparently the earth is like a hot water
bottle it needs to temperature and
slowly releases the heat over time
period so it takes a few days but you
know what I gotta tell you right now
January it's not what you first is is
darn frigid and the minus 30 was cold of
minus 30c yes so no idea what you're
talking about dude he's not what his hot
toddy water bottle thank you for the
comment all right we're just playing
with him he's confused no all right okay
well let's go to Charles Troy from Los
Angeles a child california i recently
saw your great video entitled internet
for beginners finding what you need with
google youtube it was great for someone
like me who is a complete beginner
question you guys look for patrick
stewart and hanley coffee course we did
but i want to do a search for the
following a list of trucking companies
18-wheeler or container that will hire
someone recently licensed with no
experience with a small at fall accident
during training
you're really narrow in the field yeah
what keyboards or how what keywords or
how would I search for such a list of
companies any help would prevent me from
being evicted oh wow play despite his
hat on head Oh heat sorry this is for
off air he wants an email response
please respect please Oh Charles Oh
Charles we are a TV show lol where you
ever notice how LOL looks like somebody
drowning okay first of all if the slight
accident that happened during your
training did not involve an alcoholic
beverage then you should be okay he's
from LA it's a slight accident right
like this wasn't like he ran over the
instructor let's hope not know your
thoughts on it you passed right that's
key no that's not funny right there
wasn't running their kid okay so you're
backing up the video that you saw I'm
gonna be you know sending go to public
apology to all instructors who yeah the
video that you saw had saturda made us
she's the one who's going to be on next
week so don't forget to join us as far
as using google I mean there's a couple
of different things I think what you're
going to probably want to do is you're
probably going to want to get into a job
site or here in canada we have like
ontario works here oh yeah yeah I'm
thinking workopolis or even as far as
like kijiji zor things like that but we
have Ontario Works here where you can
actually go into an office they'll help
you with your resume they will actually
help you find through job kiosk system
what jobs are currently available in
Google to conserve would have spent 2.5
million on the job no idea no I they
advertise that's good so don't go really
yeah okay for example so you're looking
for a job so II I don't know I mean try
well there's job bank I mean that makes
sent in Justin Bieber and justin bieber
you want to work with him in a truck for
12 hours not gonna okay job
I apply a truck driver ontario say and
just something like that truck that's a
he's from California he's going to think
they'll carry was a town just down the
road from sure LA but i'm just showing
example of how this can happen right so
then i get indeed com a job site listing
site right Wow jobs CA kijiji workopolis
so you're going to end up going to these
sites anyways so realistically you're
gonna you're going to need work opolis
Wow jobs indeed kijiji and do a search
for commercial truck driver jobs
commercial truck driver jobs and if you
do want to narrow you can throw in
california or get some out to your
location in there you can even use the
tools on google for example you can go
up here and go search tools and you can
change where you're searching right so
you can actually type in California you
know or whatever but really the key
thing is just getting ahold of a site
that has a lot of jobs listed but those
are going to be fairly competitive
you've got no experience you did have
minor issue now did this little accident
actually end up on your record do you
really need to disclose this it was
journal you might during or reallocate I
wouldn't put it on my resume let's say
that if it came up I'd be honest about
it because they're looking for honest
people overhead nags and will during
training well and explain it and and and
you're cool right like I say if there
was an alcohol involved then you're fine
it happens and you're you're learning
that's why you're there it's gonna
happen right I mean nobody starts
learning to drive an 18-wheel truck
knowing how to drive an 18-wheel
trackage is hello that doesn't make any
sense so so don't be so hard on yourself
I would say also look at companies look
at trucking companies trucking repair
companies because they have a lot of
contacts they have they know a lot of
people get in there and and put in a you
know you're not going to be driving 12
hours a day right off the bat
put in a job application for something
that you're just doing some small runs
or something get get doing something
that can get your foot in the door with
a company that does a lot of stuff I
also think about there are mobile
warehousing companies that have trailers
all over the place and what they do is
every Christmastime you know this the
Super Center has to bring in 10 million
Tickle Me Elmo's I know wrong generation
but so where do they put them they don't
have the storage space so they bring in
these mobile the 18-wheeler trailers
right so somebody's got to drive those
and they've got to deliver them and it's
kind of you know it's boring work but
it's yeah it's trying you don't try few
different searches try if you didn't cut
loose go local though I think it's local
trouble you're like anything you're
gonna be hitting your foot to the ground
for sure yeah it's not a google search
that's gonna turn up a result for you so
good luck hope it goes well let us know
if if you end up getting you know a job
and and we wish you the very best all
right the question we've literally only
got a couple of months so we do this
where do you want ya know what is Roy
got for us Roy is uh says hi Robbie and
Eric hey thank you for the
acknowledgment Roy hey Robbie and crew
could this be oh this is a cute 40s
first-ever review of this windows Expo
alternative oh yeah okay oh yeah sorry I
love it hi Robbie Eric could this be the
operating system to tempt XP users to
linux it runs a cut down version of KDE
and sits on top of Debian seven maybe
it's words a review I have it running
fine unrolled test machine and it does
have some nice additional extras yeah
like a look changer I think it's early
days yet but
does look like it could be a viable
alternative to XP and by the way it's
very fast and he's given us a couple of
links here okay good yeah q 40 s q 40
keep that in mind so not Q for years
q400s yeah sure look you 40 s dot org
has mentioned there yeah it's very young
project is still in betta 0.55 looking
really really good you can download an
iso yeah download the iso i'm just
booting it up right now and here we go
this is what it looks like so you're
looking for an alternative to Windows XP
what do you think folks I think we're
onto something with q 40 s whoever's you
know I don't know too much about the
project its brand new just came out of
nowhere and i gotta say if you've got a
family member a friend a loved one
anyone who is thinking I got to buy a
new computer because windows XP ends in
on april eight I can't do that well I
can't switch to linux well sighs I don't
really know where support or it's going
up you can't run windows XP beyond april
eight if you curious about it go to
linux tech show com watch the video
there and learn all about it this looks
like it could be a viable alternative
for somebody who's looking for a windows
XP alternative if linux you don't have
to deal with viruses and all that stuff
looks pretty promising so that's all the
time that we have tonight q400s org
thank you rob gora thanks everyone else
who sent that in as well yeah that's it
that's all the time we got thanks Eric
wait thank you thank you for a long time
tonight and I will be back next week
with Sasha tomatoes don't forget to
check out our new store it's shop doc
category five dot tdv it is should can
way sexy shirt like this one you just
like that just like that yes indeed and
you can get a way cool one of these
stickers get them both at the same time
save on shipping love it alright folks
have a great week I'll see you next
Tuesday Eric always a pleasure I'll be
watching see ya see you we hope you
enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
