welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson hello it's tuesday December
twentieth 2011 nice Christmas almost
Christmas and do you know what tonight
is dedham tonight he's brought to you by
the number to the letter the number two
yeah tonight it is episode number 222
whoa we can't make this stuff up folks
thank you madam that's keep doing it you
know if you're starting to podcast just
keep doing it for two hundred and twenty
two weeks eventually this will happen
here we are here's to another 333
welcome to this episode number 222 it
kind of reminds me of like an 80s sitcom
for those of you who remember these
ladies yeah what's that supposed to mean
nothing I was just saying that it's
convenient that you remember the 80s
just convenient I was three
in the 80s in all of the ena I just
noticed that hey thanks Dennis Kelly
says it's been an awesome 222 episodes
Dennis Kelly of course spent the last
six months just sitting there non stop
watching every single episode not really
can you imagine 222 hours broadcasting
but tonight we have some exciting stuff
going on because we are going to be
talking about actually taking our Linux
desktop and tiling it you remember the
old windows 3.1 I mean going way back in
the past how you used to be able to
thailand cascade windows and it was a
useful feature if you wanted to save
real estate on your desktop and we're
going to look at it from an ergonomic
standpoint and be able to cut down on
our desktop footprint by tiling our
desktop all the applications that are on
our Linux computer so stick around we
can be talking about that also jot is
going to be paying us a visit cool which
is very cool he has some messages a
message for our viewers we've got a
pogoplug to give away a little later on
the show so now they're gonna stick
around for sure you got it cuz now you
have stay around and of course we're
wishing everybody a very Merry Christmas
the question came in last week people
were asking is is this a green screen or
we're actually in the North Pole we have
relocated it is it's just it's like that
let's see if i can actually disable the
the chroma key here for a second just to
kind of give you an idea how things work
around here we're using telestream
Wirecast and wire cast of course is a
fantastic applications allows us to
broadcast our show that's what it looks
like toss the reason that it's green
screen for the for the viewer who was
wondering you know what's the difference
between green screen or blue screen you
can almost answer that question yourself
because green screen is required is the
recommended color for chroma key for
digital video so when you see blue
screen that's old analog tape style
video some news studios will use that if
they pre record with with like tape
right so green screen is for digital
which is what we're broadcasting with
our cameras are all digital and blue is
for aniline
has something to do with the optics of
the cameras it's different so green
actually works better than blue for
digital and vice versa plus green is a
superior color well you saw it and it
looks pretty green in here it does it
actually brightens up the space I think
I think so check out Wirecast we
broadcast live it's very cool to be able
to do live chroma keying in this quality
and of course Wirecast is available as a
free download for the trial version you
get it a cat five dot TV / wire cast of
course it's a commercial application for
windows and mac but it is fantastic
we'll let you get the free trial give it
a try with your camera see what you
think if you'd like to give it a try
cool hip to be green Dennis Kelly says
it's not easy being green that was
realizing right well everyone ee z the
degree doesn't get better no better than
that that came in I'm done currently ten
years you tried I tried at least it
didn't come out like some ethnic kind of
sounding thing you know could I do it
bad would have been really bad yeah okay
well live cat5 don TV we launched last
week which is a very cool feature of our
website if you're having trouble getting
onto our website during a live show
unfortunately it does happen because you
can imagine thousands upon thousands of
billions of people hitting the server at
the same time unfortunately our web host
kind of keeps track of what kind of cpu
usage we're using when it spikes hmmm
they cut us off so just that's where you
get those moment everything so live cam
five TV should get around that for you
it's a it's a way to get around our main
website which is a little heavier weight
and be able to watch the show directly
through that it's got backstage pass as
well as the chat room so check it out
live cat five TV and of course our
mobile site mobile cat5 TV if you're
using a device Becca's actually taking
care of the kids tonight she's watching
on her iPad oh it was cool very cool
that's all doable using mobile cat5 TV
so how you better
I've been super super busy yeah yeah
stuff yeah well both work and you know
just Christmas in general so you know
everything melding together makes for
really really busy Krista is it Tom you
know I actually have to do a lot of
shopping yeah very girls for bad yeah
well you know I don't usually buy a lot
of gifts usually I just you know show up
in my presence my presence is a present
you know that's good right that's that
was it play on words Hey look at kristas
here and that is my gift to you I'm
kidding but I did actually um while were
chatting about by at presence I did
actually happen to see something and it
made me think of you oh really and I had
to get it it's a pickle isn't it it's a
last week thank you I give Rachel a
pickle and shits for Rachel yeah poor
Rachel why does she she still comes to
so know it's ridiculous but it's not a
pickle so I ruined it but um well hey
cheers thank you so you must open it
okay hmm like you like you mean it a
little saving the wrapping right no no
I'm not my mother-in-law it's so cute
but yet so ridiculous every Christmas oh
so I know your love for Star Wars oh
yeah and even though I couldn't find
anything Star Wars I got you this Star
Trek that's an familia we're ordering
pizza tonight check this out and I hope
you don't already have one this is
thinkgeek com merch look at this I've
been told it actually works oh I can't
sing soprano goodness would you expect
me to sing soprano no check it out
thinkgeek com I I know about them right
oh well this is for slicing your pizza I
hope it works otherwise it's just for
like I don't give me your arm no I'll
toss thanks mister
that is so cool I'm gonna like it's
gonna you're gonna think I'm a total
geek to supply its play got it for you
because I knew you were a total yes this
is like oh it even says think geek so I
thought of Robbie's sorry Becca thanks
buddy just to put up with you now I I
got I got you a couple of little things
I didn't wrap them as fancy but it you
know a gift who doesn't love Timmy and
doesn't love Timmy's right and yeah I
know that you've had these before but i
got you a couple of these oh my goodness
these are amazing these are amazing
they're just mr. beer it's the biggest
beer you've ever bought I promise you
that you've never bought a beer that's
two leaders before plus it makes you
feel like you've made it yourself you
literally feel like you've made it
yourself shoo mm-hmm you open it and
then you put the little tablet in and
then you wait and then you wait for two
weeks and then it is delicious pilsner
with extra hops I made sure you had
extra hops so enjoy that all right
thanks you know cheers Merry Christmas
I'll enjoy off air in two weeks in two
weeks we should put one on and then say
like oh look uh you know two weeks later
or whatever will well have a real joy
have fun you know belated uh christmas
kind of theirs episode hello Becca all
right anybody joining us for the first
time tonight nice to see ya we do have
some people that you know have have been
watching for some time I do see your
greetings Michael Iowa nice to see you
lots of people saying hello in the chat
room Sammy says joining us again old guy
Jim jot of course cool all right well we
are gonna hit a sponsor ad and we will
be right back after this stick around
don't forget we've got a pogoplug to
give away tonight and I want you to I
want you to find out how you can win
that success you stick around nice
little Christmas kick you know from cat5
TV all right stick around we'll be right
back
hitting the road or the dusty trails
liquid image Canada captures the action
with a true point of view HD video
camera directly into a high-quality amex
goggle it records every bit of the
excitement exactly how you see it if my
octane isn't your thing take a relaxing
underwater adventure and capture it
forever in high definition video with a
high quality underwater camera mask from
liquid image Canada perfect for the
enthusiast snorkeler or the deep sea
diver check out the entire line of
camera masks for every sport liquid
image canada.com welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online at triple w category 5 TV
great so maybe we should have a look at
what kind of awesome stories we have for
you tonight looks so coming up in the
newsroom Microsoft is going to start
updating Internet Explorer without users
knowledge who the sun could clean your
clothes doesn't already hmm LED lights
are going to provide us with a brighter
future mmm 200 kilograms of Russia and
Mars probe is expected to crash to earth
next month who stick around these
stories are coming up the later in the
show brilliant that's an
earth-shattering and entertaining I
don't know to be excited or it's ironic
isn't it I mean these new LED lights
they're gonna bring us a brighter future
I'm we're excited about the sunlight
cleaning my clothes and the sunlight
sorry I've gotta go sorry by the way
would you wrap up the news with the
apocalypse taking place because of this
Russian satellite coming down but maybe
you can go in the Sun to clean your
clothes oh yeah I don't want stand aside
here it comes it's dual purpose my
clothes are so clean crying get that
stain out 200 kilograms of Russian
satellite wow that's awesome a jamison
55 79 is envisioning me cutting pizza
mm just like that that's how it goes
look I have done yep look at what you've
done again its authority a category 5
this this thursday everybody be here
okay we've got some viewer photos that
came in this week very cool stuff thank
you so much for sending any of your
viewer photos Brian Murray paused
episode number 220 just a couple of
weeks ago just long enough to have
himself a nice little drink of Guinness
Thanks primary and yeah I'm expecting
that that that there's some of that in
the mail press Guinness sure it's not
shaken up though no not postal system
would never say something no no they
only crush things yeah all right get
your viewer questions in you can email
us live at category 5 TV or of course
you can join us in the chat room
category five dot TV did I miss anybody
who's brand new here tonight nice to see
you remember that all links that are
mentioned on the show so when I
mentioned thinkgeek and things like that
they will be included in the show notes
for episode number 222 well you're gonna
say something I wasn't I didn't I know I
was but it was as the second I was about
to say it it's just fleeting has gone
just like that mm-hmm just like that
it's like fat ones yeah he'll come back
later that's okay oh yeah there's some
questions and stuff and we'll well you
want me to be willing to talk about some
questions thank you I'm sure there's
some testimonials and it's gotta be some
questions all this piece yeah we have a
couple of your testimonials to know me
that peace dee doo doo test I was
looking around and she's like just
clicking on I grabbed on it and it went
away it went away this way minimized it
had a different computer product we're
talking about the mouse either already
it's got this cord on command escorted
and I was like oh it even has three
buttons that's kind of weird that's
totally weird who needs three who needs
three I mean you could just use key
combinations with your mouse we r do not
don't see if I can find oh I'm on
testimonials are we doing questions I
love to pomona what a show all right
well are you starting on my starting I'm
doing it Oh am I reading am I i can do
it i want you i want to do it so this
one comes from Jonathan Garvey he says
hey garmin st. thanks so much for the
web development series robbie and krista
yeah using the PHP skills at Robbie tah
and w3 schools I was able to build a
personal website that is simple to keep
updated to keep up the great tutorials
and work very nice I've actually
received quite a few comments about the
the web development series that's good
cat five dot TV / web dev if you're
interested but yeah Garvey's shown me a
little bit as he goes and has learned
about PHP includes and setting things up
in a Content a stay in his way so it's
great that people are actually taking
from it and using it yeah and I
appreciate appreciate the comment as
well they're garbey thank you so much
foolish well we have another testimonial
from Dominic Schroeder Schroeder hey
Dominic I says hey cat five team well
watching the latest episode of cat5 TV I
noticed something very funny have a look
at the picture okay do you notice the
identity between Eric and the guy in the
thumbnail already strange hi there's
Eric this looks this is YouTube and then
there's the guy in the thumbnail oh my
goodness Oh Dominic how on earth dude it
is this legit maybe it's baby really you
know this looks legit youtube did just
update their website maybe now they link
videos by facial recognition think
that's what see me so I would like to
think so so if you watch a video of a
b2b space it'll show you a hundred other
videos uncle that looks like rocky or
Darren time or whatever is name oh my
goodness that's hilarious though so
youtube I mean this is YouTube the st.
the very same YouTube that accused air
kid of being anti-american yes with its
closed cap it's automated closed
captioning he says my merit kid and it
said anti-american and here we are with
this this photograph of Eric and his his
stunt double I guess wow that's
fantastic I don't know who the guy is
but that is so awesome yeah nice fine
that's not Dominic also says anyway nice
show by the way hope to cut your show
live again soon best regards Dominic
Cheers last but not least here is one
from Franklin hey friend does it just
learned how to turn on a computer about
two years ago hey learning what I can on
my own ah with a little help from my
friends I just found you all last week
bless you all you are a godsend thank
you so much all the best cheers Franklin
Franklin yeah yeah glad you found us and
now I got that song stuck in my head
thank you for that which song and I'm
little oh oh it's a singer night tonight
oh yes thanks Franklin it's a it's
interesting to me that still you know it
is 1999 and there are still people who
have never used computers mm-hmm oh wait
it's 2011 ah how is that possible and
yet here is very cool and I'd love to
know what what the experience is like
this is this is what's interesting I
think we're going to have a generation
that that's going to be taking place
where nobody has grown up without a
computer second nature yeah yeah so the
whole the foreignness of well I have
never used a computer up until two years
ago that it's just so incredibly foreign
it's like well where what does that what
does that like for you so jumping into
it you would be new to linux but you'd
also be new to windows right so what
what is that yes you see everything with
kind of freshman so you'd have
real fair plainfield anyways yeah like a
lot of a lot of us get you know the
windows users get sick of windows and
say okay I'm going to look for an
alternative be it Mac or Linux right so
you coming into it as fresh you're
looking at the basically the three main
options or you know bsd is as another
option as well and and say you know well
what what is your driving what's driving
you to any one particular platform I'd
be interested to hear from you and get a
little more information about what
that's like for you because that's
that's really interesting so thanks for
watching the show I hope you get lots
out of it hope that you enjoy the
community and and learn a lot about your
computer how it works and what you can
do with it very cool cool well those
that it for that's it for testimonials
how can they send a viewer testimonial
well I'm glad you asked Chris tough you
sounded so much like me I was confused i
thought i said something that's like and
then I yeah the viewers didn't know the
difference continue batting my eyes and
twirling my curls that's what that's
what I do on it yeah that's it to a team
so anyways go to our website cat
category five dot TV click on interact
and you'll see your testimonials submit
your own and you're going to want to do
that this week in pimp we love to hear
from you we love to hear what you think
of the show what we're doing right what
we're helping you with we'd love to hear
from you that's what the viewer
testimonial section is for and I'd
encourage you to do that cheers thanks
everybody for submitting yours this week
all right
well we do have some questions are we
gonna jump into some questions please
excellent here is one here from where
zvz where's this um do who says I want
an xmas special where they were xmas
hats so Christmas hats oh christmas
special I'm sorry that's just not gonna
happen I'll Robbie a lot wait a minute
welcome to the greatness special where
we where Christmas hats are these
Christmas hats I guess I've been wearing
these in July I know you have but we
just didn't have the heart to tell you
that you know that's kind of weird hmm
nobody tells me the things they just
point and laugh and I I just you know I
think it's fine the long underwear
you're also supposed to wear those under
your pants that's just the normal way
just a sheepish well to uh distract from
see what else we got ooh here's a
question from John Zimmerman hey John ah
it says I liked your your tutorial on
how to mount an SMB share but after I
enter my super user password i get a
permissions error see attached
screenshot why I'm actually trying to do
is mount an SMB share on computer from
my open media vault na s so I can see it
via file sync program to make a Tootsie
drive attached two terabytes as always
hang drive attached to my computer sync
to a two terabyte drive on my nes Ness
any a network attached storage huh ok
thanks all John so what's the so the
issue is that he's unable to one there's
after he entered enters his pass rate as
a permission there ok I'm just I'm gonna
get your your email here John and and
see what what's going on let's take a
boo just grabbing the picture that the
John is attached for us
there we go okay let's take a look at
what's happening here first of all great
show great show that you're watching
there that's that's cool okay so C D
tilde tilde is home that takes you to
your John folder make door open media
vault okay cannot create directory open
media vault it already exists okay so
you've already made it once LS open
media vault there's nothing in it so
it's fine it's empty you can mount to it
sudo mount and then the share name main
drive on the server which is open media
vault and then you're mounting it to
that open media vault share so that's
good now see this it's asking you for a
password so that tells me that you have
authentication on that share which means
you have to authenticate before you can
access it so you're entering your
password and then you're getting a mount
error could not resolve address no
address associated with host name oh
okay so you okay so that's the host name
but it looks like you've already solved
that if you get that air obviously open
media vault is not resolving on your DNS
so you need to change it to the IP
address you did that good job it asks
you for the password and then you've got
a different error it says mount error
permission denied so this time it is
trying to connect it is getting a
connection to the server and the server
is saying okay what's the password now
rather than this one which is just
asking for your pseudo sudo password
part me that is not for the share that's
just for the superuser do okay so here
that would mount if jon was the user on
your server what's happening here is
that you are logged into linux as John
so when you try to mount like this okay
192 dot 168 1 10 that's your server the
open media vault so that server is
expecting you to authenticate as a
specific user and it's not John John is
not the username so what you need to do
is instead add the user name for that
user on that share whatever it may be so
open media vault should have some users
so we're going to just change up your
command
okay so pseudo now dash 0 for options
password or not password we're gonna go
username equals and whatever your
username is so let's say it's John's
Nass okay and then then we go / / 192
168 dot one dot 10 / main drive okay
open media oh so that's really all that
we need to add is dash 0 username John's
na s so that that would be whatever your
user name is on that server it needs to
match because otherwise it's going to
try off enta cating you as your unix
linux user name okay beyond that now you
can also add the password to that line
I'm not going to recommend you do that
because anyone looking through your
history is going to be able to see it
right here they're only going to be able
to see your username so that's that's a
good thing but you can go password
equals my pass right just like that
there's no spaces or anything if you do
have spaces in your password you may
have to put quotes around it i'm not
sure exactly where you would put the
quotes i think it's probably going to be
like that so you may have to experiment
if there are quotes or crazy characters
if there are silly things that you know
something like that will probably break
it if you don't put it in quotes so
hopefully that will help you hopefully
that will help you to authenticate your
mount point can you let us know if that
if that does it for you but dash 0 and
then username equals your username on
the linux on the windows machine should
should do it ok good luck let us know
please thank you alright we're like our
tea half half through the hour what's
gonna happen let's feel the witty banter
all the witty banter time just flies
when you're bantering wittily that's
what they say that is what they say is
that they say yes
I assume do we have like a quick
question maybe the chat room has
something for us anything like that
we've got about just a couple minutes
until the news and we've got some
exciting stuff coming up tonight we're
going to be given away a pogoplug stick
around and learning about tiling our
linux i want to say windows but then
that gets confusing but your
applications piling them on your screen
and linux so any questions in the chat
room we love to hear from me Scott Lewin
saying when you're mounting you can also
use username at your IP so I guess you I
guess you could slash slash and then s
Lewin at 192 not 16 a I'm not sure if
that would work or not but dash 0 is for
options and that lets you do it when
you're using amount like that we're
starting simple I mean you can also
mount things automatically in your FS
tab you can create encrypted password
files so that you can mount it
automatically a boot without the risk of
exposing your password so there are
different things that we can do but
let's get to the let's get through the
the most basic which is just to get that
mountain pointe mounted and then get you
up and running Raptor 222 wondering if
if we can stream the show live without
using flash and unfortunately that is
not an available option based on our
streaming partners at this time
hopefully one day but unfortunately
that's not currently an option we use
ustream and justin dot TV bandwidth
restricts us to being able to stream
only you know a couple of streams at
this quality so so we have both Ustream
and justin TV hopefully one day we'll be
able to get more bandwidth the bandwidth
and we'll be able to upstream to a third
party provider as well cool
definitely you can watch without flash
if you're using like the RSS feeds not
live but that's a little different
because it's not live right RSS feeds
will download any format file you want
like an m4 v for that for the HD files
mp4 even mp3 if you want to just listen
and not have to look at this but why
what did you want to cuz I make faces I
make vases thanks Amy says the mobile
site uses flash through well it uses
h.264 it will use flash depending on
your browser but if you're using an
iphone it will use h.264 with a specific
codec for the audio I believe it's a AC
so it's compatible with the iPhone but
that's not something that we provide
that something that you stream provides
so we don't have a workaround to get
into that or anything like that cool
thanks for the question Raptor 222 well
should you I hit the news I suppose oh
well I'll talk about all if I can Ruth I
can find it we can do the news just it's
not about this one newsroom it's the one
that says news yeah take it away Christa
yeah there it is alright so after many
complications here's some top stories
from the category 5 TV news room
beginning in january internet explorer
users will be automatically updated to
the latest version of the browser
microsoft said it was starting the
project to update millions of machines
to improve security online future
updates to the browser would be applied
without a user's knowledge to help beat
scammers catching people out with fake
updates microsoft says that those who do
not want their browser updated can opt
out or alternatively uninstall the
software hmm good recommendation I think
maybe hmm hint hint efforts to create
self-cleaning cotton fabrics are bearing
fruit in China engineers have created a
chemical coating that causes cotton
materials to clean themselves of stains
and remove orders at well exposed to
sunlight
the researchers say the treatment is
cheap non-toxic and ecologically
friendly the team's breakthrough was to
create a nanoparticle alcohol-based
compound made up of a made up of
titanium dioxide dioxide sorry and
nitrogen to test the effectiveness of
their invention the engineers mark the
fabrics with an orange dye stain and
expose them to the Sun after two hours
in the light the team said 71 percent of
stains had been removed a dramatic
improvement over previously trial the
trailed child sorry techniques it's very
cool washing thing that I think there is
that they know specifically that it's 71
percent not 70 not 72 in 271 interesting
I also think that's great because it'll
get anyone who is you know those people
that don't like go out much well I'll
have to go do the laundry go get some
light is good for you to go get some
vitamin D people and effort both your
clothes and you but what if you perspire
heavily in the Sun thereby well that can
you Elise staining your shirt but then
I'll be continually cleaning but where
does it end well maybe you just have to
gradually like sneak over into the shade
you know yeah I don't know well ask the
scientists yeah well I'm just a design
on him to them later this week Oh what
have you sweat profusely only Robbie ya
know Oh continuing on a field trial of
LED light fittings and social housing
says that the new technology can deliver
huge energy savings reduce costs and
makes residents feel safer the study
carried out by the Energy Saving Trust
EST measured the performance of more
than 4,200 50 LED light fittings
installed at 35 sites the EST said it
carried out the trial because an
increasing number of LED lights were now
commercially available is I'm not done
I'm sorry well I just wanted to say
something iloveit well I one line Robbie
just count to 5 i'll be done one it is
predicted the technology could dominate
the lady market
15 repeating something to say well I was
just gonna say i actually bought an LED
light and it's not interesting just yeah
i know i bought two tonight they come in
a pack right you know it came in a pack
of 10 it's a lot really expensive but i
thought okay well here's a great way you
know we try to be earth friendly and we
try to conserve power but also generate
less heat and and have something that's
long lasting so you're not constantly
having to replace it so i bought one for
my daughter's life which works great and
i bought one for the for the above the
stove and i was like wow this is amazing
it's like it puts out the light sunlight
it says it puts out like 40 watts of
power but it uses 3 watts hmm so i put
it in and and was all you know pretty
pretty gung-ho about this whole LED
thing and it puts out the power about 3
watts oh really yeah oh that's sad so
you know I've got I so I didn't end up
using it I went back to death no I went
with a fluorescent one of the new ones
that has the glass over top of the
fluorescent tube hmm so but they were
really dim but you know we just got our
Christmas lights and they're actually
led yeah and it says that the whole
string is like 14 watts or something and
you know the great thing is that it says
that you can't go over like forty eight
thousand watts or something when
stringing them together so sounds
drinkin few yeah Clark get harder but
what is kind of like they're really
brave they are really bright practical
use but could you imagine like lighting
up a building like that well just maybe
just get a lot of Christmas lights a lot
of Christmas lights you could yeah
what's your experience with these like
you get friendly bulbs I'd love to know
like I haven't found one yet that is
overly impressive as far as the
luminescence goes it always seems to
delet down and the fluorescent once they
turn kind of yellow yes which is gross
hmm I don't like yellow light it's like
so especially if it's like in the
bathroom and in the morning you're
looking or so that goes Oh dickly today
yeah jaundice just came somebody call a
doctor yeah it's like that it what did I
eat I mean come on it was chicken soup
hey you got more news don't I do
actually intently interrupted me and we
got carried away but back to Russia and
carried away mm-hmm Russia's space
agency ooh Ross cosmos Oh kosmos confuse
it could be cautious it could be cosmos
when I see a word like i did in relation
to their space program it isn't really
most Sydney is okay uh you don't say I
never give you a heart maybe it's the
fancier way of saying things you know
like tomato tomahto you say Ross cosmos
tomatoes and I say tomato so that
particular agency I just speaking out
says it's unsuccessful Mars probe will
fall back to earth next month the
unmanned Phobos Oh phobos-grunt
spacecraft became stranded in orbit in
November the agency says it expects to
toxic fuel on board to burn burn up on
re-entry but 20-30 22-30 fragments of
the spacecraft will survive to the
surface we had to put the name and again
Ross I go say it wrong Ross cosmos
that's my guess okay says it expects
only about 200 kilograms to make it all
the way through phobos-grunt was built
to land on the larger of Mars's two
moons Phobos to scoop up rock and bring
it back to earth current estimates for
the timing of the fall are between the
6th and 19th of January but this window
will be narrowed near near near Oh
nearer they the event oh the news is
done okay so get the school stories at
category 5 at TV / newsroom the category
5 talk TV news room is researched by roy
w natural contributions by our community
of viewers if you have any news stories
that you think are worthy of on your
mention the email us at news room at
category 5 TV for the category 5 d TV
room I'm Krista wells I could've thrown
anyone's name in there I'm done made it
through hey thanks Krista really I saw
the tapping halfway through he was like
when is it's gonna end sure sure
tonight's news is brought to you by
garden gate farms com certified organic
broccoli sprout and wheatgrass juice
this stuff keeps my immunity up I
haven't been taken a long long time very
cool stuff salsa laughter it is lots of
laughter that's been keeping you healthy
that also helps garden gate farms com
they'll check it out and their product
is fantastic also cat5 TV / Calypso it's
a free online online massive multiplayer
online game and you can download the
free program from cat5 TV / calypso and
hopefully jaunt and I will see you in
game and also the pogoplug which you can
win tonight cat five dot TV / pogoplug
this device allows you to access your
data from anywhere in the world as long
as you've got a high-speed internet
connection you can access it from your
mobile device from your computer's you
can share with family and friends check
it out cat5 TV / pogoplug to get your
free 5 gigabyte personal cloud this is
category 5 technology TV and i'm your
host Robbie Ferguson great to see ya
yeah there's one learn how to tile stuff
oh do they ever do they it's like cool
no someone mentioned earlier that you
you they're wondering if you would show
them how to tile bathrooms as well I am
NOT to agree that technology TV / home
renault show there you go but for now
we're just I don't know what I don't
have tylene via Linux is it this is how
a category 5 TV home rental would go the
renovations guy whatever I don't even
know what they're called the contractor
none of it would be doing as observers
and I'm standing there with my mobile
device taking pictures going on yeah I
Twitter some tweeting them posting them
on watching the contractors you can
follow me it's at Robbie Ferguson if you
want to see that's that's literally how
it would go down Greg and Texas says
it's a pain
to tile a bathroom and I believe you
interesting interesting stuff okay
here's my problem okay I've got a bill
no well here's here's the thing okay I
use a computer all the time and that can
result in medical issues and problems
like that I've struggled with arm pain
with ulnar nerve entrapment it's like
the opposite of carpal tunnel syndrome
so the the part of my arm goes to sleep
not good because I need that to click
the mouse and type two fingers that i
really mean when I'm typing and they
stop stop working so drink more coffee
do I need to drink more coffee I think
16 pots of it is not enough so that
that's a problem but also what has been
happening recently I don't know if you
if you do follow me on Twitter you know
but I've actually I have a spinal
problem from largely from sitting at a
computer like this right so this is
relocated here is doing this the
computer hunch and in years of doing
this it's actually resulted in a problem
that that is we're trying to fix so one
of the things that I've had to do is
look at my desk at work and say okay
well what can I do differently what can
I do to make this more ergonomic and
I've got the split keyboard and i'm
using a trackball and I'm doing
everything that I note do I've got a
nice chair that they've purchased for me
that's meant to be more ergonomic and
and things like that but I do have two
monitors and one of the problems that I
have is that my one monitor is right in
front of me that's good that I always
thought that was good right but the
other monitor is off to the side because
it has to be that's just the way it
works when you've got two monitors so
I'm constantly craning my neck like this
and looking over here because this is
where all of my my graphic development
happens and over here is where I do all
my program so I'm back and forth between
these two monitors constantly I'm never
looking left I'm always looking right
and that's also resulted in one of my
disks in mice in my upper spine is
actually to the side which is problem
because it's pinching on a nerve so all
that to say I'm looking for ways to get
rid of that secondary monitor and be
able to look straight at my computer
screen and sit with good posture because
that's what we really need to do so one
of the way
that I have been approaching that is to
say okay well how can I get all of my
stuff over to this one monitor in such a
way that is still practical and we're
going to be over the course of several
weeks we're going to be looking at
things like that I even have a
hands-free mouse that we're going to be
looking at that uses your head gestures
where it's actually gonna move your
mouse where you're looking we're going
to be looking at that as well over the
next couple of weeks so there's lots of
cool stuff that we're gonna be looking
at with regards to ergonomics and
avoiding repetitive stress injury but
what we want to look at tonight is
something that is good to know and good
to be able to do on your computer
because it is it's it helps to organize
your screen in such a way that you can
have more than one application running
with it without having to switch back
and forth and back and forth what's
interesting these days is we've got such
big screens on our desk that you've got
a lot more real estate back in the early
days when we had like 13 14 inch screens
it was word mm-hmm my word processor
document was there if I was lucky I had
a wide screen and then Excel was like
super right but you'd always just it was
just be one application up in your
screen and yet that's old-school folk we
tend to still do that we tend to
maximize our windows and really it's not
necessary because we have so much screen
real estate screens are bigger screens
have had a lot more space on them so
tonight what I want to show you is how
to further utilize that space by tiling
your windows in such a way that they are
in a grid pattern okay so what we're
going to do is first of all we're going
to get into our terminal this is for
linux i'm using Zorin OS this is based
this version of it is based on ubuntu
which is based on debian so this pretty
much will work with any linux
distribution no problem sudo apt-get
update is the first thing we want to
type that's going to get our latest
repository information make sure you
enter your super user password there we
go okay first thing I want to do is I
want to actually make sure that I have
the latest version of Python
the libraries for it because the script
that we're going to be using is in fact
going to run using Python okay so what
we're going to do sudo apt-get install
Python dash x lib alright hit enter on
that mine says Python dash x lib is
already the newest version so Zorin OS
has come with that that's fantastic your
system may or may not have come with
that so it doesn't hurt anything to type
the command anyways and and that's a
very quick way to know that hey it's
already installed it's already the
newest version we're good to go so I'm
done with that I can close that I'll
bring up the terminal gain a little bit
later and bring up my browser and again
links will be in the show notes for
episode number 222 but where we want to
go is to cat5 TV / tile okay I just made
that real simple for you TI le just so
that it takes you there because this is
going to take you to a big long URL
watch what happens to do to do takes us
to sourceforge okay it's going to
automatically start downloading your
file if this file ever becomes dead I'll
redirect that that hot link here we go
it's downloading and done okay so this
has given us a program called pie tile
PYT y le what I'm going to do is grab
that folder I'm looking at this in file
roller which is the application that is
used to decompress files in many
different linux distributions I'm going
to right-click on the folder and go
extract and I'm just going to put that
in my home folder i'll create a folder
called programs or whatever you want to
call it doesn't mean to be done and we
just basically want to extract the files
that are in there so that's done it's a
very small program show the files it
looks like this okay you can read this
install file if you like open it with
with G edit go through the very very
simple instructions of course you can
also just follow along with us tonight
really really easy that way just to
follow along on your screen so I'm going
to close out everything there i've
already downloaded and extracted it i'm
going to go back into my terminal okay
i'm going to go into wherever i put that
file so i went into i made a folder
called programs and there's a folder in
there called pi tile that's Giro 75
which was created automatically by the
extraction okay if you do an LS you'll
see the files that are there there is a
setup dot pie you can't run that just as
it is what you want to do is you want to
go Python set up dot pi install okay if
I do that I'm just realizing that's
going to give me an error see what
happened could not blah blah blah can't
do fail so what we need to do is we need
to be super user because this needs to
install some user local stuff sudo
python setup i install run that done and
done okay that's as easy as it was now
what we want to do is just type in
height I'll like that and an ampersand
is usually recommended on that kind of
thing because then it's going to return
you back to your terminal so you can
still type other stuff and i hit enter
and nothing happens because that's what
it does how fantastic so let's bring on
the screen where I've got lots of stuff
running now notice i'm just leaving that
terminal running because i just want to
see what it works like here is a screen
on my computer where I've got the chat
room I've got the viewer photos that we
were looking at now let's bring up a
copy of our website as well remember
I've already run pie tile ok so it's
running right now if I hit the Alt a key
on my keyboard alt and the letter A
watch what happens there we go so now
I've got my category 5 website on the
left here I've got my chat room and I've
got your photos see that here's what's
cool I'm going to launch another window
let's go accessories well let's just
bring up anything right let's bring up
an office window LibreOffice writer
watch what happens
not going to touch any hands off d there
we go okay it's automatically made space
for it move things around who she says
okay I've got I've got a small screen
i'm at 1024 x 768 you've got a bigger
screen guaranteed so that's that's cool
you're going to have more space than me
now what happens if well hey I want to
actually want to put this over here well
why doesn't that work notice what's cool
about pie tile is that you still have
control over your applications I can
still maximize stuff it doesn't lock you
down to the grid it just utilizes a grid
so now we're talking about hey I want to
put this one over here I don't want the
website to be the big one so I'm going
to hit alt c4 cycle and look what
happens okay and it actually cycles the
big space I mean hit all day again to
retile everything alt see cycle cycle
cycle alt see right so I can go between
different windows so in my case I could
have my G edit running which I use for
all my programming and PHP horn calls it
text editor so here I can be programming
away right with the website over here
and I can refresh to see my changes for
example i can hit alt see and it's going
to cycle again now my website is down
here and here's my programming if i want
that to be large one if i give up on it
i don't want to be in this mode anymore
in the tiled mode I hit fault you for
untie land now I am once again in just a
free-for-all window mode where I can
just move my windows around however I
like it's pretty cool yeah it's actually
a couple questions regarding this on the
chat room sure um John says what if an
application I raises all day or alt see
hotkeys that's a good question actually
that is a very good question can you
think of one that that that's the case
for because i'd love to test that theory
but what i'm going to do is I'm going to
actually look into the programs folder
we're going to look at the configuration
and see if we can change
those that that what what hot keys were
using basically doesn't know of any
offhand and neither do i but guarantee
you will be able to change but I've
never thought of that job that's a very
good point thank you put me on the spot
hi time test your knowledge yeah that's
good let's see any you said there were
some other questions there is another
one in there yeah okay all right you
want me to shoot right now you wanna
yeah constant that way it's not cuz i'm
looking here but oh greg and texas says
does it work with us compiz comp eyes
multiple workspaces does that answer
your question I believe it does yeah
comp is this what hmm what allows you to
have those effects so yes it does that
was much easier than Jon's question oh
yes it was looking into this one for you
John I don't know that's a stump that
once dumped me everybody find a program
that will do all day it was probably
opening all their programs right now
they're an all day all day all day yes
make sense
merci new work so hard well you know I
gotta get the answer for these people
and just probably like haha stumped him
he doesn't even care about it is it's
like your other program can you can
probably change it real easy okay just
stop okay keybinding there is a file
called pi tile a tile dash default okay
let's see there's oh there's an RC file
there are ways I don't know the answer
for your job but what i'll do is i'll
post you a link to a forum where this
particular person has listed some help
for us see the key bindings alt-a all
you and you can change those okay so you
could change that to whatever you want
but I'll what I'll do is I'll post a
link to that because I I've never
changed the hotkeys I don't have any
other applications that use all day or
all you pretty much use alt e' and all
the effing in every application that's
it so good question cool well thanks
everybody that was great I hope you
learned something today and in the
meantime I told you that there would be
a special guest on the show we have a
very special not me because I'm not that
special no you're special special
special John it is so good to see you
John is joining us tonight and John i
will i will let you take it away
I got you know me from the chapel of
course and unclip salope and of course
content right count me in too
gratulations once again to the winner
flick my string
I know that some of you may think that I
went too much and for you I can say good
news everyone because well where is it
what we saw politician I can't do
anything and pull hey look it's the
gables he was looking for for this
hydrides well they're mine now but ah
yes my mouse look this is my mouth as
you can see light is on but it's not
looking anymore you can win that bubble
part dogs who could forget to compete do
much Bobby says because you want to win
another one of those nice follow blocks
of course this one old one but then
among new one so don't worry about that
but both feet legs apart merry christmas
happy birthday to y'all and happy new
year hi
I love I love it John thank you so much
for sending that into us and as John
said you've got a chance to win a poco
plucked and I do not miss out John
commands that you you do as I say Robbie
is this is this week what we're gonna do
is anybody who has posted a viewer
testimonial within the last four weeks
and anyone who posts of your testimonial
this week get on to our website category
five dot TV / or just category five dot
TV go to interact and your testimonials
submit your own what we what we're
encouraging you to do is tell us a
little bit about what you love about the
show say hi to the team here and we will
read your testimony allowed on the air
but also we're going to be taking all
those names we're going to be putting
you into a draw and next week on the
show for episode number 223 which will
be going forth live we will be here and
actually Hillary will be here with me to
give that away so we're going to be
drawing your name and again if you have
submitted a vir testimonial in the past
month you don't need to resubmit we will
include you in that in that draw as well
cool so I wanted to give everybody a
chance to win because we do click race
and I love click raises a lot of fun and
we do these online ways of winning but
one there are a lot of you who aren't
able to watch live tonight and I
understand that we broadcast to the
world and we have viewers who it's just
a unreasonable time for you to be
watching live so I wanted you to have a
chance I also wanted you to have a
chance if you have a slower internet
connection you're unable to really get
into click race and get any kind of
performance that competes with people
like jot who have a very high speed
internet connection so just to keep it
fair for you here's your opportunity to
win a pogoplug just before the the years
through so cool that really that takes
us right to the end of the show sit time
all right well there's one more thing
that I promised well I was talking to
gwg today and you know we were wishing
everybody a Merry Christmas and and gwg
said well what about Hanukkah or is it
is it is it Hanukkah or tonika or
it's hot I think it's Hanukkah what
people here say is it Hanukkah like
Hanukkah is that right I I don't know
but he has he said you know what you've
got to go see if you can find some
sufganiyot if I say that right
sufganiyot is that right right
sufganiyot so what now while I can't
find the traditional treat what I do
have for you tonight you go ahead and
just get right oh my goodness well this
is as close as I could get gwg this is
gadget wisdom guru from android buffet
you go oh that's that's as close as we
could get they're gonna get powder
everywhere Airways right I mean I'm
gonna get powder oh it's delicious
mm-hmm so happy Hannukah or Hanukkah cut
I don't know how to say it gwg happy
everything but Merry Christmas mm-hmm
hope everybody has a safe and happy
holiday and and wishing you the best for
2012 I will be here for our kind of new
year special next week but hope you have
a great weekend and a fantastic week
mmhmm yeah it's like a donut yeah fajita
would be good Sammy says says would that
be you but like a Hanukkah fajita hun
Hanukkah fajita all right
Becca was laughing she says you're
wearing a black shirt tonight or
something like icing sugar everywhere
well everybody in the chatroom nice to
see ya Craig and Texas Maxwell 6307 who
was able to join us again live tonight
Sammy says t-money Raptor 222 it's great
to see you again trekkie double-o always
nice to see in Iraq am I missing anyone
Scott Lewin who's joining us from berry
nice to see you and of course jot mm-hmm
well thanks everybody fun night what's a
fun thing yeah hi Michael jawar who else
we got Scorpio 55 nice to see you sprint
cowboy Troy 74 haven't seen in a while
uh torto good to see ya cool so what's
what's your big plans in general and
lace does your family know it's
Christmas right so you got um I won't be
seeing my parents or my sister um this
Christmas is it her stir uh in a bit
yeah yes usually I go out there this
year actually I'm going up to Brad's
parents place oh but in February I will
be on the beaches of Mexico with my
family for our late to Christmas so
that's nice I will suck it up for now
you know that's how they make it up to
you well we won't see a Christmas but we
will take you to music in Mexico echo
and I said well I guess that's uh yeah
suffice mm-hmm and you are you in Barry
disqus yeah we're kind of around and
spending time with our kids we've got
the three kids and what's gonna be
really neat this year is liam is is a
year old so he's walking doing walking
staring into stuff and and it's been I
know just a lot of fun for Becca with
putting ornaments back on the trees
it'll be a lot of fun this year because
he's old enough to kind of enjoy tearing
up the gifts that's kinda stuff like
that stadium is looking forward to it I
love just the family time
it's it's very special that way so well
everybody I have a Merry Christmas have
a great week and I will talk to you next
next Tuesday and yeah see you there
thanks for joining us tonight
sobbing thanks gwd that was so messy I'm
serious it's like oozing down my cheeks
it's so good
