here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsrooms
codeplex is shutting down AT&amp;T has won
the contract to build firstnet terrible
news for LastPass users as the company
scrambles to fix an architectural
problem that lets malicious websites
steal your passwords connecting
computers to the human brain is next on
align Musk's to-do list and the inventor
of the internet has been awarded
computing's equivalent of the nobel
prize these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere now here's another
great way you can support the shows you
love for the category five dot TV
network by shopping at gearbest that's
the right Jeff cap five dot TV /
gearbest it's an online store for the
geek streak in you or the loved ones of
course I mean especially your loved ones
right because cat 5 DVD / gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you could ever hope for at
rock bottom prices to their cell phones
you betcha cat5 TV / gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat five dot TV
/ gearbest have you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic except me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom super duper
prices kinda like this well look at this
coat what do you think it's a slimming
mock leather jacket I love it it's
available for less than thirty dollars
plus free shipping at camp five da TV /
gear best yeah all right you kinda got
me there Wow any other questions for me
jack now that winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals and
say to encompass oh my goodness well
check this out dude they have everything
check out over 500 various drums and not
only that they're available mark down by
about 32 up to 63 percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're going to find
gearbest on our partners pages for any
of your favorite category 5 TV shows
like new every day category 5 technology
TV the pixel shadow but of course if you
want to shop absolutely right now and
you want to go straight to the site all
you have to do is visit cat5 TV /
gearbest that's easy catch five dot TV
and slash gear best that's right happy
shopping I'm Sasha tomatoes and here are
the top series for the week of april
fifth 2017 microsoft announced friday
that codeplex the company's open source
project hosting service will be closed
down start started in 2006 the service
offered an alternative to the
sourceforge it was based initially on
microsoft's team foundation server
source control and later added options
to use subversion material virtual kiss
say this word mercurial and yet at the
time there weren't a tremendous number
of good options for hosting projects
sourceforge was the big one but always
seemed light on future development and
heavy on advertised
codeplex on the web was much more
attractive and less cluttered the use of
TFS for source control meant that it
also had strong integration in the
visual studio but these days github as
the default choice for most open source
projects this applies to Microsoft to
the company is using github to host host
projects such as dotnet and its chakra
JavaScript engine activity on codeplex
has declined with here even 350 project
seeing code comments code comments
commits over the last 30 days
accordingly Microsoft has decided to
stop running the service effective
immediately new projects can no longer
be created in October all projects will
be set to read only on December 15th
codeplex will be shut down completely
and the website will be replaced with a
static archive all right AT&amp;T has won a
lucrative contract to build and manage a
nationwide Public Safety Network for
America's police firefighters and
emergency medical services first
responders currently use the same
commercial networks used by consumers
and businesses for mobile internet
service AT&amp;T says that can be an issue
when a significant public public safety
crisis happens and commercial networks
quickly become congested it makes it
difficult for first responders to
communicate coordinate and do their jobs
the first responder network authority or
firstnet was authorized by the federal
government in 2012 and operates as an
independent authority within the US
Department of Commerce AT&amp;T has been
selected by first met to build the to
build the wireless network and said that
construction will begin later this year
first that spectrum is located in the
700 megahertz band often used for
consumer LTE networks ATVs contract with
firstnet is 25 years long 18t will spend
about 40 billion dollars over the life
of the contract to build deploy operate
and maintain the network this is great
all right developers of the wildly the
widely used last pass password manager
are scrambling to fix a seer
rias of ulnar ability that makes it
possible for malicious websites to steal
user pass codes and in some case execute
malicious code on computers running the
program the flaw which affects the
latest version of the LastPass browser
extension was briefly described on
saturday by Tavis ormandy a researcher
with Google's Project zero vulnerability
reporting team when people have the last
task binary running the vulnerability
allows malicious websites to execute
code the code of their choice even when
the binary isn't present the flaw can be
exploited in a way that lets malicious
sites steal passwords from the protected
LastPass vault Ormandy said he had
developed a proof-of-concept exploit and
sent it to LastPass officials developers
now have three months to patch the hole
before project zero discloses technical
details LastPass official spanked
Ormandy for alerting them to the bug and
said a fix was on the way in the
meantime they said LastPass users should
protect themselves by entering stored
passwords into websites using the
LastPass vault as a launch pad for
opening websites and entering passwords
and enabling two-factor authentication
on sites that offer it scary stuff okay
Tesla's chief executive Elon Musk has
launched neural link a start-up which
aims to develop technology that connects
our brains to computers a report from
The Wall Street Journal later confirmed
in a tweet by mr. musk said the company
was in its very early stages and
registered as medical research our
medical research firm the company will
develop so called neural lace technology
which would implant tiny electrodes into
the brain the techniques could be used
to improve memory or give humans added
artificial intelligence so that is great
news isn't it Jeff you know I think this
is a really cool story but at the same
time it freaks me out simply because as
you're going through it I'm thinking
about the fact that we can use DNA to
store data right so if something like
this
is put into place what's to stop
somebody from creating this ability to
store data within our brain through
hijacking or something and then next
thing you know you're all walking
goldmine of information that you don't
know about totally until suddenly you
start dreaming about it okay so that is
worst-case scenario yes it is besides I
officers if we were to best-case
scenario this you wouldn't lose your
memories right if they use it as memory
enhancement you wouldn't lose your
memory it could be better at memories
because their store has enhanced
cognition you could potentially help
people with Parkinson's or any sort of
neurological diseases at all right and
that's the good news sign as you can do
is use something like that I mean if
you're built into some you know robotic
suit that has the assistance of mobility
you know you think hey I want to move my
arm to go grab this glass and I mean I
wonder if this means that if people who
were like brain blind so their eyes work
but their brain doesn't receive the
images if they had this narrow lace on
it could they see again could you be
bringing sight back feel like I've
already heard that that's been done I
don't know I just feel like gone Thank
You mr. mask you're opening the world of
possibilities you can make people robots
okay it's pretty deep very deep all
right most people who search on Google
share on facebook and shop on amazon
have never heard of Sir Tim berners-lee
but they might not be doing any of those
things had he not invented the world
wide web berners-lee 61 is this year's
recipient of the am touring award which
is computing version of the Nobel Prize
the award announced yesterday by the
Association for Computing Machinery
marks another pinnacle for the British
native who has already been knighted by
queen elizabeth the second and named as
one of the 100 most important people of
the 20th century by time magazine i
would say he's one of the most important
people and influential people of all
time I think at this point the inventor
of the internet you know the World Wide
Web he is the man so what I can't figure
is why is it just take until now for him
to win an award it's it's weird right
they get night it at the same time
though which is it's something we take
for granted every day even right now
hopefully people can see the stream
again make sure the Internet's ok but
really like we use it so often do we
take it for granted right yeah because
this is somebody's literally life's work
he's put his like hired and soul into it
and we use it every day and we don't how
many people know about his history right
the story of making unit I think it's
cool I think it's amazing i love this
kind of stuff because people need to be
recognized for those kind of
advancements and really changed the
world credible alright thanks for
watching the category 5 TV news room
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website so the category
5 TV news room I'm Sasha tomatoes
[Music]
[Applause]
you
