what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category
TV or email us at live at category 5 TV
and now let's begin here's your host
where I'll be Ferguson's welcome to
episode number 177 of category 5
technology TG Tuesday febri the 8th 2011
long to the shell 77 welcome i am king
or king king king hey it's nice to have
here I just you know I'm just as amused
by the monitors as my daughter he's had
an awful lot of cold medication folks
I'm not sure what it is but I want a
couple of them this is indeed going to
be the most nasally episode of category
5 TV zone as Robbie versa and I've Eric
kid we're actually still analog believe
it or not cadwell tonight but we do our
best we do our best but the new cable is
on order and deaf we should be up and
good next week with the digital hdmi
which is fantastic yeah sounds good
how's your week been my week it's been
alright yeah and the week end well I'm
supposed to remember those things I'm
supposed to remember the weekend it was
super bowl weekend I mean oh my goodness
I did actually tell me in a couple of
times but you know there was there was
some hockey going on and I i did have
really bit of chili so you didn't see
didn't actually watch the game mm-hmm
there was a football game yes we started
a new tradition here and look at this I
am dipping fresh tea look at that
dripping green tea dipping dripping 20
it okay i just thought it some cheers in
my blue to mug is tea tonight try to get
better you don't want you don't want to
touch glasses with me hmm okay that's
who made the coffee that sim i made the
coffee right and i ve probably breathed
on it too sure I did what was I saying
oh we started a new tradition of with
category 5 viewers this weekend if you
follow me on twitter twitter com /
Robbie Ferguson and that's
what are you laughing at he go you got a
good kick out of a dish yeah I did well
there's a there's a handful of us geeks
who simply don't believe in the
tradition of football for whatever
reason I'm not philosophically against
football and I got beat up in high
school just as much as the next guy and
that is why we this year we founded
super Trek Sunday why are you laughing
at John so pretty much you know myself
and well we pretty much you know SAT
around watching Star Trek while everyone
else was watching the game it was I
didn't I didn't have a problem with
super track weekender noble super truck
sunday super trucks under yeah did
anybody anybody participate who's
joining us in the chat room tonight it
was actually pretty good I was opposite
now our jerk our jerk art and he won
good good good USS Enterprise for the
win yeah she didn't see that coming
speaking in didn't see it coming gadwal
says you could have let us know two or
three days ahead of super Trek Sunday
well we just made it up the morning
outreach that's how original and it√≠ll
creative now it's gotta be spider-man
date if I pretty much woke up sunday
morn and realized as I'm watching my
Twitter fly by with news about sports
that okay we got to do something about
this I have an idea John next year we'll
have the category five Invitational tag
football game on Super Bowl Sunday in
the snow it was a dreary later super
Trek sunday it's gonna be an annual
thing we're already talking about our
own wrestling your Trek stuff but we'll
still playful we're gonna produce our
own commercials and everything yeah
right in the cell look what look great
it'll be good time so plan for it super
track sunday next Super Bowl okay I
don't know much about super bowl I
honestly don't like is it an annual
thing well no started in 67 it started
in 67 okay so
Ben annual for a few years yeah oh you
weren't born then were you so yes it's
every year for you okay it's not it
every year for me so when I in for next
year all my lovely geek friends we can
play football but will dress up the
start right here we're not gonna play
football are we exactly if it's minus
five or less all right okay tonight
we're talking about safer internet day
here in Canada will be a chat about that
for a little bit also we've got a
feature tonight we're going to be
looking at how to choose the right surge
protection for your computer and other
peripherals what prompted that Oh we'll
talk about it a little bit we've also
got that chance for you to win Wirecast
for so stick around and lots of
questions to to cover tonight yes ask
you to join us in in our chat room
category 5 TV we'd love to have you
there yeah well so what do you got going
on oh I don't know should we jump into a
couple questions can we do that already
let me fantastic seems early well this
is for Mark S and an Ubuntu 10.04 user I
just got a logitech USB desktop
microphone and cannot get it to be
recognized I've seen other people get
them to work but their explanations are
not clear to me Robbie you always answer
the questions with easy to follow
directions which the audience very much
appreciate I'm really trying to stay
away from using Windows I try to listen
to the show every week and would prefer
to watch it live but my job situation
has changed thanks a lot for any help
mark littell mark you should read Robyn
well you've got this USB desktop
microphone it's it's tough when it's a
piece of hardware like that when I don't
have it to test with right but typically
using a boon to what's going to happen
is when you plug in a USB device such as
that and I can't speak for every device
because again it depends on the device
itself but let's see if we were to go up
to our speaker up at the top here and
single click on it and go sound
preferences you're going to see hardware
and you're going to see more than one
input device so what you can do is you
can select the one that you want to be
using which might be that so lets us
choose a device for sound input under
input you might see more than one there
if you plug in that USB device but by
default your computer may just be
grabbing the the one that's built into
your computer or whatever it may be so
if you may not think that the microphone
is working but it may actually be
working it's just that you need to
select it as the input source so again
in order to do that I'll just close that
out again just single click on your
little speaker icon up here sound
preferences and go to input and choose
the device that that happens to be that
logitech USB device for input and that
is of course considering that the device
is in fact working if it's a driver
issue then then you may consult the
ubuntu forums if you good place to check
out because other people who have that
particular device may have already
encountered the problem if it's a
problem and and they may have
suggestions for you on how to get the
drivers working if that's the case but
give that a go first and but without the
hardware myself I I don't have any way
to really know what that issue would be
so but ubuntu forums is a great place
i'm going to post links for you in the
show notes for episode number 177 and be
a great place to get involved in the
community as well of people who are
sharing the ubuntu experience with you
we're going to for the win and since
mark is not watching live he's have to
watch it later no he might just run and
try it and let us know what okay this is
mark area okay all right mark Cheers
well um this is unfortunate well double
clicking on everything oh no it didn't
work not an herbal click so that's why I
little clicked oh weird oh okay hey
let's see if I may I'm just I kind of
reach over to to your mess here don't
worry I don't talk to my coffee but
you're letting touch your mouse Wow no I
didn't I didn't cough into my hand Ernie
yeah we I may just restart this I map
sometimes not a beautiful thing just
when you're looking at which one are you
trying to look at well we just did that
one so there's a message 76 fantastic
that's course i'll give it a sec give it
a sec just don't click on anything else
okay there you go this is category 5
technology TV as we wait for imap to
download this email which maybe it has
an attachment or some crazy thing that
could be at awesome alright well we'll
check it out get your questions in the
chat room as well category 5 TV we love
to have you there here we go okay that's
all it is patients have known as you
know yeah yeah okay and he clicked this
is in there i clicked somewhere else
where it was saying zero four separate
revisit tag with you okay this is from
Greg and hey Greta rig is using the
Ubuntu 10.04 the old shows on the new
website episodes 12 30 can't find them
let me know where I can have a look
regards sure Greg okay Greg well first
of all the new website is focused
primarily on season four at this point
as we work our way through season for
earlier seasons are going to be added to
the to the new website as well there is
a certain level of work that is involved
in actually making that happen so it's
really a you know as we can we're going
to be adding those for you in the
meantime some of the old RSS feeds still
exist even though they're not
necessarily publicly a
available let me just see if I can
remember one off the top of my head
it'll just confirm that this actually
indeed contains yes here's one that
contains every episode all the way back
to episode 1 so by bypassing the website
temper as a temporary measure and using
this RSS feed you can get some of these
old files okay because these are not
available on our website they are
extremely dated so of course for
nostalgic reasons are just to see how
far the show has comments kind of fun to
look at some of those older episodes but
the content itself is you know when
you're looking at something that's four
years old when it comes to technology
what's up oh I just noticed FL Studio
there yeah FL Studio 7 we're at FL
studio nine all right right so this is
how dated things can be talking about
things like make sure you try barrel so
that you can get the cool effects and
stuff and barrel closed down two years
ago and this compiz fusion right so
these kinds of things in these old
episodes that you're not going to find
too helpful you might find it amusing
and you might learn some things but you
want to be careful with the older
episodes because it might recommend
something be installed on your system
that you don't want to install because
it's three years out of date kind of a
so this link here is vodcast category
five dot TV / main underscore best RSS
and what that feed is is these are
basically the master files at the time
so you'll really really get a sense for
how our quality is improved over the
years so starting with episode number
one and you can just scroll up and you
can download those mp4 files or of
course if you have an aggregator which
is an application like mural internet TV
for example that is able to subscribe to
that feed you'll be able to get those
downloaded to your computer a whole lot
faster as well all right very nice okay
this is from dennis has dennis is that
using lucid as an operator cool after
creating a virtual disk on one machine
then moving it to a second machine the
network stuff doesn't work on the new
virtual machine created on the second
machine how do i change the network
settings to get it to work so talking
about virtual hard disks here maybe in
like virtual box or
really specified in creating a virtual
disk on one machine and moving it to a
second machine physical or virtual or
just with virtual disk I'm not sure
network stuff doesn't if it's a virtual
machine and you're moving the virtual
disk from one virtual machine to another
that's my guess is it's a virtual disk
moving from one virtual machine to
another virtual okay if we're wrong
Dennis let us know in the meantime
double-check your your network settings
on the actual virtual machine that
you're moving the disk over to because
I'm not sure that it would be the drive
related it's going to be the network is
set to NAT as opposed to bridged on your
network adapter for virtual box or
whichever system you're using let us
know if that even I won't take too much
time on it because there's not enough
information there for us to understand
the nature of the problem but if that's
what it is check that you're set to
bridged mode and not NAT mode okay if
it's a physical machine a gamoto
suggesting for example that you're if
you're eth0 is no longer eth0 if it's a
physical machine you need to set that up
in network ET c / network / interfaces i
believe but again that's that's a
physical machine not sure what you mean
by virtual the virtual disk so we'll
wait for an email from your dentist to
clarify okay okay this one will read
this one from category 5
just having a little bit of latency here
picking up some yeah that's aw geez here
I wonder if we're our mail server has
been running a little bit slow since our
a little pogoplug prize giveaway I don't
know if maybe somebody caught on and
said okay we need to put on some
restrictions here oh and that's what's
happening here is that is his email is
taking a moment to load I map it is laga
moto not on out on our internet but just
on the imap server itself so I thought
he was talking about leg of woman from
isla no no idea what he just said did
that have to do something with sports
Scott Oh Scott oh okay well this is ken
Marlowe's question hey you can and the
transition isn't reckon okay and the
operating system is converting a laptop
to ubuntu robbie i have a dual boot
laptop already but since my wife uses it
a lot it mostly stay is using vista i
salvaged another laptop to be my own and
plan on installing ubuntu question what
benefits might i need to consider
whether i should set up a dual boot or
just wiping out the original OS which
was a caddy and getting rid of it since
i have access to a Windows system if
needed cool alright so new laptop want
to be able to do a boot or wonder if
that's even worth with you want right
thing is is dual booting really depends
on how you know do you need any of the
windows features interesting thing about
windows or about linux i should say
pardon me whoops don't want to make that
slur too often interesting thing about
linux is you can boot from a live CD
like segun tu for example right and with
that live CD you'll be able to you'd be
able to actually check out what features
of bhuntu or what features of the linux
distribution of choice work on your
system so that way you're able to find
out before you go wiping out your hard
drive if you're happy with the way
things are going to perform other than
the fact that you're running off of the
CD so it's going to be ultra slow
whether you want a dual boot is really
dependent on do you ever need windows
like need windows so that would be the
gamer the person who wants to be able to
boot into a native windows environment
to play the favorite windows games that
said if you're not a heavy gamer and you
just play the occasional World of
Warcraft or something you know maybe
those things can be played with wine so
and that's in Linux so you want to check
that out if that's the case but really
these days beyond the most current
current current versions of Photoshop
and you know the gaming those are really
the key things cat applications that are
windows only if you're stuck in that
kind of a boat usually it comes down to
that where somebody spent thousands of
dollars on programs for example and
that's what's holding them into Windows
is that the fact that oh if I fully make
the switch I'm losing that investment
and that's an unfortunate scenario that
can happen quite often especially with
things like Photoshop when you know
graphic designers and web designers
often that happens so if there's nothing
that's holding you to Windows then give
it a try as a full Ubuntu or Linux
operating system on that computer what i
did when i was first experimenting with
linux and this is quite a few years ago
as you can imagine but when i was at
that point i did a dual boot and then i
started what i did is i used that as an
opportunity for me to comfortably phase
out windows so i was able to reboot into
windows use the things like for me it
was photoshop that i needed to do in
windows and then go back to linux for
all of my internet surfing all of my
chatting all of my regular day-to-day
stuff and then I started finding as I
got more and more tired of rebooting I'd
start using the GIMP and I'd realized
that wow I can actually do a lot of the
stuff that I can do in Photoshop in this
free application that comes with with
Linux and then you're able to start
saying okay now I'm at that point where
I've comfortably worked windows out of
my life and and you're able to make that
switch a lot more a lot easier so for
fear of
finding yourself at the place where own
oh my I don't know what to do because
I'm stuck using nothing but linux i
would say dual boot and then that way
you've got that chance to revert back or
some would say regress and then and then
you'd be able to you know have that
failsafe have that something to fall
back on so that you're comfortable and
then really work your way towards
phasing that out and you're going to
save a lot of money and you're going to
save a lot of headaches and you're going
to find a lot of freedom and that would
be that would be the way I'd approach it
for sure comments in the chat room we
welcome them category five TV indeed
okay there's another one and this is
from Dennis Finnegan math man 47 Hayden
Tom and his operating system is windows
7 64 bit and loving it ok so that's the
actual name of the operating system that
you know no we've had some is different
it has a big M for a logo fit I am no
longer able to log into the chat room oh
whatever i try i get a pop-up that reads
you must supply your username and
password in off mode what the heck is
off mode this has been happening for
about two months now i'm logged into the
category 5 TV site so i know your system
recognizes me it is just the chat room
that I can't get into please email by
next Tuesday 6 p.m. EST so I can
participate again by the way it's
snowing like crazy in Chicago coming
your way also i loaded woobie on my
netbook did I pronounce that correct yes
and but didn't find it but it didn't
find my network looks cool otherwise if
you were still getting contest emails
from me it is because of comcast
allowing only 1000 outgoing emails per
day on a personal account they want me
to upgrade to
business account ever heard of that
Thanks first of all just to touch on
emailing you at six pm eastern ocso she
is to see st w central yeah but was like
what time is it so what times i
attribute is our oh oh yeah a little
farther west and should we have time to
email him and you would throw the email
and right now wow if you're watching
this though you'd be too late for the
show at that point yeah it was about 21
miss regard this whole conversation got
an hour of it um Erica typically doesn't
show up an hour early for the show to
pass along email to me you know you know
you know what all mostly it is Robin you
know what that is it's called on time
that's that's what it is right sound
check it 645 no no 659 in exactly so so
I didn't I didn't hear I didn't hear
that bit so sorry about the lack of
email as far as I knew it was my fault
but I don't ring design match mine I'm
sorry do so now that said I know you're
watching so let's let's figure this out
for you hopping over to our website
category 5 TV when you click on interact
and then chat room what happens is it
automatically detects that you're you
know now I'm not logged in so it's
showing guest you're going to be showing
us whatever your login name is now that
might be confusing because you know you
login to our website and click on
interact and chat room anything you're
bringing up our chat room and things
like that but you'll notice from the
address bar that what you're actually
doing here is that your your piping your
connection over to webchat freenode net
free no net of course is a popular IRC
server for open source advocates and
things like that and that said you're
actually connecting to their server
we're not actually getting the chat
service from our server so when you go
here and you enter anything in here be
it in your case if it's math man
or whatever it is so if I tried to go
Robbie right and then I try to connect
let's say it automatically entered
Robbie 185 comma or two things off to
services if that's unchecked it's not
going to ask you for a username and
password if it or and if it is checked
by me they are it is going to ask you
for username and password what that
means is off to services means that you
have a registered freenode account so at
some point you've registered with nick
serve and that is your account so that
nobody else can log in as you that said
if you don't log in if you don't off to
the services now that you've got a
registered account it will automatically
either dis allow you to connect or it
will switch you over to a guest user
account as soon as you connect so in
that case you can do one of two things
when we have gone over this before but
I'll just quickly touch on it because I
want you to be able to join us tonight
you can change your nickname in my case
I could go Robbie 1234 or something like
that and leave everything else the same
or if you remember what you used as a
username and password so it would be
your username so if it was Robbie or in
your case it was math man and then the
password that you would have used when
you didn't sign up for our website but
when you actually registered as a
registered user for free nodes IRC
server that's what's happening there so
it's just because the username that
you're using is already registered to
someone else if someone else tried to
register or try to login as Ravi F
because that's a registered name because
I'm the operator of our channel for
example that person would receive a
notification that they need to off in
order to be that user and they won't be
able to do that unless they know the
password and that's what you need is the
password for that account so either
create a new account under a different
name or if it is your account you can
you can login as that user so I hope
that with that said within the next
couple of minutes we're going to
suddenly see you join us in the chat
room there as well
that would be great now we didn't hear
you notice off the top of the hour that
we didn't hear from Hillary tonight
she's having some serious bandwidth
issues this evening but she did in fact
send us some clips for tonight's news so
we can we can pretend like she's here we
can say oh hey Hilary can you let us
know what's coming up in the news hey
everyone coming up in the category 5 TV
news room Johanna sburg stock exchange
is switching to linux too because it's
400 times faster than microsoft's
product another hacker has been caught
from a 10 million dollar international
bank heist in 2008 Microsoft wants to
write the book on open source for
Australia the Government of Canada also
won't allow the CRTC to charge us for
our bandwidth usage stick around for the
latest news from the category 5 TV news
room thanks Hilary so she'll be right
with us as far as that goes yeah alright
go another school thanks for joining us
here at category 5 technology TV you'll
find us online triple w category five
dot TV and we invite you to join us in
the chat room if you if you're able to
connect there and like I say I hope that
we see math man joining us tonight cool
and let us know if otherwise and there's
there's other thing that I should
suggest is that you can also install an
application some people like X chat I
like pigeon as a IRC application lets me
connect in and get all my you know chats
going that way through a single buddy
list so cool today is safer internet day
here in Canada I don't know if you knew
Wow it was like a sudden announcement
that came through from the Canadian
Centre for child protection at protect
children CA and what they're suggesting
today not just to Canadian internet
users and parents especially but also
anyone around the world it's just a call
to be smart about
are our internet usage and the way that
our kids are using Internet in
particular just a call to educate
ourselves and here's a good opportunity
to do that with category 5 but to learn
a little bit about how the internet
works if if it's something that you find
challenging or if it's something that
you're not quite sure what your kids are
even up to on the internet when they're
using it because they are very
fast-paced these days they've basically
grown up with it from birth so you know
some of the things that they can do with
the computer is pretty astonishing to a
lot of us so what the call to do on this
day the what they're calling the safer
internet day is to make sure that we
educate ourselves to the point where we
know what's going on with the computer
so we know what the kids are doing with
the computer and and that's not a call
to do anything more than to protect them
from from online predators and things
that we don't want them to to see or be
involved in there are different
applications that you can look at if
you're a linux user there's a program
called dansguardian which is a tool that
allows you to to actually filter
internet usage and there is open dns if
you want to be able to control things
that a dns level which don't be
intimidated it's not that it's not as
complicated as it may sound but
basically being able to say okay
anything that goes through my internet
connection needs to be it can't fall
under these categories and with a couple
of check boxes with opendns you'd be
able to say you know we can't visit
pornographic sites we can't visit
gambling websites or violent websites
things like that so that works really
well at a DNS level meaning that nowhere
on your network can that happen also if
you're a Windows user there's a program
that you can get take a look at cat five
dot TV / a spy the word is SP why and
that's a program called spy agent and
while the name does make it sound a
little bit ominous and like you're
spying on your on your kids it's more of
a you know again it's about protection
it's about monitor
going on in the computer and then being
able to take pre-emptive action to say
okay without having to do anything other
than just a couple of checkboxes just
saying okay this kind of content is not
permitted on the computer and it would
automatically filter those things out so
that's cat5 TV / spy for a commercial
windows application that's a good tool
as well but again dansguardian is a free
one but a little more complex to set up
because it's a it's it's a little bit
different but we can certainly help with
that as well and then and then like I
said Open DNS is a great service and a
spy agent at cat5 TV / spy but what I'll
do is we'll post links in the show notes
for episode number 177 with a couple of
ideas and if you have some ideas for how
you can protect your children online I
would ask that you even post them either
in the chat room here during the live
show or also pop over to our forum our
viewer forum at category five dot TV to
participate in the conversation and give
your suggestions and even help people to
help protect their children as well
again the canadian centre for child
protection is at protect children dot CA
and i'd encourage you to check out what
it is that they do as a non-profit and
and see some of the resources that they
have there as well so ok cool hey rummy
hey math man Chicago is with us hey Matt
man just check to the off box Oh
unchecked it okay so in your case it was
automatically checked there you go there
we have it hey very nice to have you
here joining us live sorry for the lack
of email his fault I was on time all
right almost I'm so plain I'm so playing
all right off to Hillary in the newsroom
to find out what's coming or what is
actually going on in the world of
technology today was up Hilary with us
from earlier this afternoon take it away
category 5e news
I am beset by the London Stock Exchange
penis per stock exchange AFP has
announced addition into an all linux
based in
the jse currently operates at a London
and runs on a trading platform based on
microsoft dotnet and SQL Server 2000 it
plans to move to a linux-based trading
platform by the first half of 2012 the
Linux platform provides greatly
increased trading speeds over the
Microsoft based solution executing
transactions almost 400 times faster
than the current trading platform a 27
year old Russian hacker pleaded guilty
this week stealing 10 or 10 million
dollars from a former royal bank of
scotland division back in 2008 yevgeni
Anakin has admitted that he was a part
of the International hacking ring that
executed the cyber heist according to
Reuters they hacked accounts of the bank
consumers then raised the maximum
withdrawal limit and organized
simultaneous withdrawals of all the
funds from ATMs located in Europe the US
and asia Anakin is not the first member
of the hacking ring to be caught and
sentenced late last year another one
received a prison sentence of six years
from a court in st. Petersburg Microsoft
has called for the australian government
agencies to engage with all forms of
software development communities be they
proprietary or open-source in response
to official news in Canberra to come to
embrace open-source alternatives in a
letter to special Minister of State gary
Gray released on Monday the software
giant welcomed the federal government's
newly revised open-source policy which
required agencies to consider open
source and IT procurements Microsoft is
also offer to contribute to the
development of a federal guide to open
source software noting that its
experience as a vendor to the government
could be of some value can you imagine
Microsoft running the book on open
source software while the scenes
incredibly backwards it just shows that
Microsoft will try any tactic possible
the controversial crtc decision that
effectively impose usage based internet
billing on small service providers will
be reversed by the government I've seen
your Conservative government official
said Wednesday that the CRTC should be
under no illusion the prime minister and
minister of industry will reverse the
decision unless a CRT does so itself the
crtc decision sparked outrage across the
country with
rushing to sign petitions asking the
Conservative government to reverse it
Industry Minister Tony Clement received
tens of thousands of emails requesting
that the CRTC's decision be struck down
it's a battle for all parties involved
here but with the Canadian government on
the side of the consumer you can help
for the best in the meantime if you've
been with the same internet service
provider since 2007 or before contact
them to see if you're eligible to be
considered grandfathered for your
account meaning that no matter what
happens your billing won't change you
can get these full stories at our
website at category 5 TV / newsroom the
the newsroom is researched by roy w nash
with contributions from gadget wisdom
guru becca ferguson and our wonderful
community and viewers if you've a new
store you things worthy of on-air
mention send us an email at newsroom at
category five guinea for the category 5
TV news room I'm Hillary rumble whether
you've only just heard of Linux or are
an expert here's your chance to learn
more about it at the Southern California
Linux expo for 2011 scale has added
another track / system administrators
scale now has five speaker tracks for
you to choose from scale 9x features
over 65 speakers covering the latest
topics and open source software the expo
floor has grown to over 80 booze with
commercial and nonprofit organization
showcasing products and software and the
friday special sessions have returned to
on friday you can choose from Foss
mentoring devops de los angeles los
angeles postgres sequel de scale
university or fedora activity day the
Southern California Linux Expo is
februari 25th 26th and 27 2011 at the
hilton los angeles airport hotel for
more information or to register for the
expo visit socal linux expo org use
promo code cast CA esti for forty
percent off your registration and we'll
see you at scale 9x
you've heard all about Wirecast on
episode 175 now try your hand at
internet broadcasting with the
incredible live broadcasting suite from
telestream visit cat5 TV / Wirecast and
give the free trial version of wire cast
to spin find out how it works on your
system start your own broadcast record
your show to disk and have fun when
you're ready telestream in category 5 TV
would like to give you a whopping
twenty-five percent off the price to
purchase Wirecast between now in
February 13 and there's a coupon code
cat5 TV during checkout and you'll
receive an automatic twenty five percent
discount on your purchase of any
Telestream product visit cat5 TV /
Wirecast today and remember to use the
coupon code cat by TV wirecast from
Telestream get it now at cat five TV /
Wirecast this is category 5 technology
TV episode number 177 and you'll find
our website at category five dot TV we'd
love to have you join us there at the
community and of course this is a live
weekly show and we love having you here
tonight we're going to be looking at
making sure that we choose the right
surge protection and I'll let you I'm
sure you've got that email that we
received this morning already queued up
and ready to go there we go this this I
actually received this morning and I say
you know what this this calls for a
little bit of an information kind of you
and I are just going to bounce some
ideas around and talk about what is
important as we consider what kind of
surge protection to to purchase okay
well here we go well we had some
excitement around here monday morning at
around ten to seven in the morning i was
sitting in the dining room table or at
the dining room table okay suddenly the
lights dimmed turned back on really
bright then went off totally and came
right back on along with two loud pops
in the kitchen like gunshots and there
was a sign
the side like thunder Wow then we could
smell Birds electrical while my husband
was in the kitchen when those two loud
pop sounded he saw sparks come oded the
kitchen powerless so he runs around
checking everything we blew three fuses
the dishwasher our printer and the power
bar for one of our computers is poached
good thing we had a good surge protector
power bar for the computer or it would
be toast a half hour later I noticed a
fire truck at the end of our driveway
there was some kind of power surge in
her neighborhood besides affecting
everyone's houses it caused an explosion
in the trance transfer panel in the
basement of the district office the
transfer panel melted and caused a small
fire so the district was closed today
well they got rid of the smoke and tried
to get the computers up and running
again after talking with others in the
neighborhood it turns out at least two
of our neighbors had their computers
pooched one loss to TV my laptop was on
and fortunately it was okay but a blue
light bulb in the lamp beside it are we
ever glad we didn't lose our computers
hmm there you go I've heard that one
many times we ever had it happen I have
not had a computer blow I've had
services that but that's not completely
true I've had computers completely get
toasted but that's when I was working as
a team ready station and we had a
thousand foot tower outside right so
that's kind of even have all the surge
protection right world right sometimes
for the end users though for ourselves
at home and stuff it's important for us
to recognize that each device that we
plug into our wall to our network needs
to really have some protection and a lot
of people don't really understand maybe
you understand the importance of it but
do you understand the difference between
you know why are there surge protectors
that are eight dollars versus why are
there some that are in the thirty or
forty dollar range and sometimes even
more one of the things that I think is
important to note with a surge protector
is if you go around to your surge
protectors each one has a little light
on it and sometimes you find that that
light is flickering and you know what
that means have you ever encountered
that
traditionally when a light like the
light on your on your power switch or
the light that says protected if those
lights are flickering or powered off
that means that the surge protector has
already been through as many surges as
it can handle so it's it's now at that
point just a strip bar it's giving power
but it's not actually protecting you so
if you go around to each of your surge
protectors and you find that you know
one or two of them are flickering then
this means that it's time to replace
that particular unit it's no longer
providing adequate protection for you
beyond that just understanding things
like you know what does it mean when you
know it protects you against so many
joules because each one says you know
Jules 200 joules 70 but really no
explanation on the packaging what that
means Just Energy exactly it's how much
energy Jules how much energy can go
through this device before it fails so
if the device if one device is
comparably priced to another and there's
two thousand joules difference between
the two the one that has the higher
number means it's going to protect you
against a lot more than that one that
has a really low number so we want to
watch for things like that response time
how quickly is the surge protector
actually going to protect your equipment
sometimes that's not always easy to find
but usually on a better unit you're
going to see little specks that are
going to tell you the response time and
if it's less than one nanosecond that
pretty much means that in the split
second that that that surge comes in it
automatically protects your equipment
very very quickly so that combined with
a high jules rating is going to mean
that you're going to get really fast and
really effective protection against
power spikes we'll talk a little bit
more about some of the other things you
want to look for but there are so many
different types of surge protectors out
there some in different types of strip
bars and sometimes you see even just the
units that you plug into the wall and
they turn your two outlets into six
outlets but those kinds of things are
usually and sometimes they do but
they'll be well marked if they do but
usually those things don't carry any
amount of surge protection at all so in
those cases it's it's you're basically
just plugging something straight into
the wall
and you're not getting yourself any
protection yeah and by the time your
breaker blows or your fuse blows exact
typically blowing something up right and
when you think about and that that
brings another point where if the
breaker trips you still burned out
whatever is connected to that breaker
most likely there's there's still a
really high chance there so there is a
difference between these surge
protectors that are breaker based versus
kind of a delicate electronic unit which
is probably not going to survive you
know even if the breaker blows no the
other thing and I have experience with
this now not so many people have modems
but yeah well my good or the fun is that
people still use their computer to do
faxing and that sort of thing and and
you know what there's quite a good
population who are still on dial-up and
that phone line is a really really good
source of the surges there in and
absolutely blow all kinds of components
and you think that not a lot of people
are using dial-up but think about this
you've got a printer that's an all in
one that has a fax machine that printer
is plugged into your phone line which as
eric says is a really great source of
power surges which is like a boost where
you're supposed to have 120 or 240 volts
depending on where you are in the world
and all of a sudden that doubles and
then it fries anything that's connected
to that so it comes into that printer
through the phone line say and then
through the USB cable or Ethernet cable
that's plugged into those your network
or your computer it then kind of has a
cascade effect of frying other items
networking cables that like ethernet
cables and all that sort of thing every
little component can carry a heck of a
surge and you even your cable modem you
know it here's me I'll give you a good
story here's one where guy a guy number
you know we'll call him Joe Joe Blow
okay just to be safe because there's not
too many job blows these days he has
three computers two of them are brand
new top and line computers and he's got
really nice surge protectors on them but
the other one the third one is the old
clunker and he doesn't really care so
he's got that one plugged right into the
wall and who cares
not like let it fry was going let it fry
look right but what Joe is not realizing
is that very same computers connected
into the exact same internet on the
exact same ethernet router that's
connected into those great computers
right so Serge comes in through that old
clunker computer that he doesn't care
about and goes up through that ethernet
cable into his printer into his
computers into anything that's connected
to that network so it just shows where
you really have to have proper surge
protection on every device that's
connected into your to your system
there's there's so much to choose from
and it makes it really really hard like
you look at something like this the
retails for eight bucks right yeah sure
it's got no surge protection it's just
got a little circuit breaker right so
you hope that it will trip good for I
don't know Christmas tree lights yeah
that may protect your toaster I think it
would melt if you plugged a toaster into
it to be honest you got a high enough
amperage there but something like that
really really risky to be plugging
something expensive into like a
television or a computer system
something that you want to last there's
no power governance there there's no
filtering of the power if there's spikes
if there's drops if someone fires up the
microwave on the same circuit and that
causes a little bit of a digit the line
there's nothing to protect you against
that one of the other things we look at
when we're looking at purchasing a surge
protector a UPS anything to protect our
line is how confident is the
manufacturer in the product and the
easiest way generally to tell that is
what kind of warranty are they giving
you on your connected devices you'll
notice if you're looking at some of the
higher end stuff you're going to find
that well this one has an connected
equipment warranty of ten thousand
dollars whereas this one has four
hundred thousand dollars connected
equipment warranty so if we develop it
into that one exactly so if you've got
your computer plugged in and that's
worth four hundred thousand dollars in
it fries I mean who has a four hundred
thousand dollar computer right so
now I have the Cray in the basement so
example number one there's no warranty
with that they're not giving you any
kind of guarantee that this is going to
work example number two has its boost
boasting that it has 70 jewels of
protection this one retails for eight
dollars and ninety seven cents so it's a
little bit better it's got sweet 70
jewels of protection but we want to
start you want to consider that if a
power spike comes in you're looking at
bare minimum 200 joules maybe 400 joules
anything under 600 joules of protection
is possibly not going to do any good for
you because remember that that Jules
rating is how much power can get into
this system beyond what is normal before
it fails before it zaps everything
that's connected to it again this one
doesn't carry any kind of warranty it
doesn't guarantee that your equipment is
going to be safe whatsoever I've got
example number three which is a step up
we're stepping into a totally different
price bracket here this is thirty-five
dollars for this one it carries up to 20
470 jewels so we're talking huge jump
between the nine dollar and the $35 rain
right this one has no warranty so the
company is not saying if you connect
stuff to this and it gets fried will
protect you they're not saying anything
like that you're still risking you know
that it's going to have to come off of
insurance if if anything gets zapped but
at least you know that it's boasting
that is going to be able to protect you
against over two thousand joules of
power which is really fantastic so I
would say as far as power bars go
something like that is kind of what you
want to be looking for right
so if you've got your computer plugged
into any of those lesser models you
might want to find out how many joules
does that protect you against stepping
things up even further here's a device
that is just a little bit more expensive
thirty seven dollars and ninety-nine
cents this one now here we go now we're
talking this one protects you against
almost 4,000 joules and carries a
$300,000 lifetime connected equipment
warranty as well as a warranty on the
product itself so should you have your
equipment get fried on this device
they're guaranteeing after up to three
hundred thousand dollars of coverage in
order to replace that device now doesn't
do anything for you for your data it so
you still need to have your backups you
still need to make sure that they're
kept off site or whatever needs to be
done to keep those safe but they're
going to replace the equipment at least
and that's a gain a way that we can tell
that the manufacturer of this device
says okay here's a really good one
because they're saying okay we'll pay
you up to three hundred thousand dollars
if it should be needed and not only that
we're going to do it for the lifetime of
the product not just for one year right
so watch out for that kind of stuff as
well so I'd say as far as power surge
protectors go there you go something
like that like an actual lightning
strike can be anywhere from 1 billion oh
10 billion joules totally totally so
wouldn't you like to know that you've
got three hundred thousand dollars worth
of protection on that indeed right so
that's that you know you can see where
this is you know where that's important
so moving into a completely different
line of products we're now looking into
what's called volt amps which is these
are devices that are powered by
batteries these are not only going to
protect you against power spikes so
increases in power but now they're also
going to protect you against drops in
power these are called uninterruptible
power supplies or you've heard them
called UPS's and these are these have
batteries in them so not only do they
protect you against the surges but they
also protect you when the microwave
comes on and get that little bit of a
jolt they also protect you if the power
goes out and then comes back on that can
be deadly for a computer if the power
just flash is off and on like a brownout
or something
like that that can just neck and damage
a hard drive that can just recall kinds
of havoc so this is going to be the unit
that protects against that is called a
UPS but when we really start looking at
them we realize that here is a $63 model
and its really entry level but what we
find is that even though they cover it
for 75 thousand dollars of connected
equipment okay so there is a bit of a
warranty there there's a little bit of
power it's 350 volt amp so you might get
a couple of minutes but the rating as
far as how much protection you get from
surges goes substantially down here we
are with the entry level UPS even though
it's more money than the vast power
surge protector that we found there just
earlier is only giving you 365 jewels of
protection so if you ask me that's less
than what i would call the minimum
projection now this is providing another
service your ex abs oglum isn't going to
be lost when the you know the power or
the hard drives not going to fail exists
the power Browns out right but but
you're swapping sir sides here yeah
you're saying okay I'm going to invest
money in the battery backup portion so
that is now degrading the quality of the
the actual surge protection portion so
we need to find out wokay well if we're
going to get the UPS how far do we have
to go as far as far as getting proper
protection so now we're gonna step up to
a 420 volt amp unit here this one is
$125 and carries no warranty as far as
you know it does have an equipment
warranty as you would expect but it
doesn't have any connected equipment
warranty you're going to find that with
UPS is they're going to start you know
as you get higher end they're going to
no longer have that connected equipment
warranty and that's normal this one
protects against 412 jewels of power so
we're getting closer it's a little bit
better but it's still not even close to
anything that that those little things
we're doing here we've got one that is
two hundred two hundred eighty dollars
basically carries protection against 540
jewels so we're getting closer to the
600 mark and we can say okay well here's
one that is actually half decent as far
as the protection goes it's got 750 volt
amps of battery power so that means it's
going to power hour
a little bit longer than the 350 for
sure and it's got because it's got 540
jewels of power protection against
spikes it's going to protect us a lot
better than that that entry-level unit
as well but it's getting pretty
expensive see so then we're stepping
into more what you would consider for
servers or high-capacity users where
here's a unit that is five hundred and
forty nine dollars but it protects
against 645 jewels of power again no
warranty on the connected equipment but
that one's going to do the job for you
but you can see the jump still not as
much protection as that $37 surge
protector but we've got the battery back
cover it's yeah check my browser
protecting so what you do is you by the
really decent power bar with the high
protection and you plug your you P as
long as you're smart about it here's the
trek is you get that lesser ups just as
Eric same and then you get the good
surge protector and do it the other way
around plug the surge protector into the
wall and plug the battery back up into
the surge protector so that the surge
never gets to the UPS absolutely so
important for us to understand how that
stuff works so that we can see okay well
yeah this UPS has got to be better
protection as more money and it's better
but it's not actually providing you
nearly as much surge protection as just
a standard just like a good power bar so
keep that in mind and do go around to
all of your power bars this week I'd
encourage you to check them out and just
make sure that they are protecting you
as well as possible check for flickering
lights and and make sure that that
you're protected because I don't want to
have happen to you what's happened to
our friends who email this and another
thing I learned was playing with
computers around the TV station is it's
it's not a case of if this UPS is going
to fail it when is this particular one
going to fail because a lot of people
get that it's like they buy their
antivirus and they don't do the updates
it's like you're really not protected if
you don't at least check your batteries
every six months or every year you've
got a it's it's like a car you gotta do
maintenance you gotta do your checks you
gotta check the oil once absolutely yeah
so you got to make sure those batteries
are charged every once in a while you
should actually do a test and you know
people so you don't actually have a test
button yeah and you can and some of them
like my units here their higher end and
they automatically run a test I think
it's like once a week or once a month or
something they automatically switch over
to battery power and just to test the
battery you'd be surprised how often it
happens where somebody's got a UPS
they've got a really nice one and they
yep had it there for and and the power
goes out and they everything goes down
generally speaking they're worth there
they're going to last for three years
the batteries but keep in mind just and
and John will be happy to know this is
that the batteries are recyclable right
so those batteries the unit's themselves
the batteries can come out they can go
to a recycling plant and you can buy new
batteries to put into the UPS you don't
need to replace the UPS you're going to
save yourself a ton of money there like
12 bucks per battery some of the
higher-end UPS's will have maybe four
batteries in them sometimes up to six
but a general home user UPS might have
one maybe two two batteries in them
you're looking at twelve to twenty-four
dollars to replace the batteries and
follow the safety instructions they do
we hold for the urge yeah they can
change them free electricity it's not
just a little absolutely battery yes 120
times do for sure hey beyond that you
can win Wirecast for log on into our
website category five dot TV we would
love to have you there if you're not
already registered register as a viewer
and go to our just click on support us
and then advertise on category 5 TV when
you're there as long as you are logged
in you're going to see how you can win a
free copy of wire cast for three I like
for more information on that beautiful
broadcast suite which we use to
broadcast this show you can just check
out cap five dot TV / Wirecast also i
have been nominated for a shorty award
whoa which i say it like that because it
sounds fancy but it was my wife that
nominated me bless her soul she's a doll
but in in geekdom this is true there are
very few chances for geeks to get a
trophy I was jealous of the kids in
football trophy well in school you know
no you just don't you don't get that can
you see all the kid you know as the kid
that is the the geek in the family and
you know it's like you're not the one
who's coming home with trophies and
things here's my chance to get a trophy
my friends so if you would kindly
nominate us all you have to do is go to
shorty awards calm / Robbie Ferguson and
I'm going to bring this up just so that
you can see what's going on Robbie
Ferguson was nominated for a shorty
award and down here you go I nominate
Robbie Ferguson for a shorty award in
tech because and make sure you fill in
whatever you say okay but you have to
fill in a becuz and then you go tweet
your vote and you're good to go I'd
appreciate that if we can get because
his sidekick air cuz he's a pretty
awesome guy that would be my chance to
take home a trophy my friends the the
actual event is in i believe march down
in New York and I'd love to be a part of
it be fantastic so please do vote for me
shameless self-promotion there and don't
forget fairly shameless self-promotion
but I'm Donald it it's it's important
though my one chance my one chance guys
don't forget less than one week away
until Valentine's Day get your darling
something well it's time to to not
forget any longer you're trying to night
what a pogoplug order or I don't think
so here's a rule of thumb guys if it has
a surgeon took a UPS perhaps rule of
thumb that I use with my wife is if it
has a why
coming out of it she won't like it a
toaster she won't like it a pogoplug she
won't like it shemale of a pogoplug but
not on Valentine's Day okay get her a
nice box and shot chocolates and flowers
something romantic dinner round hire a
babysitter for the kids whatever it
takes this monday is Valentine's Day
guys all right don't forget it's all she
wrote that's all the time we have for
tonight's it hope we covered a lot for
you this is category 5 TV and we'll see
you on our website category five dot TV
and until next Tuesday night take care
I'll see you the shorter words hope so
nope
