welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five 41 tonight
we're gonna be looking at the GNU image
manipulation program how to create
avatars from an image yes and as well
we're gonna be giving away a copy of
debt effect to VR so hopefully we've got
you ballot in for that and we're also
gonna be finding out just where you rank
on Google as the bald nerd more of that
from around the world
mm-hmm what I've got Cody as well we're
gonna be looking at how to get Cody all
set up on your computer and deploy the
category 5 TV network on your Kodi to
installation so you can watch any of our
shows or watch us live right in Cody
rustic route we'll be right back this is
category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer for
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 DV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku
Kodi Plex and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category 5
dot T category 5 TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here cat5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 TV slash i AI feet hey
welcome to the show this is episode
number 541 my name is Robby I'm Sasha
and I'm Jeff and we're in opposite sides
yes it's got a mess everything around
we've got all these new studio sets that
we've been working out so it is a little
bit of luck are you looking over there I
feel like I gotta turn it like what do
you think Sasha I don't I don't like
change so I'm always in the middle all
right hey welcome to the show I want to
say thank you again this week to our
torrent seeds those are the folks who
have downloaded seasons upon seasons of
category 5 TV absolutely free through
our BitTorrent server and then they are
then seeding that or distributing it
forward paying it forward if you will
and allowing other people to download it
through their download so the more
people who seed the faster other people
can download our shows and also the less
it costs us here at studio D in order to
distribute the show can because we do
this for free because we offer category
5 TV to you for free it's a great way
you can help us that so thank you to
everyone who is pitching in with that
last week Jeff you were away I was away
here it was a great show I always miss
the good shows I'm the number one Bob
nerd in the world in the world in the
world there's a whole lot of bulb
Mattson we just there are a lot like
700,000 of us apparently oh but not the
number to be higher
at least those who come up in Google Oh
fair enough number one that's exciting
also sup know when you google my name I
feel up first my husband my name like
not like like this is bald nerd but yeah
I'm sure I come up for Robbie what is
this and ripping that comes up all day
or is it remaineth right right so it's a
it's adapted that quickly yeah Wow
oh yeah Google Aaron's google's AI is
like oh she's married now
Wow see every once in a while I will
Google my name and I always get some
sort of executive from the mid u.s. that
pops up and I'm like that is not me
alright alright yeah
classic important enough classic TV ads
refers back to our episode last week
where we were talking about me being the
number one ball player in the world this
is a true story if you go to google and
you type in bald nerd there are a bunch
of pictures that come up in Google
Images and there are you I'm the first
one and so I didn't know whether that's
something to be proud of Jeff or if
that's something to be I think it's
marketability it's a t-shirt a t-shirt
that just says I am the bald nerd yes
yeah number one bald earn yes you should
have a coffee mug that says number one
both nerd wow this is really getting to
be an expensive thing it is but all
these custom-made things you know how
there used to be the thing where it's
like oh what does lazy mean well look so
look it up in the dictionary you'll see
someone's picture yes it's like and
there I what a classic TV odds say
Sascha you're the number one in the
Google you UK search as well yes awesome
and there's probably bald nerds in UK oh
definitely a few of us and for being a
Ferguson you know there are a few of us
to compete over the first place spot
mmm-hmm it's true know what in Germany
says that you Germany in Germany I must
be number 10 in Germany you are number
one in Germany number one in Germany but
there are only six hundred and eighty
five thousand results that's it that's
all so a little less competition for the
number one spot not quite as impressed
Boyd bremmer Minh says you're number one
in Yakima Washington yes I my life goals
and dreams have been fulfilled it's
gonna be he's just gonna read number one
balnaird
enough said mic drop yeah I'm gonna go
change my neck to the bald nerd there we
go
[Laughter]
okay so last week we were using the JVC
HV 170 you you and it was pulsing in and
out of focus I noticed this you notice
that yes cuz I did watch live even
though I wasn't on the show Jack smarted
min mentioned it as well okay
and he says anybody else see the
blinking the blinking weird the blinking
was actually it's this whole we're
constantly evolving here at category 5
TV from new studio sets to new cameras
to doing what we can to bring you the
best quality that we possibly can on the
budget that we have and one of the great
things that we have now sasha is we have
a real teleprompter
a real one mm-hmm and that means there
is glass in front of the camera and as
I'm looking at you camera I see here are
the stories we're covering this week
that is what I see instead of a lens yes
just waiting for you it's just waiting I
was so far I will say though I I had no
clue you'd out of this feature okay and
I was sitting in my hotel room and
watching the feed through Facebook and
I'm looking at Sasha do the news I'm
like wow she has brought some great
camera presence like she I feel like no
clue and you're like where's the camera
what am I even looking like these are
not computing so just
you're aware that pulsing effect that we
had last week was because the camera
which is a new camera to us so we didn't
know how to turn off the autofocus
I didn't know how I think I think I
figured it out tonight tell me if
everything looks ok tonight chatroom but
that glass in front of the camera lens
what's causing it to freak out and go I
don't know where to focus so focus on
the glass and then it will focus back
out again right and so that's what was
actually happening it's fixed now so we
learn well it I've turned off autofocus
so so hopefully like I press there's a
button that says MF which is manual
focus right there's a lot of buttons on
this camera folks that are I'm learning
that MF is probably the one to push yeah
so let's hope the tonight things look
spectacularly good mm-hmm
we've got a fantastic show for you
Jeff's here sash is here the vault nerds
here and we're gonna be looking at Kody
and getting the category 5 TV channel
working on Kody stick around
Jeff Weston Yemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website aren't you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash dream host welcome back this is
category five technology TV episode
number five forty one so great to have
you here joining us on the show and it's
been it's been quite a ride 541 episodes
and we're going strong no it's great
we're already planning for season 12
whoa I cannot believe it's been so long
it feels like a flash like it really
actually is gone by every hour goes by
like a minute and then absolutely
absolutely and I hope you've been
enjoying the show and everything that
we've been bringing here tonight as I
mention we're gonna be looking at Cody
why are we doing that well because the
question keeps coming in how do I get
category 5 on Cody we tried to tackle it
on a past episode we'll talk about that
but it failed because there was a bug an
incompatibility with the current version
of Cody at that time that since been
fixed so tonight we're reading that and
going back and we're gonna learn all
about it
good times mm-hmm excellent we still
have some copies of debt effects for a
giveaway Oh dat effect to VR how can we
win that we can win that we as in you we
as in you can win that by emailing your
ballot so contest at category 5 TV let
us know where you're watching from so
how you watch and where you're from
right that's all there is to it and you
can win dead affect to VR put on your VR
headset install it on Steam and now that
I have read the book ready player one
which you should this is what you want
this is just diving into VR now I just
want to be you do not want your life to
be dead effect to VR no no I actually
want The Witcher in like VR yeah yeah
okay anyway that's enough so you where
are you watching from Newcastle yeah
you've casted your ballots you've sent
them into contest to category five dot
TV we have a mounted not hundreds not
thousands but several of your ballots
and so tonight is your chance to win all
right
this week's winner is
can I get a drumroll that's all I can do
no idea in hindsight what you did was
better I'm picturing like somebody front
of a baby thinking of my boy oh wow okay
that was just very anticlimactic rod
Morissette I am so sorry watching from
but you did tell us that you're watching
through a Roku or get this a 70 inch 4k
TV so watch and beautiful that's the way
I like to roll very nice very nice so
congratulations yeah we will email you
the installation code for Det effect to
VR on steam it's a steam code it's all
you got to do and then you can install
install once you don't need discs
anymore
I know - it was like oh look my laptop
has this they don't I had a we had a
customer call up and say I want that
laptop and I want it with a an optical
drive DVD Drive yeah so we looked into
it and you we literally could not get it
it's not available you can send sell
that mine there you go
you can buy you can buy an external
still like a USB 3 or something like
that and it's it's just it's just a tiny
little disc drive that you can have as
an external device and that works there
like 25 bucks so yeah they're not much
can't go wrong with old if you have any
sort of like DVDs or CDs and you store
them and properly you probably don't
read anyway so you probably don't need
one
maybe not but see I I am one by no means
am i attack hoarder but I refuse to give
up any software that I've purchased so I
I still have like games from floppy
drive
yeah sitting at home but I'm currently
going through the process of I suing all
my CDs yeah so that I've got a digital
record of it that way I can toss the
plastic but actually keep the disc
because I know at some point
you're not even gonna be able to get
external CD drives I actually as strange
as this is I hold on to the discs yeah I
box them and they're in my garage
because I don't know why but part of me
thinks you know one day you know
somebody will come around and hey do you
have the license to use that software
it's never gonna happen
actually that's yeah I still do that but
case in point Lindos yeah I had my
Lindos dis heartbreaking Jeff that's
heartbreaking I know I had a lot of this
I know we talked about this just after
the new year
I had a Lindos disc that I cleaned
through all my desk side I sewed I
tossed it out and then that week
Robbie's like by the way Lynne spire is
back which is the evolution of lindos
yeah not the disk ugly oh so painful so
depressing yeah so speaking of software
that you can install without the need
for a CD or any kind of media whatsoever
tonight we're looking at Cody if you
head on over to Cody dot TV and on their
website you're gonna find the ability to
download what's called Kodi Media Center
if you click on download you'll see this
is great because it's compatible with
all different kinds of operating systems
so if you're looking if you're using
this on Windows Linux Mac it doesn't
matter choose your weapon even Android
and raspberry pi and iOS how do you like
that so once you have Kodi installed now
all of a sudden you've got a media
center installed on your computer that
allows you to watch tons of different
videos what's neat about Kodi is it is
add-on how do you say it's add-on
compatible it uses add-ons to bring
content to the system you'll notice if
you look at their website just above the
Downloads it actually says and they
can't be any clearer than this
the official Kodi version does not
contain any content whatsoever this
means of course that you need to
actually install add-ons or channels and
things like that in order to get maybe
RSS feeds whatever it is that you need
in order to get content onto Kodi it's
strictly a player the reason that that
is like that and the reason that they
are so firm about that is because as
we've mentioned on the show before cody
has been used for illicit reasons so
you're talking video piracy the ability
to watch shows that you do not legally
have the entitlement to to watch could
one of you take it was actually Dave
Cooper who sent in a query regarding
Cody so Dave says how about a show on
Cody and TV movie apps for it also I
search for cat 5 on Cody and found
nothing a lot of people here in Ohio
that's in the US are very interested so
a show on the ins-and-outs would be just
great thank you and that's the thing if
you install Kodi you get nothing with it
right you'll bring it up and you'll be
like ok well what am I supposed to do
with this now yeah right it's not
everything's not there it's not ready to
go it's like when you install an OS like
Windows and you don't get an office
suite well what do you do you know you
could install LibreOffice absolutely a
LibreOffice is a free alternative but
traditionally people don't maybe know
that and so they go and install a
purchase a copy of Microsoft Office or
something like that yeah Cody is
bare-bones and you need to actually add
things like add-ons so tonight I'm going
to show you how to install the category
5 TV add-on that gives you access to not
only the live show but any of our
back-back content as well so what we're
gonna do is we're gonna bring up our
website now having already installed
Kodi on my computer and assuming that
you're going to have done the same
Kodi is available in your repositories
on linux so you don't have to go to
their website and download it in order
to install it on linux you can just go
into your favorite package manager and
type in cody KO di and you're going to
be able to grab that
you don't have access to it if you're on
Windows or Mac and you don't have a
package manager that works the way that
Linux does you can just go over to Kody
dot TV again it's spelt kayo di so if I
head over to our website category five
dot TV Jeff is much taller than Sascha
and I so we're gonna scroll all the way
down to the very bottom of the site I'm
not sure yeah I think that's where we're
gonna go anyways I may put a more
prominent link in the top bar here
because that would probably be a good
idea but in the meantime if you go to
down to the bottom you'll see links and
there's a button that says simply
subscribe and when you click on
subscribe you see Roku Cody and Plex now
it was mentioned there Dave mentioned
that you got into cody and you started
searching around the channel store
looking for a category-5 add-on and it's
not there and we really really do hope
that eventually it will be there there's
actually I have an issue listed on
github on the Kodi add-ons page
requesting that somebody do a PR to add
our channel to the to the official
add-ons it hasn't happened yet I don't
know what kind of turnaround we should
expect from that if somebody is a coder
and wants to do that PR hey I'd welcome
you to do so our channels ready to go
it's just tell them that you're the
number one bald nerd if she's telling to
it they'll be like what kind of
qualification is that top of Google man
your mum may be proud Robbie yeah Google
Google Baldy just like me too so here on
our website anyways in the meantime Dave
and anyone else who wants it all you
have to do is just go to our website
category 5 TV click on subscribe in the
in the footer and then download Kodi
plug-in and that's going to give you the
file so I've got it there it is so now
that I have that download did you notice
how quick that was now I'm doing this on
Windows 10 you can be doing this on any
platform now that I've got Cody already
installed because I did that on a
previous show I'm going to bring that up
and
is what Cody looks like out of the box
well my library is empty
fantastic what good is that for me so
what I want to do you know I click on TV
shows and I say well there's nothing
there and I click on music oh there's
nothing there so I'm gonna go add-ons
keeping in mind that I have already
downloaded that add-on from
category-five TV now so it's on my hard
drive as a what a zip file from github
so knowing that it is a zip file I'm
going to go over to well I am gonna go
video let's see here
add-ons my add-ons go up a folder and
then install from zip file that's what I
want to find the interface I find it a
little bit clunky but you will find your
way around and it changes from version
to version and I hate that I hate that
you know you'll install an old version
and this may be obsolete that was a head
I feel like I've got like Ontario
weather going on it's true it's true I
read I really don't like it when
interfaces change and this one is no
exception
it does change from version to version
but you're gonna find your way around
what we need is that add-ons install
from zip file now that I've done that I
can go maybe my home folder no that
doesn't take me there so instead I'm
gonna go to see and then users because
I'm on Windows right so Robbie and then
downloads is where my downloads are
located and I've got plug-in video
category 5 - master I've got two of them
and that's because I downloaded it
before the show just in case our
internet was wonky so I'm gonna click on
the first one there and what do you see
category 5 add-on installed would it was
that easy let's go back and you notice
how I'm navigating forward and back and
things like that
right click takes me back right click on
my mouse
and left-click takes me forward so
that's how I'm going back is by a
right-click okay so if I go to video
add-ons now what do I see category five
TV network so it's not just category
five technology TV this is the entire
network so let's click onto that and
look at us so we've got the category
five dot TV newsroom
we've got immersive nature sounds which
is like nature recordings and binaural
so you can hear it in on headphones you
can hear the birds coming up behind you
and things like that pretty cool stuff
what else have we got we've got new
everyday sorry I'm learning the foot
switches new every day that's our faith
broadcast that happens every week we've
got scratch game coding for kids that is
more timers new show we've got tech
clips from category five technology TV
of course technology TV as well
the drones own the pixel shadow of the
show show and the live broadcast as well
when we are alive that will work so if I
go into for example tech Clips you're
gonna see the seasons that are currently
available for that particular
broadcasting and go into season 11 and
you'll notice that not all the seasons
are there for tech clips and that is
simply because we haven't always done
all the editing that is required in
order to have something like tech Clips
right so the ones that are there I can
actually look at that I can just
highlight it I can find the clip that I
want and I can click on it to view
thanks I can right-click to go back and
oh how do I get see what I mean the
interface is a little bit wonky I need
to actually navigate dot dot okay so go
back to category five technology TV look
at that so we've got seasons 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 and 11 Wow just like that
and again this is absolutely free and
it's officially supported and there you
go with last week's episode and two
weeks ago and so on so it's as simple as
that to get category 5 TV network up on
your Kodi
installation Kodi is again free
at cody dot TV we are not yet officially
in the Kodi add-ons ecosystem so you
can't just do a search within Kodi for
category 5 yet but in the meantime you
can install our channel by going to our
website category 5 dot TV
scrolling down all the way to the bottom
and clicking unsubscribe I'm gonna see
the Kodi add-on easy as that pretty easy
good times
this week it worked awesome because
we've got a lot of folks that have been
helping out check out the the change
logs and everything if you go to our
github page you'll see everybody who's
been pitching in to make that possible
all right we've got to take a really
quick break is that cool that is cool
cool and when we come back we are gonna
be looking at how to create an avatar
using the GIMP
you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Linda learned software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat 5 dot TV slash
Linda hi ed welcome back category five
technology TV I'm Sasha
ball nerd that was so flat what hi
welcome back to category five technology
TV hey don't judge her don't judge her
oh I thought it was great Sasha and
tonight we're covering so many different
things
it's like ping pong absolutely so we
have covered the GNU image manipulation
program several times on the show it's a
great application it's a great
alternative to commercial software being
Adobe Photoshop mm-hmm so the GNU image
manipulation program is a free image
editor and you get it at gimp.org it's
compatible with Windows Linux Mac so no
matter what system you have you can use
it so what I am going to be showing you
tonight now we've shown how to crop and
how to resize images and things like
that but never not none maybe sometime
in the past 451 episodes or whatever
it's been our 541 episode that's to show
you how to actually create an avatar and
what that is now when you create a
Twitter account or Facebook or something
like that you need that perfectly square
picture and it also needs to be the
right size you asked about size of
images like how big should the image be
right well if you upload an image that's
too big to social media it might get
rejected because it might be too large
for the specifications that they have
for an avatar so my daughter has been
good enough to provide for us tonight
one of her drawings to use for the
example and so what I'm gonna show you
how to do is first of all we're gonna
get into cropping so this is the GNU
image manipulation program running in
single window mode which makes it feel a
little more like Photoshop for those of
you who are used to it
I'm going to grab the rectangle select
tool here and you'll notice as I drag
the rectangle select tool I've got this
chance to make it all kinds of
proportions
see that now as soon as I'm dragging
that and at the same time click the left
shift key on my keyboard watch what
happens
click now it is a exact proportional
square so we're no longer working with a
dynamic rectangle we're working with a
square so I can take that and I can put
that around the face which is going to
be probably what I want for the avatar
and I'm going to zoom in just a little
bit there so that you can see that a
little bit better and now if I'm not too
happy with the crop I can actually drag
that in again holding the shift key and
it gives me that proportional exact
square once again and then I can drag in
the center to move that around
I like the GIMP for that it's better
than the Photoshop way of doing things
so there we go so now that I've got that
crop I'm gonna bring that down crop off
a little bit of the hair at the top I'm
gonna right click and go image crop to
selection so now I've got that if I want
to bring it in a little bit tighter
I can go control a 4 select all and then
click and then drag in the game holding
my shift key to make it a little tighter
but also proportional see how the GIMP
allows you to rescale the scaling tool
even though you've already selected the
marquee I do love that I don't want to
lose the her 2018 tally there so there
we go so now crop that in boom so I
would say that's pretty perfect so now
the next thing I'm gonna do is let's
touch this up just a little bit I'm
gonna go colors levels and with levels I
can do some pretty cool stuff this is
the the highlight see that that kind of
curve there those are the highlights so
if I move toward that no those are the
shadows
well I'm backwards pardon me if I move
toward that I'm gonna get no those
aren't highlights my mistake I'm right
so this is yeah kind of lighting and
things like that those are highlights
I'm just getting confused cuz it's
backwards and normally we don't have so
much white if I bring in the shadows
which is the left see how it gets darker
and darker and darker and darker it's
also much crisper those blacks you
guessed yes exactly you get much more of
a
digital look to it versus a scan so you
can do all kinds of things like that
just to touch it up and I would just do
that too just to kind of clean it up and
make it look a little more vibrant see
how you can drag those little triangles
around play around with that get used to
it
there's no science to it beyond just
kind of feeling where the the colors
work but when you look at the graph or
the the curve here you can kind of see
that that's the direction I want to move
toward because I have very little
shadows in this image so by moving it
toward here I'm gonna get more shadows
so okay now here's the thing that you
may not realize with this image folks is
that it is huge if I look up here
13:22 by 1322 so if i view that in full
size it's quite massive so if i save
that as just a jpg image let's try it
and i'm gonna turn on and notice i'm
over writing you probably want to I
should just for best practice let's call
it something else because I don't want
to overwrite my master image so if I
show preview it's gonna tell me that
that is a 2.4 megabyte file well I know
that YouTube for example only allows 2
Meg's so I need to make it smaller I can
either scale it down or I can bring down
the compression so that the quality is a
little less and with 90% come knotti
percent quality which is 10% compression
it goes down to 750 1.6 kilobytes which
is much much smaller so that's good so
if the problem is size that's going to
solve it for us as far as file size if
however the website has proportional
issues that they say look it can only be
500 by 500 then we need to go image
scale image and we're going to go 500 by
500 and make sure that that is
proportional and if you have it see if
you can go with like with some better
interpolation will go with sinc here for
today this is an older version of GIMP
it's not the the better but now if I hit
scale now that is my full sized image so
it's 500
500 perfect crop and the colors have
been enhanced I got an export we're
gonna call that thumbnail dot jpg and
I'm gonna set again show my previous
that I can see what the quality is going
to be and I'm always gonna go with I'm
not gonna do a hundred percent quality
I'm gonna do ninety nine because look at
the difference it goes from four oh four
point seven all the way down to three
fifty point two so there's a pretty
significant difference there and yet no
notable loss eNOS to the image quality
whatsoever so if I even bring that down
to ninety I can't tell the difference
there so I'm happy with that that's only
one hundred and thirty four kilobytes
I'm gonna export that and now I've got
that file so we've established that now
we've got that cropped we've got it
scaled and we've got it saved to an
image that is nice and small and it's a
maximum resolution of 500 by 500 which
is important if you are going to be
using that online as an avatar or
something like that each site each
service that you're using is going to
have its own limitations yes as I say
YouTube has a limit of two megabytes per
therm nail image don't know why that is
I mean you can upload a 10 gigabyte
video yeah but then you can only have a
2 megabyte image yeah so so it's just
finding that happy medium between crop
scale and the actual JPEG quality that
you are exporting right I wish I was an
artist like this oh isn't that fantastic
fantastic picture she just unbelievable
blows my mind see I make phenomenal
stick men that are very Wiggly I can do
stick houses oh and that's it I can just
my capped off of a great free tongue
nice that's it very good yeah I can do a
colon and a P which is essentially the
same thing that is exactly yeah all
right well this is category 5 technology
TV Sasha it is time to jump over to your
newsroom here on our new set how do you
like that I'm excited to see her use the
teleprompters yeah I'm
I'm getting ready for it you ready for
it here are the stories were covering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
a company who sold fake followers to
social media users is under
investigation for the practice the
largest cryptocurrency theft in history
happened Friday in Japan with a loss of
public to 530 million dollars u.s. Apple
is making the slowdown of old devices
optional and net neutrality will be
enforced in New York under orders from
the governor these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere whether you
shop on ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo
video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category 5 TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias i'm sasha Rickman and here
are the top stories are following this
week New York's chief prosecutor says
the state is opening an investigation
into a firm that allegedly sold millions
of fake followers to social media users
impersonation and deception are illegal
under New York law said Eric
Schneiderman according to the New York
Times the company Devaux V stands
accused of stealing real people's
identities which it denies the paper
linked the follower factory to a host of
celebrity accounts The Times published
an in-depth report on javonni on
Saturday including interviews with
people who alleged that their account
details and profile pictures had been
copied to create realistic BOTS it is
alleged that others who wanted to
increase their follower counts including
actors entrepreneurs and political
commentators could pay to be followed by
these BOTS
on social media accounts with a high
number of followers are able to boost
influence which can directly impact on
public opinion it can also bring other
advantages to account holders such as
job offers or sponsorship deals
hmm mr. Schneiderman said he was
concerned that such opaque operations
were undermining democracy on its
website the booming offers customers at
the chance to order up to 250,000
Twitter followers with prices starting
at $12 or 850 pounds celebrities also
can buy likes and retweets the company
sells followers on a range of other
platforms including Pinterest LinkedIn
SoundCloud and YouTube the company is
registered at a New York City address
although the New York Times alleges it's
only a front with its actual offices
being in Florida it also employs workers
in the Philippines Twitter has responded
to the investigation saying it is
working to stop the who me and similar
companies Wow
so if companies like that are happening
like how prevalent do you think it is
how fake do you think the numbers are
that well I do remember the news story
where Lady Gaga had paid to have a huge
boost on YouTube yep and they caught her
and so YouTube it was this whole
kerfuffle in the news and you know who
own especially because with YouTube you
can earn revenue from the ads based on
plays and so if everybody you know if
they say oh this is super popular
everybody's going to watch the video but
yeah exactly yeah I remember even going
back in Canadian politics I think to
federal election two elections ago there
was a big kerfuffle about the federal
Conservative Party purchasing fake
social media profiles to bolster their
efforts online and there was extra likes
and stuff so it's been going on for a
while sure how would you know if you had
been turned into a bot like do they like
how would I know like my name would you
use
what I know that if you search for the
bald nerd yeah I mean how would you know
and and it's so it's so unfair to those
of us like people say why does category
5 have so view is so few views on
YouTube we don't really we have both
have real views that's it so and and not
to say that people who have high views
are paying for views that's that's not
what I'm saying but it's so unfair to
know that there are services that are
charging people to be able to increase
their viewership or increase their
Facebook Likes and things like that my
wife is an author and she has submitted
so many books and like she's written
novels and she's written short stories
and submitted them and knows that she's
she gets these rejection letters on
account of the fact that she doesn't
have enough Facebook followers so
somebody who is trying to establish
themselves in this world as a author may
say okay let's buy 10,000 Facebook
followers now we're not that type of
family we're not going to do that and so
my wife who is a better author than most
that I have ever read write is
struggling to get noticed by the the
publishers or even the readers because
of the fact that she doesn't have that
platform that's unfair it is unfair so
go on a Facebook Google Becca Ferguson
on Facebook Beck is an amazing author BK
it's not it's not fair that these sorts
of these sorts of practices skew the
numbers it makes me think about the
times when those stock market it was
like bots that we're increasing and
inflating the yeah it's exactly the same
practice it's just a fake amount of of
retweets that brings yes the actual
views of you know these using social and
social media in order to control the
populations next move so whether they're
gonna invest or whether they're going to
vote or whether they're going to buy a
book
if it does actually influence the
scholarships that you might get or the
or the job you might get absolutely
unfair because it's sort of pushing
people into the corner where all of a
sudden now they are forced to buy those
because if that's the only way you're
gonna get that job are you gonna stand
by your principles or are you gonna pay
and and get in just gonna start going
down that slippery slope hmm see and I'm
looking at this going with the
advancement of Technology and the very
quick evolution of AI and all these
other helper options that are out there
in the tech world are you gonna be able
to stop this type of stuff because sure
you get picked up you know you pick up
this one company but are you gonna get
some AI running behind a VPN that's
gonna you know mimic IP addresses from
around the world to start creating
something that looks real I mean can you
stay on top of it to prevent it I don't
know I would like to think so but we're
in such a day and age of technology
that's driven by social media it's
almost impossible to get ahead of that
curve and say no no these are real
people I almost feel like to a certain
degree and I realize this is a text shot
I'm saying this social media abuse has
gone too far for dictating people's
lives and we don't even realize it well
exactly
but Ashley you asked the question how do
I know if I'm if I've been hijacked and
there's another me going around
I've always wondered that question so I
regularly search myself up on Facebook
but the problem is if I type my name I
only get regional results I can start
going globally or whatever or try and
figure it out more specifically but
unless you know the region you're in it
does make it much harder and so when I
was in West Virginia in the fall I went
to West Virginia I searched my name and
I got an entirely different set of
people on Facebook than I did here at
home your location yeah exactly so are
you gonna be able to figure it I don't
know but I know that regularly I'm
getting friends trying to add me on
their second account and I'm looking at
going right you got one
make sure this account I mean I don't
know if there is a way for you to be
able to track it and make sure that
nobody's stealing your identity but
we're in a world of almost a billion
people time like look if somebody wants
to be me yeah I have three other Robbie
Ferguson's who follow me on Twitter no
they are way cooler than that just like
a Google hangout would that be awesome
oh oh they'll be so much fun let's get
to know one another if you're watching
your name is Robbie Ferguson or if
you're a bald nerd Japanese media say an
exchange has lost fifty eight billion
yen through hacking the equivalent of
about five hundred and thirty million
dollars in cryptocurrency the coin check
exchange said on its website Friday that
it has halted sales and withdrawals of
the currency which is called nem it
later added that hid and also restricted
dealings in most other crypto currencies
to keep in mind as many as ten thousand
businesses in Japan are said to accept
crypto currencies Kyoto news services
reported that coin Czech president
kochira wada apologized at a news
conference and said the company may seek
financial assistance Kyoto says the coin
check exchange detected the unauthorized
access to its system early on Friday and
promptly froze trading the reported loss
exceeds the 48 billion yen that the jab
jab an based mount gots Bitcoin exchange
loss lost back in 2014 some 260,000
customers are said to be affected by the
reported theft but over the weekend coin
check promised to use its own funds to
reimburse more than 46 billion yen
around 423 million dollars to customers
who lost their nem cryptocurrency coins
on Friday
the company says that
it has the digital address of where the
assets were sent interesting yeah I to
be honest with you if they have the
address to where the cryptocurrency is
sent does that not mean that they could
recover that cryptocurrency would it be
nice if it was like the address like you
know 50 Yonge Street it's not like that
yeah well it's not that identifying and
the whole idea behind cryptocurrency is
it's very anonymous well I mean you
covered the news story last week where
there was the there was a bot or
something where the money was being
filtered to another location reward I
mean at the end of the day this is
nothing more than ones and zeros right
and so can you hide like that basic code
and you know remove that cookie crumb so
to speak of where the money went - I
mean sure they know the address I went
to but from there where did it go and
then if not where did it go and how many
other rear outers are there and I mean
and if you're gonna be stealing half a
billion dollars in cryptocurrency you
would think that you're gonna reroute
the money so many times dispersed it so
many times so that following that trail
of crypto crumbs is near impossible I
mean do you think though I mean this
company is stood up and said yes we're
gonna reimburse them everybody who's
lost their money which i think is
amazing and honorable but i don't think
that they should be the ones that that
take the loss I want there to be some
way of tracking that money back down and
getting it back I don't love the
insurance responsibility but there is no
bank when it's cryptocurrency but that's
what they represent is basically a
crypto currency bank right way right so
no it's so tough because I love the idea
of anonymous money I loved taking I love
cryptocurrency in theory but then
something like this happens and I think
to myself you can't track it it's not
like somebody walking into a bank and
putting a mask on and you can catch them
on their way out the door it doesn't
work that way
right or the numbers the serial numbers
of the bells have been tracked it's not
so much it is funny that we say that
because at the end of the day it is just
digital it's yeah we know that it's like
we live in a world of digital I know but
you go into a bank and the money that is
there is not actually there so it's all
trying to wrap my head around this
because I know you can't technically do
it this way but it's almost like why
couldn't they just say oh we'll just
type those numbers back in here you go
yes we've given you your balance back I
mean sure somebody out there is stolen
money that they didn't pay for but it's
digital there's no real currency it's
it's but but but money's just paper if
you're but if you produce it if you've
produced paper money than it's paper
money I mean in Canada we've got plastic
money but it's just like Robbie said I
mean if you're in the bank the money
that's in there isn't actually there if
you recall y2k the year 2000 when
everybody was all freaking out about the
y2k bug I remember something about if
10% of the US population was drew their
physical funds from the bank the banks
to be completely bankrupt because of
interest that's been earned it's not
real money right I used to work at a
bank and the most fun for me was when we
exceeded if we had too many deposits and
we exceeded the amount of money we were
allowed to have the bridge which was a
very small amount is small yeah yeah it
was so much fun for me because I got to
bag up the extra money I could like hold
the amount that a house costs in my
hands in a bag and just give it to the
person you know who was robbing you but
it is true the banks don't have the
money it's all just digital right when
you get a car loan you're not actually
borrowing physical money anyway it's
this weird promise airy stuff yeah
anyway oK we've got to move on to the
next story Sasha Apple has confirmed
that a software update will let I phone
owner switch off the battery saver
feature that's
some models the option to switch off the
feature will appear on the iPhone 6 6 +
se 6s 7 7 + + another model that's
Robbie operating the teleprompter can I
apologize
last month Apple apologized after it was
found to be deliberately Robbie's
deliberately slowing down the news just
take a breath
doing the best I can we're all doing the
best we can folks exceptional
opportunity an excellent opportunity to
remind our viewers at home that we are
all of all we don't get paid for this
yes well time for that story customers
were angry that Apple has not been up
angry has not been upfront about its
action before the practice was
discovered take it anytime at suspected
the company slow down older iPhone to
encourage customers to upgrade Apple
admitted to slowing down some phones
with aging batteries but said it was
only done to prolong the life of the
devices the ability to switch off the
battery saver will appear in the iOS
eleven point three when it is late
release later this year do you believe
our phone's going to once you turn it
off like they're gonna speed off
obviously yeah and so if it's optional
to turn off the feature that slows down
your phone think about that for a second
do you want to slow down your phone or
keep operating at peak efficiency so I
mean from the okay so peak efficiency
from Apple's perspective that is not the
case because I mean if you remember when
we covered this story a few weeks ago I
think was two weeks ago the reason why
they did the slowdown is because with
software updates and everything the
processors the phone couldn't handle the
load so let's just look allegedly yeah
so that's why they slowed it down I have
an iPod Touch 5 mm-hmm I bought it it
cost me $300 right I've used it three or
four times it is affected by their
slowdown right right nothing that I have
ever done with it I have not overused it
the battery still holds a charge and
works perfectly but the phone the device
itself that the iPod Touch it slows down
right because of them see I have a
iPhone 3GS at home that got to the point
of being unusable because it was so
stinkin slow
and forces you to upgrade please write
with Android well I did Oh I mean long
time ago I switch to Android but I'm
interested to see now first off if the
this option is going to be affected for
models going back that far
because I mean really like not plus my 5
that I bought just a couple years ago at
Target just before they shut down so I
couldn't return it right because Target
went out of business here in Canada yes
so I'm stuck with this $200 device $300
device that I decided I didn't have a
use for and literally have not used
right it's not doesn't work eleven point
three that I don't it's not gonna fit
because it's not current and it's a
garbage device and that's Apple's
business model right but what I'm saying
is it be interesting to see if they did
apply it how much would it change the
phone because it is such an older model
and the the apps of advance and
everything yeah but see part of the
other issue I have with this related but
not really is that a certain point app
developer start saying this app isn't
compatible your software is too
out-of-date or you can't even install
this because it's your your software
isn't it you know to the level it needs
to be and so even if it's not from the
slowdown standpoint developers force you
to go to the newer models otherwise you
can't get their apps right we're sure
we're in a culture of forced consumption
you have to buy the next newest thing to
get the speed and truth be told it is it
it's only helping like iPhone 6 and and
more current then you're just really
pandering to the audience that's already
used to buying the latest and greatest
sure I mean how long ago to the iPhone 6
come out no not long no one of those
four years ago that's that's not long no
it's not like most of my clothes are
older than that I don't like it it feels
kind of dirty business to me yes all of
a sudden they're saying okay well we'll
we'll stop
protecting your battery and your phone
will work faster and now all of a sudden
what happens if you voided your warranty
or what's gonna happen now if they do
the software what we shouldn't void the
warranty I just I can't subscribe to
that mentality because I'm the kind of
person like you've got an older laptop
there and it's getting slow so what are
we gonna do we're gonna install a new
version of Linux on it
bring it back to life I've got I'm not
having to replace hardware I'm just
gonna change the software if I want to
put like my ipod touch I couldn't use it
for the teleprompter I thought oh here's
finally a use for the iPod touch right
that I've used three times we'll use it
as the teleprompter screen and it
wouldn't work because it was too slow
cuz it no because it the the operating
system didn't support the app right so
give me the new operating system for
business and the truth of the matter is
at one point in my life I was a huge fan
of Apple everything looks so pretty with
this full a very dark time of your life
it was everything looks fresh and clean
yeah but Dad you realized they trick you
so incredibly into being blind to the
fact that you're gonna buy this you're
paying for form factor in a lot of cases
yeah and you're paying for it and then
all of a sudden it's gonna be obsolete
before you can blink an eye you can
start college with one eye book and
before you're done the college you've
already had to buy another one it's not
fair and it's it's dirty business well
and I I think it's I think this whole
thing has impacted Apple because I was
reading yesterday I think that already
Apple is cutting production of its new
phone by 25% Wow because the orders are
not what they thought it would be so it
makes me wonder are people say and we'll
screw you Apple because of I don't want
to be treated like that yeah I think
that everybody should really ban
together and really only purchase things
that they can use for a long amount of
time that they can get in and replace
components at their will so hardware is
never going to be an issue I really want
us to stop being so driven by the latest
and greatest thing and if we could all
learn to be makers
I'll learn to solder and all learn what
a capacitor and a resistor is I have a
city to receive and stop buying devices
that you can't open and repair these
things right then what a world it would
be I will give you okay so somebody had
mentioned in the chatroom just replaced
the battery yeah I had done that with my
wife's phone in the past
so you're still it's a software feature
well exactly but her new phone not an
iPhone thankfully it is a Samsung one of
our kids dropped it and there was
something with the charge connection
that it went loose and it wasn't
charging properly I went to open the
phone to try and get to it they make it
so hard to get into the phones now I
mean she's passed or one year one sees a
lot of stuff to fit into a small package
oh well I agree but the thing that bugs
me is why do you have to remove the
freaking screen why can't you just go to
the other side and access it from the
back there are G three I just pulled the
back off and change the batter I think
I'm just gonna go back to rotary alright
New York has become the second state to
enforce net neutrality with an executive
order that prevents ISPs from obtaining
state contracts unless they follow net
neutrality principles New York Governor
Andrew Cuomo signed the executive order
last week just days after Montana
Governor Steve both did the very same
the states are challenging the Federal
Communications Commission which repealed
its own net neutrality rules and
preempted States from imposing similar
ones the executive orders attempts to
run around the FCC's preemption of local
laws instead of directly requiring all
ISPs to follow net neutrality principles
the executive orders require state
agencies to only do business with ISPs
that offer neutral networks
Kubo said the FCC's dangerous ruling
goes against the core of our values of
democracy and New York will do
everything in our power to protect net
neutrality and the free exchange of
ideas the order says that state agencies
and departments may not enter into
contracts for Internet service for
internet service unless the ISPs agree
to adhere ten
net neutrality principles ISPs would
disqualify themselves from obtaining
state contracts if they block throttle
or prioritize internet content or
applications or require that end-users
pay a different or higher rates to
access specific types of content for
applications the New York order goes
beyond Montana's by including the
specific provision against charging
users higher rates to ask access
specific types of Internet content and
applications awesome I love love that
way to find a workaround
I know well it's still being challenged
sure apparently the the FCC is looking
to legally block it and there it's gonna
become a big court issue my guess is
probably going to go right up to the
highest levels of the courts but I think
it's great I absolutely love this just
like you Sasha because there's so many
impacts because of the removal of net
neutrality that something like this will
go a long way to helping the little man
for lack of a better expression because
if you're just somebody at home who's
you know got a low-paying job but you've
got your internet you're trying to get
by have to start paying for all these
other things because you're being
throttled it's it's an unnecessary money
grab I mean it's just not right I I
think this is a great story I think it's
good that there's politicians that are
standing up for net net neutrality but
finding a workaround to the FCC's ruling
and saying okay here's a way that we can
still have net net neutrality in it's
legitimate like and what it is but
getting around it completely right now
the interesting thing about this is it's
only related to government contracts so
it's what you have to have those you
can't you can't be an ISP without them
well you it's a if you're a little ISP
that doesn't care about a government
contract then you're not going to bother
making the change but if you this is
gonna impact the big ISPs sure because
they're the ones that are going to want
the government contract so I think it's
great
too bad no because it's just government
it does limit the footprint of the
impact that this would have but if
there's a way to get around to say that
all ISPs that would be even better and
I'm interesting how many other states
hop onto this my heart completely that
they're stepping up and mm-hmm
maintaining know we still have net
neutrality in Canada and I don't think
that will ever go away
I mean Bell wants it to of course they
do yeah they're big company they want to
be able to throttle people as much as
they can I mean but I think from the
general populace in Canada I don't think
that's something we would stand behind
and it would probably hurt bells image
on a whole but what is the big
difference for somebody who's going I
don't know a net neutrality like what do
what do you mean throttling nobody's put
their hands around my neck like what do
you what do you mean throttle what are
you talking about what is throttling for
somebody who doesn't know well if you go
on Netflix and Netflix is paid because
if there is not net neutrality and
Netflix has not paid the premium to give
you that at high speeds then all of a
sudden you get that buffering and then
all of a sudden you'll go to a different
that slower connections to certain
services oh there you go
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman
and I'm Robbie Ferguson dad I'm Jeff
West it's been great having you here
again with us this week I hope that
you've enjoyed yourself and I look
forward to seeing you again next week so
you take care have a good
hi
