a big seller on our website this week is
the VR box virtual reality glasses and I
think that has something to do with our
upcoming special on September 27 let's
check this out go to cap 5 TV /
cardboard I was impressed with this they
send it to us for review and I said well
you know what I'll put it on the air and
I'll put it on our website just to see
how it looks and how it feels but oh my
gosh I've seen a lot of cardboard
devices this thing's under 20 bucks and
wow it opens up at the front so if you
want to do augmented reality in your
camera for your phone is right there you
can actually create augmented reality
and then you can close that when you're
done try that on now I've just got that
adjusted to kind of my size I don't know
if you can like big noggin yeah isn't
that comfy wow it's got really good
padding yeah you can't see out of that
though cats let's show the viewers what
we got here so you see the the opening
here let's all right you don't have a
phone in there and yet he's like whoa
look at this dog mental reality no it's
actually media quo in this reality
there's beer on the show we've got all
this cushioning around the eyes it is
super comfortable if you've got bad
eyesight look at what i can do with the
with the molecules right i can move the
lenses in and out that's up here so i
can actually slide those so their
individual their individual so if you've
got one walkie I like I do you can
actually adjust it so you don't have to
wear your glasses however can you try
this with your glasses on can we see if
this is actually gonna work with glasses
on yeah sure but I think we should
probably move the lenses back just sure
but you're not gonna see anything
anyways because you don't have your
phone but how does it feel with your
glasses on um is it wearable yeah it's
wearable yeah I and as weird as it
sounds it's actually clearer you're just
looking at the back of the bank well I
understand that but like I could see a
screw in there whereas before I don't
know there's a screw so but ya know it's
it's wearable I don't think I would want
to do it for an extended period of time
like I don't think I'd waste lasses on
with glasses all right no without
glasses on I mean my vision is good
enough that I
have you wear glasses all the time
waiting to get those for like driving
this feels good like it's very very
comfortable and I look awesome everybody
take a picture cuz this is that's it are
you making faces nope oh you should be
cuz that's that's the picture everyone
say you can get those a cat5 TV /
cardboard and like I say they're a
fantastic deal they're so cozy see look
at this garden check that out man I mean
because of how cozy those are and i was
i'm waiting to find out that somebody's
been wearing those while driving what
kind of phone do you have oh yeah come
on seven not only usually you're the one
who'd be texting with those anything no
sir so be autonomous car folks what oh
look at that okay to take my case so
easy I don't think so no I just want to
see so let's let's put your you've got a
big phone I do have a big phone like
that even with the case so with so there
it is with the case on now I just done
Wow ok and there you've got VR that's
amazing with your phone you've got VR
