welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 505 for Wednesday
the 24th of May 2017 nice to have you
here tonight we're going to learn how to
protect our USB flash drive or external
USB Drive from prying eyes by encrypting
the volume using the Linux terminal is
perfect for backup so that if someone
ever walks away with your flash drive
you don't have to worry about the
content on there they're not going to be
able to open it stick around - sugar
made us what have you got for us tonight
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsroom Mike right there we go
good bye is rip is replacing a sizeable
number of their police force with robot
Bell Canada has been hacked resulting in
a large data breach of customer info
Nokia 3310 dumb phone has been rebooted
and is on sale now new research has
found that Yahoo Mail has been leaking
private email attachments for years and
what happens when artificial
intelligence is allowed to name paint
colors stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show this is
category 5 to acknowledge DTV our live
recordings are trusted only to solid
state drives by Kingston Technology
revive your computer with improved
performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble
broadcaster tune in live every week on
roku cody and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash PPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash IA IV welcome to the show
I'm your host Robby Ferguson please help
me welcome Sasha Durr nato's and back to
the set is Jeff Weston Jeff how you been
oh man I've been good I've been very
busy with work it seems that way yeah
been a while there's kids I think I've
been gone for almost a month or over a
month over a month yeah yeah somebody's
going to look it up and get back to you
on that
that's right probably well the chin has
already said
that guy next to Robbie I know I'm that
forgettable no no no I'm not I run in
people all the time like hey we met them
like five times it's all good so I think
I'll crush my spear Sasha be like you're
my wife yes yes that's right so be good
just very very busy with work and living
out of town work has taken me out of
town oh really
moving out of hotels and stuff and boy I
couldn't be here is I'm not even in the
area thought about skyping in but you
know I just
nobody wants to see my ugly mug that
often every week just every week every
single week once a week she cardboard
cutout of me that's a good idea great
idea let's start working on that
yeah now you brought something with you
today what do I did so uh about a month
and a half ago we you and I we got
talking because we're doing raspberry
pie stuff yeah make your series and all
this fun - yes and so I I said you know
what I really really really want to
build an arcade and I'm full arcade yeah
we're not talking like Table Talk we're
talking a full hour okay
yes that's where I want to go so so we
kind of looked online okay and we've got
you got a bag of goodies I have a bag of
goodies so these are the buttons and a
joystick for a - I'm blanking arcade but
specifically it's designed to hook up to
a Raspberry Pi so could we do like a
retro PI arcade console yes no yes
could you imagine yes and it is
specifically July as I'm dropping pieces
it is okay I like yeah because I see I
see where this is going
okay you've got you've got done off the
bubble here we go so you put this in
your in your plywood or whatever with a
yes half-inch hole maybe a little bit
bigger than that I guess to make it hold
together with a 5/8 oh look at this
folks this is supercool
it totally works so was this from from
gearbest cat5 dot tv's last year back to
Jeff I believe it was yeah that's where
you gotta day I super it sounds really
cool that's going to be amazing I know
that's the plan do they have a plan yeah
the plan is to build it nice if that's
as far as of God but you know got you've
got a retro pile I have a retro pie I
will pick up another one but it comes
with everything you need to get it
hooked into the pie arcade-style buttons
yes and these are just like to pull
buttons so I mean we can wire that into
the GPIO easily and that's right so so
they have the connectors which go into
the power order anything which goes into
USB we're going to need a controller
board no you program it through the PI
wait a minute
oh yeah that's the bike bah ah it came
with it yes is it like this you bought
this all-in-one kit yeah it's one kit
I'm just ripping into your stuff here I
want to say oh yeah 30 bucks
look at this we're talking cheap we've
got a USB joystick controller board so
it is actually going to cook you don't
even have to go through the GPIO we're
going to go through a USB port that's
right
nyah vent right into the pie this is
insane you've got one two three four
five six seven eight nine ten eleven
twelve headers twelve headers yep
there's we've got turbo mode clear reset
and all the kind of normal stuff that
you would expect from a video arcade
system so you're serious about I'm
building a full-size absolutely I
wouldn't do a tabletop because I'm like
I want to be able to just pull it out
anytime but I mean if you've got the
space
listen go big or go home you need I was
looking at a bunch of plans online okay
and it's very easy to do I mean it's
just a matter of your having to know how
to do it right your dream is going to be
a reality absolutely yeah I have always
wanted to have a full-size arcade and
it's just never been in the body I why
with a Raspberry Pi yeah that's real PI
system like we've shown on the show yeah
I mean you pick up a little 19 inch
monitor I mean if you want have a bigger
with a 27 inch or something you get some
cheap LED monitors sure 400 bucks right
so throw your monitor you get your pie
for you know a couple of 10 by 10 spots
then your wood and that's it I mean if
you want to deckle it up and get real
fancy ass where you start adding in some
extra cost but if you don't mind a but
you're gonna want to vinyl the thing
because yeah trail by wood and you don't
want to paint it because plywood doesn't
paint very clean oh it doesn't what to
start off with as long as I've got the
shell it's like let's make it out of
cardboard
well actually I was I was thinking of
there's a kantak what it's call I want
to say MDF but it's not MDF for like
it's a PC yes a type of plastic okay
it's really easy to work with super
cheap lightweight PFC James call PFC PVC
PVC somebody named Mikey now anyway but
that PBJ let's reckon she'll be made as
a sandwich but yeah that's what I'm
willing to do put it all together it's
gonna be awesome
yes oh the foo wants us to put spyhunter
on that thing oh my goodness oh that man
classic there I can I kill almost I can
almost hear the theme song of Spy Hunter
in my head and I I weep inside as I
realised that I had taken my collector
coins and put them in the Spy Hunter
video game at the arcade no I did look I
was a kid I didn't know the value of
these coins dddd right yeah am i right
that's all yeah so that's good and that
is the project so I realized after after
the box showed up I'm like oh how about
one set so right now I can't how am I
going to go head-to-head with you my
friend well just by default you
automatically lose Oh
so alright because I bought it back
sister I have back my but yeah that's
the deal so I'm gonna have to pick up
another set but then it's just a matter
of
building it you can have to film
yourself building this we're going to do
like a hyperlapse in 360 video oh yeah
yeah people don't want to see like the
blood splatter and then are you good at
you've done some Renault stuff in the
house oh yeah you're good at this kind
of thing see I would well I would do
I've done the regular job whether I'm
good at it remains to be seen I do have
a wall that has a 6-inch warp in it okay
fair enough fair enough
I can assist with the soldering okay I
don't even think you need to in getting
oh yeah you do oh these clips these are
clips right open their clip in then how
you AVG I like it says no-brainer these
clip on to the Contras on to the buttons
and stuff like if you could buy the
already hot materials it simply a build
your own kit and I imagine it'd take you
a couple hours times a couple screaming
last words during a time this folks
because that's the thing if you bought
the pre-cut kit oh okay I'll do that
middle I'm saying if you could if you
could you're putting ideas that don't
rate this it's a million dollar idea you
should just create it it is gonna do it
I don't know all my radio s don't wait
what
i I always I pack my lunch and I eat it
before breakfast
so I what I'm waiting for it I wake up
there like 4:45 so and my lunch is like
at noon like most people but I pack a
lot of food because I work like 10 or 12
hour days and I eat constantly for the
first two hours of my waking life and
then I have no food left so I want a
compartmentalize lunch break or lunch
box that opens hourly different
compartments like automatically
automatically I think it unlocks like
only your meal is prepared value mr.
mayor
snack time you may not eat your lunch if
you may only it'll shock if you try to
get into the berry yes I think it would
be more effective to take that to the
next level right and do some
conditioning on top of that because if
you're have the tax do it for you and
automatically open you become sloth like
and lazy and expect technology to do it
for you see what he's saying but really
if you went on the premise
I feel like Pavlovian the Pavlovian
serious dog yeah yeah I'm not lazy as if
I have lost dog I just salivate when I
hear about fair enough cash well why not
take it to the level of the kids game
operation No so if you make it a
challenge that's right so if you go to
open it and it's not the appropriate
time it buzzes you or even better than
me and then I don't know does it buzz me
and I get to eat or does it bug me and I
don't get to eat no no it buzzes you so
that you don't eat could you modify one
of those dog barking colors that zaps
the dog so that if you're chewing it
would zap you if it's not the right time
I I think so could it be back and get
assassin Asajj a size one the problem is
that I eat my entire like day's worth of
food by lunchtime then I have to go out
for lunch because I don't have any food
yeah okay anyway that is not a million
dollar idea I guess but yours is look at
that the shocking versions like they
make lunchboxes where's this going
hey MEMS one point two point one is out
go over to my blog bald nerd comm slash
NEMS and EMS and it's an exciting
release it's the Naji O's Enterprise
monitoring server so it actually gives
you an opportunity to check on the
status of all your computers on your
corporate network or even your home
network make sure that it still got
enough hard drive space see if the CPU
load is too high those kinds of things
if a hard drive is failed and it will
alert you as the administrator and it
runs on a Raspberry Pi so awesome so
cool so go on over to bald nerd comm
slash names other than needing the
hardware it's absolutely free as a free
download so check it out I also wanted
to just say thank you to everyone who
has supported category 5 TV network over
the past little while we've had a lot of
surprise expenses and more to come as
we're looking around the studio and some
things are not working quite the way
they should and so we do have a couple
of unexpected expenses okay in addition
to our monthly right in the months go by
so quick how is it the 24th of May a man
of may Wow I'm here it started with the
M but yeah
time is flying it's like I just paid
rent yesterday and
you know thank you to everyone who
supports us and is using our partner
links I mean Jeff did it with this this
arcade kit women cat five dot TV slash
gearbest and picked up one of those you
can go to category five TV click on
support support us and you'll see all
the different ways that you can you can
support us or shop through our partners
and things like that pretty cool
last week we go into the 1-1 ransomware
not a big deal still is a big deal but
fortunately we didn't really see another
evolution of it over the weekend from
what I've been told but a few things
have happened since then
is there something up with the
microphone am I reading that right no no
somebody was wondering what your light
saber was on your belt Oh ha ha ha ha
phone folks that's my microphone
we don't go wireless that's why we're so
station I wonder - first up makes me
nervous gosh and I'm talking about the
things that have gone wrong we've had
two microphone cables go bad and it's
like when we're on the air we don't know
so as soon as I see someone talking mic
cables I'm like oh oh well sorry to give
you a firmer
multitasking right operating they keep
doing it all do it all you're doing a
great job
Asha back to the story though I mean we
all know about want to cry at this point
you've seen the episode episode number
504 if you haven't yet please check it
out we had some great industry leaders
on the mill talk about this threat and
what it meant to - you know malware in
general where is this thing going what
is happening with the evolution of
malware on the internet and it's a big
deal because our antivirus doesn't stop
it because it's not a virus per se we're
stepping into a whole new round here
we've been seeing this evolution take
place but now we're at a point where
it's wide scale its global and we need
to take it seriously so how do we keep
ourselves safe first of all what has
happened since our interview last week
with with our two guests and we have
seen ESET release a tool that will tell
you if your computer is susceptible to
the eternal blue
NSA
exploit so this is the thing in
Microsoft Windows that is allowing one a
cry to spread the NSA created the
software to use to spy on individuals
and it was released to the general
public and so now hackers can use that
code that was originally meant for the
government to be able to monitor the
goings-on on your computer well how do
we know whether we're whether that's an
open back door on our computer now that
it's an exploit that is being used in
the wild so ESET has released that go to
cat five dot TV / e be check you're
going to be able to find out more
information about that EB check stands
for eternal blue check of course so
check that out download if you're on
Windows but it does not tell you if you
have Jesse ransomware it should well
we're susceptible yes yes ok not even
just want to cry this is an exploit in
Microsoft Windows that want to cry is
actively utilizing in order to spread
itself right that's why Windows XP is
done because the governor for a while
because people can't patch it so you
know they're not getting the regular
updates and everything like you do on
Windows 10 so if you have that problem
which you do it is not going to get
fixed automatically so you are
susceptible and that's why Windows XP
hospitals and things like that are
getting hit really really hard that's
why Russia is getting hit really really
hard because there's a lot of XP still
in operation there's a lot of pirated
versions of Microsoft Windows and so
they are not getting those updates so
along that vein we've got some great
news from Microsoft and this comes as a
bit of a surprise Microsoft has in fact
released the patches to the public for
legacy operating systems Wow
so if you're on Windows XP if you have
an XP system if you've got Windows
Server 2003 or some other old operating
system from Microsoft that is generally
not receiving updates because it's
end-of-life or beyond right
Microsoft has realized hey this is a
serious enough concern we need to
release these
for free to the public so you can head
on over to cat5 dot TV /wc patch and
that of course is incredible wanna cry
patch okay you want to think about it
you know where where I came up with the
URL so cat5 dot TV /wc patch is for your
legacy Microsoft Windows stuff
keep in mind Linux systems are not
susceptible to the wanna cry threat in
and of itself however if you have a
Linux server or Linux computers on your
network and you bring a Windows machine
that is susceptible to that threat into
your network now it can get into that
computer and it can propagate all your
network shares so it can it can damage
the files that are housed on a Linux
server Linux computer if you have
Windows machines that are susceptible to
this threat okay so it's a very serious
thing we've got to keep that in mind
can we look back at the episode where I
made an analogy about auto automobiles
and the warranty right and c128 D really
called me on the fact that well you
didn't explain that very well and you
know it was it was something as a live
broadcast and certainly a live interview
we come up with things we discuss things
and we talk about things we don't always
think to stop explain it in greater
detail Sasha could you read c128 Dee's
message for us and then I'm going to
read my my response to that as well just
to clarify things for you so here we go
the analogy of outdated operating
systems to out of warranty automobiles
is completely bogus out of warranty and
out of support are two completely
different scenarios a 20 year old Ford
Taurus is out of warranty but is fully
supported and properly maintained
absolutely no risk to the driver I
worked in the auto industry for over 40
years started when I was six oh wow so
awesome so I have a better idea about
that than a lot of computer people
third-party vendors are still making
parts for older vehicles I've seen them
for vehicles that were made nearly 100
years ago that needs or even exceed OEM
specs Haim Shelton motor and others make
complete repair manuals
some even containing full electrical
schematics and certified diagnostic
programs and hardware are readily
available for just about any vehicle you
can imagine that makes maintaining an
old vehicle reliably and safely
relatively easy and cost-effective the
exact opposite is true with computer
software especially and os it's
extremely rare that a third party can
even come up with a reliable and safe
patch for an out of support OS okay and
Robbie so I appreciate your feedback
c128 dee and anyone else who had the
thought and my comparison was not really
meant for the cars I was trying to give
an example of Microsoft Windows and
their approach Microsoft's approach to
the deprecation of Windows XP so if I
may I'm just going to read my response
for those who are thinking the same
thing or want to know how I responded to
that I said fair point C 128 D allow me
to explain my intended meaning behind
the analogy my intent was to express
that we perhaps should evaluate whether
it is correct to put blame or even place
expectations on Microsoft to further
your 20 year old Ford Taurus point what
we're dealing with here is different and
the analogy was not intended to be a
one-to-one comparison to vehicles
imagine this instead here's a scenario
okay
Ford recalled every single replacement
part for the 20 year old Ford Taurus
model they made a big deal three or four
years ago saying do not drive a 20-year
old Ford Taurus it is not safe we have
deemed it unsafe we will no longer
support it and we will even give you a
brand-new shiny Ford for free so that
you will stop driving your old unsafe
one we must then imagine it's the
drivers fault if they say no my old
Taurus just runs and runs
I refuse to upgrade now this is a closer
mirror to Microsoft's position with
regards to XP so I do not feel that my
analogy is bogus as you say but perhaps
could have used more explanation
and there it is so I hope that that
brings some clarity to I you know why I
was using that particular analogy with
regards to warranty and automobiles and
I hope that that doesn't swing on it so
you know comment below we welcome you to
comment below share your thoughts and
make sure that you also you know if you
if you're not subscribed with an account
on YouTube you can also go to our
website category-five TV click on
contact us send us an email however you
like to do it we'd love to hear from you
we have an exciting feature tonight
we're going to be learning how to
encrypt an external hard drive you know
with this whole thing about ransomware
we're thinking about our backups but we
don't want our backups to be stolen
right right if we're transferring it and
somebody takes our Drive what happens to
that data we don't want them to have
access to it like they were yahoo mail
or something like that so we're going to
teach you how to encrypt that external
drive before you before you start
loading your data onto it but we've got
to take a really quick break and we're
going to be right back after this now
here's another great way you can support
the shows you love from the
category-five TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cat5 TV slash
gear vest it's an online store for the
geek streaked in here or the loved ones
well of course I mean especially your
loved ones right because cat5 TV slash
gear best quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices to their
cellphones
you betcha cap 5 TV slash gear best has
a wide assortment of unlocked Android
cell phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like the
greatest absolutely from high tech
watches to action cameras headphones
even virtual reality headsets cat5 dot
TV slash gear best have you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronica technique
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping a camp five dot TV slash
gear best yeah all right you kinda got
me there
Wow any other questions for me gentlemen
now that the winter is past flying
seasons do they have any good deals and
say drone copters old mine good Maps
well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest so
that's easy catch five dot TV slash your
best that's right
happy shopping
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and it's episode number
five oh five nice to have you here and
tonight we are looking at how to encrypt
an external or removable device so that
if you put your personal files on it as
a backup you don't have to worry if
someone steals it or something obviously
you want to have redundancy but I'm
talking about the privacy aspect here
and that's it we're talking about them
plugging it into their computer and
being able to access your private files
we want to do away with that by using
encryption we're gonna be doing it
entirely through the Linux terminal so
for tonight's demonstration I've got
simply this okay it's a kingston data
traveler 16 gigabyte USB flash drive hey
hey i mean it works you want to throw
some files on it and keep a backup of
those needed files first of all what's a
backup a backup is redundant copies of
your stuff right it's got a bunch of
nice pictures of my kids on my computer
they are not backed up if i move them to
this right because this is now the only
copy correct they are backed up if you
moved into two of those yeah but
preferably let's copy them let Hank
redundant coding so that if this one
gets destroyed or lost or stolen or
whatever and they fail you know USB
flash drives they fail after so much use
so making sure that you have redundancy
and copies and something off-site so
that if there's a fire or something like
that they're gone don't leave these
things plugged into your system because
then if you get hit by a power surge and
your computer gets shot guess what so
does the thing plugged into the USB port
so okay those are just kind of tips that
don't have anything to do with
encryption but tonight we're going to
learn how to encrypt this so I'm going
to plug this in to my computer here and
let's see what happens here we go so I'm
just plugging this into my laptop and no
applications to open it but there it is
on my desktop I'm going to just double
click on it and you'll see that I have a
top-secret mile in there and within that
top-secret file I've got something
secret
it could be anything right so now the
process that we're going to use tonight
is entirely destructive so we're going
to be starting with a drive that has
nothing on it essentially keeping in
mind that if you've already got data on
that drive you need to move it off to
more redundant storage so that we can
now encrypt this so the advantages to
encrypting this file system essentially
are you have to know the password in
order to access it so the advantage then
of course being if somebody gets a hold
of that data drive they're not going to
be able to open the files but you will
be and we're not individually encrypting
files and having to decrypt them know
we're setting it up so that you just
simply enter a password in order to
mount it and then you can access it just
like any other USB Drive we're ready to
get into it sure are all right let's
bring up our Linux terminal here I'm
using a boon to Ma Tei this will work on
any flavor Linux and we're going to
follow you know steps that are generic
to any debian derivative operating
system
so that's boon to debian of course I
need to boon to like a boon to matei or
a boon to Kubuntu or anything else
anything that is based on you know
debian and has apt-get that said the
steps will work just fine if you want to
use yum as well you're going to have to
substitute some commands all right okay
so with that drive plugged in watch what
happens when I go LS slash dev SD star
you see how I've got SD a and SD B okay
so that's two hard drives currently
connected to my computer if I unplug
that drive from my computer okay because
it's not mounted so I can do that now
and then do that same command you'll
notice I do not have s DB anymore right
so safe to say I mean really cheap and
dirty trick to find out what the drive
assignment is but hey that's s DB right
there so when I plug that in if I can
find a USB port there we go help me out
here okay I'm going to just cancel out
the GUI stuff do an LS again and you'll
see SD
d is in existence now key point here we
are encrypting a partition on this drive
so not the whole drive not the drive as
in a device if you do encrypt the device
so that /dev / s DB you're not going to
be able to access it you're not going to
be able to mount it and the headers are
going to be messed up you can fix that
by deleting everything and setting it
back to unformatted in G part edit or
something like that or F disk but we're
going to save you the trouble by just
telling you right off the bat we've got
to have a partition this particular disk
already has an SD b1 so we know that
that is in fact the partition but if you
don't have a partition table on your
disk you can create one with your
favorite partition editor such as G Part
II D so the first thing I need to do is
become route in Ubuntu I'm going to type
sudo su and enter my password in Debian
I would just type su and hit enter and
that is spelled su for those of you who
are just listening so now that I am root
I'm going to type apt-get update that
just simply downloads all the latest
packages from the repositories so that
anything I install is going to be the
latest and greatest then I'm going to go
apt-get install and we need that
particular package that's going to allow
us to do this we're going to type crypt
setup and then hit enter my particular
system already has crypt setup installed
you'll see this crypt setup already has
the newest version in Ubuntu so you can
run that command just make sure that
you've got the latest version and you'll
be good to go so a couple of steps here
first of all we need to actually make
the drive the partition I should say
encrypted we're going to use what's
called luke's l UK s and it's all done
through crypt set up and nice and simple
if you follow these steps so we know
that we have dev / s DB one so that's
what we want to in fact encrypt so the
command in order to do this knowing that
is crypt setup - - I'm going to do
verbose first of all so that I can see
the output here then I'm going to go - -
verify - pass phrase what that does is
it tells the system to ask me for the
password twice just in case I typo
because you
want to mess that up and then we're
going to use 512-bit Luke's format and
it's a capital F and then the device
itself be very very careful here dev SD
d1 and I say be careful because this is
entirely destructive it's going to wipe
anything that's on that disk and encrypt
it on that partition I should say so if
you accidentally put SD a 1 and that's
your main hard drive you can destroy
your entire overlong all right and
that's where backups come in so we're
going to hit enter on that and it says
it warns me just like Robbie does hey
are you sure you want to do this they
need to type uppercase yes make sure you
read that it's irrevocable yes unless
that's a uppercase yes but here in
lowercase well it does that so that you
actually have to think about it
okay enter your passphrase I'm just
going to enter a password here to use
and then there's that verify passphrase
that asks for a second time and now
cannot format okay it is still in use
let's make sure that it is not in use
let's see what is causing that it is
mounted to guntu so I can eject that now
I could also if it's mounted because I
really want to teach you this in the
terminal let's do mount and we can see
and now we can go mount and then pipe
grep and we're going to go SD b1 this is
a better way to do it and UCSD b1 is
mounted on slash media slash Ravi / USB
16 gigabytes so let's see if I can just
unmount that forcibly from here I'm
going to copy that to my clipboard if I
may you may not be able to do that if
you're in a true terminal so I'm going
to go you mount and then paste that in
and it's gone okay so now I should be
able to run that command because if I
run that grep again notice it is no
longer mounted to my file system okay so
nice to have these little issues come up
so that I can show you what happened
what to do if if you encounter it okay
so then I've just cursor DUP to recreate
that command and then I'm going to type
yes enter my password again I've got to
kind of start over here
and here we go it's not going to take us
much time
done okay so now that drive is an
encrypted partition it has nothing on it
it has no file system it's not ready to
go whatsoever we can't even mount it
what we need to do is we need to in fact
mount it using the crypto cryptography
system so first of all I want to confirm
that it worked I know that it did but
let's just do Crypt setup and then we're
going to do what's called a luke's dump
and again it includes a capital D and
then dev s DB one now if things went
well you're going to see key slot 0 is
enabled that means that my password is
stored in the headers of that drive now
if I do a Luke's dump on SDA 1 you'll
notice that dev SDA 1 is not a valid
Luke's device it's not encrypted so I
can see that s DB 1 is encrypted it has
AE s sha-256 and it's all set 512 bits
it's good to go so now next step is to
in fact open that device and we need to
do that through of course the decryption
system so I'm going to just jump into
you know what I'm going to create how
what's the word a mapper looking for the
words in this noggin of mine we're going
to create a mapper to this drive so now
that it's encrypted we can no longer
just mount SD be 1 right because it's
encrypted we have to create a mapper so
that we can then mount that decrypted
mapper okay mm-hmm I follow yeah so
let's try it in kind of a test case
we're not going to set up a kripp tab or
anything just yet so we're going to go
crypt setup Luc's open with a capital o
surprise and then dev slash s DB 1 and
we're going to call this what do you
want to call it backup the enter enter
the passphrase for dev slash s DB 1
because there is one
if you enter it correctly it has created
the mapper so now if I go LF dev mapper
I should now see one called
backup you see that mm-hmm so I can now
start using that so watch this thinking
of that mapper as now my decrypted
version of the partition I can format it
okay so now it's time to actually make
this thing into something that's usable
what is going on trying to do a show
here in the last 30 seconds card yes I
mean a parent I try to do a presentation
here chatroom it's all like easy Jeff is
now nine years old
oh it's because I've got a flubber Luke
lemon Dez let's make some out my loose
tongue on a lot of a loose stuff and
it's it a picture my is I'm human
Luke if any clip he'll brother dying
over here you're good gotta Balu stump
but I'm trying not to laugh oh my
goodness I'm crying
how many Luke's are watching this
comment below
oh as they're watching it under them on
and lip on the live oh oh my gosh I you
know I come I normally can control
myself of this stuff and you kept
cutting back to the mic and I'm like me
try not to die and I just I couldn't do
it
Oh Lyndon you're horrible I love it
I'm so happy than the Hoffmans that
point I am gonna have to do another leg
stump music
just to show you you're regularly doing
it cuz it killed me oh my gosh oh this
is the real show this isn't even the
bloopers Wow oh my good I have crying
people in the chat room crying apologize
those of you interested to learn
I mean you loop all right are we ready
oh definitely not ready to make a file
system do we understand where we're at
you have created a mapper which is
basically what would have normally been
our slash stab slash stb-1 it were not
encrypted right created that mapper so
that we can now format it okay so we're
going to go make FS just like you
normally would
dot ext3 okay because that's what I'm
going to create this as slash dev slash
mapper slash backup okay so now it's
going to tell me all right it's just
doing it doing it that's going to take a
little bit more time you know one of the
things that I is always kind of irked me
a little bit about the terminal system
so you never get that percentage there's
like it just sits there and it's
thinking of it like you look at a
windows percentage bar and it's going to
tell you you know oh I know it's like
I've been a 10% left 200 hours yes four
minutes I know but just something to
reference like I did an update on my
system the other languages I'm waiting
waiting it it gets to the point where
you going
so my system free yeah yeah you know so
if you think it might have froze oh
there's a thing you can do Robbie showed
this there's a thing jamb Chuck me over
here to be - is going to explain it the
thing you can do what you do is you call
Robbie no no bring up another terminal
window Jeff and type IO top to see
what's using your your i/o your inputs
and outputs notice I'm not super user so
sudo IO top instead and that's going to
show me what's currently using my okay
well cool act you see the top one is
make and it's going to
go but make FS ext3 right and it's doing
that and it's using my eye oh you see
that popping up every now and again so
that tells me it's still make FS ext3 is
doing stuff with the io enough so that
it's hitting top right okay two words
right out of my mouth well that answers
your you know that problem is it
actually doing anything yeah perfect
from there you know okay so we're going
to head over to the newsroom as this
format that dev mapper and when we come
back from the news we're going to learn
how to actually use that encrypted file
system because now it's the real deal
folks it's a real encrypted file system
using Luke's dump or her full-time job
that's what have you got our lovely here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom Dubai is
replacing a sizeable number of their
police force with robots Bell Canada has
been hacked resulting in a large data
breach of customer info Nokia 3310 dumb
phone has been rebooted and is on sale
now new research has found that Yahoo
Mail has been leaking private email
attachments for years and what happens
when artificial intelligence is allowed
to name paint colors these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you know my you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
oh I don't know what Isaac you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's sure how much hard drive space
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own calm
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat five dot TV slash dream
house still ahead of a paper something
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
I'm Sasha Germanness and here are the
top stories for the week of May 24th
2017 Dubai is constantly pushing the
envelope for a smart city and now a
robotic police officer is making its
rounds on city streets the robot rolls
around on wheels it can salute bow speak
in multiple languages and recognize hand
gestures from up to one and a half
meters away it also has a tablet lodged
in its chest which civilians can use to
report crimes it was designed by the
Dubai police with assistance from IBM's
Watson and Google it's apparently not
designed to deter serious crime but to
take over small tasks to improve overall
happiness levels among city streets
according to the director of the smart
services department for the Dubai police
think robots don't affect jobs the
Department hopes to replace a full
quarter of its forces with similar BOTS
by 2030 who I would there'd be some
comments on that one uh questions
comments thoughts concerns Jeff I'm
biting my lip does he remind you of
pepper just a little bit like a taller
yeah more authoritative pepper you know
what I don't hate this idea I will tell
a lot you know me but I don't hate this
idea I will say I would be worried about
vandals coming up to the robot yeah like
I'm here it's a federal offense
come on so they've got a cop that's a
robot replacing real cops and your
concern is not the people that are being
put out of work but the crime that's
going to happen against the robotic cop
you know yin yang we are right now yeah
I think you can split down this is just
a horrible horrible idea
do you know okay okay let's take away
the idea that it's going to replace
people it's also going to free up some
really horrible like time-consuming
things that a robot could do that people
don't have to worry about but okay I
can't imagine that this thing is got a
top speed of more than 3 4 K a second
I mean it's not like there's a lot of
running or second we're 3k per second
you can't even see it go by Jeff you
know I'm like a gramophone blanking goal
for km/h that's right I catch like they
don't move that fast so thanks for
calling by police we're going to send
our robotic opt-out to you to help you
cross the street
it'll be there in three hours this is
more for people who are concerned that
somebody's like lawn isn't kept up you
know the people that call the bile
officers like crazy if I'm feeling robot
I'll show up in my place and say you
must pull your weeds I'm probably gonna
vandalize Amazon needs the kind of
couple with these folks and have them
deliver packages and stuff at the same
time I think this is a robot delivery
people I could see maybe as like a joke
mall cop greeter thing where it's
standing in one place like I direct you
somewhere like I can maybe see that
maybe but to actually roll this thing
out as law enforcement is a complete
joke and what happens from a legal
standpoint because I'm sure there's
cameras in the eyes it's going to record
all this stuff right so what happens if
you come up to it and report some sort
of a crime or you do something that's
wrong where is the legal authority on
what constitutes police contact like
this is going to have legal
ramifications that lawyers are going to
love I guess we'll have to see what is
used for what does it do right is it
just a mall cop replacement right
particularly no well I yeah it's a bags
that's true I love it but I just I love
things like this I mean I think I look
it's so cute I've wanted a robot to help
me at my work for a long time not soon I
robot I don't think we're quite there
yet they're not there yet that was a
fiction Jeff have you seen any coffee is
real world has Dubai seen Robocop that's
the question
how creak down today good night I bugged
my boss so much about wanting a robot
that he hired me a real human ah nice so
you think it's a real humor you know the
day we bring a robot into your office
I'm gonna see how you feel about robots
hmm I'm not going anywhere right
somebody needs to dust the robots they
can dust themselves have you not seen
wall-e
they move at 3 to 4 kilometers per
second no definitely not
moving on admit the noise of the wanna
cry attack Canada's largest telecom
company Bell Canada had 2 million of its
customer records stolen by unknown
hackers Bell said it was work it is
working with Canadian police to find out
who was responsible for the disclosure
of the customer email addresses and
phone numbers all that's needed for a
massive phishing scam the names were
also obtained for about 1,700 of their
customers Bell Canada said in a brief
statement there is no indication that
any financial password or other
sensitive personal information was
accessed serving around 21 million
customers in the great white north
valley Canada offers both fixed line and
wireless phone service as well as
internet and television the carrier
reported revenues of five point three
eight billion dollars Canadian in their
last fiscal quarter BAL Canada Bell
Canada did not say whether the customer
details stolen in the attack were pulled
from a specific service the Canadian
Privacy Commissioner's Office has said
it is also gathering data about the hack
Wow
the rebooted Nokia 3310 has gone on sale
nearly 17 years after the original made
its debut the phone which has a two
megapixel camera and relies on 2.5 g
connectivity to offer only limited
internet access is being sold for about
50 euros part of the nostalgia is found
in being able to leave your charger at
home the battery in the reimagine 3310
offers up to 22 hours of talktime and up
to a month in standby mode one expert
said its success is dependent its
success depended on how much people
would be willing to pay for a device
that zoos nostalgia then would from
technology consultancy CCS Insight is
personally excited about the 33 tens
returned but says if you put this in the
hands of a millennial who is addicted to
snapchat of course it's the wrong phone
I feel like it's the right phone for
anybody who wants to wean themselves off
of smartphones and back into like real
life what about like I don't like to be
connected all the time right right and
I'm sure there are still people that are
like me that are a little bit on my left
row side that way I would like that I
mean I know it bothers it bothers Dave
especially we'll say when I'm like
checking my phone and checking my
facebook feed and things one really I
should be like really engaged in
conversation or right but it's an
addiction Mikey always you tend to be
like this because you've got Facebook
you've got every you've got email you've
got everything I would close the kids
pay-as-you-go here you go you can call
if there's an emergency that's what
phones are about great I would have a
computer is blinking all the time lad
Lee buy one of these and get myself
unhooked right you can still contact me
if you need it here yeah that's it
emergency phone in the glove box nobody
else find it intriguing that this is a
tech show we've got two of you talking
about giving up tech it's I love techie
when it's used properly but it sometimes
tech is abused
I like fact that minimizes the problems
in my life I don't like tech that
enhances them right so now if I'm on my
phone and I'm doing this at first I have
bad posture and I'm not paying attention
to the outside world I work for a
chiropractor bad postures big deal hmm
and I'm missing out on things and for
some reason I super care what everybody
on Facebook is doing like a super care I
care like at least four times an hour
that's how much I care that's ridiculous
I would like it I can't just disable the
app evidently I would like a phone that
doesn't happen or jump no I cannot
she can't emotionally handle no life I
am the kind of person like I don't judge
others for it but I am NOT the person
who wants to be in line at the coffee
shop with a phone to his ear because I'm
not that important really but that
before I'm not a doctor I don't I'm not
on emergency call people can reach me at
my office or at my home if they need me
and if I'm in between you don't need to
get me right then and there I can call
you back
leave me a voicemail I am constantly
dealing with work emails and issue hatch
mints and I not develop like Excel files
and stuff so for me the idea of
switching over to this I couldn't do it
this is the first time we've found the
opposite sides of the robot thing this
is a robot it's sort of ya know it's
artistic there's a little funny middle
integral yes it's this is not black and
white but this is a robot situation and
you like it one of the stories we just
can't agree sasha for years yahoomail
has exposed a wealth of private user
data because it failed to update widely
used image processing software that
contained critical vulnerabilities
that's according to a security
researcher who warned that other popular
services are also likely to be leaking
sensitive subscriber secrets Chris Evans
the researcher who discovered the
vulnerabilities and reported them
privately to Yahoo engineers has dubbed
them Yahoo bleed because of the
vulnerabilities caused the site to bleed
content stored in the server memory the
easy to exploit flaws resided in image
magic an image processing library that's
supported by PHP Roby
or ruby nodejs python and about a dozen
other programming languages one version
of Yahoo bleed was the result of Yahoo
failing to install a critical patch
released in January 2015 a second Yahoo
bleed vulnerability was the result of a
bug that imagemagick developers fixed
only recently after having received
after receiving a private report from
Evans the vulnerability discovered by
Evans could be exploited by emailing a
maliciously manipulated image file to a
Yahoo e-mail address after opening the
18 byte file chunks of Yahoo server
memory began leaking to the end user
Evans called this version of the attack
Yahoo bleed 1 Yahoo bleed 2 works by
exploiting the vulnerability fixed in
January 2015
together the buzz allowed attackers to
obtain browser cookies authentication
tokens and private image attachments
belonging to yahoo mail users despite
Yahoo allowing one of the bugs to remain
unpatched for 28 months
Evans praised company engineers for
their speed and thoroughness in
responding to his private report rather
than patch image magic Evan said yahoo
opted to stop using the library a move
he applauded over the past 18 months the
app has come under increased criticism
for harboring critical vulnerabilities
which in the past have threatened
Facebook users among others Evans warned
that other widely used web services are
still likely vulnerable ever wonder
where they get the strange names for
paint colors it could be worse it could
be up to AI researchers research
scientist and neural network goofball
Janel Shane decided to train a neural
network to generate new paint colors
complete with appropriate names the
results are possibly the greatest work
of artificial intelligence I've ever
seen to date Shane wrote on her tumblr
for this experiment I gave the neural
network a list of about 7700
sherwin-williams paint colors along with
there are gigabytes values quote the
neural network learn that's RGB that's
our Pro teleprompter doing that RGB you
say are gigabytes
uh no it's our doctor yeah Oh oopsie
that's my mistake not yours
okay I was wondering uh maybe it's a
gigabyte value sometimes i repel a
prompter will convert gb to gigabyte Wow
he being funny when I wrote I read it
earlier I was like I wonder if robbery
will explain what that is hmm there you
go there you go it's not an exact term
okay to learn and invent new paint
colors and give them attractive names
Shane was able to get the algorithm to
recognize some basic colors like red and
gray though not reliably because she
also gets a sky blue called gray pubic
and a dark green called
Stu me Brown in the end she concludes
one the neural network really likes
beige brown and gray to the neural
network has really really bad ideas for
paint names possibly the neural network
needed better parameters but really who
can argue with results like snow bonk
bun flow bank but dork would it thirdly
looks dumb new stump thanks for watching
the category 5 dot TV newsroom don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
dramatis thanks Ashley this is category
5 technology TV episode number 505 and
we're having a great time tonight
learning about how to encrypt this USB
flash drive now it's all done and you'll
see that that's simply returned to the
the prompt so now Jeff if I type sudo I
don't need sudo because I am route right
now but if I do I owe top note that make
FS ext3 is no longer going to show up
there because what I finished right it's
not doing anything anymore and so the
i/o is finished being used by that
application so now we have that drive
encrypted and
I'm at it is ext3 let's bring it up in
our GUI because that may be why how
we're going to access that moving
forward so I'm just going to go home
folder and then I'm going to click on to
you know what I want to do devices and
my 15 gig let's unmount that because I
think I've got it mounted ah there we go
ok so you notice now that I click on the
15 gigabyte volume which is the 16 gig
flash drive
it says authentication is required oh
it's looking to lock
I think it's unlocked because I
previously set it up let's see what
happens here ok let's take it from
scratch yeah ok no software needed I
just injected it and going to plug it
back in
let's see what happens sometimes your
session will memorize the password so
all right click on it that's what we're
looking for enter a passphrase to do
what unlock the volume so you notice I
can't even access it unless I know the
password I'm going to enter some
gibberish and we're going to say forget
password immediately and connect and
you'll notice you got some Oh went
nowhere and then it says error unlocking
dev slash s DB 1 no key available with
this passphrase incidentally that's the
same error message that you're going to
receive if you've accidentally created
the volume on the device so s DB vs. s
DB Rea so keep that in mind if you're
seeing that error message and you know
you've got the password right maybe you
did it on the block device rather than
the partition so let's try it with the
real password I'm going to click on it
again and I'm going to type in my
password here and I'm going to go forget
password immediately because I don't
want my computer remember it Connect did
I type it right
there we go mistyped it the first time
so now I've got a completely empty ext3
file system so you'll see that that is
now accessible on this computer so on
next week's episode we're going to learn
a couple more things we're going to
learn now because it is a read-only file
system I don't have access to it as this
user it's not read-only pardon me it's
owned by root so only root can now write
to that file system we may want to make
it so that our user can actually access
that drive we're going to look at that
next week and we're going to look at how
to make it so that my computer and my
computer alone can open that drive
without a password anytime I pop that in
ok and I'm talking not just not just
from the GUI so of course I could say
remember forever sure that's the GUI I
want to think about things like a server
where I only have SSH access for example
or I only have a terminal I don't have a
GUI so how do we do that we're going to
learn about creating a crypt tab we're
going to learn how to actually mount
that device through our FS tab and
decrypt it automatically using a key
file so that's going to all happen next
week on episode 506 so if you've enjoyed
learning about how to create this volume
we're going to learn how to take it one
step further and make it into the
perfectback backup set so that we can
start throwing our files on it and then
when we eject it it's no longer going to
be accessible on other computers cool
now in the chatroom
the fu says that Luke's supports eight
passphrase slots that's correct so you
can have multiple pass phrases I know
what you're doing I know what you do
I'm just relying what's in the room what
ok I know I know I know what the foo is
doing Oh what did I what did I do
nobody kid works no Jeff no Jeff crypt
setup
Luke's dump
Stev stb-1 and now I can show you that
we have eight key slots you are correct
I love my shadow plane
I love the shout here we are my so judge
done pretty well counting yes the
funniest encryption tutorial on YouTube
to date all the time in our job sorry we
wasted so much of it I look forward to
seeing you next week we learn more about
descriptive volume how we can work with
it and then use it for our backups so
next week I'm pretty sure of getting
fired good thing they don't pay good
night
[Music]
