welcome to episode three hundred of
category five technology TV i'm your
host Gary Webb and for the next hour
I'll be transporting you back in time as
we review the most memorable moments in
category five TV history you'll learn
how this team of volunteers has worked
hard to bring you this tech broadcast
every week and you'll see just how far
we've come in the last three hundred
episodes so get the popcorn gather your
family around for what promises to be an
exciting trip down memory lane this is
category 5 technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm thanks for
joining us I'm your host for this
evening Karrie Webb and this is a very
special night in the studio because as
hard as it is to believe this is episode
three hundred a lot has happened in the
past three hundred episodes from from
working from episode one until now we've
had a lot of fun doing it from the
friends we've made in our loyal viewers
to the dedicated group of volunteers
that it takes to bring this show to you
over the past three hundred weeks it's
been an incredible ride so far so when
Robbie Ferguson started this show in
2007 he had actually already been doing
screencast for a couple of years prior
to that having started his first
broadcast just a couple of months after
YouTube begin and in 2006 he refined his
focus demonstrating unique features of
the Linux operating system which has
been growing by leaps and bounds since
he started using it in 99 in this early
clip recorded in September 2006 Robbie
demonstrates the cube operations on a
boon tues fourth release dapper Drake he
was using the 686 SMP colonel before
64-bit was practical as well as xgl with
compiz before the comp is barrel split
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by netflix all you can watch TV in
movies absolutely free for one month no
strings attached no commitments get your
free month of netflix by visiting cat5
TV / netflix the very first episode of
category
I of Technology TV we used this webcam
that I'm going to bring up from the
grave oh wait till you see this bad boy
I love it it brings back memories I'll
hold it up so y'all can see so it was
actually on Tuesday September 25th in
2007 and there were 5 live viewers and
on that episode Robbie talked about
actually Robbie demonstrate how to
install an early version of the pc linux
OS and barrel 3b you can see my screens
here kind of in front of me and
basically what i can do is i can spin
these screens around in a 3d virtual
world and you can see basically I've got
one desktop to desktops three desktops
for desktops and what this does for me
Phil is this gives me the opportunity if
you've ever used an operating system
with a flat desktop like just one screen
you realize that it can get very
cluttered with applications now in the
taskbar things just get absolutely you
know if you're if you're productive user
if you're a web developer or programmer
you know that you always got to have a
lot of programs open at the same time
that can be a real hassle if you're
running one of those desktops so with
the 3d operating system with 3d desktop
you're able to spin that around throw
something else up on another desktop and
it's basically like if you've got for
desktops it's almost akin to having four
different computers so you can just load
things up and with virtualization
technology which we're going to be
introducing next week into this new
computer that we're working on you can
actually have multiple operating systems
on the different sides of the desktop so
for example you can use the Linux
operating system for your web surfing
your email and your msn and programs
like that so that you are not
susceptible to viruses so that you're
not going to have to worry about spyware
and adware
and having to buy into licenses for
antivirus products and things like that
but then you can spin around that queue
and have a nice windows XP desktop up
there so that you can run the programs
that you want to run if you need
Photoshop say for example it will you
know that can be run natively in Linux
but you may prefer to run directly in
windows so that could do that
opportunity Wow things have changed a
lot since the first episode on category
5 but then again this was never
originally intended to grow to this
scale Robbie Ferguson operated his own
IT company for many years he has always
been really keen on providing excellent
service to people but as a small company
is becoming increasingly difficult for
him to provide free advice people would
call him for free advice and not intend
on paying him for it so he used category
5 in its first season as a platform to
offer free support at a pre-specified
time so tuesday nights at seven pm and
that way he could have that a lot of
time to give the support that he wanted
to and not have it take away from his
paid work the only episode that's ever
been lost on category 5 has been episode
11 so that means that 299 episodes have
been archived it was on December for
2007 only 11 weeks after Robbie started
the show and the broadcast computer
actually crashed and only six minutes of
that show were able to be recovered
after the fact Robbie realized at that
point that he needed a more redundant
recording option and he immediately
began working on new recording process
which since that time he has never lost
a single episode tonight's show is
brought to you in part by adds ER calm
the next generation in ad serving if
you've got a website why not monetize it
adds erk will help with the world's
fastest asynchronous banner ad code
check out ads are calm so on April 8
2008 Robbie ventured into the community
of Barry to demonstrate the quality the
noise the quality of the noise
cancellation feature of the then new
jawbone bluetooth headset which a lift
Tim after finding him online with the
help of his friend Tyler shteyngart who
i'm sure some of you remember from
season 1 he drove around town with a in
a van with a busted catalytic converter
stopping at local businesses to
demonstrate the product
and we're gonna switch off the job but
you should be able to hear that you can
still hear my voice loud and clear but
you're not going to hear that muffler
noise anymore let's switch back to the
camera just you can see I haven't
touched the engine at all we are okay
that look really good actually this is
the advantage to doing these kind of
reviews there we go is that all the
noise you can make come on the jawbone
can do better than that okay good good
so here I am with the jawbone headset
you can hear now let's switch back to
the camera so you can hear what's
actually going on here can you hear me
now so that jawbone episode is was our
first viral video on youtube it quickly
climbed the charts on YouTube which
meant a lot of more a lot more exposure
and a lot more opportunity for people to
find out about the show countless new
viewers praised the quality and
extensiveness of the review and claimed
that it was that review that caused them
to buy the product so this please the
manufacturers and they actually were
able to give us product giveaways
sponsorships and advertising which all
brought more new viewers to the show
within weeks of our jawbone review
category 5 viewership skyrocketed to
over 30,000 unique viewers per episode
so contrast that to episode one that
only had five viewers 30,000 was amazing
as the summer of two thousand eight
progressed Robbie begin preparing for
the first anniversary show he wanted to
host it at a local venue and invite
people to a live studio audience but he
knew that he wouldn't be able to do the
camera switches and host the show at the
same time so that's when I got a call
Robbie and I are both musically inclined
and actually met through a youth program
that was run at a local church so Robbie
was tasked with assembling a Youth Music
Group and he asked me to play the bass
guitar for him so that's how it got
started
this to say Robbie was looking for
someone that he knew would be
comfortable on stage in front of people
and he asked if I'd be willing to help
him with his first anniversary show so
it would involve me walking around with
a microphone letting people ask their
questions and which would be keeping in
line with the Q&amp;A nature of the show but
he didn't want to just throw me in there
hoping that I'd swim so the first step
was to invite me here to co-host on a
live show needless to say I was so
nervous that first episode I was
sweating bullets but Robbie was very
helpful and you were all very gracious
to accommodate so on that episode Robbie
reworked the studio to accommodate for a
co-host and actually incorporated this
bad boy the NT one and hung it down in
front so that we could be heard just
about like that this became Studio B and
on August nineteenth 2008 I made my
debut as the first co-host on category 5
technology TV that night we looked at an
earlier version a piece of Linux
software called DVD demonstrating how to
fit several videos onto a DVD I was able
to help out with the chat room and by
this point it was pretty active because
the viewership had increased to about
40,000 viewers per episode which was
amazing it was incredible to see that so
many people at that time were tuning
into the little show that was being
broadcast from Robbie's basement and it
was at that time that I really realized
that this was a real community and there
are real people benefiting from the show
here's a clip from my first appearance
on category 5 technology TV and chris
said that he reviewed your episode for
me
DVD using DVD and he said that halfway
during the tutorial didn't finish it and
he would like you two to finish that up
for him okay yeah first of all Chris if
you are joining us live good to have you
here if the power goes out I will
understand but you can watch the show
after the fact is well in category five
TV that's kind of funny because Carey is
here specifically to nudge me when I you
know slip off topic what Chris was
saying there is that in the previous
time that we looked at a DVD ve ve ve
the software for burning dvds I ran into
a problem where I got sidetracked and
never came back to it so so she's going
to keep me on track speaking of that
you're supposed to nudge me right now
and say ok move on move on let's take a
look at DVD yeah all right tonight's
show is brought to you in part by
nettalk duo now with unlimited text
messaging eliminate the need for a
wireless text plan from your cell phone
provider upgrade your nettalk duo
account with the nettalk text plan check
out cat5 TV / phone and start saving
money today five weeks after I first
appeared on category 5 technology TV we
moved to the Sheba shrine center in
Barrie Ontario where we held the first
anniversary show and just as Robbie had
intended it was before a live studio
audience and we great we gave away a ton
of great prizes and many of many of them
were from international companies that
had seen us online and in fact many of
these companies still advertise with us
today having seen incredible growth in
the number of viewers that watch the
show let's check in on episode 53 here
we are at the first anniversary
celebration of category 5 technology TV
I installed entropia universe i got from
you all right and i got in traded my
character i think he was featured on the
show awesome was he Philly in the the
uncivil earth oh yeah Kerry Kerry
mentioned a method Oh apparently they
can't hear me when I got into the game
all I could see was beige so I don't
know if it's a graphics card thing but
what would answer you to fix that so was
it just your characters that were gray I
couldn't see anything except the color
like this is just a blanket here people
like a little bit people talk all that
kind of stuff it was just bathe I could
see the little chat window in the bottom
left yeah yeah just beige Wow yeah I
haven't encountered that what kind of
video car do you have I couldn't tell
you okay yeah he's using the ati beige
card yeah it definitely sounds like a
graphics card issue for okay I'm gonna
I'm gonna like it I'll get you to
actually get it like get into your
computer right click on your my computer
okay okay choose properties and then
tell me or actually quicker way right
click on your desktop yeah go properties
and that's going to bring up like your
screen settings click on on settings or
yeah you'll find one of the tabs there
will show you the name of your graphics
card I'm going to bet that it's probably
something that's not too not gonna meet
the minimum system guessing apologizes
beige as a bad sign yeah so so we may
need to upgrade that video card and
that's something that we can you can add
a card to the computer to be able to do
that and how much does that run like how
much does it cost it depends on what
kind of baseline yeah you're looking at
like an nvidia 7600 would be and the
reason i say that is because you're
going to be able to find it for both AGP
and pci express so depending on what
kind of interface your motherboard has
for that graphics card that's the type
of plug that you'd plug it into ok ok so
the i'm going to recommend a 7600 which
is going to run you about between 90 and
110 dollars somewhere in that range okay
and that's a graphics accelerator that's
going to get you through for quite some
time you'd even be able to run some of
the cool effects that we saw here if you
had Linux like it's it's it's that good
so if you have PCI Express which we can
only determine by like looking up your
motherboard then we can also go as high
as like if you want to still stay within
the price bracket like pretty cheap for
about 120 130 dollars we can get a 7950
which is going to give you even better
performance from an nvidia card you know
all right okay that's almost guarantee
you that it's the video card yeah you
like maybe you're using integrated video
or something like that okay we've always
had a great assortment of excellent
interviews on category 5 TV but one in
particular really stands out to me
not only was it my first time ever using
skype but on december 9th 2008 our guest
was Mark Shuttleworth not only is he a
philanthropist and astronaut he funded
his own trip to the International Space
Station he's also the founder of
canonical the company which makes Ubuntu
Linux a visionary and all-around good
guy let's hear what Mark had to say
about the future of ubuntu on episode 64
five years ago the things we strive for
anyone to our ease of use making it
really easy for for any user to get it
installed to have access to the
low-hanging fruit you know an easy easy
on-ramp to the web easy access to two
web browsers email racing office
applications and so on so and we also
stream strive to make it robust and
secure and reliable for power users but
fundamentally that the focus is the next
for human beings right right and
speaking of like just kind of the focus
of how you program the software like
you've got the server operating system
you've got the desktop operating system
and you it also put a lot of work in
with intrepid with that making it work
on on portable laptops and things like
that very small laptops like the epc
kind of are you keeping on with that
direction of having kind of three bases
for a boon to yeah at least at least
that many and and what I'd also like to
have a sense of disasters all small
handheld devices version as well because
it seems to me that that that we're
moving to a world where your data your
experience of technology is increasingly
out there in the cloud and you want to
be able to access that you know from a
device in your pocket or from a laptop
or from your desktop at home and have
access to the same data used in the same
way so if we're able to provide people
with that common platform and in future
that will be a there will be a wonderful
thing as season 2 progressed we worked
really hard to incorporate various local
businesses and charities into the show
so on februari 17 2009 Robbie Tyler
shteyngart and myself traveled to st.
John Ambulance in Barrie Ontario where
we learned how technology was being used
to save lives we reviewed how an
automated external
works and it was really cool at that
time I was going to school to be a nurse
so I was able to meld my passion for
nursing in healthcare and my position on
the show so it's a good opportunity for
that and our hope really was that people
would use the information provide on the
show and maybe have the opportunity to
save a life one day let's look back on
that special feature episode 74
featuring me and Nagasaki Kelly from st.
John Ambulance this is life-saving
technology the defibrillator so we're
here today at st. John Ambulance with
Mia Mia's the AED coordinator for st.
John Ambulance and she's here to talk to
us a little bit about how technology is
saving lives every day your heart works
by electrical impulses so there are
specialized cells in your heart that
trigger the pumping activity by sending
these electrical impulses and most
people go by day to day never giving any
thought to this until it stops working
and then it becomes really important to
them so Mia is going to help us
understand how to get the heart pumping
again using technology so well somebody
is bringing me the defibrillator i'm
checking breathing i'm doing my two
breaths and i'm starting my CPR until
the machine erupts the machine Trump's
the person so as soon as the machine
arrives I stop when I'm doing i turn on
my machine and I follow the prompts so
first thing I want to check on my
casualties I want to do the ABCs a
airway airway needs to be open and clear
so I do a head tilt chin lift so I'm
going to tilt the head back get the
tongue off the back of the throat then
I'm going to be check for breathing so
I'm going to get down nice and close
check for breathing for ten seconds one
two three four five six seven eight nine
ten if he's not breathing I'm going to
give them two breaths plug the nose
breathe just enough air to make the
chest rise and a second run and then I
would start your right into CPR chest
compressions 30 chest compressions one
and a half to two inches in depth and I
continue to do 30 compressions and 2
breaths until the AED arrives as soon as
the AED arrives I stop what I'm doing
turn on the machine and I go from there
assuming that we've done a little bit of
CPR then we're going to turn the machine
on
begin by removing all clothing from the
patient's chest got clothing all
machines come with a little bag and then
you dump out your little bag and it has
everything that you need so you might
need to have some scissors to cut the
closures justice bear remove protective
cover and some gloves white adhesive bad
and a mask to protect myself right I
would then dry the casualty if the
casualty is is very hairy I need to
shave them first and then Dragic
discover and take out white at ez bed so
I follow the prompts remove the cover
take out the past please add exactly as
shown in the picture press fun later
patient pad has a picture it shows me
exactly where I need to put it so I
follow what the picture tells me that is
in place look carefully at the picture
on the second I peeled the second pad
from the yellow plastic liner placed ad
exactly as shown in the picture Preston
there's a chance bare skin no one should
touch the fascia so we need to move back
I'm clear we all need to be clear
ideally would like to be a good 12
inches away so we're all clear okay
don't touch the patient stand clear shot
goodbye dear okay so we're gonna get
ready to shock I'm gonna push the button
but before I push it i must confirm no
one's near don't touch him i'm gonna
shock shockey now shot delivered
chuckling sure emergency medical
services have been called we call me
buddy silver dead excavation begin CPR
so keeping in mind I originally signed
up to do only the first anniversary show
with Robbie I did stick around for quite
a while I took some time off during my
undergrad about 10 weeks and then came
back for a while but on jun 13 2010 to
say farewell farewell to the viewers and
volunteers here at category 5 in order
to pursue my career it's not gonna be
the same without you actually on camera
every week so
to be weird yeah but totally send me
emails I got a few um I got one actually
from another nurse in the UK really yeah
yeah she was talking to me here um yeah
they were this was a viewer if you were
yep just talking about nursing and about
the show and so I've gotten a few emails
but if you want to send me one that
would be awesome I I do respond so yeah
thanks that was an awesome set of clips
and i forgot about some of this yeah me
too I mean going through that stuff um
just really brought back a lot of great
memories and yet some great times that
we've had on the show so I think that
we've really you know just gotten along
really well it's been lots of fun so it
was really bittersweet leaving category
5 at that time not only had I grown to
appreciate the work that Robbie was
doing but also the online community that
was here for example I was sick one time
and someone sent me a gift card one of
the viewers you sent me a gift card who
does that that's the type of community
that's here on on category 5 so what was
it like working with Robbie it was both
entertaining and challenging I felt that
I really learned a lot from him I just
had to come to the show with an open
mind and a computer thesaurus but he
really helped me to learn a lot about
computers and it was wonderful to get to
know his growing family and I was
challenged and encouraged to see how
much time Robbie actually gladly poured
into making this show what it is Kristi
Burton is a longtime friend of Robbie's
they actually met when Robbie was a
midday DJ and Christie was the news
announcer at a local radio station
having left that job to take on his own
business full time Christie and Robbie
still stayed in touch and I also knew
Christie as well at that time so with
Christie's background in broadcasting
and already established rapport with
Robbie and me Christie filled in a few
times during my tenure on the show and
it was January 27 of 2009 when she made
her first guest appearance once I left
she was quick to step in
and take over my seat as the regular
co-host Christie took over my position
on category 5 TV beginning july twenty
first 2009 and that episode began
Robbie's quest to find the best storage
solution for viewers wanted to build an
expandable storage device which was also
affordable hmm so you've heard me talk
about data backup solutions on the show
because it's important to have a backup
of your files that's that should be
obvious right well yeah some of Gary had
a problem got around to it yet you too
huh I you know I said with co-host it's
too much trouble every time I try yeah I
keeps spitting out the disks and going
you got enough room what are you doing
you're kind of doing on CDs yeah I tried
DVDs I mean I yeah and you're trying to
back up like your whole hard drive kind
of thing or what yeah yeah yeah when we
got up to 14 discs and then I had to go
out somewhere so then I just give up can
you imagine yeah and that would be such
a waste of desks too yeah well first of
all a good thing to do if you're gonna
be doing that kind of backup is just
grab like your crucial files so like
your my documents hmm back those up but
not your whole hard drive but I have
photographs that guy wonder things I do
is I'm a photographer so I i have saved
like hundreds of photographs and it
takes forever and and videos mm-hmm
especially so have you thought about
like external hard drive things like
that they will Ernie for those I know
isn't that the worst thing but then you
know so there's there's backup solutions
which as Christie says can be you know
it can be kind of yeah time consuming
mm-hmm hard to remember sometimes it's
just frustrating so I just take a chance
and hope that actually you know I should
know better because i had a lightning
strike on my last computer and yeah
since there was a banging some smoke and
i had to get a new computer so you'd
think that I'd learned but um you know
when you're kind of technically
challenged
at that point I lost everything yeah
that's tragedy right there yeah hmm see
and this is why you know I talked about
the importance of backups but I know it
can be you know especially for home
users and stuff you get it's like well
when do you run it you know and how do
you run it and if you use in CDs and
that's that's you know that would just
be so time-consuming and did it work who
knows let's find out when your hard
drive crashes right so one of the
alternatives to backing up and this
doesn't this doesn't work for off-site
stuff but something that will help to
prevent data loss in the case where a
hard drive fails and we've talked about
hard drive failures and having to send
our drives away to data recovery
specialists and that can be pricey one
of the things that we can look at is
redundant data storage so what that is
in its simplest form is say we have two
hard drives connected at the same time
and your computer thinks that they're
one so anytime you save a file any time
you import your pictures from your
digital camera they get saved on two
independent hard drives you don't have
to actually copy them you're just saving
it to one so it could be your c drive
right or just your whatever mount point
in linux so that gives you redundancy
john is is is right in saying that
that's not a backup it's not but it
gives us redundancy so that in a case
where hard drive fails you've got a
second hard drive that has that data on
it that's in simplest form that's that's
called raid one where you've got two
hard drives but it's not always ideal
and it's and it is a case where well
what happens if there's a fire what
happens if there's you know something
like a lightning strike that takes out
everything in your computer and that
second hard drive is done anyways but in
a case where it's a hard drive failure
and I've had enough hard drives crash in
my time to know that it's important to
have redundant copies of my files the
nice thing about redundant file systems
are redundant hard drives is that
essentially in in many cases if one hard
drive fails you can keep working using
just the other one and then you just you
know as quickly as possible you get that
old failed drive
and put in a new drive to replace it so
that you get that redundancy again so
that's that's something that's really
nice I had a client that who called us
in because they were having some trouble
with their server running the backups
and and sure enough get in there and the
the one hard drive had been failed for
like almost two weeks oh that's funny so
what's not it could have been really
really dangerous right there's here they
are running an entire business on their
server with one hard drive but the point
that I made to them was that you're
because they were asking well do we
really need to replace the second hard
drive do we really need that and I said
look this redundancy is what saved you
the whole the last two weeks that you've
been working on this one hard drive is
because of that redundant setup that you
had and that's in this most basic form
so the fact that you've been able to
work for the past two weeks the fact
that you didn't lose any data is because
of that redundancy so is there any
warning to let you know that it's on
your backup system well in a raid
environment you're gonna know if a hard
drive is failed as long as you've got a
good enough card with an interface that
warns you right just like any it will
actually tell you that a hard drive has
failed right cuz I need one of those I
wouldn't be able to tell anyways yeah
you and you'd have to keep an eye on it
some of them have also like little
lights of the front it'll be green if
it's good and red if it's bad it can be
that simplistic to right so as far as
data redundancy goes I'd be interested
in hearing in the chat room what what
people are doing if anything to to take
care of their redundant data storage
needs and we're not talking about
servers we're not talking about you know
big bucks systems what we're talking
about is like my home computer just
knowing that my family photos are safe
just knowing that you know the thousands
of photos that I've taken with our
digital camera since my wife and I were
married eight years ago well what would
ever happen if I lost all those that be
devastating and these days you don't
even really print them a lot you you
print you know the occasional photo but
for what it's worth they to be honest
they're mostly just on my hard drive so
interested here in the chat room
category five TV what what you're doing
for redundant data still
after much consideration and lots of
research Robbie actually built an unraid
server on episode 103 and he went over
the step-by-step procedure on how to
build it explaining why he chose unraid
over other available options so yes he
built a computer that was the sound of
my mind blowing and I know I'm gonna get
the question what chassis is this
because people will see the video and
say hey that's pretty cool for this and
I'll tell you I don't know I looked on
the web I tried to find it out for you
but I couldn't it's an old heart old
chassis so I'm sure that if it's
available it's not going to be available
new so so that said I'll tell you what I
do like about this chassis and why I
selected it so that when you're shopping
for a chassis if you're buying if you're
going into storage with buying a new
chassis or if you're looking on the web
here are some of the things that I like
about chassis for what we're doing first
off it has drive trays it's nice and
easy to insert and remove these drives
its toolless so you don't actually need
to screw drives into a cage you don't
have to worry about any of that stuff
and you'll see that it actually holds
five drives right into the box it's kind
of cool because it actually has a
carrying handle up at the top so in the
case of you know say a fire or an alien
invasion you can just grab that thing
shut it down and walk out the door
unlike traditional raid on rate is going
to allow us to use multiple different
size hard drives just make sure that the
biggest one becomes your parody drive in
the case of my stack of random drives my
largest drive is a 750 gig so that's
going to become my parody drive
everything else will become data drives
to really simplify what a parity drive
is without getting too technical and
without being a hundred percent accurate
basically what it does is it allows for
your drives to have redundancy so if
disc one were to crash you have the data
still on your parody Drive essentially
so then when you replace this one your
parity drive then refreshes the the new
drive and the data is not lost and
subsequently if you were to lose your
parody Drive you can replace the parity
drive and then your parody drive would
be rebuilt from the data drives and
incidentally that server is still in
operation today nearly four years later
so it turned out that going with an
unraid server was a very good long-term
option this is category 5 technology TV
I'm your host for this evening Karrie
Webb you'll find our website at triple w
category 5 TV and I encourage you to
actually jump to the bottom of that page
and take note of the mailing address
which is category 5 TV p.o.box to 9009
Barrie Ontario l4 n7w 7 and consider
picking up a postcard this week and
dropping in the mail to wish the
volunteers here congratulations on
reaching 300 episodes so April of 2009
saw another influx of new viewers
because Robbie had recorded a video of
the spirit of community which actually
became included in the Ubuntu
distribution CD for jaunty jackalope the
official ubuntu release millions of
people saw this video many because it
became included in there Ubuntu Linux
installation but others in fact uploaded
the video to their YouTube channels
leading more and more people to track
down category 5 TV
in an effort to find out what this guy
was actually talking about hey my name
is Robbie and I'm the host of a popular
internet TV program called sorry I
promised myself I wasn't gonna say
because I don't want to get the wrong
idea and think this is an advertisement
so then it asked well why am I here if
it's not well my show gets about 40,000
viewers per week and we find that a lot
of the viewers actually use Ubuntu Linux
so since 2007 when we founded the
broadcast we've seen it evolved into a
support forum for Ubuntu Linux so you
may ask why is this relevant well here's
the thing i'm not at all affiliated with
a boom tube but i am aniboom to users
but want to express to you that as
you're installing ubuntu potentially for
the first time you're not just
installing one of the best linux
operating systems you're also becoming a
part of this community there's myself
and thousands of others like me who have
made it their mission to make your
transition to lubuntu Linux the best
experience it can possibly be because we
believe in that community while I
believe you're going to have a lot of
fun and really enjoy Ubuntu Linux there
are over 65,000 active members of the
ubuntu forums many of those people are
like me they're here to help here to
answer your questions or help you with
difficulties that you may run into but
most of all here to help you enjoy and
get the most out of ubuntu linux on
behalf of myself and the entire booboo
to community i want to welcome you to
the boon to jaunty jackalope this truly
is the spirit of community this is the
spirit of a boom to December 8 2009
marked another milestone for category 5
history as the broadcast systems were
upgraded from their makeshift camera
switching utilities to a professional
broadcast sweet telestream Wirecast this
product propelled category 5 into the
next era of its broadcasting with higher
quality video impressive transitions and
major improvements to our record two
disc options this resulted in not only
improvements on air but a big boost for
our RSS feed subscribers I'd been
talking to one of my good friends about
my time on the show and how great it was
and I also mentioned to her that Robbie
might be looking for a new co-host
because I was leaving she was interested
but unfortunately wasn't able to at that
time but a couple months later she
became available and contact was made
and on jun 19 2010 having never met
Robbie Hilary Rumble showed up in studio
met Robin
Kristi and join them on air for the
first time ever in order to expand the
studio once again Robbie had to set up a
newsroom area and the show began
including weekly tech news which we
still do today and Kristi Burton fit
naturally into the newsroom position
having been a news anchor actually for
many years and so Hillary then took on
the co-host desk after that time so
Hillary tell us a little bit about
yourself well what do I know well I know
everybody in the chat room is wondering
you know how'd you get here who do you
know who's your inside contact well
actually karrie webb and i we're tight
we go way back and yeah the opportunity
arose and I'm so excited to be here
because I need to become more tech savvy
and this is a place to learn so that's
why I'm here and even though I know you
all probably miss Carrie terribly um I'm
here and hopefully I can do a good job
filling in her shoes so it's great to
have you here thank you very much for
having me I'm super excited still on the
show today Hillary rumble is actually
the longest-running co-host being part
of the team for 178 weeks and counting
we've had an amazing time over the last
three hundred episodes but it hasn't
been without its bumps in fact it was
Monday April 12 2010 when Robbie
received a call to notify them that the
studio had actually been robbed an
unknown person smashed down the glass
door and grabbed cameras the co-hosts
laptop and an assortment of other
electronic devices that could be easily
grabbed and made off with but despite
this we were able to pull it together
for the show that was the next day
episode 134 went live while Robbie was
at work yesterday he was called home
early when it was discovered that
someone had smashed the patio door
leading to the category 5 TV studio and
made off with some equipment the thief
was easily able to wrap up Hillary's
laptop along with one of our to DV
cameras and a few lesser items forensic
experts from the very police department
were unable to
establish solid evidence as to who the
criminal was and it's not expected the
hardware will be recovered fortunately
no one was home at the time and the cat
hid himself under a bed a fund has been
set up to allow able viewers to show
their support in helping replenish what
was lost and we thank you sincerely for
your support to find out more please
visit our website at triple w category
five dot TV for those who are unable to
show support through this financially we
want you to know that we appreciate your
loyal viewership and for standing by us
if you thoughts and prayers in robbie's
words is read from the category five dot
TV the show must go on after announcing
the robbery I was amazing to see how the
viewers responded and they actually were
able to provide donations enabling
Robbie to replace all of the stolen
material in fact the laptop the co-host
laptop that why Robbie was able to
purchase is actually still used on the
set today and it serves as a reminder
not only to see what the show has come
through but also to show that this is
not just a TV show it's actually a
community that responds when there is a
need and a piece of the tripod that was
broken when one of the thieves entered
in is keeping Robbie's window closed in
the studio and again that serves is a
little piece of history and a little
reminder of what we've come through and
what the community is all about and
having all of that had happened we still
did not miss a single episode so it's
always hard to say goodbye to a co-host
but we had to say good farewell to
Kristi Burton and it was on July 13 2010
during episode 147 she got a new job
working at a radio station just out of
town and a month later Hilary stepped
down temporarily to go to school for a
program in broadcast journalism
apparently the admissions officer saw
her on category 5 and then gave her
recommend
station you got accepted at school I was
it's a broadcast journalism program um
partially accepted because of my efforts
on this show actually there's one of the
we got us we got to block all the school
from being well they looked me up for
whatever and we're checking out some of
my stuff and then saw me on here and one
of the admissions officer was like oh I
saw your st. Patrick's Day episode and I
was like oh thank you anyways so i will
be doing that for a few months that's
that's exciting though that's cool Wow I
was is journalism something that you
wanted to be into yeah for a while now I
kind of um jack of all trades master of
none but journalism was definitely one
of my areas of interest so gonna pursue
it a little further and see what happens
mrs. i think category five is a very
cool launchpad so luckily robbie had met
a guy through work who not only was
experienced when it came to tech but
also was a really fun guy to hang around
with they became friends and when Robbie
mentioned that he was in need of a
co-host he was willing to step in in in
season three on September 7 2010 we
welcome to Eric Kidd to the show who is
still part of the team today eric has
expressed something quite interesting Oh
in that you've never used a chat room no
I'm kind of a chat room noob yeah
everybody flood freaking out so LOL is
laugh-out-loud get to start oh I got
that okay i'm gonna leave some of the
other ones i know out have you used I
seek you never mind is wandering no I
said no AOL instant messenger yahoo any
of these eric is indeed busted no there
you have it so if questions are screwed
streaming by in the chat room forgive us
say Robbie F or Eric Kidd and hopefully
one of us will catch you but what's the
commander slabs the trout
okay gadget wisdom guru I was like how
do you know what about that that is an
old IRC if you ever hear somebody slaps
somebody with a TRO that was mirc it's a
brilliant application back in the early
days of IRC goodness but you can
actually right click on a name it'll
slap with a trail it wasn't too scared
until you started throwing fish around
that's it that's it he's lost in the
chat it's why I terrified so working as
a full-time programmer at this point
Robbie worked with graphic designer
crystal wells they collaborated on some
client projects together Krista would do
the designs and Robbie would code the
backend later it was actually Krista who
designed the category 5 logo as what it
is today and halfway through season 4 on
march eight 2011 she joined Robbie on
air for what she thought was going to be
a one-time thing that sounds familiar
Robbie asked her to do a tutorial with
him about web design I want to put some
links down here so I'm just gonna steal
my main navigation items and reading
them ok
so can you group those and just read and
just oh okay I see what you're doing so
you're using the you're creating a sub
link like so yeah this isn't a duplicate
of something I guess is a designer that
I kind of like to do is when we have a
smaller client i like to make their
websites look a little bit bigger than
they actually are so if they only have
three pages sometimes it's nicer to look
like they're bigger company or how about
going on a lot of texts too so exactly
so even though the links aren't going to
separate pages we add additional links
on there to say something a little bit
different maybe it tweaks someone's
interest in a different way and then
they end up on the same page that's an
army navigation up here anyways okay
that initial tutorial received an
amazing response and even drew a new
group of viewers and that led Robbie to
call Christa back and asked if she would
return on the show so what was supposed
to be a one-time feature I actually
developed into a 12 part series on weft
web devel web development sorry and
Christa had a great time being part of
category 5 so much that she showed up
for 17 consecutive weeks Chris does
another long-standing coach co-host now
and is still part of the category 5 team
on the show in april 2011 Rebecca
Black's song Friday went viral and the
season five crew thought it'd be fun if
they did a parody of the song which
aired April 12 2011 let's check it out
category 5 TV
the evening is gonna be fresh you're
gonna go downstairs gonna breath and
Louise got a double check my cues
sitting up everything let's get going
cameras on lights on everybody's reason
time to get things all set up
i watch the clock not see my friends
talking to talk about GM you open source
for the win now it's time to be
it's Tuesday Tuesday wish I want to
Newsday
tuesday
yeah yesterday was Monday Tuesday is
Tuesday it's gonna be fantastic so
fantastic we're gonna have a good time
tomorrow is Wednesday and Thursday comes
afterward
is gonna be really
to the tank showtek sure
I'm too
to a dictionary
I actually laughed out loud the first
time I saw that video and I can't
believe that was actually two years ago
2011 it went by so quickly this is
category 5 technology TV thank you for
joining us for our 300th episode our
website is triple w category 5 TV please
check it out and bookmark it after the
show and I'm your host for this evening
Karrie Webb it's been a pleasure being
here with you walking down memory lane
well season five was all about growth
and expansion we signed a syndication
deal in New York and built a syndication
system into mainland China and broke
through the 100,000 viewers per episode
mark to further grow the team in season
5 Robbie invited artists Rachel shoe to
show off some of her photoshop
techniques and we introduced her with a
demonstration of some texturing
techniques on episode 213 which aired
live on April eighteenth 2011 while
you're changing layers i'm just going to
bring up the gimp again and just see
I've got the eraser tool here I've got
the brush tool here to change to a
feathered edge brush just like you did
on on Photoshop and then I'll zoom in
with the plus key which is shift + + and
I'm going to do the same thing in the
camp okay so i can do that and then I've
got my Dodge tool over here so I've got
it seems that I've got all the same
tools that you have in Photoshop so this
is good mm-hmm it's a battle to the
death look at dad we are back in
photoshop cs4 alright so then all I do
with the Dodge tool is I take areas that
were here if I hide this that were
lighter before and maybe I've just
become a bit muted I would take that on
the texture layer and just the
highlights just brighten them up a bit
to make the old colors pop again and
after you've done everything you want to
lighten up in that area then you can go
to the burn tool which this is a
different version of Photoshop than I
have normally it's under
the Dodge tool does cs4 have it must
have if you hold in i think cs4 if you
hold there we go there we go here's the
burn tool and then the same thing on the
shadows you can just pick up a bit more
and again you would do the entire
picture this way and so i have it
already done here a bit very cool so the
graininess is just gonna give us that it
really gives that flesh kind of almost
what would you call like blemishes yeah
because very few things have perfectly
smooth skin so that's that very few
things so by now we are starting to have
some flexibility with co-hosts and
rather than committing to being there
every tuesday night we rotated through
different co-host this introduced some
new dynamics into the show and also
helped ease Robbie's load on weeks when
a co-host couldn't make it in and we
continued to grow our team and it
continues to grow next to join the fine
was actually Erica erica lalonde a high
school in turn to gate who was looking
to gain some experience in broadcasting
well it's nice to have you here we we
always have a call for postcards and we
love to oh yes those cards well this
post cards actually from Afghanistan and
it says hello Robbie and cats this is
specialist Philip Guerrero and the
soldiers from the 236 engineer company
and we wish to thank you for your hard
work and dedication we especially enjoy
the photo manipulation series and we're
also using the GIMP also thanks for the
mp4 RSS tip and at the bottom I have no
clue at this says like I don't know if
anyone can somehow look at them they
stand it yeah they stand over top and
you know I'd love to read that last
little blurb but I don't know so
appropriately for her first episode we
did a feature giving a tour of Studio B
and also explained how some of the
technologies work together to bring the
show together using the analogy of the
image in your image editor think about
something that's this big and instead of
resizing it think about cropping it
creating a campus that's this big and
being able to move it around that bigger
image so you're still not losing any
quality it's still this big as far as
the image is concerned but you're able
to move around and look like you're
zooming in on that image check this out
so now i have if i go to sources source
settings go to the rabi camera you'll
see i have a source that is 1080p so
that's a full 1080 and i have a canvas
that is only 720p so now you see that
the camera is actually very very close
to me so here's what's really cool you
can see that for example my chin is kind
of a little bit too low there's too much
room up here above my head so I'm gonna
bring up that shot and I can in fact
move that shot around the screen
losslessly that means I'm not losing any
quality and I can do that so now if I
duplicate that shot I've got two of them
now i'm going to rename this one main
camera and the reason that i duplicated
that is because now i have one that's
already zoomed in at 720p from a 1080p
source and select my main camera there
it is and you'll see that now with my
main camera zoomed in like that i can
move like that or i can move like that
so let's start with me there's me okay
duplicate it again bring up that shot
and move it over to my co-host chair so
if i click to enable smooth transitions
on my shots here then you'll see that
what i can do is take the shot from me
click on the next one and it
automatically pans over to the person
who's sitting next to me so recently
that clipped was named one of the best
demonstrations of the advanced features
of telestream Wirecast by telestream
themselves having completed high school
erica chose to stick with us and is
still a valuable member of our team
being a full-time programmer Robbie sits
at a computer a lot
and his back pain and arm pain were
becoming a little too much to handle so
he was actually diagnosed with having
all her nerve entrapment which was
causing some issues which is with his
ability to use a keyboard and a mouse
and he was becoming nervous that he
wouldn't be able to continue working at
in the same capacity based on the path
that they were going so one night in
2012 his wife Becka attended a
conference at which a speaker was an
experienced gonstead chiropractor
speaking of the healing power in
correcting cervical subluxation so Becca
brought home some of the information
from the conference about this
chiropractor in hopes that she might
discover an answer to the pain that
Robbie was experiencing so Robbie
decided to go to the clinic for an
assessment and began treatment which
practically healed him of the issues
that he was experiencing along the way
he got to know the lady at the front
desk who incidentally had spoken to
Becca at the conference and this lady
was none other than Sasha der meatus so
on September 4th 2012 Sasha made her
debut and learned to control a computer
with her face assistant calibration left
and right keep looking at the screen
don't stop looking at the screen that's
hard sorry ok up and down so I I think
of you know if so look at the movement
the sash is doing and consider she's not
having to move her upper body at all so
this is all neck and head which is you
know for somebody who needs ok look
you've got mouse control now it's tricky
try to get over to ok sensitive oh you
timed out oh if this was a game I win
try a tough stuff ok there you go so
you've got mouse pointer that's and it's
actually following your head yeah but
you and I can sense with it
hmm if you if you get used to it it's
actually functional this again is called
enable via cam it's available it's a
free download cat five dot TV / camera
Mouse it's available definitely on
windows and the Linux not sure if you
can compile the source for mac or not
but definitely windows and linux you'll
be able to do this now if you hover over
disable motion you'll be able to
actually can't I don't know you just
kind of stopped moving and then it stops
the mouse and then it clicks if you wait
for five seconds that's that looks good
there you did it mixed on your first it
was the massive button like it was the
biggest button on the screen thanks for
out it thanks by the way I clicked on
application that I even thought she
added it up sometimes bigger head than I
have on September 25th 2012 we again
moved to a local venue where we
celebrated our fifth anniversary show
with a live in studio audience this time
things looked a lot different and Robbie
was not only accompanied by one co-host
but many including Hillary rumble Krista
wells Eric it Sasha dramatis as well as
the long time image voice of category
five who is Jodi Crangle in October of
2012 Abigail Smith who's actually now
Abigail page since her wedding a few
weeks ago call Robbie up and asked if he
had any space available for another
co-host since Rachel shoe is taking a
leave from the show at that time there
was an opening and that's when Abigail
became the next member of our team I'm
going to bring up your bio here on our
website category 5 TV we are going to
skip right to the end here and just kind
of ask a couple of questions just to get
to know you a little bit better for one
thing ok so you don't like spiders
understood that's why I brought
Angela's um you tore a ligament can you
tell us about that yeah they're your
horseback rider so yeah you know she was
bald like jumping you know yeah pulsing
doing all the fun stuff no yeah um it
was in math class actually in grade 9
the teachers like Abby can you close the
door it was like okay so I stood up and
all of a sudden next thing you know I've
like falling out yeah yeah my me stood
on it weird and just couldn't walk for
like three days so you know cool ass
react they didn't really notice they
just got kind of heard me like crash and
there's no I was going on in beans yeah
so uncaring yeah gearing up for her
wedding in may we were able to have some
fun building a photo booth that was to
be used at her reception it was built on
air for the viewers to enjoy and now
here we are episode three hundred you
may be watching from vancouver bucharest
Slough Jerusalem Madrid or San Francisco
for any part of the globe wherever
you're watching from thank you so much
for joining us and thank you for helping
make category 5 TV what it is today a
community of more than half a million
viewers from all over the world so if
you appreciate what we do here on
category 5 TV please consider making a
contribution by visiting cat5 TV / see
we are a team of volunteers and it's
your contribution that helps to make
this grow and to make the show better
and better it has been a pleasure being
part of this special thank you so much
for hanging out with me for the last
hour and if you have any questions or
comments please visit cat five dot TV /
ask and fill out the form because we
would love to hear from you so here's to
episode three hundred and hopefully many
many more i'm your host karrie webb and
thanks for tuning in
you
