welcome to episode number 314 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the twenty-fourth of September 2013
great to see ya true well we made it
this far all right yeah hey hey how's it
going excellent yeah well we have
exciting things coming up how about I
let you know what's coming up in the
newsroom good one yeah so the iphone 5s
touch ID was hacked within days of
launch so like that fingerprint you know
the hacked bad news iphone um HP is
stalking ubuntu powered laptops in 1500
of its stores in china oh happy day for
a beer ah in Hindu is winning and Apple
is failing they had that's what I've got
it one little glitch one little glitch
and you wrote this with a great pride
I'm sure yeah carrying on mmm Oh a new
home theater chair vibrates and pulses
in time with your surround sound
interesting you try watch jurassic park
again i think oh yeah valve has
announced steamos a linux-based scheme
operating system he's excited stick
around these stars are coming up later
in the show Oh what else would we got
okay tonight for all of you geeks or
wannabe geeks so all you Robbie's over
there all of you want to be listen up
tonight we're gonna be looking at the
linux terminal yes we're gonna be doing
some bash scripting some PHP coding that
is executive all we're going to teach
you all different kinds of things while
we're going to start with some basic
stuff we're gonna get into some more
advanced stuff we're gonna get into
multitasking through your boss scripting
so don't go anywhere it's gonna be a lot
of fun tonight don't worry it's gonna be
I are you know make it funky goes look
girly yes with girlish glee don't go
anywhere we'll be right back this is
category 5 technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson I'm crystal walls yeah
I'm category 5 TV as a member of the
tech podcast network if it stack gets
here and the International Association
of Internet broadcasters awesome hey
check out our mobile website it's mcat
five dot TV I have booze and that
medical code or go to mcat 5db you can
listen to category 5 TV radio ken how
does that work category 5 TV radio will
call it category 5 technology radio
however less confusing a little less
confusing though us be like is it TV
you're watching with your ears we're
describing the awesomeness that you're
seeing if you're watching the TV portion
of the show but yeah we've got all that
at em cam 5 TV as well as on-demand
video live video feeds as well check
that out today get fast I got a book
from old salt sent to us in the mail
just wanted to say shouts out his wife
wrote a book which is something to be
really really proud of in gratitude for
grace thank you for sending that into us
old salt and kudos to your wife and
congratulations on the book release
that's awesome so it was good to see I
have been working hard on our new
transcoders of Christ which for those of
you who aren't familiar with what a
transcoder is basically when we record a
show we're using encoders to record two
discs and we get one great big what we
call the master file it's a huge file
well it's not huge it's one and a half
gigs so it's it's really large then in
order to get it to you at home
we have to then take the end coated file
and transcode it which is to re-encode
into a format that is going to be
supported by your device by your
computer by your television set however
it is that you're watching so the
transcoder server takes that 1.5 gig
file and converts it to all these other
formats including web m4 html5 streaming
on our website it's got LD files if
you're subscribed to the LD feed those
are really really tiny versions of the
show like under 60 Meg's in order to
watch the the entire hour got mp3 SD and
HD files there as well you'll find them
all at category five dot TV / RSS and
what's exciting is we're back at
transcoding all the old episodes and
we're currently averaging about five
episodes per day wow that's pretty good
so the transcoding server has already
gone back to beyond because it's going
back in time right so you'll see you
know some of the newer episodes are all
transcoded some of the older ones are
still on youtube or maybe blip TV it has
gotten back to before last Christmas so
very very exciting we were working on
bringing up that average it certainly
the first this was the first week that
it was up and running so that's going to
be going out because there was having to
re-encode retrans code files because
something went wrong or maybe I found
something that I could have optimized
with the script so I've done some
tweaking over the past week so five a
day is pretty good though I think it's a
good starting point anyways crits no six
a day but well we're working our way I'm
hoping that this week do you think I can
do 80 I don't know I think you should
aim low and then like surprise yourself
we're gonna try for three with crystals
algorithm here what else is exciting
about the new transcoder servers it
means that when the show is over tonight
the episode is going to be available
through our website category 5 TV
minutes following the broadcast cool
what so no waiting less than an hour
after the show you'll be able to watch
it on demand through our website then
the transcoder server starts
distributing it through to our RSS feeds
blip TV youtube all those so those are
secondary
our website will always receive it very
very quickly so I'm excited about that
viewers on our website want to
congratulate Scorpio 55 and slip they
both hit 250 weeks of watching category
5 TV recently so both of them get a
bronze crown award which is really cool
kudos for that I'm shiny Raptor 222 and
rob treed are just a couple of weeks off
so keep watch and actually don't yeah
and then check out your awards on our
website category 5 TV also Raptor 222 is
very close to hitting the 5,000 viewer
points mark that's huge folks it's huge
what that is going to do is that's going
to get you the coveted silver double
dagger award and there's only I think
seven other people they sound like
really cool Awards I'm just saying yeah
well think about all the viewers
category five and only seven other
people have this award today I'm a Jake
get like a little dagger it's like if ya
on their profile yeah sorry it's not as
cool as she makes it sound it is coveted
though and we congratulate our viewers
for having achieved those and if you are
watching the show tonight you've got a
really cool rig and you want to show us
what it looks like and how it is that
you're watching the show hey make sure
you set up a picture camera take a
picture of yourself watching the show
with your set up and send that our way
Cara it's live at category 5 TV and
we'll send you one hundred viewer points
for sending that in so that's another
way for you to be able to get I think we
should say hello some of our new viewers
as well yeah looks like we have a lot
after this weekend hi eek a mouse okay a
mouse well he says it way more fun than
we have announced this week every time
like that absolutely no how do you like
that actually I dating outside you do
you about the most by connection watch
the video oh really okay we have
surveillance in the studio of course we
have a service camera in the new stucco
as well monitoring everything that goes
on and I we are working on it right so I
go back in time on a couple of the
videos to see you know how the progress
yep and sure enough its motion activated
so lo and behold the first video that i
click on there's a mouse scampering
along and the rabbit yeah just checking
things out so so set a humane trap we're
going to release them somewhere it wears
up maybe your front yard good no just
somewhere safe yeah it's very nice like
he'll be well cared for lucky mouse yep
moving on oh noes i said to carry you
elias alias carry elias I yes that
sounds more logical yeah hey Ervin
sadhus commute yeah you should probably
tried hackles up no I'll let you keep
that one Ervin so Tosca welcome I'm very
very sorry crying all right who else we
got a hangar race nice to have you
joining us jawad jawad hey welcome to
rock which is kind of like Tuvok in his
teenage years when he was had the spiky
hair to match the spiky years to rock
Tuvok she's so illogical magics on Star
Trek reference yes that's right on yes
you're back you're right yeah that's all
I need to know it's nothing will fix her
yet folks know okay who's after to rock
ah NAT naggy nagy 999 hey welcome to the
show Darryl 100ms ghee miss Suzuki
welcome to the show too many consonants
my own valve my oath a new Sebastian
Anders marvelous meerkat welcome said JM
cassia k it really hard names in here I
think you do this on purpose don't ya
jots been registering uh please good
let's see if we can stump them be Zed II
Claire X FN and thank you for this one I
can wrap up with San greets to our
latest registrant on our website Peter
see Oh how's it tough welcome to the
show
we're gonna get an email from I say no
it's Peter yeah the one word and get it
right man you did it wrong that's how it
goes yeah thanks for registering on our
website category 5 TV we love how many
as a part of our community it's
absolutely free and you can join just by
going to triple w category 5 TV you want
to thank also our viewers who have
donated this week be it toward just
paying our bills keeping the show going
and even with the upcoming renovation
we're very very excited about all of the
things as we approach it more exciting
because I'm starting to see things
coming to fruition we're about to start
season 7 next week tonight if you
complete with our sixth anniversary show
tonight tonight is it oh I'm audit and
you're here I feel so special so there
you go if you can believe we've been on
the air for six years and next week is
gonna be our seventh season opener Wow
so everything is just getting so
exciting and and really looking forward
to the things that are to come thank you
to everyone who's been soaring
appreciate it muchly mm-hmm so how you
been oh good and stuff mm-hmm no not too
much just been trying to do a lot of
catch-up on work and I love ketchup
mustard and yeah everything's about food
with me yeah things are getting back to
normal yeah good stuff I mean it will
catch up from the time off from the
wedding and yes yeah yeah get it right
there get it back to speed normal life
you know what I'm working on right now
that is is really really exciting what's
that to me because I am a program I've
been I've been developing my own content
management system for some time okay yes
loving loving loving jquery and ajax and
and really getting into not just the
server side stuff but doing the client
side as well doing the the nice ajax
kind of work right so getting kind of
sophisticated with the backend and and
just the programming you're not so just
kiddin no i'm not i just remember i'm
just a town yeah i just i have sheets in
front of me and i just type in what they
give me to tighten and other people do
the same and then they can't
conglomerated all together
and it makes a code yeah mm-hmm doesn't
really work that way no but as a
programmer and with the way that things
change let's see if we can fix that
microphone sorry folks there we go are
we all better let's see if that's better
folks check one two as a programmer
though in a real working environment and
always you know day after day I'm
programming a lot of what I what I learn
is just from you know from at this point
just doing right so getting yeah so
jQuery has always been there and Ajax
has been there for a long time and so to
to really be diving into it with some
really advanced stuff has been a lot of
fun so folks how how the microphone is
doing now okay John says that
everything's good now I'm guessing that
well that's unpleasant sorry about that
got to get nip that in the bud that'll
be our season 7 task to figure out
what's been going on with the mic their
turn my head how's that do you guys hear
can you face that way just talk about
way the Restless yeah okay I have to do
this well guys turn right now though
right yeah the better guess yeah sounds
good yeah sounds good now just stay like
that all right so speaking of
programming tonight we're gonna have
some fun in the linux terminal I thought
it'd be a lot of fun and I think you're
going to find it the same if you're not
a programmer it's okay there this is
something that you're going to be using
if you're on linux you're going to love
just playing around and learning your
way through doing some of this stuff
tonight we're gonna start with some of
the basics we're going to get into
multitasking in the linux terminal so
actually multitasking your terminal
application and then also developing a
PHP script that is going to be executive
from within terminal all right so let's
bring up I'm going to bring up my
computer screen here and Krista is going
to be utterly amazed at the things that
we're about to learn and yes we're gonna
just hear her saying oh that's awesome
yeah so that when everybody watches back
at this if you like wow that girl
sitting there is really interested in
the things that is being taught
see such bar so high now I did okay you
guys just get into it then ok you ready
take a nap all right here we go folks
hello to the chat room it's so good to
see ya as I nudgee aside okay we're
going to go into our terminal I'm going
to jump onto my desktop that's how I do
it I'm gonna make a directory called
script with a capital S watch what
happens when i hit enter thanks Krista
there it is Wow alrighty much should I
doubt well that's that's a little
ridiculous alibi cool but at least just
you know there's Chyna can try to to
make it seem interesting hey why's that
oh thank you thank you okay so bash is
basically you know here we are in the
linux terminal and we want to create a
code so what we're going to do is go
nan-oh which is the editor that i've
installed you can install that by going
sudo apt-get install nano enter your
password and you'll see I've already got
it it's the latest version so nano as my
text editor or you can use pluma orgy at
it if you want but we're going to do
everything in the terminal today just
for kicks so I'm going to go and let's
create our first file let's create
something to actually let's just call it
our test dot SH file alright so the
first thing that we need to do when
we're scripting a an application script
in Linux is we need to do a well what
what was it that William Hung did what
was it hey I actually could not I cannot
help you out with this one she bangs she
bought out Swilley am home okay
alright so we need a she bang there it
is that's what that is it's a hash bang
or a number sign and an explanation
point for the novices alright so we've
done that and we go slash bin bash and
that just tells it okay let's bang the
first two character says okay the next
thing is telling us what our interpreter
is and we're going to run a bash script
so for this script we can do anything we
can go echo hello and then we can save
that file with ctrl Oh in in this
application nano and then exit when
we've created a script I'm actually
going to move that into my folder
because I just noticed i put that on my
desktop so i'm going to go MV is move 10
sh2 and what do they call the folder
script in there yeah there we go CD
script there it is so test SH but you'll
see if I do an LS dash al that it is not
executive all there's my test SH file
and it is just read write and then read
read so what I want to do is chmod plus
X test SH now you'll see that it is
executive all the X bit is set so if I
go dot slash test SH it's going to
execute an echo hello so dot slash means
current folder test SH is the name of my
executive Oh script and there we go so
let's bring it back up to start editing
that script which we've now created as
executive all and we do all kinds of
neat things what I'm going to actually
do tonight is we're going to bring up
our demo server which is demoed there we
go demo cat5 TV / 0 16 and you'll see
Krista that I've stuck a couple of
pictures in there these are you and I
actually from I think episode number 30
50 so great a photos yeah just a couple
of pictures here there we go okay so
you'll see that the photos are quite
large and that's what I wanted 5.5 Meg's
to megs three megs and so on so if I
copy the link location of one of those
files let's go back to our script and
we're going to go we're going to use W
get to grab that file w get
and we're going to paste in the name of
the file so what that script would now
do is it would just grab that file to
the current folder so if I exit and I
run that script dot slash test Sh you'll
see that it's actually started
downloading that file so now if I look
at the folder I've got my script but
I've also got the the file that i just
downloaded using my script okay so i'm
going to delete that so some of the
things that we're covering tonight are
just going to be proof of concept and
i'll just say some it may not be you
know i'm not showing you how to write a
particular script giving you some very
basic samples of how you know the
mindset behind creating something that
you can grow into whatever you want it
to do that's where things get fun is
when you get creative and you start
creating inventing so i'm going to copy
each of the file names go back into my
script and we can w get the next one and
then w get the next one and so on and so
forth w get the next one
and luckily i have only put five photos
in here so it's not gonna take too long
to do this okay there we go haven't
duplicated any that's good one of the
things i want to do just for the sake of
this demonstration you wouldn't want to
do this in a real working environment
i'm going to actually cap off the speed
of w get the reason for that is we're
going to get into some examples tonight
that i want you to be able to compare
apples to apples and if my internet is
super fast for one download and super
slow for the next for whatever reason
maybe because of the feed or whatever
that would give you an apples to oranges
scenario because it might look like it's
faster but it's actually the internet
speed fluctuating so we're going to hard
set our internet speed on w yet we're
going to do that with dash dash limit
dash rate equals 200 k that's going to
limit the download speed to 200 kilobits
per second i'm going to copy and paste
that over and over again to each w get
command there we go and so what we've
effectively done is we've created a
script that says okay i'm going to grab
these five files i'm going to do it and
i'm going to limit it to two hundred k
per second and we're only doing that for
the sake of the example so with w get
there's a couple things we can do one of
the things i want to do is output the
file name so we'll just call this file
1.jpg we'll call this one as dash oh and
its capital o not a zero that's for
output file dash 0 3 dot jpg the reason
I'm doing this is so that we can run
this script multiple times we're not
going to get multiple copies of the
files it's instead going to overwrite 1
2 3 4 and 5 jpg so before I run this
script because we know it's going to
take a little bit of time because it
we've limited the speed let's actually
make it so that our script tells us how
long the execution takes so that we've
got something to compare to so here
tonight what I'll do is I'm going to
just set a really really simple timer
way I can do that is i'll create a start
time of notice what i'm doing here and
i'm going to explain this date
and then + % s there okay so you see
that that particular it's kind of like
an apostrophe but it's pointed from the
top left to the bottom right that's just
under your escape key on your keyboard
and what that's telling it is okay start
is the variable that we're creating then
that particular character says okay
we're executing this command so we're
not actually creating a variable that
contains date + % ass we're creating a
variable that contains the output of
that command so if I actually exit this
I've saved if I exit and I type that
date + % ass that's what we're doing is
we're creating a unix timestamp for the
actual time at that very moment if i run
it again it's now gone up by six seconds
ok so we're creating a variable that
contains the unix timestamp and it's
called start so now that the end of the
script we're going to create another
variable we're going to call this end
we're going to do exactly the same thing
date + % s ' and then end the command
and then we need to do a comparative so
we've got these two things so when the
script started running the script and
then when the script ended this is how
we can't i'm a script in a very very
easy way so now we're going to go echo
dollar sign and minus dollars pardon me
and minus dollar signs start notice the
brackets the dollar sign of the
beginning that's telling us to actually
execute this mathematical equation and
then it will actually output how many
seconds it takes in order to run this
particular script and then we'll go echo
done okay so if all goes well I'm going
to I've saved that control oh and now
I'm going to run that script again dot
slash test SH and you'll see it's going
to start grabbing those files so it's
grabbing the first one and it's saving
it to one jpg and you'll see that it's
limited to 200 k so that we're comparing
apples to apples here when we get our
output with regards to the timestamp
that's going to take a couple of moments
in order to download because of the the
limit that we've given it so what we've
effectively created here Krista is a
synchronous a non multitasking script so
basically it does this it waits it does
the next step and it does it it's
sequential so everything that happens
happens in sequence right so the concept
that I want to demonstrate tonight is to
actually say okay well we're w getting a
whole bunch of files why are we waiting
for one file to finish before we start
the next file we have a multitasking
environment why don't we actually
download them all at the same time okay
so that's what we're going to show you
still going it's on to 4.jpg so we've
got one more looks like we're good Oh
looks like I've messed up the last line
so you notice those 68 seconds is what
that took let's check what I did on the
last line five okay let's just kill the
last line because it didn't execute all
right so we know from that test we're
going to just going to mark this down it
took 68 seconds so one minute and eight
seconds to run okay so what we can do
now is editing that script let's create
a multitasking environment within our
script we're going to make the script
asynchronous in the way that we're gonna
do that we're going to go the end of the
line and we're going to add an ampersand
and that ampersand says okay we're going
to run the next command at the same time
and we're going to run the next command
at the same time and we're going to do
the same one we're going to download all
four of these files at the same time but
then here's where you got to think a
little bit strategically because all
those things are happening at the same
time but what happens now and is going
to execute and so well if these things
happened at the same time and they
happen immediately after start then end
is going to happen immediately after
start because these things are running
asynchronously they're running all at
the same time multi tasking
multithreaded and so end is going to be
less than a second later than start even
though these tasks are still executing
so the way to avoid it jumping straight
to the next command before these things
have finished is we want to use the
command wait and wait says anything that
is multitasked before this point let's
wait until those four things have
completed or however many things it is
and then we can proceed with the rest of
the script so I'm going to save that
control oh and hit enter and then exit
and now let's run that script again we
were at sixty sixty eight seconds the
first time test SH you'll see that the
output is a little different because
it's running all of them on top of each
other all four files downloading at the
same time we go some of them have
completed
and because these are running at the
same time we're going to be cutting down
our execution time of the script
exponentially so what's the downfall of
running them all at the same time there
you go 28 seconds so we're 40 seconds
less I guess you know if you're if
you're smart about it there's not going
to really be a downfall because you're
going to limit how many tasks are
running at once of course if the tasks
are going to be using a lot of CPU power
you can use top or H top to see how many
resources you're putting on your server
but in this case if I were downloading
say a hundred files asynchronously I'm
going to be using a lot of bandwidth on
my internet connection so then I can
cleverly think okay well I've limited it
to 200 k / stream so between five files
you know that's about a Meg per second
right so with a 120 Meg's download
service that I have I'm nowhere near my
cap so I'm still good to download
however many file I could be downloading
200 files asynchronously and it wouldn't
max it out so so not a lot of downside
to it but we wouldn't run too many
things asynchronously or multitasking
because it would use more resources so
28 seconds from 68 seconds multitasking
indeed speeds up the task a lot okay
because everything's happening at once
so now that we've downloaded the files
asynchronously we've waited now let's ma
graph I them we learned this a couple of
shows ago dash resize 640 x 360 star jpg
and let's make sure that the case is dot
jpg lower case that's good and then
ampersand because we're multitasking and
we're going to wait so ma graph I is
going to happen and then everything's
going to execute so what I'm going to do
I'm going to output that file and exit
to my terminal and I'm going to delete
all of the files that have currently
downloaded so that we can see this
actually happen I'm going to execute
that script which is going to download
all four files at the same time and then
it's going to take those files and it's
going to resize them with ma graph I to
a maximum of 640 pixels why
and 360 pixels high you see if I open
one right now because I can do that it's
3500 by 1969 now it says the image has
been modified because obviously it got
through the entire process if I reload
let's wait for it it's still going
actually so quite a massive image there
it goes ma graph I is taking place and
if I open it now you'll see it's only
640 x 360 the exact same image so it
downloaded everything at the same time
it waited until that download process
was complete because you can't resize it
if it hasn't finished downloading yet
and then once it was finished
downloading it resized everything to a
maximum of 360 x or 640 x 360 and then
waited until that was done and then told
me how long it took which was only 31
seconds that's what the script tells me
here on my screen 31 seconds is all that
took there it is so that's pretty
exciting when you realize that you can
you can actually create scripts that run
certain commands at the same time
because a lot of times that's
advantageous if you're transferring
files down and then uploading files at
the same time you can do them all at the
same time you don't have to actually
wait for one process to be complete it's
been really really helpful just as a
good example are transcoder server as
its encoding then the next episode it's
already uploading the previously encoded
little files right so it's doing all
these things at the same time in the
same way that makes sure that you know
it's not over taxing the server but it's
also getting a lot done in very little
time so that's pretty cool I think so
next step I told you I'd like to take a
look at PHP as well and what we can do
with that and what's neat about PHP is
you can actually run it a lot of people
don't actually know this you can run it
as an actual executive ol program
because PHP is again another interpreter
so in order to do that watch this we
need a couple of things on our on our
computer sudo apt-get install we're
going to need PHP 5 dash CLI
which is command line interface now I've
already got the newest version so I'm
good to go all right because we're
working with grabbing files off of the
server I'm also going to want something
called curl and curl is a tool that
allows me to transfer files from outside
server safely and get the data from
another server so in this case we're
going to actually pull data from demo
cat5 TV / 0 16 and so I want to use the
curl tool in order to do that so I'm
going to go sudo apt-get install and
we're going to need I'm not sure if we
needed curl itself we probably could use
it but php5 dash curl will likely
install that as well there you go and
again I've already got the newest
version installed so I'm good to go but
i want to show you those steps so that
you know that that that's necessary so
now that I've got php5 CLI installed I
can go where is PHP and hit enter that's
going to tell me where my PHP executive
Liz which is user bin PHP we're going to
need that for our interpreter so nano
test dot PHP and watch what's different
here we're not going to start our PHP
file like that we're gonna instead do
what's a call she bangs she bangs ok and
it was user bin PHP so that is going to
become our interpreter so now i can go
PHP and i can use PHP commands to go
dollar sign christa equals hello yeah
now i can go echo dollar sign christa
output that exit and remember what we
need to do because it's a script if i do
LS dash al it shows me that it is not
executive also i'm going to go chmod
plus x test dot PHP and then dot slash
test dot PHP when i execute that what
did it do it actually output it the
value of the string christa which is
hello so you see that we're actually
executing PHP code as an executive all
script
that's awesome especially when we
consider okay if we look at this this is
the index of these files at / 0 16 on
demo cat5 TV and feel free to do exactly
what i'm showing you tonight if you want
to learn how to do this kind of really
cool stuff we're going to use curl to
get the file list we're going to take a
break for the news and then we're going
to come back and I'm going to actually
load through PHP we're going to get the
list of files from the server so that I
don't have to manually copy and paste
the file names we're going to create an
array based on the output of Apache
there with the list of the file names
and we're going to run the exact same
thing we're going to download those
files with W get we're going to do it
asynchronously and we're going to modify
it all automatically generated instead
of instead of us having to code it
manually good stuff that's cool this is
category 5 technology TV thanks for
joining us tonight are you ready oh I
think they're ready all right all right
folks here are the top stories from the
category five dot TV news room I'm
pretty sure Robbie intentionally wanted
me to beat this story how I'm gonna do
yeah
alright i read it begrudgingly the Apple
promotional video says that your
fingerprint is one of the best passwords
in the world the technology within touch
ID is on the most advanced hardware and
software we've put into any device yet
within just a few short days of launch
the technology has been hacked whoa try
not to act too excited yes oh we're not
talking about your nosy roommate
accessing your phone by touching it to
your finger while you're asleep the hack
is so serious the hacker can access your
phone with a simple photograph of your
fingerprint has taken from your glass a
group known as the Chaos Computer Club
demonstrated that a fingerprint of the
phone user photograph from a glass
surface was enough to create a fake
finger that could unlock an iphone 5s
secured would touch ID the photograph of
the users print was cleaned up inverted
and laser printed at 1,200 DPI onto a
transparent sheet with a thick toner
setting then pink latex milk or white
wood glue was smeared into a pattern
creating by created by the toner on a
transparent sheet remove remove from the
transparency a touch that I touch the
phones touch ID sensor and presto you're
in that easy hey yeah that's wild it's
like they've used a laser printer as a
form of a 3d printer because yalan you
remember you're on transparencies I used
to use it with overhead projectors and
stuff and I had a laser printer and
that's right the toner is you can feel
it about so if they then lay out glue
and it creates the the actual thumbprint
what if I just just thinking on top my
head here what if you don't have
fingerprints like what if you
accidentally have like like a like a
knife cutting accident or something and
you just don't have you lost all 10
fingers or you don't have hands and you
can't get into your phone but why would
you be using a smartphone without hands
that's really awkward Siri Siri I said
pizza place pizza place is yeah I don't
know how to hard to take that one
official hands artificial hands that
don't have fingerprints yeah I don't
think it's a good idea in the first
place I mean it seems I hear one thing
they have HP is HP I don't know
computers that have it as well though
that catch that they've had it for quite
a while but that's it's a gimmick and
nobody really uses it not that I could
they track down criminals well here's
the question is if they have a
smartphone an iphone 5s where is their
fingerprint being stored government so
yeah is the NSA monitoring every time
they open their phone as I oh there is
track of Bobby Ferguson just turned on
his iPhone and we finally track the guy
down that scumbag then they they follow
your attack in cahoots with out what
you're looking at online who knows but
is it really safe to have that kind of
technology in your phone what happens if
somebody reverse engineers it and is
able to read your fingerprint and then
generate with a laser printer and some
wood glue something to be able to take
over your life that darn wood glue if
you don't have fingerprints to answer
your question Heather you just need a
laser printer and some make your own
fingerprint that's what you're saying
spiral ones from from a picture of
sightings glass just go to the local pub
and get out all the fingerprints you
need there you go I just borrow mine
there you go take a picture of that good
thing they're only at 1280 by 720 huh
which is fuzzy just fuzzy okay but it
did still work check this out good news
for Ubuntu fans oh you're so oh yeah
well for the past week HP has been
stalking to new ubuntu linux laptops in
over 1,500 of its stores in china the
news arrived less than two weeks after
dell also expanded the number of its
retail outlets carrying ubuntu devices
both of HP's latest ubuntu powered
offerings are relatively similar in
specifications offering intel i3 to i5
processors 2 gigabytes of ram and
between 500 gigabytes and one terabyte
of hard drive storage space the laptops
are available now and start at a price
equal to about 640 canadian dollars
I think it's great but when are they
gonna come to Canada never because I
want to see on store shelves and really
the faculty know the fact well what what
do people love about Max they love is
that it I need an awesome computer what
you got for me no that's the Apple
versus PC argument of the commercials
where pc is actually microsoft windows
so now you put linux ubuntu with unity
on a computer and say here's great
hardware great software for six hundred
forty bucks vs. that macbook that's
1,700 bucks you know add a thousand
dollars because i know we've all got
disposable income but honestly what is
it that we like we like no viruses not
the threat of getting viruses we like
stability rock solid nature of the
architecture the fact that it's
screaming fast and it stays that way
because like mac and linux they are non
fragmenting file system so you don't
have to defragment your hard drive
because they never get fragmented so if
that's why i'm spending 17 hundred
dollars on a macbook the app store sure
the apps are rich and iTunes is you know
a pretty popular piece of software
because it's been forced on people but
you know and you want your iTunes
library but that can always be you know
something that you can migrate over to
linux care I can't argue essential
because of the show I I'll beat you
every time no we're not arguing but I'm
just saying thanks Heather get out she
agrees about the max no I think what
we're experiencing what we're seeing is
a transition to high quality computing
that is affordable and it's kill an
apple why are they bringing out the new
iPad minis and the cheaper I phones that
are made of plastic because they're
realizing that there's a market that is
HUGE that they are not tapped into and
it's damaging them as far as I'm
concerned because that's never what
Apple was Apple was always the high-end
hardware they were always the the
rock-solid architecture they switch to
Intel that's fine but now they're this
same
thing as all these pc's because they're
running the same hardware just different
software so stick linux on it sell it in
the store it's a thousand dollars
cheaper I'm all there moving on stop
whoa check out the chair it looks like
Captain Kirk's yeah yeah every cool all
right Red Sea entertainment has just
launched a tremor FX home using the same
technology found in select high tech
movie theaters course they have
pulsating actuators embedded in a chair
which are triggered by the sounds from
movies or video games the seat works
yeah the seat works with any home
theater system using a wireless
transmitter plugged into an HDMI out
port on the receiver depending on the
sounds pitch you feel vibrations in
different locations for example the bass
sounds like a big booming explosions
either felt lower and then tiny little
gun fires are felt higher up like many
high-end home theater components this
technology doesn't come cheap of course
a forger set equipped with tremor FX
starts at only twenty thousand dollars
you can buy a small car with fork chairs
in it that vibrates when you rev the
engine is for this licked massage chairs
no it's just a vibrating the music comfy
you're watching the Chipmunks and based
on what I'm hearing here it just
resonated in your head well I when I was
a teenager you just watched Jurassic
Park though and it's like boom boom boom
and then you're just is like a massage
that's true but I went to the thrift
store as a team oh cuz that's what you
do you got it you got to survive and I
got myself a little pullout couch thing
okay it was clean Danis cool I got
underneath it and I stuck to big old 12
inch subwoofers and I ran those into an
axiom sub output mm-hmm and it's got a
crossover and everything and I had that
for twelve dollars and you're telling me
its twenty thousand dollars for four
chairs it looks leather it's pleather I
mean come on
who knows and is that thing on mine was
vinyl what's that goal thing looks like
this is the cup holder it looks like
with maybe like a side table with an LED
cup holder or maybe it's like oral who
knows but couldn't you just make it
yourself with a couple of subs no get
that cup holder you don't get the cup
holder but you could for another 499
with LED lights with LED lights hey I
got one more story for you you're gonna
love this Krista hmm gaming consoles are
doomed yes is awesome check it out
yesterday valve announced they are
releasing steam OS it's a free
linux-based operating system designed
for the TV and the living room steamos
promises in-home streaming of your Steam
games right to your TV streaming music
and video and the family sharing
features that we talked about last week
that allow everyone in the family all
the devices to be able to share the
games steamos is going to be available
soon as a free download and also going
to be offering it as a freely licensed
of licensable operating system for
manufacturers so they can include it in
their console this is the first of three
big announcements this week from valve
they are going to be doing the next
announcement tomorrow so check cat five
dot TV / valve bookmark that the
announcement is going to happen the
countdown is there you'll be able to
follow the developments but with this I
think one of the announcements that
we're going to see hypothetical
situation could it be a steam box could
they be bringing out their own gaming
console there are two more announcements
happening this week folks cat five dot
TV / valve citing days he looks like oh
yeah you guys are interested eating at
the full stores at category five dot TV
/ newsroom the category five TVs
newsroom is researched by roy w dash
with contributions from our community of
viewers and if you have a new store you
think is worthy of on-air mentioned you
can email us at news room at category 5
TV from the category 5 TV news room i'm
chris 12 thanks Krista this is category
5 technology TV our website is triple w
category five dot TV so nice to have you
here and I hope you're enjoying yourself
tonight all right back to our feature
we're looking at how to create a PHP
script to do everything that we're doing
all right check this out back to my
script so we've learned to execute PHP
code now what we want to do is we
actually want to get this list imagine
not having to go copy link location I've
only got five files imagine if you had a
hundred imagine if you had 50 even it
would just be time consuming and
annoying that's why I like to automate
things when I program I love automation
so we're going to use curl which I've
already installed we're going to create
a curl variable here we're gonna just in
it curl just like that I'm going to post
all this code for you on the show notes
for episode number 314 if you want to
follow along I'm going to try to do this
without any doing this long hand I'm
going to try to do it without any syntax
errors we'll see what we can do and to
set up the options for curl so this is
where we're going to tell it the URL
which we're going with demo cat5 TV / 0
16 and we're going to actually load from
that site
bear with me as I get through my options
to load an external site through curl
and what this is going to do notice
we're not using file or file get
contents because if we did that we might
run into security violations that would
break the script and make it so that it
doesn't work because that can often be a
security exploit so we're going to avoid
that all together we're going to use
curl to get around it okay so I've got
everything set up now I'm going to
actually load my data I'm going to call
the string data and we're going to go
curl exec and we're going to actually
execute the command above which is ch so
now well first of all I should close
curl close that off the connection here
and now if I print R which is to output
the array I'm going to print our data so
that should contain the contents of that
Apache script now there it is so that is
actually like a view source of that
Apache script so those are the links
that we want to actually parse so now
that we've got that control k to delete
a line and then here we go so we're
going to actually parse that up I'm
going to clean up the code first of all
we're going to strip out a bunch of you
know if there's anything that we need to
clean up i'm going to call this will go
cleaned equals strip tags and then we'll
just simply clean up the output which
was data and we're going to all met our
a href leave those ones intact now we're
going to do a preg match which is going
to use we're going to actually do a
little bit of regex here you don't need
to follow along with me I'm going to
really quickly type it in as fast as I
can without making any syntax errors do
some regex to take an H RAF and create a
two-part array so with this regex we're
going to create an array that stores the
full link including the a href so that
we can use it for whatever but also just
the file name
okay this is gonna be fun it's not as
good regex is never fun folks I am
kidding okay preg match all this is the
PHP command that we're gonna do and here
we go I can't talk through this Krista
talk amongst yourself amongst myself oh
well there's people listening it's got
to be interested I guess you know
whatever I want about robbery now cuz he
is concentrating so hard yeah come on
carrot where are you there we go alright
href yeah okay so and then we need a
carrot and a slash yeah alright we're
just kind of discussing in the chat room
here all the extra features that chair
must have I think it would be awesome in
order to be twenty thousand dollars yeah
I'll say that's yeah let's present
discussion is there a toilet we think it
should come with a toilet definitely
cooler toaster album small butler follow
ensberg yeah this should output two
matches alright haven't done any syntax
errors there we go okay so I've created
an array with regex that the first array
is the actual a href that it's found the
second array is just the file names that
is found within the HR f okay so that's
what we've done with regex there through
a preg match all now what I want to do
is we want to actually get out I just
want the data that I need so we're gonna
use a for each we know that this is an
array and if it's not who cares we don't
need to do an if is array we don't need
to do any of that stuff we're just going
to go for each because we don't really
need all the air handlers and stuff I'd
love to teach you all that but ok so
we're going to for each matches as
dollar sign filename so what we're doing
is we're doing a loop through the array
called matches which I just showed you
and if I go echo dollar sign file name
dot PHP eol which is an end of line
which is a carriage return output in
terminal and I run that you'll just get
a ray to string conversion file name as
an array is it well beg your pardon it
should be I should be looping through
notice matches is a two-part array so
matches i should actually before
reaching through matches one that's why
it's giving me an array air okay so if i
run that now you'll see a list of the
the actual file names okay so we've got
the ability to echo out the file name so
now we want to actually do something
with that so we know that we want to use
W get to get that file so let's just
create an output string and we're going
to go dot equals so that we're appending
to an existing string which we're going
to create right here dollar sign output
equals just an empty string okay we
can't depend to a string that isn't
created otherwise you can create errors
in our PHP log because it's going to
tell us that the the variable doesn't
actually exist to append to in not as
easy to understand terms it does that so
we're going to go w get just like we did
dash dash limit dash rate equals 200 k
HTTP colon slash slash demo cat five dot
TV / 0 16 / ' dot dollar sign file name
is the file name that we have and that
is going to add the file name to the end
of that line so now I want to go dash 0
and we're going to output to let's just
do dollar sign filename so that's going
to save it to the local folder as the
file name I don't have to go through the
one two three four and then space
ampersand is going to multitask it and
we need to have a carriage return at the
end of that line when we output it so
that's what it looks like but we have a
problem here because you remember that
matches was actually showing us some of
the the stuff here the a href that we
don't want like that ? c equals n so
that would actually it'll actually try
to download that so let's use a very
very simple STR a STR to determine
whether or not this is a JPEG file what
that means is to search within a string
in case sensitive so if str I str search
within a string in case sensitive that
the I stands for if str is TR and its
haystack needle so we need file name
first comma and then dot jpg and here we
can go jpg.jpg jpg because we're doing
an N case sensitive search then we're
going to add this to output so only if
its a dot jpg file do we actually create
this output that says W get so now if I
at the end of this go echo dollar sign
output save that and run my script
you'll see that we have all these w get
lines see that and it's exactly like
what we were creating manually but we're
actually obtaining these automatically
through curl and then outputting them so
now how do we execute that well we're
going to edit that a little bit further
and let's use simple PHP to append to
our output here at the beginning we're
going to go okay first of all you know
what we need to save it as a file here's
where things get interesting let's go
file output contents and we're going to
create a file called PHP output dot sh
remember we're creating an SH file from
within PHP this is cool comma dollar
sign output so if I do that now and
execute that watch what happens there's
not going to be any output called
undefined file output contents up my
mistake file put contents of course
doing things on the fly there notice it
didn't do anything but if I do an LS
you'll see that there is now a PHP
output SH and if I cat that which is to
look at the contents of the file it is
the commands what's it missing there's
no crunchbang okay so we need to have
the she bang at the top of that file
we're not going to edit the file let's
use our PHP script to actually do this
so in the file out file put contents
there it is ok before output I'm going
to go ' and then she bang bin bash okay
dot PHP eol so next line and then output
and then because it's multitasking what
do we need is a dot PHP eol for next
line and then a dot and wait remember
that weight because if we execute this
everything's going to all cascade and
happen all at the same time and then
we're absolutely messed because
everything is just happening all at once
okay so I'm going to help put that file
and if all went well I'm going to run
dot slash test dot PHP it executed no
errors there's the file cat PHP output
SH and you'll see that it starts with a
she bang bin bash and it knows what it
is that it's supposed to run and there's
the weight which doesn't have a carriage
return after it so it immediately
returns here but that's fine okay so now
let's create a new script we're going to
call this one final dot sh and this is
what's going to actually make all the
magic happen in batch this is a bash
script right so we're going to first
we're going to execute our PHP script
what did I call that one again test dot
PHP
test dot PHP so once that's executed we
know that it has a weight command in it
so that's fine so test dot PHP outputs
the script which we want to run which is
PHP output Sh okay if all goes well
let's see I'm going to save that and
there's one thing that we need to add to
our test dot PHP here and that is that
right now we're putting a file PHP
output SH on our hard drive but what do
we notice with an LS dash al is that
that script though created is not
executable it has no executive a bit so
within our PHP file we can actually upon
creation of that file we can go exec
which is to execute a Bosch command and
then apostrophe is not that one because
we're not in the bash script when a PHP
script and go chmod plus X PHP output Sh
so now if I run test dot PHP it's
created the script if I do an LS dash al
you'll see that PHP output SH is
executive all ok so now nano our final
Sh so now we know that that script is
executive all and now madra phi dash
resize 640 x 360 star jpg save that echo
done
there we go so now chmod plus x final sh
and what is that that is our final
script it is going to connect out get
the list from Apache download everything
asynchronously multitasked then wait and
then it's going to modify everything and
resize it to a maximum of 640 x 360 Wow
there it goes that sounds pretty
impressive so all of those things not to
show you how to do this specific thing
but really when you understand some of
the underlying concepts you may have to
watch this Syria this particular episode
a few times to to really grasp all of
the things recovered i'll certainly post
things that's done just so you know so
you see that when i echoed done at the
end it is done and if i open any of
these files you'll see that the file
size is a maximum of 640 x 360 so that
one max out at 360 height and so every
file downloaded and and worked there you
have it so um Wow yeah there's a lot to
cram into an hour I know that it was
just go go go hope they enjoyed it and
I'm sorry that we didn't get to hear
fewer questions or even two we didn't
get to chat a whole lot yeah that was
his plan was my plan yeah give her an
easy evening hope you had fun tonight
folks and get your questions in to us
it's live at category five dot TV I'm
going to be hanging around in the chat
room after the show for a little bit if
you want to join us there's category 5
on freenode and we'll certainly say
hello pops an email live at category 5
TV and let us know what you thought of
the show and have a fantastic week I
can't believe that our is gone well you
talked a lot i did my mouth is dry your
hands cries as typing typing typing and
I
haven't drank all my water but I made it
and I had no syntax errors good for you
which is really good I didn't bring any
lollipops gold stars gold star right
there sorry back of my head next time
next time alright well Sasha dramatis is
going to be joining us next week don't
miss out on a very very fun show as we
start a season seven happy Anniversary
to us seasons six is done and we are now
six years old whew I'm 66 have a great
week everybody hey guys Krista thanks
for being here my problem you went out
of me yep nice put it up mm-hmm
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category five
TB and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
