here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Netflix is messing around with pricing
in Australia we're on the cusp of what
could be a world changing evolution in
battery technology thanks to an Israeli
startup mp3 is dead sort of let the VR
headset legal wars begin a company that
won 500 million dollars from oculus is
now going after Samsung's gear VR and
the wanna cry ransomware is taking
online threats to a whole new level
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category 5 TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cat 5 dot TV
slash gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones well of course
I mean especially your loved ones right
because cat 5 DB slash gear best quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you could ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices to their cellphones
you betcha
cat 5 TV slash gear vest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from hi-tech watches to
action cameras headphones even virtual
reality headsets cat 5 dot TV slash
gearbest have you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic except me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices
kinda like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than $30 plus free shipping at
camp five dot TV splash gearbest yeah
all right you kinda got me there
Wow any other questions for me gentlemen
now that the winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals and
say drone copters oh my goodness well
check this out dude they have everything
check out over 500 various drones and
not only that they're available marked
down by about 32 up to 63 percent off
the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat 5 TV slash gearbest so
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash gearbest
that's right happy shopping
I'm Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories for the week of May 17th 2017
would you pay more to get your necklace
fixed
how about on weekends when the urge to
binge strikes harder a price hike could
well be in the works with the streaming
giant quietly testing out changes to the
cost of plans in Australia Netflix has
tested up in Australian prices by as
much as three dollars Australian over
the weekends increasing its basic plan
from $8.99 to $9.99 a month its standard
plan from eleven ninety nine to thirteen
ninety nine and it's premium plan from
$14.99 to $17.99 a month
Netflix confirmed that it had tested
price changes but was quick to emphasize
that it had not made any
to change prices either locally or
globally
regardless Australians could be up for a
Netflix price increase within a matter
of weeks in addition the federal
government is set to extend Australia's
10 percent goods and services tax to
intangible supplies such as digital
content games and software which would
also impact the cost of using online
streaming companies such as Netflix
quickly I just want to say never have I
ever had a company test a price change
and then be like oh wait no nevermind we
will not increase the price I feel like
it doesn't really go that way it doesn't
like it's a few to try this tax we're
going to try it give it a try see
whether or not Rio doesn't last so long
it doesn't last or stays like forever
you never know what happens if your
hydro bill goes up well really like it
just it's something ever taken for
granted because like remember when
Netflix came out and it's just like the
solid 999 or whatever and now they've
added the current like now you have the
normal 999 but 999 and you can install
it on all of your friends computers yeah
that's what we do like for our family
but now there's like the two-tier system
in Canada anyways how it's like the
premium like 14 dollars which is what I
like I have the best Netflix and I love
the best pile of Netflix like I love it
so much it's ridiculous how much I love
Netflix so guess what Netflix I'll
probably pay more I don't want to I'll
be sad about it but you got me cuz you
give me good shows it's good content
yeah and they have never originals is
the problem of this so you get hooked on
those originals and then you can't even
be like I'll just cancel and go back to
cable or I'll just use you know a Roku
or something that you can't do that with
Netflix alright but you can't jet
enough about me it sounds like science
fiction but smartphones with batteries
that fully charge in just five minutes
could be available to consumers next
year the technology was first shown off
in 2015 when Israeli startup store dot
demonstrated its flash battery at the
CES
show in Las Vegas chief executive Doran
miser dwarf recently said it is now
expected to enter production in early
2018 mr. Mizer Dorf said that he could
not reveal which manufacturers were
signed up to use the technology in 2015
he had said his firm's battery contained
materials that allowed for
non-traditional reactions and the
unusually fast transfer of ions from an
anode to a cathode the electrical
process that charges a battery the
design involves nanomaterials which
feature extremely small structures and
unnamed organic compounds the company
also unveiled an electric car battery
that charges in five minutes at a tech
show in Berlin this week the firm said
the battery provides 300 miles of range
way to go all right
mp3 the format that revolutionized the
way we consume music since the 90s has
been officially retired in a manner of
speaking the government research
institution that created the mp3 format
the Fraunhofer Institute for integrated
circuits announced that it had
terminated licensing for certain mp3
related patents in other words they
didn't want to keep up keep it on
life-support because there are better
ways to store music here in 2017 in its
place the director of the Fraunhofer
Institute said that the advanced audio
coding or what we know is the AAC format
has become the de facto standard for
music download and videos on mobile
phones it's simply more efficient and
has greater functionality as streaming
TV and radio broadcasting use the format
to deliver higher quality audio at lower
bit rates than mp3 so sorry to see you
go mp3 games companies Veni max which
successfully sued Facebook owned oculus
for 500 million dollars earlier this
year has filed a new lawsuit over
Samsung's gear VR headset the suit
alleges that Samsung knowingly profited
from oculus technology that was first
developed at ZeniMax then
misappropriated by oculus executive John
Carmack
Carmack whose company id Software was
acquired
by zenimax in 2009 was one of the
driving forces behind the gear VR while
the headset was released by Samsung it's
described as powered by oculus with
heavy software optimizations developed
by Carmack but the lawsuit alleges that
Carmack owed much of his success at
oculus to software he developed as part
of a team at ZeniMax among other things
the tech the Texas Court filing claims
that Carmack secretly brought oculus and
former ZeniMax employee Matt Hooper into
id Software's office offices to develop
an attack plan for mobile VR which
oculus would later take to Samsung the
Samsung gear VR was alt was also built
on some of the same code as the oculus
rift which was the subject of Vettii
Maxis earlier lawsuit the new lawsuit
officially accuses Samsung of copyright
infringement using ZeniMax VR code in
the gear VR as well as trade secret
misappropriation unfair competition and
unjust enrichment then emacs's case
could be bolstered by the previous
judgment against oculus since the gear
VR is unambiguous unambiguously based on
oculus software Oh dangerous all right
to say 2017 is a dangerous year to be
online is an understatement with reports
of two hundred thousand computers
infected in 150 countries this past
weekend mankind's newest cyber enemy
want to cry takes online threats to a
new level
want to cry not only encrypt the
computer's files and makes them
impossible to read an unprotected PC
with wanna cry also encrypts files on
protected computers if those files are
configured as a shared drive on the
infected machine we've seen this in
earlier forms of ransomware the malware
also searches for other computers to
infect over home and business networks
there by propagating itself across the
internet with devastating effect in the
past health facilities police and
government offices have had to pay
hackers to get their files back with
water cry propagation doesn't depend on
you opening a malware
lace attachment in your email although
that helps and it's easy for hackers to
come back for seconds hackers can easily
alter detected malware to make it hard
to identify again and send it out afresh
they can also try to infiltrate
backdoors into computers they infected
the first time Microsoft is under no
obligation to continually update
operating systems it retired along long
ago namely the big issue here comes from
Windows XP the public had been warmed
warned that support for - for security
updates would end if I continued to use
old Windows XP systems despite warnings
not only from Microsoft but security
professionals and shows like ours
keep in mind - that Microsoft makes
millions of dollars by charging agencies
such as the federal government to
implement security updates for its old
Windows XP systems to make those
expensive updates more widely available
to the public and enterprise free of
charge would undermine that cash cash
flow for an in-depth discussion of the
wanna cry threat join security
researcher mark skelton along with ESET
senior senior security researcher
Stephen Cobb on episode 504 of category
5 technology TV thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom i'm sasha dramatis
[Music]
[Applause]
