as most of you know I love my vibe love
it and I love my VR games and you are
asking which games I actually play now
I'm incredible at headshots it turns out
so I do play some first-person shooters
but not like a whole time
it's called headshots Wow I'm incredible
at headshot I'm incredible like I have
like super accuracy and headshots it's
ridiculous I'm also a vegetarian they're
not gonna be shootin anything for real
but then also I have like table tennis
and I have a game called audio shield
where like the beat of the music is
shown in spheres that you punch out of
the air but then I have a meditation VR
game that I like where you can pick any
where well not anywhere in the world
like anywhere conceivable to go sit and
do a guided meditation there so I
meditated in a cave on the moon one way
I've also like come home sat in my
living room and been just on a beach and
the water just locks up and yeah it's
good Dave plays like Arizona sunshine
and fallout 4 it has the beach
meditation Dave doesn't play the
meditation stuff as much and then we did
get this dirty trick game I can't wait
to see it and that brings me to my point
is that I have not yet experienced
modern VR right have you experienced no
what do you mean we went to the RTO as
Joe went to VRT oh yeah yeah we sent
Henry what do you mean okay and Henry
had a blast yeah but I didn't get to go
so what do you mean by modern VR modern
VR like I played Virtual Boy that's not
that's not real well as the failed Rio
yeah yeah no my virtual reality
experience comes out of things like
the early days so VR was the original
like ahead of it you're ahead of the
curve right yeah the very beginning yes
yeah right so now that it's taken off
and become as realistic as it is that
you can sit and meditate on the moon in
a cave that's right you're gonna get to
experience that blown away like it's it
is incredible dogs and dad effect too
like I don't think they're actually dogs
they're like we're rabid four legged
things but they just come out at you out
of nowhere and you you flinch and when
you crouch you're crouching behind
things oh yeah
have you ever come close to like taking
out your TV hi I know
because Dave is careful like your
spotter no he calibrated the system so
that you're always like your main view
is pointing away from the TV oh that's
smart
so when dave is spectating on the couch
yeah I've almost hit him and he in turn
has almost hit me he actually wants me
in turn back we were playing a long bow
game and you and he didn't know where I
was sitting but he literally for like
ten minutes was just shooting arrow
after arrow
have you ever done VR yes on a few
occasions what have you done um I don't
think I could name the specific brands
and all of that stuff but I have done
the Google travel all over the world one
yeah yeah yeah so I it was kind of
interesting though was person I did it
with as well visited places that we had
already been so it was really
interesting I had just gone to Florence
for a week my first time traveling in
Italy and so I was able to use Google
Earth to visit the very places I was so
these like Street view images that have
been converted into 360 view I think
like it's it's very much like a
reconstruction okay I'm so there's not
like people walking around and stuff
like that right I always remember people
but it's like it is like the
like the Google Maps you know when you
go into Google Maps and you click that
little person icon yeah and and then you
like picture after picture exactly is it
like that yes it's like that yeah I
would say it's a little more cartoonish
right at least the person that I I tried
that was last maybe last fall okay but
pretty cool I had the opportunity to get
on another game just tried so many
different games I think the coolest one
was probably a paint program it was like
a 3d paint program okay and you're
really into creative design this was the
most well one of the most unique because
of course it was like boxing games and
like shooting games you're like
terrifying for me like zombies coming at
me I'm like no like this is not this is
not a good time but I really liked the
paint one because it was something that
I would never be able to do in real life
mm-hmm like I would be able to do a
video game I might actually I mean be in
a circumstance of war I don't know why
hopefully never but the paint one was
really interesting because I was able to
like paint things in 3d and then
teleport myself to the other side of the
room which was like so cool do you ever
get to do that ever right it was really
amazing gamble to like sorry sweet guy
hilt tilt brush yes I think yes yeah
that one was really neat and then also I
was actually am able to see an invention
of someone at OCAD use lab and so they
have like a VR version so that you could
see it
well they had like a VR setup because
that was part of this particular
researchers thing and it was so funny
because he said oh like let me just show
you something that I made in like a
couple hours it's like it's not that
great and so we put put this thing I I
had to view our glasses on and it was
blood vessels like it was like the like
the flip being inside a blood vessel in
a giant room and he's huge like I don't
know we call them cells blood cells red
blood cells and white blood cells and
they were just it wasn't a lot of them
but they were just circling around and
like moving and I was like that blew my
mind as well because so much potential
well it's just so interesting cuz he was
like oh yeah it took a couple hours and
it wasn't really that
I don't think he was playing it down or
anything just basically said yeah I just
made this thing and but I was blown away
because that experience is also like
when will you ever see crazy floating
someone's just going around because it's
so different like I see stuff like that
and like I think it would like bring me
to tears with the thought that this
could be used for like micro surgeries
and things like that to be able to
immerse yourself to to remove a tumor or
something like that that can have
robotics control what you're doing they
use for training purposes they use VR
for people who are doing like helicopter
rescues right so that you can kind of
get the butterfly feeling out you know
exactly what like the training for
training okay also use it for therapy in
phobias nice pose yourself in a safe
environment in Toronto there is an
amazing setup for vehicle rehabilitation
for people who have been through
tragedies in a car accident and things
like that right where they're immersed
in a vehicle er scenario that's
completely VR but everything from but
it's it's a real car they're sitting in
an Audi with a steering wheel and
everything else and the rain is coming
down in front of them but they're
surrounded in screens and it could
totally be used for that or think about
people who can't travel going back to
your Google Earth VR and so you know you
were there
yeah and then you went there and hey
this is cool but imagine if you were
bound to a wheelchair or a hospital bed
and you could just put on this headset
and I'm in Venice or you know on a date
with my wife somewhere halfway around
the world that's true that'd be so cool
yeah I mean I have to say one of the
interesting things about some of the
experiences like I had a chance to get
on a rocket and like like just like fly
over buildings and it was pretty cool
but what was interesting was that only
certain games for me had like an
emotional impact and like stayed in my
brain like locked in my banks I really
thought
around on a rocket would be more fun and
it was that first I was like whoa this
is crazy you never done this before
but after a while I just I don't know it
just kind of wore off maybe I was just
like I'm just kind of flying around on
the city and I go this way and I go that
way and there's building this way here's
a tall one here's a short one and then
maybe be more immersing like a game and
also having the element of something you
absolutely cannot do anywhere else
within this known world very like seeing
crazy huge objects or exactly all sorts
of things what does your VR experience
been so far or have you had any
experience really like me and you've
played Virtual Boy which was pathetic
you selflessly gave someone else the
opportunity to do what you would have
liked to have done so that's that's even
that's a great way to spin it yeah I
allowed Sasha to buy an HTC vive and
then come back and it was a news story
that made it happen do you remember
I do yeah any time we do a news story
about a product Sasha buys it it's tight
I just have to review something really
really cool it's like yes unfortunate I
fell in love with little gadgets very
easily oh yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
