welcome to the pixel shadow on mingle
Fox 70 big thanks to more time or
fulfilling in for me when I was sick
last week I'm feeling great today and
I'm and I am ready to have some fun and
mind test so stick around welcome to the
show we all know what my intestine
minecraft are their voxel games where
the 3d world is automatically generated
as you explore you can interact build
craft and construct the graphics are
improving on both products as they
mature but imagine what would happen if
a big gaming engine say Unreal Engine 4
were used to create a Minecraft like
game that's what's been happy happening
lately with this post from John Alcatraz
being a prime example let's take a look
that's his minecraft like infinite voxel
world an unreal X engine for four it's
not a complete game but shows what might
happen if someone created a version
using it the Unreal Engine to create
watch the full video click here our
server upgrade is complete at mine to
stop TV thanks to all the viewers who
pitched in to put 24 gigs of RAM into
our gaming server Nate UK Nathan s21
Kendall and ronbo it's thank its thanks
largely to these players that our game
servers run as well as they do so give
them an in-game high-five next time you
see them not an extreme because then you
will punch them and thank them for
helping making the service possible if
you like to pitch in to help offset our
costs please visit donate category-five
TV alright enough about that let's get
to the game today I am
excited because today I am going to with
my friends my cousin tots one for two
for my friend gassen and my uncle
domestica and and yeah are going to do
the soccer a so career tournament so we
have get prizes first place second place
and third place we have blue team and
orange team and oh my goodness and we
are going to be having a game we have
risers we have team points and we will
be trying to keep score on the soccer
balls so I'll show you how to craft a
soccer ball for your own very own game
so that you can also play your own game
you will need one black ball and four
white wall around it so let me grab some
of these and we will start the game in
three two and we will start the game
once courses know as soon as one goes
off you're gonna replace it if it goes
through the net then we need to keep
track of the points so Blue has one
point
come on the glue and
even doing much all of it it's another
oh my goodness
poor Weinstein this like oh my goodness
I don't even know what's going on here
what is going on
so this game has gone a little bit out
of hand no one's watching us oh it's
just fun game let's play soccer balls
everywhere see what happens
oh my word
this is getting ridiculous
oh my goodness look how many balls are
going into oh my goodness I'm going to
be put in there people are pushing me
into the net you're not one just fell
get out of there are clothes everywhere
there are balls everywhere
let's see how many if we're gonna play
some Chilean soccer balls see who gets
the most enough into a net okay orange
team
you know you have no hope you have no
chance
their pool is full
Oh No that is not fair yo cheater
let's get these out quickly push them
out of the goal no go you won't what
this guy knows how to fly what he can
fly oh my goodness this is the weirdest
game of soccer I've ever seen
oh my goodness I'm getting tired fill up
the goal and it looks like blue has won
wait wait
yes the perfect no I just ran out
here we go okay I think this is enough
oh my goodness oh my oh my goodness oh
well let's let's go get lunch come on
guys we'll deal with this later
dude I am hungry I didn't even know that
we hadn't that many oh let me let me go
into the rises and see how many soccer
balls oh no what is going on let's go
get lunch
okay I'm back in the place I have some
food here that died on dad left it for
me when he because he's at work we got a
couple pet cats which off i simply love
but we haven't named them yet so leave
in the comments what you think we should
name them we have a few of them I know
but we have like more than a few they're
everywhere but um so we're half-carat
yuk coconut milk double yuck
milk chocolate oh my goodness thank you
Dad and orange juice oh my goodness this
is the best lunch ever actually tots
here you can have the carrot and the
coconut milk enjoy yum yum yum yum mmm
yummy mmm oh I've eaten like I've eaten
20 no I've eaten 20 traffic ballers oh
my goodness
time for the orange juice and that was a
pretty good lunch if I just say so
myself and yeah I don't really want to
go back to soccer just yet let me
quickly go clear out those balls cuz dad
will be pretty angry when he gets home
oh my goodness Oh No
I've picked up more than a stack of
soccer balls Oh No
I'm gonna have to hide these in my
secret room oh I forgot to tell you guys
um turns out man lows in our sharing
room because you saw when I was getting
lunch there was a completed kitchen
tiles and everything dad said that
either we could get a completed kitchen
a completed bathroom and a completed
dining room if we didn't get Moe's in
our room so we decided that we would um
just share a room because we're best
friends it doesn't really matter and
this ball doesn't seem to me want to
pick it up so now me and Mosin are
sharing a room and I have totally
destroyed the snack need to fix this up
really now there are these things all
over the place
oh good good almost all of the balls are
gone dad will be angry will place one
ball next time
one ball oh my goodness almost all gone
they're almost all gone and we have
almost cleaned up we just have a few
more down here Oh No
that girl a little bit out of hand and
it's we cleaned up we did it we did it
dad won't be angry yeah well I got a lot
of stuff I got 99 soccer goals and
almost two stacks of soccer balls that
is crazy okay so this time we're gonna
place one soccer ball one so this time
we won't we won't get this out of hand
okay start placing soccer balls already
literally literally we literally just
cleaned up please no
dad is gonna be so angry where are you
even getting these balls from I thought
that we had enough having more than a
hundred
you finally cleaned up and now there are
balls everywhere
wit have you guys gone to like some
store and they're selling soccer balls
for like $5 mil for like a tendency it
okay I'm pretty sure that we have got
this sorted
I'm
no whoo-hoo blackout is disappeared and
it is came and started putting the
soccer balls everywhere
anyway we're gonna start the game with
one ball and we are starting one ball
only some people just come to our room
soccer balls everywhere and bit weird
oh my goodness they're all the way over
there - that is gonna be so mad anyway
we'll try and get another soccer
tournament into the next next time I
come around to the mansion this time got
a little bit out of hand with Blanco
coming placing soccer balls everywhere
bit weird don't know how that exactly
happened but we'll try to get soccer
balls we'll try to make sure that this
doesn't happen next video but anyway if
you like this video then please
subscribe for more videos we'll try to
make sure that nothing like this happens
in a video because this video was meant
to be a soccer tournament but then
things got a little bit out of hand but
um if you want to see me do a video
that's kind of like this one but a
little bit better cuz this one was kind
of messed up in everything then please
on comment comment what you want the
cat's names to be and comment for any
ideas for another mansion video or any
video of that sort thanks for watching
goodbye
