welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 3 87 for Tuesday the
seventeenth of februari 2015 it's nice
to see I'm Ravi Ferguson hosting tonight
and tonight we are just getting into a
whole bunch of viewer comments and
questions that have come in to us we're
actually going to be trying something
different tonight actually looking at
some of the comments that you posted on
our YouTube channel as well I've got a
chance for you to win a category 5
technology TV vinyl sticker set so you
want to stick around to be able to pick
up one of those we're gonna ship them
anywhere in the world and off to Sasha
Tomatoes how are you I am great I am
awesome happy to be here here is what's
coming up in the category 5 TV news room
a cyberattack took down most of the
Dutch government websites last Tuesday a
new report has revealed that up to 100
banks and financial institutions
worldwide have been attacked in an
unprecedented cyber robbery according to
US President Barack Obama private tech
firms should share more information with
government and with each other to tackle
cybercrime a california-based company
has figured out a way to take the
solution out of the air and turn it into
plastic that you can hold in your hand
en public photos on facebook could have
been deleted with just four lines of
codes as an online security researcher
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
christo wells
your kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV hello
my name is Robbie Ferguson thanks to see
you I'm your host for tonight and we've
got a lot of questions that have come in
before we get into your questions your
comments I want to mention the category
5 technology TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
you can go can't live TV / t p.m. for
more information also the international
association of internet broadcasters is
cat five dot TV / IA ib i wanted to
personally just give a shout-out and a
thanks to those of you who have
contributed to category 5 technology TV
this week sash and i were talking we
talked behind the scenes about some of
the expenses that we have here at the
studio now that we're in studio D and as
we continue to grow and as we kind of
feel out the space now that we're really
settled in we start to realize what kind
of month-to-month expenses there are so
we've had several of your contributions
have gone toward things like the the new
camera which I'm on right now so you see
that the video is quite a bit clearer
than it used to be and you know various
needs like that but then there's just
the actual month-to-month expenditures
and so I wanted to thank those of you
who had contributed this week if you
haven't already done so and you have the
means to do so on you and you want to be
able to help in that way we are a group
of volunteers here at category 5 TV so
please visit our website through this
link it's cat five don t be /c and you
contribute to that Sasha big news in
Sasha lands huge coming up next week my
show is coming up next week no try it by
it premieres next tuesday next tuesday
being an amazingly huge epic night so
we'll have try it by it will also have a
Google+ Hangouts after the show don't
forget about that the Google+ Hangouts
we're gonna have kelsey johnson we're
gonna have um who else will we have walk
Harry Webb will have myself Robbie how
did you hear I'll do a web what Kerry
mentioned she's gonna come out and say
hi Kerry of course being the co-host
from seasons one and two of category
five technology TV our Google+ Hangout
though is going to be a lot of fun
that's the first one we've ever had here
in studio D and so we're gonna we're
gonna do we're gonna do an interactive
tour behind the scenes to are similar to
when we did the studio see was it yeah
we did the studio seat or a while back
I'm gonna take you on a similar to her
for studio D and if there's some live
audience you'll see them as well so I'm
hoping to scrounge up some people know
what I think is really neat about this
though and unlike this studio seat or
where it was recorded and played on the
air and this is because it's a Google+
Hangout its interactive so you're gonna
actually be able to follow through the
studio with Sasha and can talk to her so
if you've got your webcam if you've got
a microphone make sure you have tested
it for me test it in advance and then
you'll actually be able to communicate
and say oh what's that over there or you
show us that over there or whatever so
it's an actual interactive tour
something that we've never done before
plus we're gonna have Q&amp;A with right on
their hosts of category 5 TV I believe
our camera guy Adam is going to be here
as well he'll be able to answer your
questions about the camera rig and so
you know anything at all it's it's gonna
be a lot of fun I'm really excited to
show everybody how amazing the studio
really is I know you've seen lots of it
during backstage pass but during this
tour it you'll get to see
you know all of the finishing touches
all of the work that's been put in it's
just going to be great to feel like
everybody's in the studio with us so the
Google+ Hangouts going to be epic
there's going to be great its next
Tuesday night okay so following the live
show right after the show we're just
going to wrap up our things and then
about quarter after the hour we're going
to take you on that Google+ Hangout so
make sure you've got the app installed
on your mobile device or on your
computer and then you'll be able to join
us for that have your webcam and your
microphone ready if you want more
information visit triple w category five
dot TV you'll see the the header link
there also make sure you add category 5
technology TV to your google+ circles
and then you'll find out the latest
lowdown and nitty gritty on what's going
on but again that's next Tuesday night
right after the show looking forward to
that lots of viewer comments on YouTube
and I thought we would take some time
tonight to talk a little bit about our
to bring up some of these comments that
have come in so thank you first of all
to those of you who have actually you
know subscribe to us on YouTube I'm
adjusting my chair because I can't
adjust the camera tonight there we go
did you just showered myself so
that's strategy right but but I went
down too far so it just kind of oh ok o
wall o Ravi now you're sitting like
fashion now ins now I'm good alright
alright uh thank you for subscribing to
us on YouTube we have two main channels
and then of course we are growing
because we've got the try it buy it find
out more about Sasha show at TI bi dot
category five dot TV that's try and buy
it so TI bi but so she's going to have
her own youtube channel but right now
we've got linux tech show on youtube as
well as category 5 TV what's the
difference linux tech show is kind of
clips from the show it also features
some of the backstage pass stuff that
you see on your Roku device not by any
means as much as you get on the roku
channel but you there is some of that
there
including the studio D renovation
project and things like that but it is
essentially a clip area where we throw
the clips and behind the scenes on
youtube and then category 5 TV on
YouTube is where the full length one
hour show is placed so if you're
watching a Linux tech show and you say
oh how can I get more of this content
will category 5 TV on YouTube is the
place to go because that's where the
full-length episodes are then match up
with the content on category 5 TV so
let's look at some of the comments that
have come in on let's start with what do
you say Linux tech show Linux tech show
we've got there's a printout to make
things easier for us here in the studio
when you take a stab at it for him okay
this is um let's see Shin nagwa
Lily yeah and looking at the comments
coming in yeah a lot of people
commenting on the video that Hillary and
I did about how to make Windows 8 and
8.1 feel and look and feel a lot more
like Windows 7 with the start menu and
everything like that so we got a lot of
feedback on that video some good some
bad I think that some of the commenters
have even said you know well it's uh
it's inevitable you're going to get
positive and negative feedback because
some people really like Windows 8 right
some people really like bundt cake uh so
what are some common sort of okay so
Chanel a lily says thanks so much for
this great video tutorial just bought a
new desktop tower with windows 8 agreed
with your reactions and some viewer
comments the user a hostile Sam setup
well this operating system is giving my
pc identity crisis it wants it to act
like a smartphone and tablet with apps
and moving tiles except one problem
using a mouse tada yeah maybe I'll warm
up to it I don't know my machine came
with a shell icon and all I could do was
click install and run that's more like
it yeah I hear you there yeah yeah it's
tough when you know the operating system
on your desktop computer or your laptop
computer where you're using a mouse and
a keyboard suddenly is designed for
touch screen hmm
another comment that came in on that
same video make Windows 8.1 look and
feel more like Windows 7 comes to us
from Jaclyn Jones hey Jaclyn she says I
was looking for a cure for cannot detect
proxy which has driven me to distraction
when I happened upon this video it
doesn't help me with my proxy problem
sorry about that Jacqueline but oh boy
does it ever make my life easier I
cannot thank you enough and a huge
smiley face from Jacqueline Jones thank
you for the comment Jacqueline I'm glad
that that you stumbled upon our videos
and and our channel linux text show
funny how you can sometimes stumble upon
something that is really really helpful
even though it's not exactly what you
were looking for but that is the vicious
trap of YouTube isn't it the related
videos to everything that you're
clicking on and all lo and behold ooh
you found yourself a one that was very
helpful so I'm glad to hear that i am
going to set myself up I know it seems
ridiculous that I'm on YouTube with no
actual YouTube yeah like identity or you
what is it you just sign in our YouTube
I don't have an account I didn't have a
youtube account Sasha needs an account
because she wants to be able to respond
to all the great feedback that you give
to her maybe we should mention some of
those the nice comments that come in for
example on category 5 TV Bruno whoa
Bruno yeah Bruno is watching episode 3
37 that's an oldie but a goodie okay so
that's the one where we moved Linux the
home folder to a separate hard drive
that's right yeah right and he commented
best guide I found to move the home
folder you're both very good at
explaining these kind of things thanks
to both of you so I need to look back on
that episode because I think most of the
time I'm really bad explaining
everything so I would thank you Bruno
thanks bro yeah we certainly try around
here for sure sometimes we sometimes we
aim high and miss completely that's the
inevitability of FAL ability I guess
all right thank you very much for the
comment and talking about your need for
a youtube account I guess you know why
why do people need a youtube account if
you're not a publisher if you're not
broadcasting well that would be the
question that's the thing I never even
thought of having youtube account
because I can just click on everything
if I want somebody else to watch my news
show I either tell them to watch it or I
bring it up on my phone and play it for
them but I never like I didn't even
realize as horrible as this is that
there were comments with YouTube videos
wait a minute you started saying you
have internet on computers now well
comments on the videos I just don't
exist if I didn't know they were a
comment so now Ravi says you have lots
of comments on your videos now I realize
your comments on all of the videos like
not just my videos but every video i
watch people comment on so if you send
in your marriage proposal well you've
got to have to have to send it again
maybe popper and you you might want to
reconsider your proposal now that you
realize how an EFT I am awed this thing
called the web okay let me tell you let
me tell you a couple of reasons you
might want to youtube account even
though you're not a content provider and
sashes got a unique case here because
she's a part of a group here at the
studio so we take care of her uploads
and edits and everything for her so so
that's why she doesn't need an account
to do those kinds of things because it's
all taken care of by us so as a user
it's very very helpful for you to be
able to provide feedback on videos so
for example if you like one of the
videos that we have on our youtube
channel to be able to actually click
that little thumbs up and and give it a
like so that other people see that you
liked the video that helps us it
encourages us it also helps boost our
standings in on youtube but also being
able to comment we joke about sashes
inability to respond to your comments
but truth is is that it's really really
it's an interesting community I mean
people have questions we'll post a video
and we see your questions come in a lot
of comments a lot of feedback be it
positive negative or constructive we
welcome it all and and so the ability to
be able to respond to those calm
comments to like those comments and
reply is a really good thing mm-hmm and
I do my best to try to stay on top of as
many of the comments as I can as well we
do juggle a lot of channels but so
that's where I think it would be
advantageous for someone like yourself
Sasha or maybe you as a as a home user
who perhaps watches video on on YouTube
mm-hmm and then I guess the third and
and possibly the most important point
about it having a youtube account is the
ability to manage your subscriptions so
if you like to watch category 5
technology TV or epic meal time or
whatever you want to tune into you can
subscribe just hit that subscribe button
and then lo and behold you get the
latest videos on your home screen that's
helpful for the content provider such as
ourselves because the more subscribers
we have I guess the better it is as far
as you know publicity goes and it looks
good when we appeal to advertisers that
we've got several thousand subscribers
and and growing so we appreciate
everybody who subscribes to our videos
as well and it gives us a chance to be
able to get you the latest and greatest
videos because they automatically show
up on your timeline so that's kind of
cool that should we have some more
comments that have come in on YouTube we
do we have oh I'm a starbuck fan as well
Oh fan was watching episode 385 that's
why she was recent that was two weeks
ago 385 and commented great show one
comment the out outer outro outro ah
that's a thing outro music was louder
than you Robbie um and starbuck fan
could not hear most of what was being
said if you get time can you play back
the last few minutes with less outro
music ok and that's what you may have
noticed if you've been watching the show
tonight we have made some changes thank
you very much Starbuck van and other
people have mentioned this as well that
you know as so as we go we're learning
from our community and and we're taking
your constructive criticism to heart and
we take it seriously and so we've made
some changes to the audio and I hope
that you're fine
that it is a lot better another thing
right now at this very moment here in
the studio our furnace is going we've
got a we're in an industrial buildings
and the furnace is super super loud and
actually one of the emails I didn't get
to last week when i was doing viewer
questions there was an email and i can't
remember who it was from but i had read
over it didn't get a chance to mention
it but they had said that there was a
squeak in the fans yeah let me pull up
that email and let's see you just take a
quick boo here so so i mean i don't know
if you can still hear in the audio then
the microphone if you can still hear the
fans of the furnace going but the squeak
has disappeared thanks to Ravi I'm
becoming the little handyman yeah so
it's been quite an experience but that's
another thing that people may not
realize is that we do this all ourselves
the renovation of the whole place was by
our volunteers and I don't think any of
us have really had any other than krista
krista knows how to drywall real well
but isn't the rest of us are you know
this is all pretty new to us i think
that one came to us from jax smart admin
and oh he goes by spice Jax in the chat
room spice jack says Robbie I've noticed
some sound problems lately I can hear
what I believe is the AC or the heater
unit fan or duct making some squeaking
noises and the whooshing of air I wonder
if though there's maybe an open mic or
maybe an iPod or iPhone on the camera
mic that is picking up the sound I see
that if you were mentioned the loud
outro music to you already see this is
community right so we're we're listening
to to everything John says the sound is
perfect tonight so that's good thank you
John spice Jax goes on to say I like the
product shot you did with the ipod I
think that you should find a way to
mount a camera maybe the ipod from the
ceiling to avoid the tripod cluttering
up the scene behind us also perhaps
finding a way to declutter the desk
moving the ipad done ah that way our
viewers can see the house and focus on
you oh I think that you need to find a
way to get category 5 s logo back up
behind you i use it used to define the
show now it looks like the wall at a
comedy club i saw
okay I agree I agree I think that it
would be great what is the reasoning
behind not having the category fine
category five sign behind you not having
it behind not having it what is it well
here in the studio space we do have it
now you can't see it at home I can see
it over here Sasha can see it we do have
it in the interview area if you go back
to the episode where we talked with
memories of me for example you'll see in
the interview area it says category 5
technology TV essentially the the reason
that it hasn't gone up on this wall is
because if we were to vinyl the wall it
would be kind of permanent in a way that
if we wanted to shoot other shows up
against this brick it would say category
5 technology TV and we're trying to
expand into other shows so so the
thought was okay well if we put it in
the interview area we can cover it with
a drape or something like that it's a
little bit different but really there's
nothing holding us back from it I think
it would just be having to buy the
signage right so we could we have one
that we can mount up and take down or if
need be because that would be incredible
I realized that maybe there is some you
know constrictions as far as yeah in the
old studio we had a sign donated to us
that was about this big and it is vinyl
on black cardstock kind of stuff really
thick kind of stuff and that was great
but unfortunately in the process of the
move and everything it got wet Oh God
damaged and so that we would have to
replace that you know what would be fun
and like it would be amazingly crafty is
if some of the viewers could send in
their own take on our actual logo and we
could just do like a like almost like a
fridge magnet deal like every once in a
while throw up a new one yeah category 5
technology TV sign brought to you this
week by and then whomever so just
jumping right I like the idea so feel
free you go to our website category 5
got TV our address is there if you want
to send us something looking at going
back to spice Jax's email here just to
wrap up that thought thank you by the
way for the constructive criticism I
hope that you found that we have
implemented some of the things that
you've suggested and we love the
construe
criticism from our community thank you
so much as in many ways you are this is
your show okay another request from
spice Jax Oh says first of all great job
on the sim card demo that was fun is
interesting another request I have a
regular segment on another show on GUI
based linux software may be like try it
buy it there's 0 for us to have there's
nothing out there on showing the
alternatives to Windows based software
you do the best demos I've seen on how
to if linux is going to get any traction
to convert Windows users we've got to
show them that the GUI as well as the
desktop linux itself is as good and
possibly in fact better than microsoft
windows love the idea and will certainly
take that into account as we look for
tools and things to demo and we try to
do that but you almost have to there is
this fine line where a lot of our
community has been around linux for
quite some time and so to show some of
the things that i think are really great
may seem a little old hat to some people
and we've gone back over some of the
older software that's been around for
some time and and so it's really just
finding that real bleeding edge stuff
that is interesting and exciting for the
community so if you have any suggestions
i said i would love for you to send
those in i will say unlike more of an
emotional note for me i like most people
who love linux love linux because of
linux itself is an awesome operating
system and for me I came in it backwards
I love Linux because of the community of
Linux users and then because of that I'm
more motivated to use linux and love
Linux and learn more and I want to learn
all of the languages and that I don't
know i love category 5 well hey well
you'd be a good person to come up with
ideas for for that kind of feature
because you're fairly new to linux
you're using it on your laptop you can
say okay well what does this program do
and hopefully it's one that I'm familiar
with right that should be fun to write
their way for us to hurt there was good
remember there was a program like oh it
was three or four weeks back and it was
just a screensaver clock oh yes and it
didn't quite pan out right um but things
like that or the sort of things that
interest
because I don't use my computer for
really much more than reading my emails
or updating my blog which I know I will
do more often so I like little things
like that just for now for learning so
if anybody has any ideas that way they
can send them to me and maybe we can
trial them and see can they email you
directly absolutely and I will check my
emails my email is Sasha it's such a
really easy here because everything this
first name basis so Sasha act category
five dot TV will get you spice Jax goes
on to say my friend and I have started a
new lug which is a linux users group
here in jax to concentrate on what we're
calling desktop linux the idea is to
cater to those users of GUI software so
windows and things like that that folks
are used to most linux users groups that
I've seen are focused on the command
line interface the network
administration the ite end of it and big
data for example so little festivus like
festivus we need to show gnu/linux for
the rest of us ah ok you got to read
that in the right timing it's poetry
poetry spice jacks well done it finishes
up the email to say I will make sure the
category 5 TV is one of the sources that
can that the converts have in their new
lenox toolbox very cool here's what
we're using as our new hub it's lacks d
lug dot-com and there it is very cool
Jacksonville desktop linux users welcome
to category 5 technology TV if you are a
member of that lug thanks for stopping
in I hope that that you find some fun
content here and feel free to send into
myself for Sasha any suggestions that
you have for content we'd love to be
able to provide some great demos for you
and thanks for the email hmm i have a
comment from last week's show so it was
remember last week's show we did all of
the partitions it was a question and i
can't remember who had sent it via email
yeah ok
okay I was it an email it was an email
yeah so I'm gonna read the comment while
you track the email I'm nice looking
right now we did have a question that
was so cheap are dead bug from John yes
who is I'm looking for their Haley's
here oh just John Oh John sent him that
email so easy sit said that I'm
surprised you did not bother to explain
why the numbering over partition
happened to be sda1 SDA to SDA 5s da 1
through 4 or SDA one through four
primary partitions any number over for
indicates extended partition let's slow
it down for just a second Sasha I love
okay easy sit thank you for the email i
just sent in to us about last week's
episode i love that you started with I'm
surprised that you didn't bother to but
didn't we talk about it we kind of
mentioned it but I skimmed over it and
you called me on it because there is so
much stuff that in order to remember the
the meaning of everything it would just
be absurd for one guy to have to do I'm
not Google and I admittedly I didn't off
the top of my head didn't know the
answer to that so okay so and i'll admit
that so it sounds to me like you easy
sit know more about looking at your your
response here to our video last week
know more about this particular aspect
of the file system than myself okay so
i'll let sasha read your response here
and thank you for sending it yeah the
rest of the says I'm since linux kernel
2.4 all hard drives or SD as the colonel
drivers for eid e and SCSI were merged
and both buses are handled by the same
driver the SCSI driver hence all drivers
are SD and in SCSI device there you go
ahead and tell drivers rest yeah okay so
that so SG as an SDA sdb according to
our viewer here easy set saying that
that is for scuzzy driver or SCSI as
so sda1 SDA to SDA 5 is I the reason the
SDA one skips that it skips over 3 and 4
is because SDA one through four our
our the extended partitions ah i see
that makes sense because you can only
have the four primary partitions on the
hard drive right so thank you very much
for sending that in love it that's
perfect okay we're going to have to take
a real quick jaunt over to the newsroom
I know Sasha's over there and excited to
talk to you about what's in the news
this week so Sam should remain is take
it away oh right here we go it's Tuesday
februari 17 2015 and here are the
stories we're covering this week Dutch
MPs are demanding that the government
beef up their online infrastructure
after a DDoS attack took most of the
government's websites down last week a
very slick and professional cyber
robbery has been taking place for the
past two years siphoning roughly a
billion dollars from worldwide bank's
president obama wants tech firms to open
up and share more information with the
government in a collaborative way but
they're just not buying it a
california-based company is stripping
the carbon out of the air and turning it
into usable plastic and they say they
can do it cheaper and much more
environmentally friendly than the
current methods and an online security
researcher found a bug in Facebook's
code that would have allowed him to
delete any of your public photos these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere depending on where you're
located in this big old world of ours
you may remember it as either the Sega
Mega Drive or the Sega Genesis and now
more than a quarter of a century after
its original release in Japan it's more
convenient than ever to take these
classic sega games with you
I review is coming right up stick around
try it buy it
I'm Sasha dramatis and here the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
it has been confirmed that a cyberattack
took down most of the Dutch government
websites last Tuesday the attack which
also took down some private sites
highlighted the vulnerability of public
in fridge infrastructure it came as the
u.s. beefed up its defenses and followed
warning said sites belonging to the
French authorities had been targeted
that jumpy's demanded that the
government insurers state sites were
capable of withstanding similar attacks
in the future in a statement the Dutch
government confirmed that it had been
the victim of a distributed
denial-of-service attack or D das in
which servers are flooded with traffic
causing the sites to fail to load so for
the actual government itself to be
exposed such a an attack is it's scary
yeah but some people don't realize
necessarily is that these kinds of
attacks happen all the time our server
gets whacked away so much and we have
grown to the point where our server and
I really you know you gotta knock on
wood and just like we never want to get
cocky about this kind of suit server
administration but our servers pretty
robust now that I've learned how to
administer a server against a DDoS
attack and hopefully we never have to
deal with one that is beyond our
capabilities but when you're in the
government they come and they are huge
right is distributed denial of service
itself in the name means there is a
distribution of the attack from multiple
endpoints which means thousands of
computers possibly more all attacking
that server all at one time my goodness
scary stuff I'm happy that we're taking
I mean the u.s. is taking precautions
against it actively as well so that's
good the Dutch will get it under control
a new report has revealed that up to 100
unprecedented cyber robbery computer
security firm kaspersky lab as
two mates that 1 billion dollars has
been stolen in the attacks which it says
started in 2013 and are still ongoing oh
uh hmm a cyber criminal gang with
members from Russia Ukraine and China is
responsible kiss Bertie said that it
worked with the Interpol and Europol on
the investigation it said the attacks
had taken place in 30 countries
including financial firms in Russia u.s.
Germany China Ukraine and Canada his
first he said that the gangs method
marked a new stage in cyber robbery
where malicious users steal money
directly from the banks and avoid
targeting end users healthier consider
it the gang which kaspersky dubs carbon
ack used computer viruses to infect
company networks with malware including
video surveillance enabling it to see
and record everything that happened on
staff screens in some cases it was then
able to transfer money from the banks
accounts to their own or even able to
tell cash machines to dispense cash at a
predetermined time of day no yeah can
you imagine walking past a bank machine
that have been programmed just a spit
casho feelings I can imagine this Wow
yeah but if that happens to your part of
some intricate web of criminal activity
calling it a very slick and professional
cyber robbery because Percy said that on
average each bank robbery took between
two and four months with with up to 10
million dollars stolen each time that is
significant this is the next generation
of thievery yeah being able to steal
that amount of money just like that I
always thought that we always thought
cybercrime would be the one penny out of
each account so nobody notices and but
to be able to pull ten million dollars
yeah I guess it's there's time celled it
takes a couple months yeah it takes time
and effort but what is money really now
I know this is what is this time thing
that we speak up and what is myleeza
verse dollars all it all money really is
a lot of times in banks I mean do they
have actual cash dollars know they have
account amounts on a computer right they
don't keep the amount of money that they
have
in the actual bank its out thing anymore
no so I mean it's it's crazy to think
but yeah you could have 10 million
dollars stolen from an account if the
bank wasn't watching and these are not
the scary thing is that these are not
Bitcoin banks and things these are
actual banks that you go in and deposit
your paychecks into this is the real the
real deal is the kind of the next this
is but it's been going on for two years
and we're just kind of finding out about
it now yeah we're gonna get back to
stuff in our mattresses with our dollar
bills according to US President Barack
Obama private tech firms should share
more information with government and
each other to tackle cybercrime the
issue has become a White House priority
since a widely publicized hack of Sony
Pictures at the end of 2014 but some key
tech firms are concerned about
government surveillance yeah wait
there's more Oh senior Google Yahoo and
Facebook executive turned down
invitations to the White House
cybersecurity summit held at stanford
university relations between the US
government and tech firms has been
strained since electronic surveillance
practices were exposed by former former
National Security Agency contractor
Edward Snowden President Obama is
bringing a message of inclusive
collaboration to beat cyber threats and
a coordinated federal approach
superseding the patchwork of state laws
which might be sensible but the absence
of Silicon Valley's most senior figures
hints at a deep division between it and
Washington they are uneasy about a lying
strongly with an administration
tarnished by Edward Snowden's
revelations the NSA has spied
extensively on their customers mr.
Obama's own intelligence officials now
say cybercrime poses a more pressing
threat to national security than
terrorism well he would say that he
would say that when he wants people to
you know open up and share more of their
information I don't like to get into the
conspiracy fear is Amanda that kind of
stuff but it tends to be we're in that
time where everything is digital right
and in their right to be wary of a
government that would admittedly spy on
people and steal basically steal data
they wouldn't admittedly do it that's
the problem he didn't admit it a little
bit at all they made it a neuro exam in
Italy no of course not but good for them
for standing up for privacy right but
but oh well let's try working together
collaboratively yeah so if Edward
Snowden didn't come forth I wonder what
this conversation would have looked like
right maybe it would be a different
thing maybe everybody would be at this
summit and they would be you know up
happily cooperating right but would this
discussion he'll ever needed to be
necessary had snowed and not come
forward because it would have just
continued they would have just continued
on this on the same path right
interesting it'll be Italy need to see
how this develops definitely this coming
up is the best news story I have read
all week the plastics industry creates
1.8 trillion pounds of carbon emissions
every year but now one company has
figured out a way to take the pollution
and turn it into plastic that you can
hold in your hand located in costa mesa
california new light technologies is
forming plastic out of thin air
literally knew I'd CEO Mark harima said
we could be breathing this right now
he's figured out how to make plastics
out of destructive carbon emissions that
would otherwise heat the atmosphere
rather than with fossil fuels such as
oil most importantly he figured out a
way to do it cheaper it's something he
has been working on for 11 years since
he started with the company he started
the company with his friend Kenton
Kimmel in his parent's garage some of
the smartest people have started their
companies in their parent's garage true
Bill Gates I think did that here's how
it works carbon emissions are captured
from farms landfills and energy
facilities and are fed into a 50-foot
tall reactor new lights
plant a bundle of enzymes strips out the
carbon and oxygen and rearranges them
into a substance they call air carbon
the product has been melted down and
cooled inside tubes and sliced into
little thin plastic pellets that can be
molded into anything karima calls it a
disruptive technology that's going to
change the world new light is selling
its plastics to companies such as
furniture maker ki who uses it to create
chairs there are also air carbon cell
phone cases soap dishes and plastic bags
at a recent Fortune magazine event
michael dell announced his computer or
his company will use new lights air
carbon bags to wrap its computers the
challenge is for new new light to grow
its business enough to disrupt the 380
oh yeah 380 billion dollar us plastics
industry I will say Robbie that if you
could take plastic out of the air and
turn it into a spool of that plastic
that you can use for 3d printers then
you could really do anything like you
can make shoes out of air pollution like
you could do any crazy thought is it not
yeah and who who thinks up this stuff
yeah I I just make plastic out of it air
it's an interesting use of magic ah yes
alchemy that heat but to be able to take
something that is typically pollution
bad for the environment turn it into
something that's usable and reusable
yeah how good for our lungs because
really they work is the filter right we
breathe this in and I guess it must just
stays kind of us well but I guess it is
right based on carbon dioxide right so
yeah right so it's not like I'm breach
I'm not breathing in plastic right I'm
breathing in the building blocks that
they're using to create plastic okay I
love it well way to go forward thinking
so public photos on facebook could have
code says an online security researcher
maximum Messiah was playing around with
a graph API the tool which developers
used to make Facebook apps testing it on
his own photos Messiah found a way to
manipulate the code so that it deleted
one of his images he explained in a blog
post I got access to delete all of your
Facebook photos photos which Republic or
the photos that at least he could see he
immediately reported the bug to facebook
security team and says they were fast
and identifying this issue and it was a
fixed in place in less than two hours
from the acknowledgment of the report a
facebook spokesperson has since
confirmed the sequence of events and
Matthias has posted a screenshot of a
Facebook message saying that he's been
offered twelve thousand five hundred
dollars as a reward for finding the
fault that is great good sleuthing oh I
wish that they were I wish I knew this
before they fixed it because there was a
couple of pictures I would love to hmm
what our viewers are thinking is I wish
that I could get money for pointing out
Robbie's faults I wish that I could just
be smart enough to find something like
there's oversight in any major company
like that Yeah right so let's be made
something like Facebook right which I
mean yes there's a like obviously a
coding fault of some sort yes so for me
to actually be able to find that so
easily not that it was easy I'm sure but
four lines of code yeah twelve-thousand
dollars nice lot yeah for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias visit the
category five TV news room at newsroom
category five TV for the category five
TV news room i'm sascha through made us
thank you sasha this is category five
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
ferguson there's me at Robbie ferguson
and there we are follow us on twitter
category 5 TV and use our hashtag when
you're talking about the show and you
might just catch our attention and be
featured on category 5 technology TV
speaking up being featured Lilith Oh hon
i was watching video editing on linux
part 1 obtaining and stalling and you
open shot video editor watching that on
on YouTube and Lilith says I am trying
to put together a slideshow of my art
with open shot on my linux computer is
it possible to change the black
background to white hmm that's
interesting because see the canvas of a
video is typically black and then you
superimpose whatever you want on top of
that so how would you change the canvas
to white you think there would be a
setting right sasha is there setting
there is not a setting there's not a
satyr not a setting so how would you do
it same way Lilith that you're adding
your your photos so I'm going to I'm
going to actually bring up my computer
screen here and bring up the GNU image
manipulation program i'm on linux here
alright so GNU image manipulation
program and open shot so do do do
do I have open shot I hope so I don't
seem to let's install it nice thing
about about linux is this nice and easy
to do let's see if i can get it real
quick for you open shot this is synaptic
package manager it's going to grab all
the stuff that i need in order to
install the open shot application that's
a video editor for linux it's absolutely
free kind of similar in many regards to
say cyberlink powerdirector not quite as
robust but for a free application hey
you can't go wrong it can't be beat so i
know that i'm using a widescreen display
and proportionally what do we know about
widescreen is going to be say 1080p
right so what's that 1920 x 1080 is the
resolution of a 1080p screen so if i
create a canvas of 1920 x 1080 I now
have a canvas that is specific to 1080p
resolutions so if I'm only working in
720p I can now change that by going
canvas size or scale image turn on
proportions like a proportion lock here
and that's going to make it so that as I
change the width it's also going to at
the same time change the height so now
if I want to do 720 it's 1280 by 720 at
720p so as I create either of those
resolutions on creating a widescreen
white background right open shot should
be 0 just about installed now so I'm
going to save that file and what do I
want to do I want to save it as a JPEG
or a pain i'm going to just going to
throw it on my desktop save as isn't
going to do it for me because that wants
to save an XE f which is the Laird image
I want to actually export and I'm going
to throw that on to my desktop as white
dot ping that's fine it could be a JPEG
it doesn't really matter because it's
just a single solid color right close
that now I'm done so you see that I now
have this file called white dot ping and
it is literally if I make that full
screen it's just that's what it is
that's my canvas so brilliant right
let's wait for open shots almost loaded
how do you like that eh we can install
the application we can get you started
up so understand that I'm seemingly
creating a video that is going to be
wide screen because these days you're
not really producing any video for for
over three so I'm making that assumption
that we're going to go with a 1080p or
720p and with open shot it should be
okay even if you create the file to be
720 p + layer lay it on to a 1080p
canvas because you can make it fill the
canvas size where things go wrong though
i'm going to show you or where things
get a little bit confusing I think
that's just about done installing if not
already done looks like it's done okay
so sound and video open shot video
editor if we've got good luck tonight
it's going to open there we go so now I
can add that to my canvas it's already
on my desktop white dot ping and you see
that if I drag that to the lowermost on
my my editor here it is going to fill
that space so now I can put anything on
top of that on track one or vice versa I
guess white would have to go on track
one and then my image would go on track
to but here's the thing Sasha do you
want to read the the next comment there
the follow up that we receive away with
Ohan yes it says no matter what I do it
still has black on the sides of course I
tried your ratios even with the title
when I choose white background it still
has black edges right so Ashley you can
see that on your screen that it's say
yeah that's exactly what's happening
here so what is going on right Lola well
let's give it a go so what open shot
does is you see on the left hand side
and the top and on the right well that
is just the video preview window okay so
what I'm going to propose is that we
actually export the video to test this
I'm going to throw it on my desktop and
we're just going to call it my slideshow
and we're going to say the profile is
going to be web and we'll go with vimeo
HD 720p at 29.97 frames per second
high quality export that video it's
going to throw it to my desktop as an
actual video file it's complete so now
on my desktop I have my slideshow mp4
and if I double click on that if all
went well there you see black bars left
and right right now I'm going to stop
that video this time I'm going to push
play and I'm going to make it fullscreen
watch what happens so I'm going to
switch my screen over here here we go
and it fills the screen just as you
would expect see that so what's actually
happening there is that your preview
window is adding those black bars but
the video itself doesn't contain those
black bars well so you're safe you're
good to go that's perfect good stuff
yeah thank you to everybody this week
who is sent in comments on our YouTube
channel we appreciate that very very
much and thanks for subscribing to us on
YouTube to our various channels but
category 5 TV on YouTube is is our main
channel you go and then we've got Linux
tech show as well and you're going to
see over the next a while and make sure
you subscribe to category 5 TV because
from there you're going to get access to
our other shows such as nature sounds of
Ontario Canada try it by it as well as
the show show which is going to be
coming soon from category 5 TV such an
exciting time it Reno's um do you have
draw bought up and going from do I have
who do you you are because I believe we
have some awesome stickers to give away
we certainly do and draw bot goes into
our chat room its category 5 on freenode
make sure you get in there and through
that
is going to draw from a list of names
from those of you who are in our chat
room live watching the show category
five dot TV and we've got these premium
vinyl stickers these are clear vinyl so
they will they're they're see-through
except for the logo itself so you can
stick these two there are two ups so
you've got one that goes on a light
surface and one that goes on a dark
surface and it's going to look really
really good for you so let's go into the
chat room see who's gonna win this here
we go good luck everybody Albuquerque
turkey nice to see a twg Cal hydro and
see boater and whiskey 0 and mcrib nap a
polar bear oh it goes by fast please go
faster faster don't them yes fatty good
club tom is crazy this first time draw
bot has ever joined us in studio deep
welcome drama nice to see you again yeah
here we go ok nice to see you Bradley
and reb DJ 3 meter 909 and Agra moto
lots of viewers who have been around for
a long time oh boy here we go this
always reminds me the romper room when I
can see the whole list fine and yeah
John and I see no me dijo que 54 and I
see you too here we go our winner of
these two up premium vinyl stickers from
the category 5 store it's shop dot
category five dot TV our winner tonight
from the chat room according to drop the
winner is
domaine keeper congratulations to mean
keep
it's good to have you here and I'm glad
to be able to send you some of these
stickers so I just have to send you a
quick little direct message on our chat
congratulations domaine keeper don't go
anywhere after the show domain keeper
because I'm going to send you a coupon
code for shop category 5 TV to be able
to pick up your free sticker and thanks
for participating everybody in that draw
Sasha I'm excited about what what we
have planned for next week not only is
try it by launching that's an exciting
thing you've been kind of waiting
eagerly anticipating like an eager
beaver very very excited for this the
tribe I it show is going to be a huge
leap for me I get to try all of these
new things that really I mean I I knew
like efforts for things like you know
the selfie printer you know things like
that that maybe you haven't tried
yourself I'll try them out for you give
it give it a world give you my honest
feedback let you know how you can get it
and it's just going to be a fun
adventure so you can tune in we'll show
the first one next week on the live on
the show and then after the show will
have a Google+ Hangouts wait for the
Google+ Hangout to that's gonna be a lot
of fun lots of people are going to be
here lots of you I know are already
RSVP'd on our on our Google+ channel
that you're going to be there if you
haven't already RSVP'd we'd love to know
that you're going to be there and kind
of book your spot so go to our website
category five dot TV you'll see the the
image at the top there and the link to
to our Google+ profile but you can also
get there through cat five dot TV / g
plus that's GPL us and at the right hand
side of our current channel you'll see
the upcoming events and there will be
the Google+ Hangout but exciting that
karrie webb our co-host from seasons one
and two she's going to be here in studio
catching up with you you can ask her
questions you know what has she been up
to these these days also questions for
our on air and off air crew here at
category 5 technology TV if you've got
any questions make sure you jot them
down so that you don't forget and then
present those live interactively in our
Google+ hangout and Sasha dramatis is
going to take you on a live interactive
tour of studio D where you can ask
questions about the studio and she'll be
showing you through kind of
interactively one-on-one style which is
pretty cool because a lot of you
couldn't be here physically for our open
house and so this is kind of an
opportunity for you to participate in
that regard but virtually would be
pretty fun I know that Kelsey Jensen
also is going to be there next Tuesday
you're gonna be I'm gonna be there also
crystal Wells is here she's going to be
co-hosting the show but then also
sticking around after the show for the
Google+ Hangout and anyone else who
happens to be here Erica lalonde can't
be here in person but she's going to
join us through the the wonders of
google plus hangout so she'll actually
be a part of the Google+ Hangout as well
right so a lot of people are going to be
here that are involved in the show and I
hope that you can be here too and like I
say get your webcam ready test it out
ahead of time a lot of times with the
Google+ Hangout and when we're fairly
limited for time you want to make sure
that it's working beforehand give it a
couple of test calls and make sure and
then we'll we'll have some fun make sure
your microphone is working as a lot
because if it sounds like that then
you're gonna get posts on Facebook and
YouTube and how everything saying hey
your mics are terrible as week squeaky
yeah so Wow it's gonna be a great time
and I really cannot wait to do a
follow-up to the last live tour I gave I
guess it wasn't alive through our last
time it will be this time yeah yeah and
that's available if you haven't seen the
tour of Studio C best to watch that
ahead of time if you can if you've got a
Roku device go into special features and
then backstage pass and you'll get a
tour of Studio C which is interesting
because then you're going to really tell
the difference between where we came
from to where we are now and it's pretty
exciting so
really looking forward to show we'll
have to bring Spock back maybe we can
reintroduce a bobblehead yes around here
somewhere we've got a couple oh yeah
we'll bring them back for next week
there you go see there we go very cool
well looking forward to that yeah thanks
everybody Bradley it's nice to see you
nice to see everybody joining us in the
chat room looking at our viewer location
map this week it's been really cool I I
was spending some time with people from
kind of all around the world and zooming
in on places like Japan to see you know
that there are so many viewers that are
tuning in from from places where we may
not even you think that you there are so
many english-speaking people in the
world that you're able to watch the show
and I hope that you're able to enjoy the
show from wherever you are but looking
at our viewer location map how cool is
it that we are broadcasting all around
the world and that you're watching even
in mainland China these days thanks to
our our servers that have been implanted
in China also just like there's Japan
over here look at that South Korea and
basically anywhere in the world the
Philippines we've got you covered so
these are viewers who are watching
category 5 technology TV from all around
the world as i zoom out you'll see that
basically the density over Germany and
and it's just astounding and look at the
United States of America just wonderful
so we appreciate each and every one of
you thank you for being a part of
category 5 technology TV it's so
exciting for us to see the response to
the show and we love that you're
watching on all different kinds of
platforms and using the Roku device
really starting to get active with the
show and become a part of not just a TV
show but a growing community you can
find out more about our community and
actually become involved get yourself
registered at category 5 TV it's
absolutely free you can send in your
questions week after week live at
category five dot TV is where you can
email to or just write on our website
you can follow all the links
find out how to how to go about that so
cool that was another really fast our it
really was we've still got a couple of
moments here if if we have any viewers
with questions in the chat room or you
want to me just check it I mean we've
got about a minute left there's the hour
goes by so fast it's it's like I was at
work today and and waiting for my ride
and it's like you can't you can't get
into anything at that point when you've
got a minute left it's like you just
can't really get into anything there's
just not time DJ quad is in the chat
room nice to see you saying that it's
been a fun show shortest hour of the
week every tuesday night at seven
o'clock toronto time thanks everybody
and so nice to see you here with 20
seconds easy what's new what's new with
me yeah oh my god no viewers want to
know what's new with me 20 seconds left
I came back from Jamaica to open a new
restaurant at the company i work at and
i have been working every day ever since
looking forward to snowboarding coming
up soon on my next day off no George
that sounds fun yeah that's new can I be
good at what about you Robbie what's new
I am just having fun kids are we got
skates so that's the most active
physically active that I think recently
who's buying skates for the kids and I
got something for Christmas first time
since I was a kid to go skating so
actually getting out on the ice and
taking the kids around but when you got
young kids you're holding hands and
you're keeping them from falling down so
you're not really out skating around but
just enjoying the time
being with family weekend was just
passed not everybody has family day
weekend so I think that's only a Canada
thing but we have a long weekend in
February I think it's president's day in
the States but you get a day off to
enjoy with your family many people get a
day off not everybody but yeah people
you see people out you know fishing ice
fishing or skating it's great it's
celebration very cool all right well
folks that's all the time that we have
and i look forward to just the personal
one-on-one time with you during the
Google+ Hangout happening next week at
about a peek 2 p.m. toronto time so
we'll see you there and we'll see you at
next week's show same time is that for
seven o'clock toronto time at category 5
TV so we'll see you there take care of
way we hope you enjoyed the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
