tonight we're looking on our computer
for space hogs pigs in space I'm pretty
sure there was like a Muppets episode or
something probably was space hogs are
essentially files that fill up your
harddrive so you know maybe somebody on
your computer has downloaded a couple of
videos that are all four gigs each and
suddenly you're starting to find that
that little 128 gigabyte SSD is running
a little low so tonight we're gonna
learn a couple of tricks well I trick on
Linux that's gonna show us how to figure
that out on a server okay or through the
terminal why are we skipping right to
the terminal why are we skipping right
to the server well back on episode
number 401 we already took a look at a
couple of different tools first of all
we looked at a program called space
sniffer and that is a Windows tool that
allows you to graphically visualize the
space usage on your computer brilliant
stuff now we showed you on episode 401
how to now use space sniffer in order to
find that same issue on a Linux machine
right using wine which we learned about
last week so we no longer we don't have
to look at the GUI we've already done
that look at episode number 401 of
category 5 technology TV but what I run
into and what you may run into if you
have Linux servers anywhere throughout
your network or online is that hey you
know what what do I do about my server
when space starts getting eaten up where
is all the space going so tonight we're
gonna look at a terminal command that's
going to allow us to do that so over
here on my computer I'm just gonna bring
up putty and I'm gonna bring up one of
my Linux servers which is going to allow
us to show you one of the ways to do
this so putty allows me to log in to my
server from a remote location this is
just a terminal emulator that lets me in
so I'm going to log in to our gaming
server for example I'm going to become a
super user and here's the thing a server
does not traditionally have a GUI
correct and a GUI being like a desktop
environment on Windows that would be
like the thing with your start and your
gonna get somebody saying you said it
wrong it's gooey
[Laughter]
so here on a server I'm I've got this
remote connection and I'm gonna bring up
because I don't have a GUI I can
actually access it from here
so typically there are a couple of
different commands that we're going to
use so we can go D F - H which is disk
free and that's gonna tell me hey how
many how many megabytes or gigabytes are
available on the particular disk that I
am looking at or on a list of all the
different disks in this system and there
it is so there's my disk free space so I
can see I've got nine percent use on
slash that's good so now if I do a D u -
H that shows me the disk usage which
cool takes forever it's it's gonna show
me the ultimate disk usage at the end
let's go to home Robby and try it there
disk usage - H this is traditionally how
we do it on a server right so it's going
through all my files and takes a little
bit of time to find everything that's
there and at the end of the report it's
going to actually show me a tally of how
much disk usage there is now I can sort
that by the biggest files and I can go
through that kind of hoopla but there is
an easier easier way using n curses ok
so this shows me a tally at the end if I
were to allow it to keep going but n
curses is basically a interface for the
terminal that allows programs to have a
bit of a GUI a bit of an interface
that's beyond just text-based so the
program that we want to use is as an n
cursors program that is disk usage for n
curses is in C DUI believe so n CD you
try that it says n CD you not found so
let's install it apt install n CD you
and hit enter and now it's grabbed it so
if I type n CD you - - help now I should
see oh it doesn't even have a help let's
see n CD you oh it starts scanning
immediately crazy
but I want to show you how I can use
this tool in my terminal on my server to
be really really quick about it so NCD
you and then you can specify slash and
it will show you the the usage on slash
but I don't necessarily need to do that
I'm just gonna go home slash Robbie and
there's another thing that I want to do
and this is why when when I run these
commands you see that it's running a
little bit slow because I've got a lot
of mount points on this cert on this
server and it's connecting out to other
servers so I want to say you know what I
only care about the built-in hard drive
and the hard drive that I'm actually
using right now in the slash home slash
Robbie so I do dash X and what that does
is it says only scan the media that is
the same as home dat slash Robbie so I'm
gonna ignore any Samba share CIFS and
that kind of stuff hit enter now it
scans everything and almost instantly
now I see a report and again and curses
allows me to navigate this with the
keyboard I'm going to just kind of move
up here now that I'm zoomed in you're
not getting a full view there we go
there so that's what it looks like on my
screen I can I can navigate that with my
keyboard going up and down so this is a
mind test gaming server so obviously
we've got a lot of maps on there so in
my case I can go there and I can see Wow
survival servers using six point seven
gigs our dome server is only using one
gig and I can navigate that and see
where the file usage is actually
happening see how much faster that is
and easier than using something like D U
it's just like instantaneous so that's a
great tool for you just a quick and
dirty Linux tip for you if you're
running a Linux server anywhere on your
network grab ahold think n curses disk
usage so NC d u-- is the tool that you
want to install you want to run it as
root so that it doesn't have any sharing
any violations as far as permissions go
you want it to be able to scan all the
folders on your computer and then you
use n CDU - x we learned about that and
then where you want to check so slash
would be your entire hard drive or slash
home slash ravi as my home folder and
about it that way that is NCD you it's
available just as you saw there you can
install it on Linux with app or yum
however you want to install it I'm just
gonna tell a joke a week later yeah well
Darby liked it
[Music]
[Applause]
