[Music]
[Applause]
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category five TV
or email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson's welcome to episode number 174
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
January the 18 2011 Wow how are you I am
doing well yeah I was feeling a little
sniffly last week but great this we
feeling good I'm looking for one dose 1
episode 174 I brought my runner all
right there she is ok so when I'm out of
water I'm good to go I'm hoping you'd
have something else here for me no no
it's the water just the one that sorry
about that dude gee everybody nice to
have you here on category 5 TV please
join us in chat room and you'll find
that online triple w category 5 TV
during the live show and all through the
week and certainly can also join us by
just visiting the irc.freenode.net you
can do that mm-hmm hey Hillary how are
you hey everyone I am fabulous just
reporting to you live from school and
again sorry I'm not live in the studio
because that is the most fun but don't
you worry cuz I've got lots to tell you
about what's coming up in the newsroom
Sony is suing hackers who broke the
playstation 3 copyright protection code
butterflies are soon going to make
counterfeiting virtually impossible
Steve Jobs is taking a medical leave of
absence from Apple 98-pound meaning
dollars in Britain computers will help
users in the UK get online a new gaming
platform promises to bring thousands of
games to linux and lastly a group of
international scientists believe they're
about six years away from being able to
resurrect the mammoth so stick around
the latest news from the category 5 TV
news room good ol UK currency a hill
well it's a 98-pound computer that's a
big ol computer in it thanks for thanks
for clarifying that we're looking
forward to what's coming up also coming
up on tonight's episode of category 5 TV
we are giving away to pogo plugs this
week too you got to stick around because
at the end of the show we're going to
tell you how you can get that and also
if you've been following our website
category 5 TV you know that tonight we
are going to be looking at synergy I'm
not just talking about that vibe that
you get between Eric and I and Hilary
over and Skype Skype world she but also
synergy the software platform which
allows you to share your mouse and
keyboard with multiple computers via
linux windows mac doesn't matter it's
gonna be fantastic so stick around for
that alright cool so what you got going
on well we have some questions we do in
fact have a question that I didn't get
to last week should we do that right off
the bat mm that'd be fantastic this poor
fella here Dennis Finnegan hey Donna
seems to be having trouble logging into
the chat room out here so we should fix
that for him keeps giving me a message
that I have to log in with my username
and password in off mode however sign in
/ out shows me as logged in help I miss
not being able to interact this started
two months ago hmm okay so what we're
talking about on our website when you
click on to chat which is interact chat
room that launches the chat room and
what happens is by default it's going to
fill in your logged in user information
okay and what's happening to you there
dennis is that it sounds like it's
either you or somebody else has
registered your nickname with the
freenode servers so when you enter your
nickname there so in my case it's it's
automatically defaulting to Robbie
Ferguson so the warning that you're
getting is that somebody else has
already registered that nickname so if
it's you you need to check off that off
to services and enter your username and
password because you've got a registered
user name for the free note chat server
ok in order to get around that if you're
not sure what it was maybe you've lost
it now there are ways to get around that
you can find out by joining the chat
room number freenode because that's your
support channel for the free node chat
services but in the meantime you can get
around that real quick just to be able
to join us in the chat room tonight just
by simply adding you know for me I could
put Robbie Ferguson 5 or you know
underscore 10 or something like that so
orla that's all this hello I you 73 or
change your name but if you're using a
unique username it's possible that
perhaps you registered it in which case
you'll want a message Nick serve and
they'll be able to send you your
password even reset it if you've lost it
so because they can send that to your
your email address that's associated
with the account well there you go to
get information from Nick serve get into
the chat ok and then all you have to do
it's really quite straightforward
actually once you're connected to the
chat so you can be any user go / msg for
private message Nick serve help you're
going to see that you get a new little
window here from Nick serve and it's got
all the little bits of help and how you
can use Nick serve to get your to get
help with your neck which is your alias
on irc.freenode.net so if you're still
stuck let us know pop us an email but
that should at least let you connect get
into the chat room so you can join us
during a live show great and green jock
nice to see ya gamoto joining us in the
chat room gad will of course gwg the
Guru nice to see us you should tell the
good folks who you are oh yeah that's
down there sometime soon oh oh
there you go there you go Ravi first
American somewhere back there we've got
Johnny hiding behind the camera hey John
yeah alright well we have another
dentist asking a question all right but
this isn't Dennis Finnegan this is
dennis kelly and he's operating ubuntu
10.04 and the question about running
winxp and virtualbox do I have to run a
virus program in XP in a virtual box
session huh interesting question isn't
it yeah because people think you think
possibly about a virtual machine being
virtualized fake hardware fake operating
system running do you really need to
protect yourself fact is as far as the
operating system is concerned it doesn't
know any better it thinks that you're
running real Hardware basically because
you install windows XP into a virtual
computer and it's just as much windows
XP as would be a native install of
Windows XP so incidentally if you have
three virtual machines and they're all
windows they are each going to require
antivirus protection they're each going
to require some form of protection if
you're going to be running those on a
regular basis now there is a workaround
and that's the fact that you can use
snapshots so once you get your machine
perfectly set up right once you've got
that machine everything installed
everything working for you then all you
have to do is set up a snapshot have it
so that it reverts to the snapshot every
time you reboot you'll lose any settings
but because of that you don't need an
antivirus in
that scenario because if you get a virus
during that session you reboot it
reverts to the snapshot and then you're
back to all up and up and run it so so
so there but yeah essentially if you're
running a virtual machine it's just like
a real piece of hardware so cool cable
101 says hey glad you're liking your
pogoplug yeah I sent out a tweet today
so yeah I have a brand-new pogoplug and
it is way cool yeah how and now you've
had it for a week well yeah but you used
it so I actually I was helping a friend
who with some stuff and I had some
software um and I used my pogoplug it
was at home over at her place and I was
able to gave you access to your yeah
exactly I I haven't actually played with
it as much as I'd like to yeah but you
use a blackberry is that right yes so
it'll be interesting to see how the
blackberry app compares to the iphone
app for example or how that compares to
what all the report buttons on the test
about yeah I'd love to hear no it's
really cool awesome and it works with
you know external driver just a little
USB Drive or whatever you want to or but
look it up to yes what is it there's
several is USB ports three or four Forks
thanks for you from the window back or
vice versa yeah you're just trying to
phase me one on the front three on the
back okay what he said
cool okay what did I mention we're
giving away poker plugs tonight oh yes I
did interact mention that hey maybe I
can win one I get hip to have four ports
okay look it okay i gotta say i gotta
say with the pogoplug you know I
hesitated setting it up you know because
i didn't i didn't have much time and it
really boy it didn't take much time you
know you plug it in and you go to the
website to activate and it says hey we
found a pogoplug and viewers are gonna
have to bear with this yeah every time
I'm telling it was I know we've gone
through this is like what because they
like no I excitement over the public
plug all over again I was amazed the sky
was he you know I was expecting no this
is gonna be a challenge grueling yeah
for this dog it was not a challenge cool
it was not that's great yeah so what you
got coming up another question hey not
too we have another question and we got
we've got probably a dozen questions we
should try to get through here that's
the soul so just keep plowing right
through and if you've got a question for
us is live at category 5 TV or gain join
us in the chat room category 5 dB Oh God
will tells me anything I wind goes
directly to him I'm excluded from
winning I gotcha it's a little harsh
okay this is a question from a jemi
signal and jimmy is running win7 and do
boom to 10 point 10 Robbie great job on
the new site I am located in New Jersey
here's that new jersey and looking to
build an ubuntu 10.4 certification exam
studies do you have any motherboard
recommendations I will be running
virtualbox running server 2008 v ms
windows 7 VMs the atmospherical machines
DM sorry did I say that I did say that
yeah okay website recommendations are
welcome also keep up the good work
yeah and hey new jersey is it just me
like are we picking up some kind of
weird interference there did anyone in
the in the chat room did you catch that
I didn't catch it strange or was that
you Hillary but she's in the chat room
going I think that was me she's watching
YouTube videos and stuff not realizing
that her microphone is on fantastic
Hillary yeah it is always fun to have
you here you're blushing turn it off
yeah ok sir ok so to touch that question
for for Jimmy appreciate your comments
about the site if you could just leave
that up actually I'll kind of glanced
over here just to to make sure I cover
everything so you've got you what you
are looking for advice on the on the
motherboard purchase it's really kind of
hard to to make one particular
suggestion because it depends on what
you want to do and what chipset you want
to go with personally i'm an intel guy
vs AMD but AMD has made a lot of
progress as far as I'm concerned over
the years and compatibility with 64-bit
linux is is there and that's good but i
still use intel systems across the board
so a sous a su s is a company that i
really like their motherboards they make
a good product and basically what you
want to look out for is just if it's
gonna be heated pronounce that correctly
I did well I'd said asus for a hundred
years until i called them one day and
they answered the phone Natalie how much
do we use exactly how it happened so
with a motherboard I look for
solid-state capacitors those are now you
can do like a search google images we'll
just do a search for solid-state
capacitor vs. capacitor and you'll see
the difference solid-state capacitor is
basically going to it's not going to
burst as easily it's not going to have
the it's not prone to failing like it
like a standard kind of cheap capacitor
would be so so that's one of the things
I always look for I'll open up i'll let
the chatroom kind of give their feedback
about what what brands they prefer
what particular motherboard but because
your you know your your needs are basic
you need you need to be able to
virtualize so you need to be using a
processor that's 64 bit because you're
going to need more than four gigs of RAM
you're going to need a processor that
supports virtualization technology with
the Intel chips we've got the vm t 64 in
virtualization so these are all features
of the process that you need to make
sure that your processor supports and
therefore you need to also make sure
that that your motherboard supports that
type of processor so if you're looking
for example something in the intel line
whether it be a core core duo something
that has that virtualization that's what
you're going to want so just make sure
you pick a motherboard along the lines
that's going to support that so cool
here you go it's a unique thing you know
what you choose to go with so but tell
us more about what you what you're
looking to do in the forum is a category
5 TV and then other viewers can bounce
around some ideas and let you know what
what they think you should go with but
the key points are that you need 64 bit
and that means a 64-bit operating system
as your host as well because you are
going to be doing virtualization to a
degree that you're going to need more
than 4 gigabytes of RAM so make sure you
go with at least eight if you're running
as many virtual virtual machines as
you're saying they're simultaneously
you're probably going to need more like
12 gigs of RAM so lots Ram hmm okay and
Stephen it's like what did i do the
pronunciation here
pronunciation ha radio operator it looks
like Stephen when I read it though it
does Oh cats and build it in the wrong
area on the Fitbit Stephens using ubuntu
10.4 there's a program called echo link
it is a voice over IP ham radio
interface as well any help would be
great thanks now I'm not at all I'm not
at all familiar with echo link I've
never been into ham radio but I know
that we do have a lot of viewers who are
and that's where a good opportunity
comes up obviously the chat room is
great place during the live show because
there's a lot of people there but also
the forums at category 5 TV there's the
community forum on the interact menu
link and if you're registered viewer on
our website you'll be able to interact
with other viewers great opportunity for
you to bounce ideas around or talk about
products like that which unfortunately
I'm not familiar with so hopefully OS is
Scorpio 55 is in the chat room and those
seems to know a bit about echolink so so
also check the chat logs for episode
number 174 would be a good idea indeed
mentioning that wine is required o wine
require yeah wine is required for
echolink so it's a windows application
actuary
and I should mention as well MMD murphy
making a good point well no mentioning
that they have an i7 920 with nine gigs
of ram virtual machines run very well
and gad will mentioned the core i3 or i5
are good for basic virtualization but of
course the I sevens are going to be
really good if you're going to be doing
a lot of the heavier virtualization as
well and that would I would think that
would be the way to go the i7 if you're
gonna be doing a lot of virtualization
sure ok and run Ron who is uh I just
saying hi oh I didn't buy but you said
hang on no i said hey Ron okay hey Ron
hey Ron how are you sorry okay now that
we've established that this is drawn
asking the question Ron Ubuntu 10.04
fresh install is what he's running okay
dear Robbie and gang that would be us I
cannot seem to play any videos I just
get sound only tried em player VLC nero
all the same they all used to work but I
have just done a fresh install help
thanks Robbie Eric and Hillary okay I
that could be so many different things
but the first thing that jumps to my
mind is restricted extras for Ubuntu
because this is Anna boon to 10.4
installation did extras yeah so if we
bring up synaptic package manager
I'm just bringing that up here on my my
laptop and if we go settings
repositories and make sure that software
restricted by copyright or legal issues
multiverse is checked so that you have
access to those and then close that and
if it prompts you make sure you reload
the list okay
it's been a while since I've done this
manually but just type in restricted
dash extras you see I've got these
installed but you can click on that and
go mark for installation and this is
going to install a lot of the gstreamer
plugins they're going to allow you to do
things like DVD playback so video and
things like that also double check on
flash make sure that your Flash plugin
is is functioning correctly which you'll
know if you just go to like youtube or
something like that that'd be a good
test for you so let us know if that if
that solves it because they're there are
like I say a lot of different things
that could be or could be accountant
compound problem as well but ubuntu
restricted extras is going to install a
lot of the codecs that you need alright
alright this is category 5 technology TV
and you'll find us online at triple w
category five dot TV hope everybody's
having a good week so far even you um
hey I tell you a good new poke a plug Oh
hurry up I think this is kind of neat
what I've got set up tonight is the
backstage pass I don't know if you can
see that so viewers who are watching us
live through our website can view
backstage pass and this is a service
that allows you to see the backstage
camera cool whoa but here I am with VNC
on here so you're mentioned that it's a
little bit choppy because it's a BNC
connection look to the backstage pass
server but kind of interesting that
you're able to do that with ipod touch
that's certainly any other device that
that supports like the Wi-Fi like an
android device or something would do
that as well so
jots a and stop bleach in the bandwidth
it's all LAN it's lamb so it's okay
fantastic sorry Joe don't forget you can
get your questions in at category 5 TV
Eric's watching the email live at
category 5 TV and keeping an eye on the
chat room make sure you say Eric Kidd or
Robbie F in your in your message in the
chat room and that's going to alert us
to your question and we welcome your
questions we've got a couple more
minutes and here's another one there's
one from Chris the long and the short of
it no Chris not yet hmm i have a fog
system set up dub dub w fog project.org
this software started on a scent ohs box
and to ASEA sent OS box a couple of
years ago and this summer I moved it
into a ubuntu 10.04 box everything
seemed to okay until yesterday when I
wanted to add some computers to the
database I'm getting an error on the
input screen saying failed to create
host so I started poking around the
install now before you ask yes I
followed the guide on how to backup and
restore the system but I'm thinking that
since I moved from sent os/2 lubuntu I
lost right access to the mysql database
is there any way to find out who has
write access to the system is there a
way to change it am I ever going to
figure out databasing that one I can say
not anytime soon Krisnan well Chris a
again here's one where it could be so
many different things but if if I'm
following you correctly I I think you're
talking about not database permissions
but file permissions on the database
itself so like the files that are
involved in the mysql database perhaps
have lost right permissions what you can
do to see the file permissions just a
quick way like LS is the command that
you use in linux all the time to list
the files that you have
so if I go to any folder so go to where
your your files are for the mysql
database and type LS dash all and you'll
see that that actually tells you who
owns and with what permissions each file
in each folder so with your mysql
database if it's like you say the the
files themselves have a permissions
issue then perhaps that would reveal
that to you perhaps when it was copied
over during the backup process maybe it
got root or something as opposed to
Apache I'm not sure how the fog project
access is it so but that's one example
of you know that can commonly happen in
a in a server environment that's running
lamp so check that and then use chmod to
change the the ownership of the files or
the the folder depending on and I guess
if that's if that's not what the issue
is if it's not to do with file
permissions then then let us know and I
hope that that is it because it's that's
a that's a big question if it's if it
gets into the actual database itself but
I don't think that's what it is because
you'd know your username and password
for the database so we're talking file
right it could be so LS space dash all
and that gives you all the information
about all the files and folders that are
in that in your current folder all right
cool
I row sock wants to know if there's a
software raid program that works in win
7 and Ubuntu how do you mean elaborate
they look that you can access that
software raid from either system like
just to just as we're waiting for a
response that for example my my unraid
system I'm accessing from every computer
on my network be at windows my window
system that you're going to see a little
bit later any of my linux systems they
all have access to that array we're
reading a striped array is this like an
ass raid that you're thinking no in
lacombe in the computer
hmm so you're looking I can't quite
folly like as if it's software-based I
don't understand really the like do you
mean like you've got your dual booting
and you need to have access to the to a
software raid from both systems hmm
no but that's that's yeah not I'm not
quite following it maybe put put your
thoughts down and yeah that's what
you're looking for okay so i would i
would say not that I know of so it is so
if I'm following pires rock here sounds
like they've got a raid in the computer
they want to be able to dual boot the
computer but it's a software raid not a
hardware raid right so the so the boot
process doesn't see the raid it's not a
real rate that's right off we're based
so I would almost say you'd be better
just to get a hardware RAID stick a raid
card in there that's going to be
recognizable at the bios level like
that's going to have its own realm so
that by the time it gets to the
operating system the operating system
just sees it as a drive and you can get
those cards for thirty bucks so
depending on the raid I mean I'm
thinking a raid one but or like a to
drive array at least so but software I
don't know of one that will do what I
think you're asking it to do sorry
good boy I think I think I'm following
yeah one more quick quick question okay
if you have a small one because we're
just about time for the news or we can
just jump right into the news this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online triple w category 5 TV it's
nice to have you here tonight and
certainly we seem to get a lot of
questions these days and i love that
that you're sending in your questions
it's live at category 5 TV and of course
you can also get us in the chat room as
well it's a great way to get your your
questions into us all right category 5
TV you have so here's one that's not a
question so it'll be quick sure yeah hey
Robbie congratulations on the new
website is great thank you kindly sorry
I was very busy latest but wish you and
your family had great new year best
regards femi Hasani oh thanks from
Sweden thank you so so me there you go
cheers nice to have you back so I hear
Hillary typing away she's still making
noise yes sorry well so you've got some
news stories for us hell no sex I do I
got lots going on so for the category
five dot TV news room sony has launched
legal action against hackers who
uncovered and publish a method of
revealing security codes for the
PlayStation 3 the hack potentially
allows anyone to run any software on
their machine including pirated games
Sony's lawsuit argues that this
constitutes copyright infringement and
Computer Fraud one of the hackers
involved in cracking Sony's protection
code George Hotz told BBC News we have
not published any encryption or signing
keys we have not published any sony cold
or co derived from Sony's code pods have
spoken to legal counsel and feel sony
charges against him have no bias
inspiration from the tiny holes in a
butterfly's wings and ledge the process
that could soon have huge implications
for counterfeiting Clint land rock was
working on his master
degree in applied science at Simon
Fraser University when he came up with
the idea of using tiny little holes one
thousand to ten thousand times smaller
than the width of a human hair so
produce images that could be used to
fight counterfeiting Doug blakeway an
entrepreneur who works for the
university says if you try to photocopy
it you couldn't it's virtually
impossible to reverse engineer the pair
along with land rocks professor have
started nanotech security Corp in hopes
of inevitably selling the company to a
high bidder steve jobs the CEO of apple
is taking that a second leave of absence
to focus on his well and this was
reported yesterday by and get a egg a
dog's health how second hello it makes
what a nice you said well oh he's not
missing on his oh hi that's a Freudian
slip okay well he's taking a leave of
absence to focus on his health and this
was reported in Ian's gadget calm while
the details are scarce it is known that
Tim Cook will be filing Earthling in for
the jobs during his medical leave but
jobs will retain the position of CEO and
remain involved in the major strategic
decisions it sounds like it could be an
extended leave as jobs expresses his
love for Apple and his desire to return
to his duties as soon as you can race
online 2012 is a venture which aims to
push the 9 million people in the UK who
have never used the Internet to start
using online services and they have the
support of UK's digital champion martha
lane fox lane fox told the Financial
Times recently a good price point is
certainly part of what helps people to
get online with this in mind she's
promising the availability of Internet
ready computers for 98 pounds hoping
that this will tempt the remaining nine
million offline users in the UK to get
online there are even plans to offer
internet service as a part of the
package for as little as three pounds
per month the computers which will be
refurbished machines from employ will
come complete with the telephone support
and a monitor that will be powered by
the Linux operating system
Ram Floy hopes to sell 8,000 of these
machines this year a new universal
gaming platform is coming to Linux as
development continues on Lucas like
other Oh unlike other systems which lets
you play windows games on Linux the new
lutra scheming platform promises much
more not only are good selection of
windows games supported group with wine
but Luger's also includes the ability to
run your favorite console system
emulators and install games from many
platforms some old some new with its
sleep cover flow interface Boutrous
plans to provide linux gamers a single
platform for running all their favorite
games bridging the gap entirely by
offering the ability to run thousands of
games on linux from all your favorite
systems keep watch on Lucas net as
reported by the Toronto Sun scientists
from japan russia and the united states
have extracted a tissue sample from a
mammoth carcass that has been preserved
in a russian laboratory they hope to
take DNA from the sample and insert into
the eggs of African elephant in hopes of
producing a mammoth embryo researchers
in Japan have been working on cloning
amanda's since 1997 but previous attempt
in 2008 failed but scientists have they
have since pioneers new cloning
techniques that allow them to use DNA
that has been frozen for years at this
point the research team believes they
should be able to celebrate the birth of
a baby mammoth within four to six years
you can get the full story is a category
five guinea / newsroom the category 5 kv
newsroom is researched by roy w nash
with contributions from gadget wisdom
guru that cover Kison and our wonderful
community and viewers if you have a news
story thanks worthy of on-air mention
send us an email on newsroom at category
5 TV for the category 5e me newsroom I'm
Hillary Rumble category 5 TV is brought
to you in part by planet calypso this
massive multiplayer online game is
available as a free download from cat
five dot TV / Calypso now once you've
got two downloaded and installed on your
Windows computer make sure you say hi
and there's
something for everyone here on planet
calypso from hunting to mining crafting
and just plain socializing and having
fun with your friends you can download
it for free at cat five dot TV / Calypso
if you're a linux user like myself of
course this makes it worth the dual boot
cat five dot TV / Calypso i'll see you
on planet calypso this is category 5
technology TV we're online at triple w
category five dot TV I'm pretty sure I
just said triple w I'm pretty sure nice
to have you here at tur poldo be you
yeah yeah so one of the things I want to
look at tonight is synergy no this is
not like a self help forum or anything
like that i'm not about to start pumping
you up this is about well computer
software fantastic computer software
imagine a scenario where you've got
multiple computers and all of a sudden
you can lose the multiple keyboards and
mice so really really nice when you know
you think of a scenario like like we
have here where we have multiple
computers all around us if i had to have
a different keyboard and mouse for each
one well that could be pretty tough
could be and there are times when being
able to control multiple computers from
one keyboard and mouse is really really
nice like having like a dual monitor
setup but also with the power of two
computer cores or two computers right so
if you had two really powerful computers
side-by-side with two monitors moving
back and forth just as if they were one
computer but with the power of two very
cool stuff so tonight we're going to
look at synergy and I'm going to take
you through the the actual obtaining of
the software getting it set up and all
that one of the things that I'm kind of
expecting is that you have a basic
knowledge of networking and
that you need to be able to understand
how to set up static IP addresses for
your computers and one of the things
that you have to determine is which one
of my multiple computers is going to be
the server so this energy server so this
is the the one computer that's actually
going to host the keyboard and mouse so
this is the one that the keyboard and
mouse are actually physically connected
to and then the other computers which
are going to be connected through your
network are in fact your clients so
they're going to be using the mouse and
the keyboard from that server computer
so this is where you need to be able to
set up a static IP address because every
time you reboot that server computer you
don't want to have to reconfigure each
of your computers on the network to be
able to connect to it fortunately a lot
of times you can get away with using the
host name but in some cases you may need
to use the IP address so so today I
actually I started setting up synergy
here and there's my laptop and my
windows computer so I've got my laptop
is in the boon to based system and the
desktop is Windows 7 so you see that i
have one keyboard one mouse but i also
have the keyboard and mouse that's built
into the laptop itself what I want to
get away from here is having to use the
keyboard and mouse having to lean
forward and use the keyboard and mouse
for the laptop or this touchpad and be
able to just use this one keyboard and
mouse so what I'm going to do is go to
synergy dash fos s org free open-source
software and you'll see that right there
on the home page they're showing Lubuntu
windows 7 and Mac OS so we're going to
connect these two computers together and
I'm going to walk you through that so
you can see how to do it so I'm on the
windows system here and I'm going to
choose the download for either 86 or 64
so x86 is your 32-bit 64-bit of course
so here I'm using a 64-bit platforms so
that's the one I want to choose and
you'll find that of course by
right-clicking on my computer and going
properties whether you're 32 or 64 bit
I should mention that this again is a
free piece of software available for
Linux Windows or Mac and that you can
download it right off of that website so
I'm just going to launch this and go
through the really really quick
installation you'll see how quick this
happens really really nice so I'm going
to actually be using them like my
keyboard and mouse are connected to this
computer so I'm going to set this up as
the server so I'm gonna launch this
energy plus for the first time and you
can see do I want to use another key
computer's keyboard or do I want to
share this computer's keyboard mouse
that's what I want to do and configure
and hop over to my linux system going to
the terminal because I'm going to need
my hostname for that linux system and so
the way that we do that in terminal is
type in the word hostname you can see
it's robbie dash laptop dash you so
that's what we want to add in here to
our synergy server so screen name Robbie
dash laptop dash you and give it any
kind of alias i'll call this Robbie's
laptop so hit ok
and that's just one of me that I've used
an invalid name so I'm going to remove
the apostrophe from Robbie's so let's
just gonna say Ravi laptop and there we
go so that computer is added now I need
the host name for my Windows machine I'm
going to go into my command prompt CMB
take the same command its host name
you'll see that this computer is called
broadcast we're going to have that the
same way just type in broadcast give it
an alias it's just your friendly name
this computer and hit OK
so now that both of those computers are
added now here's where we can sometimes
get a little bit it can get kind of
confusing because you know how do i set
up the actual connection between the
different systems so what we need to
actually tell synergy is what the
positioning of those two computers are
or if you've got three computers or four
computers you can set those up as well
so back here and actually set my
positioning so I'm going to go right of
Robbie my laptop is broadcast so
essentially i'm telling synergy there
the broadcast system is to the right of
my laptop because physically that's
where it's located so I add that and
then similarly to the left of the
broadcast computer is my laptop now
seems redundant it sounds redundant but
what we're actually doing there is we're
saying ok if I move my mouse to the far
right edge of the laptop monitor it's
going to move over to the Windows
desktop if I move it to the far left
here's where the redundant where it
seems redundant but I'm actually saying
if I move it to the left it's going to
move over to the laptop so then you've
got that seamless ability to move your
mouse back and forth so I'll add that
and now the commands are set up the set
up shows that my laptop is the left of
the broadcast system and broadcast is to
the right of my laptop so I'm going to
say ok and I'm going to start the server
that's all there is to it and of course
you can also set it to auto start as
well if you look at your taskbar now
you've got the synergy thing saying that
it's waiting for clients and so it's
time to head over to ubuntu where we can
see in synaptic package manager there
i'm just showing you that we've got that
was synaptic package manager the version
of the software that's in there is an
older version 1.3 point one so what we
want to do in this case because it's an
old version of the software is we want
to get the newest version of synergy
which is one point three point four at
the time of this broadcast so that said
we're gonna go back to the website
rather than using synaptic so here I am
on the aboon to system synergy dash
foss4g
and this time we're going to download
the Linux version and this is going to
be our client just scroll down a ways
down the page and you'll pick the
version that that suits you debian and
RPM so the deb package of course being
wound to debian based derivatives and
that's going to be an installer for that
the RPM files are if you're using a
young based distribution red hat or
something like that so it's available
for all different platforms i'm going to
download this the the debian file the
deb and open it with GW package manager
and it looks like I'm the one really
fast here but remember this is in real
time this is really how quickly you can
get this done I'm just going to click on
install package enter my password and
just let that go that's actually setting
up synergy on my ubuntu system now gone
are the days when installing
applications on linux was a difficult
challenge there we go close out all of
that
and now we're ready to actually connect
our two computers together so remember
the server is already running the server
is running on that Windows computer
waiting for a connection you remember
that little thing down on the in the
taskbar and so now we need to make that
connection to that computer so I'm going
to go into terminal again just for the
demonstration you can add this as a
start-up application first of all I want
to ping broadcast because I need the IP
address you may already know this
because you set it up statically 1000 77
is the IP address that that broadcast is
currently sitting on so now I want to go
synergy c4 client 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot 77
and hit enter and instantly you'll see
on your Windows computer connected
and there we are so we've got broadcast
and Robbie laptop you are both connected
and moment of truth so drag our mouse
over to the laptop and there we go I can
access the application as many of
everything else over there using the
mouse and keyboard as opposed to having
to reach out and use the laptop keyboard
so just speed things along here type
couple things on to text editors here so
you see on the Left I've got computer
one is Robbie laptop and computer to is
the server the broadcast system I'm
going to copy that to clipboard and
paste on the other computer you'll see
that I was actually able to copy from
one computer the other so it's more than
just sharing oh just your mouse and
keyboard is more k be able computer yeah
yeah so you're actually able to copy to
some degree simple stuff for example
good example would be a URL right you're
on one computer and you grab a URL from
that computer you want to paste it over
to the other computer because you've got
a certain application to use with that
URL for example so there's a chance for
you to do that without having to retype
so i'm going to type copy this onto the
windows computer copy that go back over
to the linux computer through synergy
just dragging my mouse over there
highlight and paste
and you'll see that that text was copied
directly from windows all the way over
to Linux through my network against
energy is available for free synergy
dash f OSS org and we welcome your
questions in the chat room category five
dot TV any questions off the get-go with
regards to synergy let's see we did have
one and I lost it already Oh stompbox I
look good guy wanted to know to synergy
work with freebsd or FreeNAS FreeNAS has
a web interface that's not a better face
yeah and freebsd can run a linux
application so i would think so that you
could compile the head on to your
freebsd system i would think from source
check their website and you'll note
all right jawed is asking does it do
graphics like directx etc in other words
what is the latency like what we're
doing here is we're sharing the keyboard
and mouse between computers so any kind
of DirectX support if you're gaming on
one of the computers it's fully reliant
on that computer regardless of whether
you've got synergy or not but that said
let's say on my Windows computer which
is a quad core with eight gigs of RAM I
drag my mouse over and I launch a 3d
game I can then control it with that
Mouse no problem what you may want to do
in that case is you might want to hit
the scroll lock key on your keyboard so
that when you pan for our left your
mouse doesn't all of a sudden skip over
to the laptop again the scroll lock is
going to lock it on to that screen right
so keep that in mind if you are going to
be doing gaming using synergy make sure
that you you hit scroll lock on the
computer like have your mouse on the
computer with the with the game and hit
scroll lock and that'll lock in okay but
the game itself running is fully reliant
on the hardware that you're running it
on Oh still needs a monitor just backed
a good guy yeah it still needs a monitor
during boots to upgrade the system i I
don't I don't see for freenas as being
what what the purpose of this synergy is
for synergy is silly with desktop
computer side by side you can move
around from one monitor to the next you
can interact between all of the
computers without the footprint of
having multiple keyboards and mice no
can you still a good your left up and
use the keyboard and oh absolutely yeah
yeah and sometimes I do because you get
used to the fact that you've got your
main keyboard and mouse but then I can
still move my mouse over here using the
touchpad if I need to so awesome yeah
it's very very good works best over a
hardwired connection I find because
Wi-Fi is susceptible to two drops in
speed and things like that so of course
if you're gaming and you need that low
latency Mouse response and things like
that then certainly you're going to want
to be hardwired into the network on both
ends of the system so cool all right
that's synergy and I and I'm glad that
we finally got to show how to set that
up d man sang can you use synergy to
connect to a computer in a different
room I was just going to ask you that
very same question so you can now now
what would how would you do that as far
as seeing the monitor though oh we need
to see the other more yet well as the
monitors in the other room to write so
if I drag my mouse over there yeah i can
start clicking on stuff but i can't
physically see the monitor so the sole
purpose of this would be to drive your
wife or your kids nuts whether on the
computer and you can just SSH does well
at that but my wife's on linux so and i
can play around the core system anytime
ok so i can't see a purpose in that
because i wouldn't think that you could
know your way to monitor right so but
you'll find vendor but a kvm is a
different thing that's where you've got
one monitor yeah i mean here we've
gotten multiple murders so think about
productivity you've got multiple
computers you've got all of your graphic
editing software that's already set up
on this computer so you're doing that
over here whereas you're over here with
chat rooms and surfing so you can keep
your focus on work because you've got
all your work stuff over here but then
over here you've got a computer this
dedicated strictly to that and even move
back and forth between the two much like
multi monitors but it's not cluttering
one computer with certain tasks the
other thing is much like the cloud
you're able to share resources between
multiple computers a lot easier because
for example if you have network attached
storage or a nun raid server or
something like that you've got
centralized storage and then you've got
both computers connected to that storage
and this is how I'm actually able to do
a lot of the stuff that I do on a
tuesday night after the show this
computer over here is encoding all the
videos this computer over here is doing
all the show notes and then I've got
another computer that is actually doing
all the uploads and things like that
so another one for playing a clip so I
don't do that on Tuesday night because
of the bandwidth I need all the
bandwidth I can get but yes that would
be pretty good but see you see what I
mean is that you're you're spreading out
the the resource usage so a computer
that's encoding video which is a very
very heavy thing to be doing on a
computer you don't want to be doing
anything else on that computer
necessarily because it's going to slow
it down quite substantially so then if
you're also trying to do your uploads on
that computer in my case it can cause
failures and the uploads right so by
spacing it out over multiple computers
I'm able to basically tap into the cores
of all those computers very much like a
cloud but without actually cloud
computing so quite interesting there's a
lot that you can do with something like
synergy so and post your ideas get into
the forum category 5 TV and maybe start
a thread about how you think you could
use synergy and i'll post my ideas as
well once i see the the chats kind of
starting up and i'll give you some real
life examples of how i've used the
software but again check it out synergy
dash f boat SS org certainly if you've
got multiple computers side by side that
is a fantastic piece of software for you
to be using this is category 5
technology TV and we're online triple w
category 5 TV of course we would love to
have you join us on our website it's
free to register and that gives you a
lot of cool features right there on our
website speaking of which how would you
love to win a pogoplug 00 already have
one look well I wasn't talking to you
specifically ok you hear what you want
to hear ok I've got two of these to give
away this week whoa and in order for you
to win this now this is a class we're
talking about cloud computing this is
cloud storage which allows you to store
and share your data through the internet
so you can access it from anywhere cool
well it's just a very quick runs that
didn't make sense to me right away but
in order for you in order to see the
back of the box to see what eric is on
about you're going to have to happen in
one of these get under our website
category five dot TV and i'll tell you
what we're going to take as many ballots
as you can send us this week so it
doesn't matter if you send us ten or a
hundred or a thousand if it's a thousand
you're probably going to win one yeah
I'll tell you what we'll take as many
balances you like but how you gotta how
you're going to qualify for this is
you're going to register on our website
category 5 TB if you haven't already
done so as a registered logged in viewer
visit Hilary profile visit her bio and
read up on Hillary and if you're logged
in there will be some text well I was
getting on the boil that's going to
actually show you how you can win a
pogoplug this week so register on the
website if you haven't already done so
login visit our website and get into
Hillary's bio and then you'll be able to
win a pogoplug this week hopefully cool
demon 810 was trying to look at the back
of the book he said Eric's head was in
the way so i tried go to the way the
backstage they have seen you put it back
alright yeah ok thanks for thanks for
explaining what that was all about you
were ordered weren't you I think
everyone was wondering yeah well I'm
just trying to be helpful try it thanks
for your help so here's another quick
question actually I believe where you
have the answer but I'll go through it
and maybe somebody else solo okay robbie
i have a problem with my dell computer
with ubuntu 10.04 and nvidia geforce
8400 GS 512 megabyte ddr2 pci graphics
card what is happening is when i boot
the system it comes up and says that i
cannot detect my graphic settings I have
two monitors plugged into the graphics
card I can boot into safe graphics mode
but cannot get the system to boot
correctly it also tells me that I need
to reconfigure my xorg.conf file not
sure what it is that i need to change it
also sounds like the monitor clicks like
relay inside monitor it toggles between
a black screen and the screen that has
multi colored dots at the top oh cool I
know it is not a lot of info if you need
more I can try and get
whatever you may need any ideas with
what I provided thanks Dennis Kelly
that's demon a 10 we just got a message
from Denniston yes he he got this worked
out and what did they do he upgraded to
go to 10 point 10 all right and we're to
wrap all his problems resolved but
that's great I'm glad that it's fixed
for you and certainly nice to be on the
latest version i'll just mention that
when you hear your monitor clicking like
that that's a CRT is it it's it's having
trouble getting the resolution that
you've got set there so it's possible
that that you've got it set to a
resolution that the monitor itself does
not support so that would be what I
would check which you can you can change
on the fly using X R &amp; R type that
command in linux and and you'll see what
that what that does type XR and our
space dash dash help that will allow you
to change the resolution of your monitor
on the fly in X if and that that would
be the first thing that I would have
checked had you not already upgraded and
fixed it that way and go into nvidia
settings and change the resolution to
auto or something along those lines shot
here is saying that a there's nothing on
hillary's page about how to win a
pogoplug first of all we strategically
planned it so that John would not see
that just just flew the record but
actually you have to be logged into the
website jot users who are not logged
into the website will not see the option
to win a pogoplug you have to be logged
in to the actual website in order to see
it and then presto blammo it will be
right there so good luck we're just
about out of time dad was planning on
sending you a thousand entries a day
fantastic so he was he wondering if he
could spam bought you but I guess he
could well until that until our isp
shuts us down and then we're good to go
we basically we're making it kind of
easy for the first couple of giveaways
we've got a lot of poker plugs to give
away this year and I'd like you to have
all the chances in the world
win one so this is this is how we're
starting thing we put in our cap
Charlotte make them listen to that
before the address on the code is our
didn't you are so not all right to me
that randomly have I use on the keyboard
exactly exactly oh ok Hillary have you
had fun tonight I most certainly have I
was just creeping myself on the new
website checking out my profile oh yeah
and I just like I don't see the secret
code I don't see it oh but then I logged
in I thought ah there you go Hillary
will attest that you have to login
varies okay you go Hillary it's been
great having you here this week looking
forward to next Tuesday night as well
thanks so much for having me it's always
a blast and so much fun so thanks now
see you all next choice yeah have a
great week Hillary I hope you get lots
of snow in London oh boy lots and lots
of snow out here and I hope you have a
great week do get your questions in live
at category five dot TV you'll notice
that through the show I'm really
mentioned in the the community forum we
really encourage you to get in there and
and check things out and certainly there
are some people who are helping out with
that especially GAD will Andrew Jameson
trying to get things moving along and I
just want to want you to use that as an
opportunity for you to get your
questions expanded by the community so
that if you have stuff that's not
necessarily suitable for on-air there's
another opportunity for you to tap into
this resource of category 5 TV and we
to have you participate in that again
category five dot TV and that's the
community forum on the interac menu and
love to see you there alright John great
to see everyone on backstage passes can
see you and they're waving but but but
but that's all the time we have for
tonight we've got literally like 10
seconds left there is one thing that I'm
really really excited about in John I
know you're going to be really excited
about this as well your comrade watch
with play hockey tonight we know well we
picked up a new device and I'm just
going to give you a little bit of a
close up here that's too and that's not
a close-up that's a very far away let's
eat there we go that is very close up I
don't know if you can read that canon HD
video lens we're gonna be seeing some
change over the next little while my
friends so don't mess it category five
TV thanks for being here see you next
Tuesday night thanks for letting us into
your house see you next week
