welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 423 there's been an
accident but fortunately they were able
to keep us alive in order to provide
this show to you tonight we welcome you
as we celebrate Halloween welcome to the
show tonight we are gonna lose our heads
over an amazing plugin for WordPress
it's gonna let you manage all your
WordPress sites all of them from one
dashboard stick around I'm gonna be
showing you that what else is coming up
Sasha I know we're going to be taking a
little peek at some green screen
technology do we have that well we might
be able to conjure something out mm-hmm
and also here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV news room last week we
reported on Tesla's autonomous firm
update firmware update and since that
times some drivers say that their cars
have tried to steer them off highways
Talk Talk is playing down a huge
cyberattack on their users confidential
data walmart has applied to the FAA to
use drones for home delivery Facebook is
adding trillions of members posts to its
search results and Disney is launching
its own video streaming service al on
netflix in the UK and Greater Manchester
Fire and Rescue Service has become the
uk's first force to have access to drone
support around the clock dick around
these details are coming up later in the
show this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha tomatoes
Hillary rumble
crystal wells
Eric kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
welcome to category 5 technology TV it's
episode 4 23 we've got a great show
planned for you although I'm feeling a
little out of sorts you are I am you're
looking like a well ahead on a hedonist
post Lord of the Flies what has happened
to you Ravi well I don't have much of a
backstory but it's not much about some
kind of a crazy accident occurred and
they installed this thing for me just to
kind of hold my head up otherwise I
would have just been floating around but
hey here we are it's gonna be a fun show
yes it's going to be a rockin show we
talked a little bit about our last show
show yes we can the back to the future
back to the future we could say that
we're from the future and this is how we
exist in the future that is not room
that would be a good backstory so let's
go with that folks that's right yeah we
should have discussed this shutting it
now what are you you can help us decide
okay back to the future week whoa back
to the future day was last Wednesday
that's right and it was kind of back to
the future we call around the world but
that was probably my most favorite
episode have fun that was a ton of fun
thank you to everybody for sending in
your messages and I got a lot of email a
lot of comments and talk a little bit
about that a couple of things that
happened last week that who could have
known for one I was bang on with my
theory about the Toyota Mirai yes you
were watch back to that episode category
5 episode 4 22 where I talked about the
future car from Toyota and this was a
theory as of Tuesday when we when we
broadcast the show and they now they
actually announced a couple of days
later and in it because of time travel
we actually were we're a few days ahead
of them right in our prediction and they
announced that indeed the Toyota Mirai
is basically powered by garbage which is
awesome oh and you are so right and my
theory about Hydra
was exact how do you like that it's like
I'm just ahead oh that's perfect so that
was kind of cool and if you haven't seen
the video of them announcing it you
absolutely have to see it doc brown and
Marty McFly ER in it and they did they
did a really fun kind of video with that
with the actors and yes it's definitely
worth watching oh yeah yeah check it out
to Toyota back to the future something
like that would would do just fine to
find it what else uhhhh self-lacing
shoes all facing shoes they're a thing
they're a thing um we we know that
they've been working on them I I don't
know if it's going to be a fad I think I
feel like it's going to be a fad like it
had to be brought out we'll take a look
a little bit later because one of our
viewers actually sent us a link with
with a picture from Michael J Fox so
right take a look at that in a little
bit as well hoverboards real thing real
thing kinda sort of and interesting to
note that it doesn't actually
necessarily need the the kind of
installation that we had determined that
it might so that's kind of cool and
they've there's all different kinds that
are that they're being worked on I
looked at a video I found a video on
youtube in a search for how the hendo
works and one demonstration showed how
they used north and south polarized
magnets in a series spinning in order to
create a magnetic field below the
hoverboard oh so it actually starts to
make sense of you know how this thing is
actually working the the hoverboard
itself to me sounds like the Wraith are
about to attack that's what it sounds
like but that's the that's the thing
spinning at practically the speed of
light and causing that magnetic field to
be created so that's kind of cool so
that's a real thing I no longer need a
hoverboard I'm not know just yeah we
don't need hoverboards do not around
here would or self-lacing shoes for that
is useless to us true there are some
career- self-lacing hat oh yeah it gets
very cold and I have no hands warn them
haha
that's rude there you have some
correction correct what have I done so
mmm most important i would think was the
the 429 p.m. oh yeah a situation well
the doc MacLeod yeah doc doc McFly
almost set Doc Brown and Marty McFly we
said arrived at 429 a.m. it was actually
for 29 p.m. thank you to those who
corrected us I will say you know me am I
crazy i'm unable to wrap my head around
time changes oh thank you time travel
ampere add that banner got some some
nice angry comments from Cubs fans well
can I read this actually your word I
would love to okay okay this is one
example from c128 d yes one example of
many many messages c128 d is going to
set us straight okay here right now do
it quote the cubs last won the world
series in 1908 family not the last time
they appeared in it they played in and
lost the series in 19 10 18 29 30 to 35
38 and 45 so I was way off my guess is
he googled that there's no way this at
all he knows this he's a Cubs fan knows
this seven times since their last win
cuz they're the lovable losers it's
always a good idea to check your facts
prior to making such an aaronus and
ludicrous statement like that I am very
disappointed in you Robbie sorry c128 d
sorry community sorry world yeah it's no
surprise that I know very little about
sports and when I try to look like I
know what I'm talking about I mess it up
I feel like I might have fed into that a
little bit because I didn't know how
many times they've made it to the World
Series and lost I just know how many
times or when the last time they wanted
was that's that was the stat that I had
that's it that's it I didn't know I was
more focused on the time on the Blue
Jays and if anybody were that game you
will know how unfocused we are about
that yeah bad yeah it's over good but
the cuts aren't making it either so
midwest moto rider wants to be very
clear on youtube that they want nothing
to do with flying cars or hover boards
or any of those kinds of technologies
even if they exist they're dangerous
autonomous vehicles not for you wait
until you hear the news because
autonomous vehicles are not for me
either okay Robbie did you know category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat5 TV /
tpn and the international association of
internet broadcasters which is cat 5 TV
/ I a I be nice yeah yeah are you ready
for it folks I'm ready the floating
heads are going to teach you a little
bit of information about how you can
manage this is going to be great you can
do this amazing you know hands-on epic
as the kids say it's gonna be an epic
demonstration or under demonstration of
epic proportions yes of how to manage an
astronomical amount of WordPress blogs
or websites we're going to do this and
then it's going to get sent it's gonna
go viral and people are gonna wonder
what is going on with these hosts it
appears to me mom on today's show maybe
our feature should have been hands-free
technology it's something like oh boy
bluetooth headset nothing of this using
your eyes to control your computer go
back to that that was your first show
wasn't it how it was your eyes to
control the computer that would have
been perfect tonight darn ah we'll have
to go back and redo it watch that one go
back and watch Sasha's first episode and
then you'll know okay tonight we're
learning how to manage multiple
WordPress sites blogs from one dashboard
this is exciting because a lot of times
as a web administrator if you are a web
developer designer what happens well you
start administering
during several blogs several websites
powered by WordPress some of them start
to fall kind of out of date that can
happen sometimes it's hard to keep up
sometimes you miss a couple of updates
on one website and or maybe you're
really good and you never miss it but
it's a lot of work boatload of work to
have to log in to each panel and go
through and figure all that out yeah
remember all the passwords because i
know you're using strong passwords so
tonight we're going to install a program
called main WP and main WP is quite a
bit different than the other control
software out there because one it's open
source and to you deploy it on your own
server there are no third-party servers
in use here folks so you have control
you are in control of the security and
you're not sharing the information with
a third-party service so this is all you
my friends so this is this is why we're
looking at main WP tonight main WP has
everything Sasha everything you can
manage your site you can manage your
backups the upgrades of all of your
sites you can publish new articles new
pages you can create clones of existing
WordPress installs oh that's good you
can modify the privacy and there are
some really great tools built into it to
help you to establish a more secure
website as well lock down the file
system for example with permissions okay
so the key thing to keep in mind with
main WP is that in order to use it you
have to use a fresh install of WordPress
for the dashboard so that's your
administrator area okay so what we're
going to do tonight is we're going to
deploy an instance of WordPress
specifically to manage all of our
WordPress blogs okay so there are two
websites to keep in mind there's
wordpress com of course mm-hmm
wordpress.org okay if we go to word
press dot com
it's really hard to type without fingers
yes seriously this is why even though my
heart is with the chat room we won't be
able to talk to you quite as easily
tonight I have to nod and the computer
responds okay jumping over to wordpress
com what do you see okay create website
blah blah blah its website to create a
wordpress blog okay well that's not
exactly what we want what we want to do
is we want to download WordPress well if
you go to wordpress com you're not going
to be able to do that wordpress com
gives you a hosted platform so if you're
looking to create a blog easily this is
a service wordpress com is the word
press service however what we actually
want to do is go to wordpress.org
wordpress.org on the other hand is the
WordPress software this is where you can
in fact download WordPress so let's do
that click on there you'll see the
download links over on the right hand
side now I've already taken the liberty
of downloading this simply to expedite
our feature tonight so let's head on
over 20 25 whoa whoa cool all right so
what I've done is I have simply uploaded
the WordPress downloaded files I've
unzipped it so it comes to you as a zip
file and it looks like let's bring it up
on the screen here so once I've
extracted it it looks like this these
are all the files for wordpress so I've
uploaded those to my server and here we
are loading it up in my browser so now
all I have to do is click on English for
the language that I've chosen I'm going
with the United States that's fine and
it says okay this is what I'm going to
need database name database username etc
etc and so I'm ready to start so so
let's do that what okay
you just one moment here there ok so the
defaults that it brings up on the screen
there we go are not what we need to do
so we actually need to change all this
information for our wordpress install so
what we're in fact doing here is
installing the database end of WordPress
so I've set up a little sample database
so my database name is demo for 2 3 4
episode 4 23 my username is WP demo for
23 my password which is ultra secret
since yes varies since obviously it
hides it so if you have somebody looking
over your shoulder for example you'll
want to hide that there you go ok and
database host I need to set up my and
usually that would be my localhost in my
case I'm going to use my SQL dot demo
cat5 TV because my SQL my mysql server
is on a different host and then submit
table prefix is ok to leave as is
already Sparky looks like we're good run
the install let's see if it goes and it
took so because I didn't get any errors
I know that we have successfully
installed WordPress ok so let's do this
site title I can call this whatever I
want management dashboard remember i'm
not actually setting up a blog i'm
setting up a dashboard to use in order
to administer all of my websites all of
my blogs username enter whatever you
want there i'll probably just go with
the same because this is just the
demonstration WP demo for 23 and my
password that's a better password a
alright well that's a great pass rate
pass i always use my gonna suggest that
one act yeah that's the one let's just
change it to my very weak password there
we go of course you want to use a very
strong password what i'm doing here is
strictly for demonstration purposes and
will be changed following the show
ok confirm use weak password don't ever
do that okay folks let's use a strong
password that's not the purpose of this
demonstration ok so my email address
live at category 5 TV allow search
engines to index the site we say no turn
that off because we certainly don't want
our administration system to be publicly
indexed this is strictly for us to
administer install WordPress let's go
shouldn't take long ok log in says
successful so that means it had no
problem connecting to our database and
so on I like their sense of humor do you
yes were you expecting more steps sorry
to disappoint easy peasy nice all right
see if it comes up looks like we're I
had a bit of an internet issue there but
that's ok if i refresh maybe again let's
try logging in ok so my login WP demo
for 23 login there we go ok so I'm in so
now what I have is a 100-percent empty
blog install it's not got anything in it
and that is the state that we want to be
in to deploy main WP and that is going
to that means that we have no plugins
that are conflicting we have no issues
with that so we want to secure this I'd
probably install something like word
fence to make sure that you have some
security on your login form that's
always a good idea if someone does try
to hack in you want to know about it and
you want to block their IP addresses
word fence is going to do that for you
and that again that also is outside of
the scope of tonight's demonstration so
take the damn take the suggestion and
and go with that we have shown how to
install word fence on how to use your
vest in
yes I was on that episode two wonderful
yes right so google it yeah check it and
build it on the category five machine
all right let's take a lexan now let's
jump right into installing our plug-in
so plugins add new and now over let's
see search plugins because I've already
chosen add new right right so I'm going
to type main WP just like it sounds just
like that okay and hit enter and there
we go we've got main WP dashboard and
main WP child those are the first two
that come up we are not going to install
the child plugin that's for our websites
that we're going to be managing what
we're doing here is installing the
dashboard so let's install this now so
just to to clarify with main WP this is
a freely available plugin it's open
source you can install it deploy it on
your system there's no charge for that
where they make their money is
essentially if you want to enhance the
plugin there are some commercial plugins
of features add-ons and things like that
that you can purchase separately and
that's a wonderful thing so you may find
that hey I want to enhance this this
program with these plugins and that's
available to you but it is optional okay
jumping back here it's already done
installing i can go activate plugin this
is really simple it's really
straightforward and that's one of the
reasons i wanted to show you this
tonight so that you could see you know
what this is entirely worth your time
it's a great time to drink coffee when
we're not on the screen because it's
mere cleaner and coffee much just float
up to our mouths this is the funniest
episode can i just say you've said head
on over a couple of times did I said
that you've also said check over your
shoulder which you don't own you don't
have shoulders give no no shoulders
folks yes and I keep meaning I like that
you're catching all this
I hope you've been catching it and I
just pointed at you with my invisible
visible and I literally have invisible
hands I'm just sang I know it's so crazy
can I do that to look okay ah not there
okay all right back to the show sorry
we'll show you this stuff later detect
behind all this ok so moving on here
with our deployment of Maine WP notice
what it's saying stop before you
continue we highly recommend a new
wordpress install for your main
dashboard ok so we've already done that
so we have read the warning and we want
to proceed it's important that you do
that don't install your dashboard on a
pre-existing wordpress install we want
to have this clean deployment of
WordPress notice that we've done that in
only 20 minutes we've already deployed
WordPress we've already installed it
activated the database set it up and
deployed the main WP dash board software
and this is no Halloween trickery this
is done in real time this is not the
magic of TV this is but this install is
easy-peasy that's it alright so jumping
over here add a single site we are ready
already what that's nuts we need child
plugins that's all that's waiting for
our dashboard is ready to go it's
waiting for us to add a site so let's do
it what do you say ok Oh child child
plugins would be like my site is that
what your website if I wanted to
administer your website for example then
I would be yes I might use a child yes
that's right nice ok that makes sense so
all of the websites that we're going to
administer are called the children the
children yeah and this I guess is the
parent is my children yes so what what
what we need to do as far as timeline
goes so this is our methodology our
workflow is that we want to deploy the
dashboard as we've already done first
that's step one and it's important that
you do that
because as soon as you activate the
child process on any of your blog's it
is sitting there waiting to have a
connection made so theoretically if you
were to install that child process on a
blog and activate it and not connect it
to your dashboard somebody else could
connect to that website and take over
that website's administration okay so
it's very important that you set up your
dashboard first get it to the point
where it's as ours is waiting for that
child website okay you like that I do
yeah all right I am a child demo dot cat
five dot TV / remember 0 17 when we
deployed a ecommerce store oh yeah so
what we're going to do is we're going to
log into this we're going to set it up
as the site that we're going to manage
so i'm going to log in the first time
because i do need to activate the plugin
okay and let's login oh dear oh that's a
problem Oh houston we just have a little
technical difficulty that we're I'm
gonna resolve here for Sasha if I may
you ready thank you okay be right back
okay I'll just hang out here I will uh
maybe talk about some questions and
comments that have come in on YouTube
recently that's prophec walks past it
was like a ghost in front um let's see I
have some postal he said male hot male
pattern baldness is awesome um and I
have a comment male pattern baldness
episode 103 he says male pattern
baldness is awesome
it's hilarious you cannot see Robbie
walking everywhere that was awesome you
were a true ninja I actually walked
around the studio there without being
seen technically but for the fast you
may walk behind our for example that was
pretty neat ok problem resolved her
power cable on the laptop had fallen out
and was about to die that would be
terrible that would be horrible for the
news since I do not have it give it to
remember like news in show some stuff
happened to pick up where we left off
sorry yeah that's ok ok let's pick up
where we were looking so we've got I've
logged in to our amazing store this is
demo cat five dot TV / 017 this is an
old install you'll see one thing that
I've left is it's an old version of
WordPress hasn't been updated this is
intentional there are several updates
waiting to be updated to be installed ok
so now I'm going to head on over to
plugins I'm not going to update it here
i'm going to go ad new again for the
sake of the demonstration because you do
want to keep your wordpress sites
up-to-date search plugins again that's
main WP and notice here I'm not looking
I'm not on the website that's my
dashboard that's 0 25 ok see up at the
top there right I'm on our old install 0
17 right so here I'm installing the
child process the child plug-in main WP
child install now ok so now this is this
going to blow your mind this is so neat
ok activate the plug-in ok it's active
and this is giving you the same warning
that I've already given you verbally
that it's very important that you now
connect to that site from your from your
dashboard for the moment though we're
going to deactivate that child process
we're going to jump over to the newsroom
and after the news we're going to pick
up where we left off i'm going to show
you
what it is to connect to that child
process and how we can now administer
that website along with all of our other
WordPress websites so if we can head
over to the newsroom head on over here
it's Tuesday October 27th 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this week
last week we reported on Tesla's
autonomous firmware update and since
that time some drivers say that their
cars have tried to steer them off the
highways UK ISP talk talk was hacked and
user information has been stolen for
upwards of 4 million users they're
talking about saying it's not as serious
as initially thought and we'll give you
the details Walmart wants you to deliver
Walmart wants to deliver to your door
via drone Facebook is adding trillions
of member posts to its search results
and showing results from people that you
don't even know Disney is launching its
own video streaming service ala Netflix
in the UK and in other drone News
Manchester Fire Service is using drones
to help them fight blazes these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda I'm
Sasha dramatis and here the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room Tesla's
latest feature is steering some drivers
off the highway owners of Tesla cars
that include the new autopilot feature
which allows the car's computer to steer
change lanes and change speed
automatically have been expressing
concern about their driving experiences
since the update one user who posted a
Tesla in a Tesla forum wrote that a
co-worker with a tesla car drove with
the autopilot feature on but the car
would repeatedly malfunction the person
added that the car was going down the
highway at approximately 65 miles per
hour when the autopilot feature caused
the vehicle to try and exit at every
potential exit when driving in the right
lane even if that Lane wasn't the exit
Lane Tesla reiterated CEO Elon Musk's
previous sentiment with this statement
the latest autopilot release is a
hands-on experience to give drivers more
confidence behind the wheel increase
their safety on the road and make
highway driving more enjoyable we expect
drivers to keep their hands on the wheel
when using auto steer and maintain
responsibility for their car over time
there will not be a need for drivers to
keep their hands on the wheel however in
the short term it is very important that
the drivers stay fully engaged well the
feature is currently approved for North
America it may hit the roads elsewhere
soon too um robbie i have seen a couple
of videos that people have posted of
their cars actually steering them off
the road or were plummeting or through
um those cones and things really I just
think hands-free driving haha except for
me which would be super ideal at this
moment is a bad idea what are you doing
I'm looking out after you Oh Oh funny
anyhow yeah whole Tesla autopilot thing
i like the cop out though it's all it's
all your fault if you run off the road
well here's the thing it's really hard
for drivers in general to stay fully
engaged even when autopilot isn't on so
to ask somebody that it to tell somebody
that they don't really need to do
anything but to stay like actively
engaged and driving in case they're
needed might be a bit much to ask all
right UK internet service and phone
provider talked
has sought to calm customers following a
devastating cyberattack on its system
stating that the hack was not as bad as
first thought in an update talk talk
said that the amount of financial data
stolen from its systems was lower than
first expected and that the attack was
on its public-facing web site and not
its core systems however up to 4 million
customers remain at risk with experts
calling on authorities to investigate as
urgently as it would for a large-scale
purse or physical theft dido harding CEO
of talk talk said with an in an
interview with Sky News the financial
information that they have on its own is
not enough for them to access your bank
account most of the risk is from
criminals who would seek to pose as bank
staff calling it staff and call some
unsuspecting customers and fish for
enough information to break into bank
accounts right right so they don't have
enough on for them to access it but they
probably have enough to sound
convincingly like and that I think that
is exactly what's happening Sasha I know
it's scary people are getting phone
calls because they have your phone
number they have your credit card last
four digits yes right so it's so easy to
get tricked by saying hi this is talk
talk calling ah we need to fix up your
hey you've been hacked right you've
heard about the hack that happened well
we're proactively calling and making
sure that all of our customers data is
safe and you need to confirm for us a
couple you know little bits of
information and that's happening I just
it's a lazy it hurts me because I am a
little bit gullible I am less gullible
now that I've been on the show for so
long okay that's but but when somebody
calls in sort of an authoritative tone
as they would it's hard not to believe
that they're there to help I didn't have
to have that that little seed of
skepticism I like to think people are
good-natured right but there are people
out there that just prey on the innocent
talktalk said that we cannot confirm
that we do not we can confirm sorry that
we do not store complete credit card
details on our website and
credit card details that may have been
accessed had a series of numbers hidden
and therefore not usable for financial
transactions the Metropolitan Police
cybercrime unit is continuing to
investigate along with BAE s applied
intelligence arm yesterday a 15 year old
boy was arrested arrested in Northern
Ireland in connection with the attack 15
years old he has since been released on
bail pending further investigation
talktalk has said it will waive
termination fees for customers wanting
to end their contracts but only if money
has been stolen from them talktalk
customers are urged to change any
passwords for critical online accounts
and carefully watch their bank accounts
in case of unexpected activity Wow so
yeah if you are with talk talk please
check your accounts please check your
and change your passwords use a strong
password as you can alright next retail
giant wal-mart which owns as that in the
UK has applied for permission to test
delivery drones in the US the firm has
asked the federal aviation
administration if it can begin testing
flight testing for drones for home
delivery pick up and warehouse tasks
Walmart is the world's largest retailer
by revenue and follows in the steps of
Amazon which has already started testing
drones for this purpose so if you can't
make it to Walmart to buy a new sheet I
guess I don't know what you would buy
from walmart that you that you would be
delivered by drone yeah it doesn't look
like you would have a huge like you'd
have to do 27 deliveries for the amount
of stuff you usually buy at Walmart I
guess it would be good for like
prescriptions i I don't I I have I'm
eager to hear how this kind of thing
goes because it's interesting and it's
certainly the way technology can go but
what would i get delivered that's small
enough and and would i trust it do you
remember the story about the hitch
bought the hitchhiking yeah yeah and how
it got destroyed did it I didn't hear
that oh yes it got destroyed okay so
this leads me to
walmart now you know unleashes a whole
zoo of drones for delivery and what if
somebody is able to like net these
drones somehow steal them out of joy
right steal them or throw a stick at
them right or do one of those lasers zap
radio train riders amersham things and
now they've stolen your products that
you've probably purchased with an online
card is my gas your product and also the
drone who's responsible for that Walmart
this has been another episode of the
conspiracy theory okay speaking of
conspiracies Facebook has indexed almost
2 trillion posts put on this on the site
by its members to make easier to find
them the change means that many older
posts will now be added to result when
people search for news or information
the move is being seen as part of
Facebook's attempts to keep people on
the site rather than go elsewhere to
keep up-to-date with events it said
options were available for people that
did not want their older posts to be
more widely accessible about 1.5 billion
searches are carried out on Facebook
every day the changes that Facebook has
introduced will mean members of the
social network will now also see posts
by strangers alongside those from news
organizations and people closest to them
currently the expanded search results
are only available to Facebook members
in the u.s. so to clarify if you search
something in facebook if somebody else
searches something in facebook one of
your posts even though you're not
friends with them could come up in the
search results hmmm that's that's more
along the lines of what Twitter to pose
right but Facebook people I think still
have the delusion that it's private yes
most Facebookers um would feel probably
betrayed by the fact that people can
dress well with the Ken anyways they can
technically this could be a good wake up
call I hope so you know what I hope it's
a good wake-up call for some parents who
allow their children on face
hmm right well just assuming that only
their friends can see anything it's not
right no yeah now people searching can
find anything all right all right Disney
Disney is speaking of children this
target buttons Disney is launching its
own subscription based video streaming
service in the UK Disney life will
feature many of the company's films
books on music and television programs
in a single app however films from its
star wars and Marvel franchises will be
absent at launch the service will mount
a challenge to rival services like
Amazon Prime video Netflix and now TV
one analyst said content creators were
beginning to compete with the
traditional pay TV companies on whom
they previously relied saying content
companies like HBO and Disney are
realizing that old business models no
longer makes sense they used to sell
their programs to pay-tv providers now
in the digital era they can have a
direct relationship with the consumer
Disney said that its new service would
give families instant access to hundreds
of its film's songs and books for a
monthly fee of nine pounds and ninety
nine pence it's actually a pretty good
deal because Disney has a whole load of
good content all of their movies in
their books I like you think that it's
it's creating unnecessary services why
don't they put their movies on netflix
for free well for perceptively people
get paid for you having their
programming on netflix right that's true
but although I will say I will say that
if you put your Disney movies on Netflix
and then your kids are on netflix yes
you have to versus if you have like
Disney TV or whatever their app is
anything that the child searches and
bucks a month though and it's
exclusively Disney oh no attempt 1 22 10
pounds per month yeah I guess if that's
excessive just seems to me like we're
okay there they've just clued into
something that has been true for five
years for one thing and and now they're
jumping on it as if
they're creating a new platform it seems
like it's not needed yeah likely not
needed however I'm sure there are people
out there who are going to be right into
it yeah maybe yeah yeah I can't see
spending the money on it I wouldn't
personally but I don't have children
Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue
Service has become the uk's first force
to have access to drone support around
the clock this is cooled your own news
that is cool a team of trained operators
have permission to fly the unmanned
aircraft up to 400 feet or 102 meters
above the ground and 500 meters or 1640
feet away from the point where it's
being controlled the machine is already
equipped with a camera that can see in
the dark and will soon be fitted with a
zoom lens to extend its capabilities
other fire service have complained of
privately-owned drones hindering their
efforts but gmf our essence experience
suggests the technology can also prove a
boon to emergency responders the drone
is used to scout out locations and help
coordinate crews on the ground it
features an infrared camera which help
crews tackle blazes at night I love this
idea absolutely especially if you're in
a situation where it's not safe for fire
crews to enter a building but you want
to see where the hotspots are right and
stuck yes like you look at that image of
the infrared and think okay if that's
the view that we have I can see the hot
spots a lot better than somebody from
the ground yeah how cool is that or even
for emergency responders if there's a a
catastrophic car crash up alongside a
highway and you can't quite get to it in
time right does the drone will let you
know whether or not you need a medevac
yeah what's what's in and what's needed
exactly I like this a lot okay big
thanks this week too sparkly balls Roy w
Nash and our community of yours for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story you'd like to send email at to
newsroom at category 5 TV for all your
tech news with a slight Linux bias visit
the category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5
TV for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Sasha der made us thanks Sasha this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show triple w category five dot TV is
where you'll find us that is correct
check us out ready to carry on where we
carry on for the WordPress alright so
let's jump back into it folks we are
looking at a program a plugin for
WordPress called main WP tonight it
allows us to administer all of our
WordPress blogs all of our WordPress
sites from one individual dashboard
login this is some cool stuff folks so
let's check it out alright I'm over here
on my my child website we've discussed
that just a little earlier I'm going to
activate that main WP child process and
you'll see now if it's active and if I
jump back to my dashboard i'm going to
give this a site name this is my
friendly name that I want to use in
order to identify this i'm going to call
this gift for my case it would be demo
17 you might say this is sasha's blog or
this is whatever i want to call it and
that's going to make it easier for me to
to remember when i click on it what it
is demo duck cat five dot TV / 017 an
administrator user name is robbie and
groups you can create some groups if you
want and there we go i don't think we
really need any of the other stuff its
additional let's see what happens if i
add add new you have don't set up your
child processes it's going it's thinking
i think there we go done okay did it
take it yes it connected yeah and it
says there are some updates 8 available
will mention to them about the spelling
error but eight available updates so
that's pretty pretty darn good so it's
all set up watch this ok open WP admin
notice I'm on 0 25 remember yes ok see
then and there I am now connected to
that same panel which I have open here
which I can now close
I can run my updates that way if I want
it's cool because I can access it
without having to use a password but
let's go back to my sites and I can
actually administer everything from
within the dashboard without even having
to use the word perfect wordpress
WordPerfect a wordpress admin on that
website I can do things like run backups
if I've got that I can sink and go
through all the updates and anything
that I need to do so over here on the
left hand side you see the available
options go back to our dashboard is the
first thing that that we want to see
this shows us an ad of you glance of
everything that's going on you'll see
that for example right now we've got
eight upgrades that are available this
is on one website that we have active
within our main WP deployment we can
upgrade that website with just a single
click and that's all there is to it
that's excellent so we can add as many
websites as we like we can it's
unlimited i believe so I've never hit a
limit so I won't make that statement but
you can you can try it for yourself I
believe it is and well if you if you're
testing that you have too many children
so to speak yeah alright so that's main
WP check it out it's available for you
free and you saw how we did it today and
I'd encourage you to give it a try again
it's open source it's freely available
and because you deploy it on your own
server you are in control you're not
sharing that information with third
party services and having to worry about
how they collect and use your data it's
your own so that's pretty cool for an
administrative standpoint oh thanks for
showing that thanks everybody what do
you say we get into some little bit of
wires cast fun yeah this is pretty cool
isn't it now can can we show the viewers
what we actually look like right now do
you really want to know I'm gonna suck
it in how funny is that so all areas
okay so let's actually let's set up some
shots what do you say okay okay so let's
bring up where this is Wirecast
and you can see that we've got our shots
set up and I've got my wide shot down
here this is the one that we're using
primarily and you'll see that I've got
several layers set up so let's let's
take this shot here that is just us and
show you how Wirecast works with our
chroma key so we've got a green screen
behind us as you can see we are wearing
chroma key suits and what we've done is
we've just kind of warned the we're not
wearing the face just so that we are
floating heads sasha is is not as broad
shouldered as me so what we've done is
we draped a tablecloth which is a green
table cloth over her chair so that you
wouldn't see her chair I don't have that
problem because you can't see the chair
behind me so in her case we just threw
that on and it Keys just fine so here in
Wirecast this is Telestream Wirecast you
can get it from cat five dot TV /
Wirecast you highlight the chroma key
the camera this is the the camera and
this is a d 5100 nikon d 5100 you can
learn all about it on the show show
we're working on a series that is going
to teach you how to broadcast alive
using a mage well capture card and a d
5100 camera it gives pretty good picture
so here now I've highlighted that shot
and I can click on the little person in
the right hand side here and go use
chroma key and you see what happens ha
it deletes anything that's green but
everything else stays the same so then I
can move that shot around see how we do
that so i can bring Sasha Han I can move
that shot that's done by holding in my
Alt key and here for example I've got my
monitor in the screen in the screen so
what i can do is i can use the cropping
tool and i can bring that in on the left
so that it deletes the monitor and what
I'm actually doing there if I turn off
the chroma key you'll see it a little
bit better and it is nice to set up your
shots with chroma key off so that you
can see what's going on I'm just
bringing it in like that so then when I
key you don't see that monitor right
this is a shadow on my neck so I can
adjust my collar a little bit or you can
add more lighting as well for our uses
tonight
we're not too concerned about the the
keying right how perfect it is so to
speak so that's really all there is to
setting up a shot so let's look at the
breakdown Sasha of this crazy shot that
we've got set up for tonight's show and
then we've got notice what happens here
i'm going to show you on screen so
here's our main shot i can actually zoom
in on me just like that we can zoom over
to Sasha and then we can zoom out again
and there's a nice smooth transition as
if there's somebody operating a camera
now I've shown some demonstrations on
how that works in Wirecast but
essentially what we've done is taken a
shot with multiple layers you see that
I've taken a picture of our studio set
let's sorry i'll bring back up Wirecast
so that you can see this in this shot
before place in the green screen behind
us and that gives you the view of the
set sort of the illusion that the sets
right there yes so that is actually fake
as far as it's the same stuff that's
there but but it's virtual then we've
added a desk to give a nice kind of
futuristic looking desk which is just a
ping file and then I've got a stand
underneath of me that I've created from
just as a ping and then same thing with
Sasha and then we've got our two camera
shots now you notice now I've only got
one camera but I've created two camera
shots one for me one for Sasha and that
gives me the chance to move us around
individually even though we only have
one camera so I basically split the shot
so if i turn off chroma key on sashes
layer that's her lair and you can see
that my shoulder is in there right and
over here for my lair it looks like that
that's how I've cropped it so that's
cool so then also I can do other little
tricks like for example I can create a
new media layer here and add yet another
shot and let's take chroma key turn it
on on that shot and you'll see now there
are two of each of us and they move
simultaneously and that gives you a
little sense that you can see how it
works as far as
actually sinking multiple layers as if
they are several cameras so you see I
can move that around I can scale it move
it around like that hmm you know that's
gay they work as layers you can see now
you'll also notice in Telestream
Wirecast I'd love to show you this up at
the very top right you'll see up here
our CPU usage is only about thirty four
percent right now even though we're
doing a whole lot of chroma key live
we're doing a lot of stuff why is that
why is it chroma key takes less CPU it
doesn't it takes a lot of power but the
difference in this is all stuff we're
going to be covering on the show show so
if this is interest of interest to you
this is going to be a fun series for you
the show show dot TV it's another
broadcast that we have here at category
5 and it's just started up so there's
one episode so far and we're working on
a series on how to do this kind of thing
using DSLR what happens sashes we're
using a mage well capture card that's
hdmi input so you pay a fair penny for
the card compared to a cheap capture
device but because everything is on
board on the card it's very low CPU
usage it's hdmi input so you're not
using USB and running up your CPU and
you get exceptional quality so the card
we're using tonight is a fork a capture
card but we're using it at 1080p and
we're also going to be demonstrating a
card that gives you four 1080p hdmi
inputs on the show show cool it's very
cool so that reduces your CPU usage and
makes things happen so let's jump into
we've got time for a couple of real
quick questions okay is that cool yeah
can I ask a quick question yes please
can we change the background to be like
space do you want to do that yeah sure
is that way yeah let's let's really
quickly grab this scene here oh and
while you're doing that i will pick pull
up the question okay so here I've got my
face I'm gonna zoom out like that cuz we
can do a questions from space you know
what I'm going to do this is a nice
feature of wire cast I can delete that
shot I might lose audio for just a
second don't worry
bring it back okay
ok so now I'm back because I've
highlighted a shot with audio now I'm
going to right-click and I'm going to
duplicate a shot so now I've created a
duplicate of this so that it makes
things a little easier so this is the
background that we want to get rid of
that's the desk that we want to get rid
of so we can pull that we can highlight
our background shot and change that to
an animated background or we can go ad
picture which I like and let's go to the
folder where I have a couple of pictures
there we are and I save everything kind
of here so here's a picture of space so
I've just added that as an available
picture so there we go sony do that so
now we've got space scene in our
background ok and now let's get rid of
our stands right we're floating in space
now we're like a we're planets look
there's no I kind of look like one well
there's the moon ok so can I do your
questions from you want to do it from
space is that ok is that yeah that's how
quickly and we're doing this live folks
so now of course we're we're floating in
so now can I move anyway you can move
anywhere I don't have that's good yeah
it's nice to be able to God I will tell
you I've been sent notes very still the
whole hour ok so I have got a comment
from life of potty hey life of pi life
of pi says hello Robbie and friends I
would like to thank you for helping set
up gpio pins on a boon to mazing
everything is working great now and I
would also like to thank you for the
encouragement to use libre office for my
home school it's it's working great as
well thank you for all the help I'll
have to hear that is awesome thank you a
question from whiskey 0 hey whiskey 0
you know what it's not a quiet it's not
a question from girl it's a statement a
statement hey Robbie self tying shoes
arrived today what's that self tying
shoes arrived today right doesn't know
when I was referring to what girl
doesn't 0 so actually sent us a link and
let me let me bring that up here very
cool it actually kind of arrived and
then I think it was announced
on Twitter or something like that but
let's let's get a look here and i'll
post the links in the chat room as well
as the logs for the show episode number
423 tonight yes let's bring it up for
you this is taking us over to ABC News
nice and back to the future salvation
there it is marty mcfly AKA michael fox
so there's the shoes cool like it i'll
thank you i'll post the link for you so
that you can check that out all right
now after space um slow slow as a chego
slow from bermuda so nice i've been to
Bermuda yeah I have not however i'm in
space have you been here yeah we're in
space have you been in space have you
been in space oh and that wasn't that
right now how many years ago you would
be in Bermuda right cuz you would have
done your honeymoon right after your
wedding after our wedding and it was
your anniversary lakeline went in the
februari following yeah well we went in
the februari following our wedding so we
were married October 20th of 2001 and so
februari of 2002 okay we would have been
in Bermuda so cool okay so the question
from slow is what mapping software do
you use to show our viewers are watching
from around the globe hey slow okay go
to map dot cat five dot TV and you're
going to see our viewer location map
this is some pretty cool stuff because
it shows you where people are watching
category 5 TV from at this very moment
and it's pretty cool what software do we
use well it's obviously Google Maps at
the base and then we're using jQuery and
some mysql and some PHP in the back end
that I've created and what that does is
every time someone clicks to watch a
video it simply runs what's called
geolocation and it's not down to your
street address it's literally kind of
down to a lots down to your nodes so for
me it might show me as being in barrie
or maybe a city nearby but that's all
the information that
we gather is just the location and it's
completely anonymous so we place those
in a log mysql database and then the map
is generated in real time by placing
pins on a google map and that's done
using jquery so that's all custom code I
love that map I love every time we bring
it up it is pretty cool to see where
everybody's watching from and we
appreciate you guys and gals so very
much looking at the US the the coast
there is just saturated with category 5
viewers and we love you and appreciate
you tuning in and then going overseas
here check it out isn't that cool see
you there it's okay I hear somebody just
said go south there you go Uganda nice
to see him Zimbabwe South Africa we got
viewers all over the world even a
moderate bus this show is very much run
by you like your questions your comments
everything I mean and your donation yes
true we we do solicit your your
contributions if you get over to our
website and actually go over to donate
dot category 5 TV it's a fantastic way
to support the show and we really
appreciate that and we need it because
we got bills to pay and we hope that you
enjoy and take away from from the show
and the game under ableton we're hoping
a gym where you can we're hoping to buy
our bodies back I guess happy people are
buying toilet paper and shampoo on
amazon and that helps us to thank you
doing that you can find our amazon links
and links to other sites like eBay and
newegg and all that kind of stuff go to
our partners page on the website go to
the show show dot TV I'll promote that a
little bit more tonight and click on
partners and that
everyone who has partnered with us right
now in ways you can support us by
purchasing through them christmas is
coming this is on there you go hey
everybody have a fantastic week I have
no I feel like it need to zoom out with
no chroma oh there we go there we go
have a great week
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
area at category 5 TV and find out and
you can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
