welcome to the pixel shadow on mingle
70 this week you're going to learn
how to create your very own minecraft
skin which will then convert to mind
test format and add to this pixel shadow
mind test server stick around this is
going to be fun welcome to show my dad
who you probably know as Robbie F on
Montes
host a show called category 5 technology
TV last week he did a big feature on
mind test showing us how to use showing
how to use our server and I was his
special guest if you haven't seen it yet
or especially if you're curious about
this whole mind testing please check out
the show here big thanks to everyone who
has taken the time to like subscribe and
comment on my videos in YouTube it's
actually been tough to keep up I
appreciate all of the kind words from
people like jeremy games 317 mitchell
gentles or michael gentles
i'm tara raptor - andrey plox plays and
everyone else who has taken the time to
comment we're up to 121 subscribers as I
record this week's show and that's 121
people I appreciate if you haven't
subscribed yet please click this magical
button hey have you checked out the art
blog yet we have a great team of
bloggers like bloggers like Dee Kelly
810 and Nathan s-21 posting articles
about mind test or a show in our service
be sure to check out our blog today when
I'm at mine to start TV alright let's
get into it today we're going to learn
how to create our own skins here I have
the pixel shadow mind test TV website
where we are going to use our skin
converter link to go to the skin Dex and
create just a basic skin that will take
too long and and then upload it to our
server I have already created account so
you have to make sure that you've
created an account before you upload a
skin or it might not
up um so that way so that when the cook
sync comes you have to already have the
account
setup so I made sure of that and to get
to there we go to skins and then skin
converter and click on that and you will
be sent to this page and you will have
the link to the skin decks right here
and we will look at this later so the
skin decks so this is a very good
quality minecraft skin website where we
can convert the minecraft skins into the
mind test software so what we're going
to do is I'm going to show you what a
base does a base is a basic thing that
you can start off with your skin so with
these bases you have hair bases and skin
bases like here and stuff on there that
are really good so like if you if you
just kind of don't feel like you making
your own hair or you just want to create
your own skin but you kind of don't have
the time to do that then you can search
up for a base so all you have all you
can do is see the base and then the base
is are just the hair and then they just
this thought this body like sometimes
you can just get plain skin son so that
if you don't want to color in the skin
so I have edit I'm clicking on edit but
I'm not actually going to edit this but
you can create everything that you need
to do on the skin so now let's get back
to the page so that's what you can do at
the base but today I don't have the time
for that so I'm going to just search up
girls so we so the bases are really good
but also if you want to get a skin you
can just take it off of the website but
sometimes you kind of want to have your
own skin you don't want to steal it off
the website so you can just search up
what you want and then find a good skin
to edit so the account I've made is
called lunar moon so I'm going to search
up lunar so that it suits the skin
and we so I'm just going ok so here's
one called lunar Cove
so has a song has the moon on it and we
will click on edit so all I have to do
is if I don't if I kind of want my own
skin I can change the hair color change
the way the hair looks and maybe since
as years maybe I could add a tail to it
so but I'm just going to take this
straight off the website because I don't
really have the time to do that oh you
just click download to computer than
save file ok and then go back to the
mind on our website and then write your
username so lunar moon and then the file
input browse and we go to downloads and
I will get the skin that I need so now
it will put in the skin input then you
press submit and look the the skin that
I showed you guys is right here and then
you can go to skin gallery hopefully
this will work because it wasn't working
before and now it works so we have lunar
Moon right here and that is really good
good good way to get your skin and
within a few hours it um it happened
every 5 minutes but if there are players
online it won't happen because it'll
shut down the server and we don't want
that happening if there are other people
playing then that's just how it works so
within a day you you will definitely
have your skin up so now we are going to
head into mind test and check some stuff
that so I will close this get into mind
test and private lunar moon open because
I had to make the account of course and
I will login as mingle box underneath
and I need to make sure that this is on
the survival server and I will enter
this work there we go so here we have a
screenshot of a Minecraft hotel but the
even though this is very well built in
mind test we me and my friends have
created online test hotel which will be
which I'd really like to show off and
show off some of the other things that
have been built on the survival so I
left off over here so we'll quickly go
outside so that you guys can see what it
looks like and it is night time which is
a bit frustrating but you can oh it's
turning - no it's just turning tonight
so this is the hotel it's not the
biggest I'm hoping to expand this and
this is a village me and my friends have
created including Kendall chopped one
five two four new nanny ok and Gary
white has helped build this um and we
are so yes so over here we have some
houses some houses from Kendall this is
one of Kendall's houses which we are
officially selling
I don't know what these guys are selling
it for the before but like if you
haven't got much material you can just
we're making sure that it's really cheap
because we don't really want to be
ripping you guys off because that'd be a
baby but this is a house that I believe
Todd's made so let's go chuckles from
these houses here's another thought this
made it has some a farm and furnace box
if a table top stood a really good job
at this and that I have I have made this
house which has a farm on the roof and
inside has a bed which I'm not all right
guys accidentally slept in it just
excuse me and furnace and people are
saying hi and there's this is the
enemy's uk's apartment which he has not
completed sure she'll do a good job on
this we have another home from Kendall
which is really well built and there is
another boy that scare me I'm going to
start you off with my pickaxe
so those monster Spotify and this is
another one with Kendall's home and the
last a minion that I've created it has
another chat furnace and chest chest and
a bed and let's go back to the hotel and
I'll show off what the room is like so
first of all we have this pool which is
really nice nice little pull a kind of
thing and I need to get a door right
here which made me I'll do for further
on in the video once I've showed
everything and this is just the this is
the lobby created really nice slides
with trap doors and mez mez lamps and
look I created elevators so now I can go
into room wine room to room three room
for room five end of room one wait hold
on and here's a bed which is part of his
room there's a TV a furnace that should
have more cool in it but I'm I suppose
that he might have used it he got some
locked chest and he's got quite a few
stuff so
and a table and a chair so pretty much
all of the rooms are like this
so we I'm selling selling these homes
for just whatever you offer except
because um whatever you have you can
offer one of these rooms isn't complete
I'm not sure if it's this room it might
been in room five oh they're all compute
complete so let's go check off some more
so this server has been really active
lately we've got this ginormous pickaxe
let's go check this out get out of fast
mode here to get inside and I need to
get out of range view so up here um I
just I think I might have to have a spy
mode on so this is really well done lots
of wool which I'm not quite sure how you
got this but this is a very good job you
did a very good job
tea Smith and yeah so we've got kind of
things like this people are very
talented and people are asking if I'm
recorded yes I am and we find some more
stuff I am laying over here we have this
nice little bit of land we've got lots
of stuff going on around here let me get
out of this mode got my farm and also W
Stieg I found a glitch which allowed you
to fool objects Robby I've had to turn
it off but not before I did a little bit
of cloning
but um I closed some nine cats don't
blame me I didn't know was a glitch um
and yeah so I created this on this room
here which just has some storage some of
my stuff and that's really all I did
with the glitch sudden I didn't really
know that it was a good because it was
kind of expensive to make but so that's
disabled now and let's go find some more
this is groovy dudes weird multicolored
home which has nothing at all in it
because he's gotten a new home now this
is Gary White's home which yet let
doesn't look like he's completed he's
got some chests and furnace and couch in
bed and he's also got another chest
balloon which you can trade to make food
right or not food holding and I also
were um renting this house out to people
for for three months so gaming with
blows and has rented this place but some
stuff in these chests that I gave it so
I am doing things like this so I really
fancy and some are just casual and hello
movie fellow Mongol forces also dentist
has begun on a mansion he hasn't
completed he yet so he did a good job on
that and there's this giant like and
we're trying to me and Gary right or
trying to remove all this ice because
it's a bit annoying so try and find some
more stuff to show us I know that there
are there's a lot more in this world
because so many people have been playing
there is this nice little place this is
a village that talks about 5004 enkindle
and some other people have been
computing on and yes so this is survival
world so far and also I updated my skin
I changed the way that my boat looks so
I'll just quickly get off my armor so
that you guys can see no I need to take
off these bits and look I have new hair
bows and my bow is much better than it
was before so yes so I'll get my armor
back on and yeah so I updated my skin
fix the bow cuz the bow I admit was a
little bit ugly then this is tot song
look at me now I wonder what's in here
cool so this is tot tone don't think I
should be trespassing and since I'm
recording people are following me not as
much as before not very many people
online today but so yeah so this is some
of Nanna me - I don't think so
somebody's village it seems this is
Julie's house so this is a nice home and
then there is Carolyn's home oh yeah so
it looks like people forming their own
villages and this is why fairy she has a
couple chests just that don't have
anything in them and also there is this
thing looks like the beginning of some
sort of mansion kind of thing and yeah
so here is a bit this is gaming with
Bolton's house I believe giving
thousands house yeah so also there's
kendos home I think this is Kendall's
home so yes so there's lots of stuff
being going on and also I have my shop
going on here and let's try and find
some more also there
this marketplace over here so lots of
shops there is an exchange shop on the
road interesting
so there's food shop owned by Nathan s21
then there's the jazz shop owned by
James and there is also taught shop
which isn't very big yet but I'm sure
that shoulders and I'll expand it and
yes so that's the marketplace area then
there is this amazing home it is owned
by Marty no no Mart no um and I don't
think that there's any way for me to get
in yes so it's not quite completed it
doesn't look like but he did a very good
job on that
let me munch um some bread this is part
of the village people are doing lots of
stuff there's this possible by Tots
which is pretty cool not quite sure what
it is but she did a good job there are
some teleporters around here what's been
going on this is a home I sold because
it was a bit ugly and also I have my
home I have a mailbox which I don't know
if there's any minute open up don't let
me in my mailbox
oh I'm frozen i frozen look at my
character I'm not moving my frozen yes
so let's go back to my mailbox so you
craft I don't I forget how to craft a
mailbox but you can just give people
stuff
and then Gary white is welcoming back
because I got timed out which was
annoying always seem to get timed out in
the video we're never good timed out
when I'm playing by myself which is
quite annoying and there is random items
my chest this chest so that's pretty
much all of my house maybe I could go
back to the hotel place so you guys can
rent these places and my hotel is
looking good so pool and everything
let's go into the water and yes so um so
yes so let's go outside and look you can
see the houses the rooms of this place
and um if you like what you see then
please subscribe like to our Channel and
just comment on our videos give us any
suggestions for videos because today I
obviously didn't really know what I was
doing because I don't have very many
ideas today so try and give me some
ideas on my next video and I will see
you guys in the next one bye
