welcome to new every day so glad you're
here we are continuing our seven part
series the seven rules of the holy
spirit by JB Grady it's a devotional and
the YouVersion Bible app don't want to
miss today's episode we're talking about
the role of the Holy Spirit as our
intercessor stick around this is you
every day with Jeff Weston cruise
[Music]
welcome to new everyday so glad to have
you back with us we are continuing our
seven part series on the seven roles of
the holy spirit by JD Grady found on the
YouVersion Bible app it's one of the
devotionals and so we're working through
that
I'm Jeff Weston Aya's Lawrence Lawrence
Cruz is also known as tenet well we
could say Vanna White but not really
okay you're not milk sorry I'll just
hold up your project as you're bringing
us in here today oh it's bad all right
so it's been another week we are now on
episode or not episode five but we're
part five of the seven part series lots
of great traction on the last four
episodes just kind of been ramping it up
with the roles of the Holy Spirit and a
couple of weeks ago really good one Holy
Spirit is our guide
yeah a lot of good reactions to that one
and so if you've been enjoying this
series please let us know you can catch
us on Facebook you can comment on our
page you can also check us out on our
website new every day TV we want to hear
from you we want to know what do you
like about the the topic is there topic
you would like to see how has this show
impacted your life and maybe it's not
just season four with us
maybe it was previous seasons with
Carrie and Jack oh definitely
yeah you know not for a while yeah for
quite some time now and well we know
that many of you have been watching for
a long time so we're just happy to hear
from you we love doing this and thank
you for those who are watching we just
want to keep on serving the Lord serving
you and we just can't wait to hear from
you and keep the comments coming we're
very thankful for it
absolutely okay so our topic today is
what it is right here it is and is the
Holy Spirit is our intercessor okay oh
my goodness that's a big word and is and
one that probably not everybody is aware
of so on the end
so the big question I think to start
this off is what is an intercessor yeah
and I mean look having grown up in the
church I know the intercessor is the
person who is you know kind of on their
knees or maybe flat out on their face
praying to God on behalf of somebody or
an issue interesting yeah and that's
what I know the intercessor to be yeah
you know what I think when I answer the
question what is an intercessor I'm
thinking back to people as well
they were the heavy-duty prayed earth
right and they were the ones they had
muscle they were practicing like if I
had a need and wanted someone to pray
for me I'd go to the intercessors yes
they were the pray earth the people who
called on God they knew his voice and I
think this was true is God knows their
voice oh for sure there was this regular
relationship between God and His people
in prayer and Pete those people were
called in at least in my church
intercessors and so they were the people
who prayed we called on God and they saw
great results - oh for sure yeah I've
also heard them referred to as the
prayer warriors there you go you know
like when I think of the various roles
that we can play within the body of
Christ and within the church you know
you've got some people who are good at
doing stuff yeah once it pick up the
hammer yeah I'll start banging away on
whatever repairs need to be done
you got others who've got their hands in
the administration stuff and then
there's your right there's a group of
people that you just it's like I need
prayer for this and I'm gonna go to them
and it's not that their prayers or
anything special or they're in a higher
plane but just some people have that
gifting that you know connection where
there just seems to be some life that
there's results in those prayers well
you know I think it's like a hockey
player - like some people as we know
they're born with an aptitude right yeah
to play sports we're talking hockey oh
yeah take
hey we're here in the great white north
is your igloo where he did there Jeff
yeah and so you've got a guy like Sidney
Crosby okay happens to be Canadian
hey and so the guys got an opportune no
doubt that's god-given but he works at
so he practices he he perfects his skill
I think it's the same with intercessors
sure you know like I mean there's this
calling anybody can do it
so you know it's not like you're born
you know some to pray and some not but
there's just you know it's these people
who are there they know God and they're
ready to meet him God does have that
calling on their life to pray but they
they heed the calling they spend time to
develop the calling well that's what we
would call the intercessor that's a
couple of you know guys on the street
talking what is intercessor mean to you
right yes you know interestingly enough
my wife is an intercessor and one of the
things I've noticed about her is she
just seemed to have this connection with
what's going on in the spiritual realm
and so you know months ago we had the
Waltons on yeah and she regularly
connects with the Waltons and quite
often she'll wake up in the middle of
the night I feel like I need to pray
about this issue I don't know what's
going on but I'm praying into that and
and and God will wake her up in the
middle of night and then she'll message
them and because they're over in Africa
they're awake they're having their you
know fruit loops whatever for breakfast
right and they're like oh my goodness
yeah like this is taking place and I
find what intercessors so often they
just they get that that nudge from the
Holy Spirit like praying into that one
issue hello yeah it's the truth you know
I actually read some correspondence
today about a lady whose primary role is
to do exactly what you just said she
prays for the missionary Jeff that are
associated with an entire denomination
Wow
and she feels that God has put it on her
heart to lay these names out and gets to
know them as best she can she obviously
can't know
everyone personally it's a lot of people
but she prays for each one and then
there's times where she doesn't think it
now she knows cuz like that hockey
player that football player or that
musician this intercessor this prayer
warrior princess like she has she flexes
her muscles she's got time in the gym on
her knees if you will and she practices
this skill and says God I know you're
calling me and and that the
correspondence I read today was about
these 80 year old missionaries who got
pulled over by bandit so okay I mean my
goodness they were in an African country
I believe it was Africa peroxy I'll have
to check that I just want to make sure
that when they were they were yeah they
weren't in North America and I'll tell
you what it was just amazing how they
just they could they were 80 and and
startled and called it to God and they
just kept on saying actually was
Mozambique because they were in speaking
in Portuguese okay they were praying in
the name of Jesus in the name of Jesus
in the name of Jesus and the one guy
reached in oh one guy had a five inch
knife they said oh great close to the
face of one of the missionaries give me
your keys give me your keys and of
course they just said in the name of
Jesus you know back away don't touch us
well he reaches in gets the keys well
while they were leaving the blade
removed there was two of them they kept
on praying in the name of Jesus and they
they actually brought the keys back and
washed them into the car know incredible
story man yeah so the power of prayer
these elderly folks doing warfare but
not against flesh and blood right not
against people but just against the the
spirit at work to bring harm right right
anyway no harm no foul everything
returned and the lady here in in Canada
who regularly prays for intercessors is
like
can I get in contact with you I was
moved beyond the normal to pray for you
specifically at this time is everything
okay and of course they're going are you
kidding me you have no idea now that's
what we're talking about here friends
the intercessor how cool is that okay so
we've talked about like people as
intercessors but our topic is the Holy
Spirit is our intercessor right so we've
got a good grasp on one of the
intercessor isn't what they do how does
that play into the Holy Spirit because
at the end of the day the Holy Spirit is
part of the Trinity the Holy Spirit is
God yeah
so help me wrap my head around this okay
this is very cool so yes God the Bible
says I love how Billy Graham said that
so often in his sermons and I admire him
so much for that can we also say the
Bible says that's the only authority
we've got right right it's the Bible
says that God Himself is an intercessor
okay so now I'm hey it's in the Bible we
get we better find out what it means
well
I read from the devotional the author
says the Holy Spirit is our intercessor
and this is one of the greatest miracles
of grace okay and then he goes on the
Apostle Paul tells us that the Holy
Spirit who lives inside us thank God he
does the Bible said pause don't you know
Jeff don't you know Lawrence that you
are a temple of the Holy Ghost right
okay so this God who were talking about
in all these roles
well should we add one mr. Creedy he
he's what he's the role of resident in
the hearts of his people thank God so
this is the this is the person we're
talking about the Holy Spirit the Bible
says he lives inside us and Romans 8:26
says the Holy Spirit who lives inside us
intercedes for us check this out with
groanings that are too deep for words
incredible
a lot of depth to that I guess there is
man but if we yeah deep is the word
right yeah so Jeff maybe it was
something like the first time you laid
eyes on your wife I don't know but was
there ever a time where you just didn't
know what to say the first time I laid
eyes my wife I was working I was the DJ
at a radio station she came by as a
listener to win a prize and so I had
that like cocky persona going on so I
was full of words oh oh I see outside
that role and the first time we
interacted outside of my paycheck you
got nothing like just nothing was coming
out because I was so smitten with her
yeah well yeah I mean I'm sure we can
all relate to that time or maybe not
maybe there's some of you'd say nope
that's never my problem in fact when I
get in a pinch I start talking more who
knows but the gist maybe you know
there's been some of us who have faced
that situation
I just don't know what to say and we can
laugh and make a joke maybe it's because
you know we got something you know in
our heart you know for that special
someone
but maybe it's when something so you
know weighty happens to us yes where
it's like oh my goodness I can't believe
this happened
a tragedy struck or a relationship broke
or something with your children or how
long is the list of things we could say
and then we just get to that point where
we say and words can't describe what I'm
feeling maybe maybe it's because we
don't even know how we're feeling I
relate to that yeah you know I'm glad I
got married my wife has helped me out
you know I do have feelings like it's
incredible do you know what I'm saying
that's
so then in those elements it's just you
know the Holy Spirit is gone
Wow the same deal like just with those
girls because sometimes there is no
words because of what you're going
through is just a not describable
situation yeah have you been there
friend have you found yourself at a
place where you're up against the wall
so to speak and you don't know what to
say
well we don't want you to go away we'd
like you to come back because and the
rest of the show we want to share with
you some great news about your God our
God and the role that he plays in our
lives as intercessor stick around for
more from new every day for a limited
time get your hands on limited edition
shirts from the category 5 TV network
these high quality shirts are
manufactured by teespring a fundraising
website and your purchase will help
support the shows we produce get yours
today and send us your pictures to be
featured on the corresponding show visit
cap 5 dot TV slash shirts to support us
and get your official Network shirt
today cat5 dot TV slash shirts
hey friends we're back Jenna we are
having another amazing show I'm loving
talking about our God thanks for coming
back friends we're talking today about
the Holy Spirit the roles he plays in
our lives and today our topic is the
Holy Spirit is our intercessor yes we're
talking about being stymied not able to
speak don't know what to say and then
you had mentioned that's the Holy Spirit
well he prays for us with groans he's
never caught for words though right it's
true that's true
so I think there's this difference Jeff
like where maybe I don't know what to
say but that's not the case with our God
that's true and if you think back to two
episodes ago where we talked about the
Holy Spirit is our guide because he
knows it all
yeah and so in those moments when we
can't put words in the situation well we
don't know what to pray or maybe it's
just simply God I just I need your help
I don't know what I need but I need your
help the Holy Spirit's seen it all he
knows it all he's that a great guy so it
makes sense that he knows exactly what
we need in that moment yeah how
incredible Jeff that's bears repeating
he knows everything he knows the
situation that we're facing that you me
that every one of us is face of friends
I can't help but smile at it because I
know where I'm going and not only does
he just know he cares and the Bible says
it's Romans 8:26 get out have a look
encourage your heart that God Himself
who knows everything that's going on
prays for us you and it's so via so
here's the difference for me so I get to
the play I don't even know what to pray
have you been there or maybe never mind
the situation we joke we don't know what
to say in that light moment or something
tragic I just don't know what to say and
then much less pray like god I don't
even know how to bring this before you
I'm just so Devin
stated well when I don't know what to
pray it's where I can rely on this
amazing truth God our guide God our
intercessor who knows everything he's
never without knowing exactly what to
pray there's so much hoping that oh my
goodness that's fantastic news
in fact Jeff there's somebody here
maybe you're you're here and God has
brought you to watch this show on
purpose because you're that person who
says I don't even know what to say
you're sitting there you're watching you
you love the Lord you want to reach out
to him but you're numb because you don't
know what to say
can we bless you today in Jesus name we
bless you and say peace to you you don't
even have to know what to say but lean
into God and just say God if there's
something to say I'm here would you pray
for me
on the authority of God's Word you can
agree and even even ask him to pray for
you and the Bible says that he will pray
he'll intercede for you with groanings
that are too deep for word that's all
that's like that power lifter in the gym
right yes he knows what he's talking
about well of course I had said it we
were joking off-camera before that this
show started it's like am I getting this
right
God is praying to God how many of you
know that God is gonna answer God's
prayer right what am I saying we're
talking about the Trinity the third
person of the Trinity praying to the
Father he oh what a beautiful mystery
but a beautiful truth and we don't think
it friends we know that we know that he
who knows us inside out upside down and
backwards he knows exactly what to pray
and like this lady he knows when to pray
yes oh my goodness what an encouraging
word that is so good you know I know the
time is running out we've only got a few
minutes left but like I could just start
going off on so many different tangents
with this because of just how deep this
conversation is the topic is and I mean
you know what I think about it you know
the way that I'm kind of wrapping my
head around it you know God sent Jesus
to bridge that gap because of sin that
had separated us from from God and then
Jesus says I'm leaving the Holy Spirit
to be your guide and when you think
about the life of Jesus for those three
years of his ministry everybody came to
him for everything they needed they
wanted advice they wanted to challenge
him they wanted to be healed they were
on now wanted it all and Jesus goes hey
look my times done but I'm sending
somebody who's never gonna walk away
he's always there to help you and so
that's the Holy Spirit and then for us
to put that mentality on to go if Jesus
was here when we run to him for
everything and if we could do the same
with the Holy Spirit you know all you
knew exactly what's going on you know
what's coming up I just don't I don't
have words I don't know where I'm going
and I like and the Holy Spirit's going
I've got this mm-hmm watch what I can do
with this amazingly so good that's a
great word because you know it if we
knew that Jesus was over there yeah we'd
be hanging out there absolutely be
turned in that camera right excuse me
Jesus we had a show to do new every day
and you know what he'd come on he would
come on the show I just have a job yeah
and you know and so he great great truth
man way to go like way to highlight that
and so Jesus himself says look I'm going
to the Father yeah but don't let your
hearts be troubled hey don't worry
like he'll wait the promised Holy Spirit
is gonna come right and then we know as
we were saying he's he's not outside us
he's living within us and so I love what
you said if Jesus is here we'd go to him
well the Holy Spirit is here and so
friend we encourage you tonight go to
him and I can imagine you eating meat
you're saying I don't what will I say
nothing
you don't have to say anything
God knows our hearts but go to him
maybe I remember many times as a
teenager even when I would literally
just go on my my knees at my bedside and
I would just kneel and I would just be
still and quiet and you know there were
times it was a many minutes where it
just seemed like all of the noise going
on in my head it took a long time there
were times I fell asleep and then I used
to think maybe God was mad at me and I
thought well no you know these are the
things I got to grow through and I
realize no are you can you imagine how
if your kids came and just wanted to
wait and you know cuz you were late
coming home you wouldn't be upset that
they're not awake No
Oh how He loves us and you're there and
go to him maybe you just find your
favorite place a place you're familiar
with already to pray or or maybe you
don't do it at all but you want to start
just quiet yourself and say God I'm here
Here I am I tell you we tell you on the
authority of God's Word that is you wait
on him as you call on him he will answer
you and he will meet your deepest needs
even when you don't know where to start
he who knows everything will pray you
through with word be with groanings
beyond words as he talks to the Heavenly
Father on your behalf oh what a great
word of encouragement that is deaf for
sure you know what and that's a moment
when you spot just to kind of wrap it
all up I mean we're out of time anyway
but there's nothing more to say you just
have to
so occurring well friends thanks so much
for joining us here on new every day we
bless you and the holy spirits praying
for you and so our week god bless you
have a great week
catch a new episode of new everyday
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku Kodi Plex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
