hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie my name is jen and they
show we're going to talk about
is
[Music]
and
hi everyone thanks so much for tuning
back into new everyday so glad that you
have and Jenna my we're just sitting
here talking and realize that fix is the
beginning of season 3 I know in our
third year together and when we stop and
think about Allie in the last three
years two years we have built in cows
for now yeah take we have sex on the
road yeah filmed in Kentucky carry ons
and NZ yep we have done a road trip 6
and 16 or we did six mile and a half in
16 hours I did not anyways we filmed
them with our good friends James and
shelly is Michelle chat powder friend
gene on the show your dad's been on the
shrink and josh has been on the show and
it's just been so cool think back over
the last two years the places where we
have been yeah together and we soon as
you've joined us on our adventure and so
we thought if we would start off this
new season we're just going to review
you know how this whole thing started
mmm this time it was a simple passage in
the middle of the Old Testament like
literally if you were to open up your
Bible you know and it normally open
Psalms and a little bit to the right in
lamentations of a little book it goes
like this in chapter 3 this is the
Prophet Jeremiah who is lamenting hence
the name the book it says I remember my
affliction and my wandering the
bitterness and the goal I will remember
them and my soul is downcast within me
yet this I call to mind into full and
therefore I have hope because of the
Lord's great love we are not consumed or
his compassion
never-fail they are new every morning
great existed I saved myself the Lord's
my portions therefore I will wait for
camp and chose the bait fish show on
this passage because of the whole
English is not words that we see the
fact that the Lord faithfulness is new
every day yeah like it's just every day
there's something new about what the
word is doing and we want to really
focus in on that word news because it is
a new season and people look forward to
new things Oh completely like I think
part of receiving a gift is is the
newness of it you know it's so much
different than getting a hand-me-down
which I also really enjoy yeah but to
get something new and fresh like it just
it's full of hope yeah yeah and you know
what originally when we sat down to talk
about doing this show we thought well
what do we have to offer people were
pretty normal pretty little pretty it's
all relative really relative that is
true because we just did a song right I
said okay Jen have you seen my glasses I
have nothing it went on and on I found
my glasses and I put them on I said a
whole new world in so many ways it went
on and on the month anyways you're
getting you're getting singing in season
three this might not be setting a
precedent but anyways and oh yes we're
pretty normal for wool and we wanted to
say well what can two normal people who
have experienced the love of God offer
to others who are watching her from
different walks of life from different
countries even and really it is the hope
of God that no matter where you've come
from what you've done what you've
experienced
we all have this in common when we come
to God that we're offered this fresh
start yes and that it never gets old
yeah and so wherever we go and that's
one of the reasons I we take you on the
road with us and so these random
conversations that can just get started
is that God is present wherever we go
it's he's not just present in our living
room you're not just present wherever
you're watching he's present wherever we
go he is actively listening actively
participating involved in everything
that we do and so when we talk about
what can we share well we can only share
with you are our lives this Christ
because Christ is the foundation out of
which we live and so when you hear the
conversation that really is just two
people living life with Jesus and him
involved in every single aspect of our
lives believing that this passage really
is true that no matter what happens the
good the bad and the ugly that when you
remember that we also remember his
faithfulness the noon every day his
faithfulness his mercies are new every
day every day the fresh start and so
today we thought we would talk to you
about a woman who had fresh start yeah
and so we're going to take you over to
mark chapter 95 yeah I her chapter five
it's also in Matthew 9 right there we go
right there boom don't really because I
do okay so here we go this is a mark 5
starting at verse 21 Jesus got into the
boat again and went back to the other
side of the lake where a large crowd
gathered around him on the shore then a
leader of the local synagogue whose name
was Jairus arrived when he saw Jesus he
fell at his feet pleading fervently with
him my little daughter is dying he said
please come and lay your hands on her
heal her so she can live Jesus went with
him and all the people followed crowding
around him a woman in the crowd had
suffered for 12 years with conscience
leading she had suffered a great deal
for many doctors and for were the years
she'd spent everything she had to pay
them but she had gotten no better in
fact she had gotten worse she had heard
about Jesus so she came up behind him
through the crowd and touched his robe
for she thought to herself if I can just
touch his role I will be healed
immediately the bleeding stopped and she
could feel in her body that she had been
healed of her terrible condition Jesus
realized at once that healing power had
gone out from him so he turned around in
the crowd and asked who touched my role
his disciples said to him look at this
crowd pressing around you how can you
ask who touched me but he kept on
looking around to see who had done it
then the frightened woman trembling at
the realization of what had happened to
her game and fell at her knees in front
of him and told him what she'd done and
he said to her daughter your faith has
made you well go in peace your suffering
is over while he was still speaking to
her messengers arrived from the home of
Jairus the leader of the synagogue they
told him your daughter is dead there's
no use troubling the teacher now but
Jesus overheard them and said to jerez
don't be afraid just have faith then
Jesus stopped the crowd and wouldn't let
anyone go with him except Peter James
and John the brother of James when they
came to the home synagogue leader Jesus
sauce much commotion and weeping and
wailing he went inside a nest while his
commotion and we think the child isn't
dead she's only asleep the crowd laughed
at him but he made them all leave and he
took the girl's father and mother and
his three disciples
into the room where the girl was lying
holding your hand he said to her talissa
combe which means little girl get up and
the girl who was 12 years old
immediately stood up and walked around
they were overwhelmed and totally amazed
Jesus gave them strict orders not to
tell anyone what had happened and then
he told them to give her something to
eat so many things so many new
beginnings in that story there's the
fresh start for the woman embedded in
this story of what seemed like could
have been a story of no hope at all
because the death of the daughter yes
but then she literally physically and
figuratively receives new life yes and
so as we those commercial break what we
want you to think about is not only was
this woman given you life but what other
new things happened in this passage
we'll be back right after this word Jeff
Weston gemma you're building a brand new
beautiful website what are you like
you're terrible actor what does we're
acting comes into play I don't know
where Arctic you're supposed to act okay
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account if you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the
so your own calm dice to put that
amazing website that you've been working
on on there if you run if you want to
build a wordpress site fine sign up cat
five gb flash dreamhost still
competitive papers on just don't do it
but hey it's a great deal folks best
deal you're going to find five dollars
and change per month go to cat five dot
TV / dreamhost hi everyone and welcome
back just wanted to thank you for tuning
in and if you want to go to our website
new everyday TV even go to our partners
paint and see all the amazing
organizations and companies who are
helping make this show possible also
want to say thank you to Robbie Ferguson
and his team at category 5 TV for
editing and producing this show so
thanks so much so Jen we're jumping
right back into mark chapter 5 where the
woman has been experiencing bleeding for
12 years and Jesus miraculously he loved
her when she reaches out in space and
touch at the end of this road yes so she
is made new because in that in that time
if a woman was bleeding then she was
ostracized so considered unclean so she
couldn't go she can go in the temple she
had to be separate from her family Rio
thing so that was their social and
emotional seesaw segregation there and
so when jesus healed her he not only
held her physically but socially
restored her as well so you asked a good
question before break what was it well I
asked you know what else is new in this
class 2 million that this woman has been
transformed
like that's right and everything was
taken away from cape and ostracize
segregated physically police people near
her optical is emerging that she was
experienced and full not only was she
that physically ever dated emotionally
could not have relationships with people
right because she was I'm unclean and
people did not want to become unclean
themselves Edwin later they're pushing
the material hi Frank like my soul mom
and so when Jesus touch or when when she
touched the happiness she was given new
life hmm and when Darius retired
daughter was raised that he also was
given new life and what's interesting is
that this is the first passage in mark
where someone has been brought back from
the dead interesting so Jesus hadn't
been portrayed as as someone who can
raise the dead yet yes so it's not so
this is a new miracle I'd only this may
right yes and no for those people that
were watching they might be thinking who
is this mammoth even raising people from
the back you want a little bit a new
miracle it was a new way of thinking and
sometimes what we'll start a new season
in someone's life is a new way of
thinking like an example was the one
accept Christ as Savior now comes and he
changes the way they think during a
whole new way of life so altered because
they're thinking has changed and they
have encountered Christ also it's like
that they extend love in there because
they start thinking I need to log this
person because Christ tells me to love
this person I need to forgive this
person so surprised tells me to forgive
this person which might be totally
something that they didn't think of
before like I think a friend of mine
when he became a Christian
and suddenly he didn't want to engage
with his other friends who were talking
badly about women and badly but their
wives and their marriages it suddenly
didn't seem quite right and they're
thinking was that's not right it's not
what I want to talk about and also in
line at the grocery store looking at the
magazines and how they portray women and
you know not wearing a whole lot is
right and his mind change was before it
didn't even bother him yeah so there's a
there was an actual regeneration yeah
and I'm making new and i love that that
passage in Corinthians whereas a gin
second Corinthians 570 let's just read
that so in the NIV it says therefore if
anyone is in Christ he is a new creation
the old has gone and the new has come
and a new creation isn't just physically
they're great mentally new it's
spiritually me and that's why I love
this passage about the woman and jars
daughter because so much is being made
new there's so much newness that is
happening in that passage right so the
one with the issue of blood has now been
given isn't a new season because she can
have relationship with people again hmm
yeah Jared irises and his wife have a
new season because they have been given
back their daughter from daughter and so
she has they are in this brand-new
season of wow what was lost what was dad
is now made alive again and this new way
of thinking of all of the Messiah who is
he that he is able
people back to life that he is able to
heal a woman who has been bleeding for
12 years and and we asked this question
as we read this passage because it comes
up twice is this poppy able to number 12
Frank has she's been bleeding for 12
years and irises daughter was 12 years
old when she died yes and so as we did a
little bit of research realized this 12
is the number of completion but it also
represents God's Authority and power and
as I got thinking about that this
passage in particular because it uses
the number 12 is symbolic of the power
of Jesus hmm to change any area of our
life and make it new so that we truly
put our faith in Jesus Christ therefore
there I love that therefore if anyone is
in Christ the new creation has come the
old the old way of thinking we'd all be
living in some way of being the
segregation the death is gone yeah and
like you said we even get a new way of
not only doing circumstances but viewing
people yeah too right and i and i like
this version and this is the NLT the new
living translation translation of 2nd
corinthians 5 16 to 17 and it says so we
have stopped evaluating others from a
human point of view nice yeah and it so
comes so naturally to view people from a
human point of view or a non regenerated
way of thinking that when the newness
comes in it can be shocking or I even
caught myself where you know talking
about a situation or an encounter with a
person and in particular like my dad
will give a different perspective say oh
you know what well I bet that that
person experienced a B and C in the
morning and that's why they reacted that
way it's not because they are you know
something and
is like a breath of fresh air it's new
so this goes on to say so we have
stopped evaluating others from a human
point of view at one time we thought of
Christ merely from a human point of view
how differently we know him now this
means that anyone who belongs to Christ
has become a new person the old life is
gone a new life has begun and Jen will
we'll talk about a little bit this a
little we'll talk about this a little
bit in the next show but sometimes when
we're waiting for that new beginning
that's when we really need to have this
new way of thinking and a new way of
evaluating Christ that doesn't come from
a human perspective and so with that
we're going to run a pause we're going
to do a cliffhanger again and we
encourage you to be thinking about you
need a new decision hmmm are you in a
new season what what needs to be made
new in your life is it a new way of
thinking gee need to be physically
making or socially new but the thing is
based on the passage that we read from
lamentations his mercies are new every
morning there's this idea of newness
when we follow Christ and so we
encourage you today to know that Jesus
is able to make all things new and what
I go to areas in your life where you
need him to make something salter
Heavenly Father we thank you so much
that you through the power of your son
Jesus is death on the cross can make all
things man and so lord would you reveal
to our viewers will reveal to carry
myself with areas in our lives that they
need a special touch from you today or
there's some old way of thinking some
old way of being
and you want to make it real and you're
able to make it immune and so father we
thank you for the presence of your Holy
Spirit in your life in our lives who
dies of reveals as encouraging last
comfort zone and help us that focus on
you to restore and we're getting all in
and we all areas freighters and my
images to impossible sphere comment well
thank you for joining us for the new
start of season three and we hope
they're going to tune in next week same
time same place I could see where we
pick off pick on oh ah maybe I'll learn
how to sleep new gen what is your boss
Ian I'm going to pick off my cup right
here here we go
you
