we want to kind of get into the under
the hood of understanding what the
blockchain is it's so mind-bendingly
difficult to get our heads around and
I'm right there with you so tonight
we're going to be speaking with Robert
Koenig who is the global monetary expert
and founder and CEO for centavo Robert
it's so good to have you here thanks for
being here thank you very much the honor
is mine
Cheers great being here and we wanted to
have you on the show because there's
this thing that's been happening in the
financial sector over the past few years
that for us laypeople is kind of hard to
get our minds around it's hard to
understand to grasp the concepts and
we're really looking forward to just
having this discussion with you to learn
about things like cryptocurrency and the
blockchain can you just tell us a little
bit about what it is that you do yes I
know two years working in this industry
the cryptocurrency industry and it's
like everybody else got hooked up on it
through the press at that time I don't
know if it was mount Cox or the big
scandal with the drugs that was going
through the press but at least that got
me interested in blockchain technology
and since then I'm totally hooked so
it's a great technology it's something
new and it's its future I mean it's
definitely future so that's what I'm
doing for now over two years I'm a
consultant in this business and I'm
coming more from the application side so
I'm not a technical person is such I I
know my way around that a little bit but
the strength is clearly on the
application side and that's great
because I think that in the industry
there is there are a lot of very
technical individuals and the folks that
are explaining blockchain and explaining
how things work to the media are very
technically minded and nr and so the the
focus seems to be on the technology and
in such
way that it's it's really tough to get
our heads around Robert to be honest
with you so you speak of the blonde not
only you yeah
you speak of the blockchain and right
now that's a buzzword it's something
that is we're hearing it all the time
but not a lot of us have our heads
around what the blockchain actually is
can you shed some light on that just
knowing that hey we don't want that
technical explanation we want to kind of
understand from a lay person's
perspective what the blockchain
represents yes it's it's it's nothing
new basically what you do is like if I
would send you if I've got ten dollars
and I said you five dollars then both of
writers will write it down on a piece of
paper and and that way you create a
Ledge it's like bookkeeping and now if
you want to do it on a big scale and
want to have it secure so that other
people cannot change it what you do then
is you link these transactions together
so if if I give you five dollars and you
give five dollars to John then suddenly
I've got one transactions which is the
five dollars in my book that I wrote
down and then I've got the five or two
dollars that you forwarded to to John
also in the book and so I know it every
time what the current state is the
balance is its basic bookie like like
bookkeeping with the difference is that
there are around 11 in the case of
Bitcoin deal there are 11,000
bookkeepers or notaries that making sure
that everything is working smooth and
that's the potential of the blockchain
technology so it's just lining up
different transactions like a pearl and
calling that into a chain and linking
that together and that's called the
blockchain so is there's another word
for it which is the central
decentralized ledger technology DLT but
it's bookkeeping so it's a if I follow
you correctly it's an the underlying
technology of cryptocurrency the
blockchain is really just a ledgering
system a way of tracking the
transactions within the within the
currencies is that
that's exactly it and and the the
difficulty comes from the few a few
different angles one is how do I make
this secure I mean in a world where
we've got thousands of hackers that
constantly hack into computers how do I
make sure that nobody can really hack
the system and that makes it then very
technical and very difficult but the
principle is still the same it's like
it's a ledger where you write down
transactions and you make many copies of
it okay so how does the blockchain
generate money or create currency
because people are we hear about people
mining things like Bitcoin or Manero and
we'll talk a little bit about the
difference between those but how how
does money come out of thin air and
become part of the the blockchain yeah
well we have to be careful is with it's
cryptocurrencies are not money okay you
know that they might become money if you
use it in a fiat currency so in other
words if we would start using the
Canadian dollar on a blockchain that
would be money otherwise its categorized
as a commodity or as a cryptocurrency
and the value comes through
communication it's it's simple if I
would create a coin or if you would
create a coin let's say there is a
category five coin that comes into into
practice for all the fans that you have
then that creates value and that value
represents some monetary value if it's
if you exchange it against let's say
euros or Canadian dollars so that's
where the the link is coming from but
the end it's just a basic way of
communicating so is there a purpose in
the blockchain beyond just tracking
currency like well know that it's that
is from my point of view it's a
side-effect yeah there are I mean the
the grandfather is Bitcoin that was in
Bitcoin was created in 2009 yeah it
hasn't been hacked one so it's running
stable since then Wow
but there are over a thousand five
hundred different currencies also in the
mark and the currency is just a side
effect that that's where all the hype is
also coming from in the price of the
volatility and and the value gets some
sort of
fiat currency but the strengths of the
blockchain is that it is a it's the big
innovation is the trust side not the
currency side yeah I can I can send you
five bitcoins and you know that you if
you receive them in your wallet and
we'll come back to that what a wallet is
but if you receive them you know that
you have them you have got possession of
them
and nobody can take that away from you
they're yours until you open the wallet
and you transfer the five bitcoins to
somebody else so that is the strengths
can I just back out there for a moment
Robert and and just there are a lot of
people who heard you say you are
transferring five Bitcoin to my wallet
that was an example you can't blame a
guy for trying you can't blame it back
you mentioned that bla the blockchain or
Bitcoin hasn't been hacked but we do
hear about hack attacks on different
cryptocurrency storage platforms and
things like that and we do hear about
the theft of cryptocurrency so is there
a big disconnect between those hack
attacks and the actual technology well
it's it's it's the Wild West
this cryptocurrency is the Wild West and
the problem is not the blockchain as
such the blockchain whether we're
talking a theorem light-cone or the big
ones they're all safe nothing can happen
to them because you've got so many
miners or or people that are responsible
for keeping it it's safe yes it would be
very expensive to hack those the
problems are all coming from the the
user interface yeah so when you as a
user go to website to log in to to to an
exchange to buy bitcoins with Canadian
dollars that is where the difficulty
comes from it's a new industry there are
not many developers that know this
language so there was one case in
October last year
where
[Music]
learner learning experience pressed the
wrong button
and with that wrong button it killed
hundred fifty million dollars No
so those are the things that is more on
the on the periphery rather than the
blockchain it's it's the white waste
those things will change over time so
they're getting more secure and and
people see also where the hackers are
going to so the security if you for
example sign up to any of those big
exchanges
let's take coinbase it's an example i
there are many others then it is really
difficult to open an account because
they've got a long procedure to make
sure that it's really you and that you
cannot be hacked that that the money
that you transfer in is serious all
those things that's something that they
learned over the long period of time and
the all the exchanges are similar so
there are multiple passwords that you
have to enter there are securities with
email and so on so it it it's just
because the the user interface is where
the weak side is encrypt or currency
it's not the blockchain the blockchain
is running smooth and safe there's the
at least of the big ones as I think
about you mentioned coinbase
and the exchanges which is basically
where I could store my currency and the
my cryptocurrency and then convert it to
other crypto currencies or even Fiat US
dollars for example by placing our
crypto currency into those into those
sites into those services we're kind of
are we not centralizing our
cryptocurrency and and and I'd like to
talk about decentralization and learn a
little bit about why that's important
well let's let's go step back because
you said something that was interesting
yes all cryptic all cryptocurrencies are
the same yeah I've got a private key and
you've got a public key the public key
is like a normal account number yeah if
you've got a bank account at the Nova
Scotia Scotia or HSBC you've got a bank
account number it's similar to the tube
number in Bitcoin but the possession of
a Bitcoin or a theorem alike on you only
have if you've got this famous private
key and the private key is like the
signature that you deposit at the bank
so if you write a check you have got a
signature on that check that identifies
that this check is coming from you okay
and in crypto currency that's the
private key now one really important
rule is that the Bitcoin or light coin
or any other currency if you don't have
possession of the private key it's not
yours yet so in the case of many
exchanges coinbase is one of them you do
not get the private key so they hold the
private key for you you've got the
public key but the private key they hold
so in theory the money or the the
Bitcoin is not yours and why is that
important there is a huge case called
man it's it's it was the number
one exchange a few years ago and that
exchange went bankrupt from one day to
another Wow and because people had not
possession of the private keys they lost
everything and there has been now a
lawsuit of many years on how to get the
money back because they know where the
bitcoins are they got possession of most
of them already and they're discussing
now how to get it back but but that's
that's beside it the important thing is
when you deal with cryptocurrencies
that's the most important thing is be
careful that you have got this private
key so what does that mean in regards to
coinbase coinbase will not give you the
private key they keep it from themselves
therefore you're vulnerable that that
you I mean you don't have possession of
your Bitcoin or like on any theorem or
whatever it is so there are wallets
so-called wallets available in the
market and some are based on a computer
on the cell phone where you have got
possession of the private key there are
also hardware wallets that look like USB
sticks or little pieces of hardware
you have got your Bitcoin and secured
again because you are in possession of
the private key so private key is
absolute key otherwise the money is not
your the bit the currency is not yours
now if you want to exchange
cryptocurrency for dollars or the other
way around
you want to buy cryptocurrency you have
to go through these exchanges and
they're not many because banks don't
like cryptocurrency at the moment yet
that will change I'm pretty sure the
moment they don't like money and
therefore there are not many exchanges
that that allow you to buy with with
fiat money cryptocurrency
coinbase is is the number one they're
insured they're really good
in what they're doing and they're you
can buy then your Bitcoin with with with
money then the other exchanges that
don't offer fiat currency so you cannot
use you you use dollar Canadian dollar
you're you cannot use it there you can
only use cryptocurrencies so it's
lacking this change I exchange you one
Bitcoin for 10 light coins or whatever
so those there are several exchanges of
those these are currently all
centralized so there's a company that
you can call when something happened or
or at least you get some sort of support
there are other exchanges and they will
be bigger and bigger of the future that
are decentralized so it's basically only
software handling all the transactions
everything that is happening and and
they will also they're starting I mean
there's one that is currently in
development
it's called ethos that will incorporate
also fiat currencies and and other
currencies within the software package
but those are decentralized that means
that there's nobody really responsible
so you can't call anybody and say hey I
got I lost this wire transfer can you
help me because it's based on progress
so therefore the explenation sorry about
that
very anonymous I would presume in this
case - with the decentralization I would
be careful with that is a non immunity
is something that everybody
talks about and says that is a strength
of the cryptocurrency and that's not the
case because you have got this famous
blockchain yeah I can look back on who
did the first transaction no it's true I
only see count numbers I don't see names
right but if I would be government I can
find out who the owner of of through
next stage for example who the owner is
so you don't get much I would be careful
with transparency and we have that we
have had that discussion on the show
where we've talked about how governments
say you know a well we don't keep track
of who the person on the video is but
they can make connections and say oh
well you know we connect this phone
number to this person and we connect
this wallet address to this person and
so all of a sudden we can track and I
know that to be true because I've
received Bitcoin transactions from other
people now that I know they're Bitcoin
address I can see their wallet balance
for example do exactly so from what
you're telling us Robert what I gather
from from your explanations of the
blockchain and the way that sites like
coinbase operate and I find it
interesting that you call them exchanges
because I think what is happening here
and correct me if I'm wrong or maybe
expand on the thought but I think what's
happening is that we're seeing almost a
transition in the paradigm of banking as
as as far as our minds can comprehend
banking because when I think of a site
like coinbase as the example and I think
about putting my Bitcoin or my aetherium
into coinbase
I'm treating it as if it's a bank I'm
using it to store my currency but on the
other hand you're mentioning about a
wallet and having a local wallet
installed on my computer for example and
using those sites instead as as a trade
mechanism between currencies coinbase
using fiat which means I can use US
dollars and my credit card to buy
Bitcoin for example and then take that
Bitcoin out Oh
of coinbase because we're using it just
as a trade mechanism and put it into my
wallet am i right in that thought that
the paradigm is shifting as far as how
we should be thinking about this in
relation to banking absolutely
absolutely that's exactly that's exactly
right
and it's the wallet is equal to the bank
account now okay so if you've got and
you can have as many wallets as you want
you can have hundred wallets they all
cost nothing
you know you get them free then you've
got 100 bank accounts so you become your
own bank manager okay so can I move can
i for example take my wallet and back it
up have redundancy yes you can I would
be careful if you if the the security is
something that has to be taken very
serious in in this industry because it's
international
there is nobody really watching there's
nobody in charge for example a bit come
there's nobody check you cannot call
anybody and so securing you wallet is is
is really important so it doesn't get
hacked I've seen so many examples of
people even stealing yours I mean if
they know that you have got I don't
let's invent a number of thousand
bitcoins so that you've got a lot of
money then they go to an extreme that I
haven't seen before they call the the
cell phone company and transfer the cell
phone over to them so that they can
access there's special Google
authorization which is called the
two-factor of the gate authentication so
that they can have access to your coin
base account and just empty it seen it
many times that is nothing new so one
has to be really careful so the best
thing is for for the layman is to have
one of these wallets the hardware
wallets
yeah like treasure and ledger those are
the two big ones treasure is TR e CR and
ledger is like ledger they have got very
small hardware units with those you can
store many of the currencies and and
there's their safe but nevertheless you
have to remember the passwords you have
to somehow
those talents Oh security is something
it's not an easy subject and I would be
always suggest everybody should be very
careful about security okay yeah no I
mean don't leave for example things on
the laptop when you know right there's
an Internet stay on my laptop yeah Sasha
you have or is it Jeff
yeah I have one so I mean just with what
you know you're talking about there as
far as you know somebody's stealing your
stuff what legal protections are
provided when it comes to crypto
currency exchanges so Robert if somebody
were to steal our crypto currency is
there any kind of legal way that we can
combat that for a limited time get your
hands on limited-edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap v dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
cap v dot TV slash shirts
if somebody were to steal our
cryptocurrency is there any kind of
legal way that we can combat that nope
not really I mean there might be
examples in one or few cases where that
is the case where you've got a recurse
but that like this in this case that I
mentioned before where this apprentice
cut off 150 million dollars if it was
your money sorry about that you lost it
you were not in possession of the
private keys and therefore you lost
hundred fifty million dollars and
there's and there's there are ways of
course theoretically how to get that
back through so-called forking but let's
not go down that road everybody go we're
get so so the answer the answer is no
you don't have the way getting that back
there's no I mean it's like everybody
says okay we'll then forbid trading in
Bitcoin it's not possible bitcoin is a
protocol it's software there is no
person behind it you have got 100
developers there they are really good in
what they're doing there are leading
edge developers you've got the miners
that lilac the notaries that securing
the system and then you've got the users
like you and me that that are using the
system but that's it there is no
telephone number no email address you
lost it you lost it and what also
happened to me I mean all these
exchanges coinbase I think it's getting
every day fifty to a hundred thousand
additional users Wow and so support is
really difficult one day I lost my
two-factor authentication so it's like a
separate password that you have on the
mobile phone that is changed every
minute that's two-factor authentication
and I lost that key and so I had to go
through a process on the coinbase
website and that took me at least 2-3
days to get through that because it was
telling me all the time that's not you
that's not you you need to send a
different picture because it's all fully
automated yeah another exchange it took
me about three four weeks before I got
an answer of a transaction that ran
so we need so you pretty much on your
own in that in that same so we need to
wallet set up offline that is our own
that we can keep safe or may print the
private key and then have it in a safe
location Jeff and with that you know the
food just asks a question the chatroom
is there a best practices document that
people can follow like you've just said
you know keeping it offline I mean if
you're gonna have your private keys you
don't want to store them on a computer
that could get stolen or put them on a
cloud-based system that could get hacked
so what are some of those best practices
you could follow our and is there a
document that you yeah are there are
there resources Robert that would help
us to follow good practices when it
comes to keeping our cryptocurrency safe
yes there is although it can get a
little complicated if you go to one of
those currencies that nobody is sort of
yes so there are thousand five hundred
and and the big wallets they don't carry
all those thousand five hundred they
carry around 100 or so so the best
practice number one is keep your private
key if you don't have a private key you
don't have anything the second one is
use there's some software wallets that
you can choose like EXO dos let's EXO
the US and I think it's dot IO but I'm
not quite sure they're very good there
are desktop based and and Mac based and
then you've got those hardware wallets
like if you're like like ledger and and
treasurer there might be one or two that
are based on the cellphone which I don't
know because I don't use the cell phone
for these purposes that's what I could
would go for I would I mean they're
different opinions out there of what
means secure and if you hear of those
Bitcoin maximalist so those are the ones
that believe Bitcoin invented the hot
water and that it will change the world
for better so those those people they
are the opinion that you need to put the
Bitcoin on the node which is is like
like like the the database of the ledger
I don't think that that's the case
unless you have got really substantial
amount of money so when you start under
thousand dollars one like Exodus ledger
or treasure they're absolutely fine I
would not go further what I would take
care of if you do it online with with
the Exodus wallet that you have got
definitely some antivirus software also
installed if you don't have that and
just take the laptop offline so nobody
can hack it
yeah and encrypt your data or keep it
behind a password or something like that
I think is really important as well and
and sorry that I interrupted you it's
important also that if you do it on a
desktop that you backed it up there are
also many people that whether crashed
which is normal and then they lost
everything there was one that went even
to the dump to look for my favorite
stories to tell it's a tragedy so so
this guy had the private keys on a hard
drive that ya thrown out so we have to
keep that safe and I think that's why we
hear the term paper wallet which is
somebody I guess just what printing or
writing down their private key and
keeping it in a safety deposit box so
that if the worst came to worst you
could always recover your your currency
that way so moving along from the
technology and you know the so I've got
a better understanding I feel of the
blockchain now and I hope that our
viewers feel the same there are so many
you mentioned 1500 plus different crypto
currencies what's what's that about like
we we here Bitcoin that's the buzzword
we know of Manero and aetherium and like
coin and turtle coin what what's what's
happening here yeah it's it's a fast
expanding market four or five years ago
you had Bitcoin and that's it
the Bitcoin had a hundred percent market
share today Bitcoin has got around 40
percent market share and and in future
it will go down further because creating
a coin or token which is more or less
the same is extremely simple yeah it
will
take you 5 minutes to create your coin
and that in itself will mean that there
will be millions of coins available in
the near future because everybody can
create a coin without a big difficulty
yeah so the the vast majority of those
coins were coming through just people
geeks or so inventing something and
saying oh this will put on the
blockchain now we will create a
blockchain for this application not
really thinking it through because
because some have really got it down
some are really doing a great oh yes
with alt coins absolutely no question
about it and that's what I'm hooked on
to this technology but out of those
thousand five hundred I would not give
it more than two hundred that are really
serious companies sure that are able to
achieve enough gold there are others
that that just invented something to
scan people that there are many of those
y'all so many that just don't exist
anymore yeah yeah so somebody invented
something and it doesn't exist anymore
yeah
the other thing that is happening now
it's it's going down a little bit but it
was the peak is the so-called eye cos
it's a new way of funding the project so
instead of having a private investor you
go through an ICO and just for people to
make money they invented I SEOs right
left and center and that also created
them coins so that they can be traded
and that usually went goes down in price
like like nothing so I would say maximum
two hundred coins that are in in in the
market are really good projects that one
could think of and really learn more
about it yeah and I think that's an
amazing stat to think that that small of
a percent is really worth investing time
investing money investing resources in
and and the whole idea behind
cryptocurrency is that you hope that
it's going to go up in value
that's not promised but it's it's an
interesting trend anyways what do you
see just kind of looking forward to the
future here Robert will we ever see
cryptocurrency you know there's there's
a lot of theories out there that as you
say bitcoins going
take over and there are these who
believe in that do you think that we're
ever gonna see for example entire
nations that are using cryptocurrency as
their homeland currency yes
I'm pretty sure that within ten years
all larger currencies will be all based
on a blockchain really it does make
sense because it gives the government
transparency
they're huge flexibility is coming with
that so for example fractional reserve
banking which is an ugly way to make
money that can be all controlled in a
much more in a much better way so for
central banks they're all experimenting
with blockchain technology already so it
will that will come and that's one
project also that I'm in invested I've
invested in but I know that sweetness
for example currently selecting this
Russia is doing that so in within ten
years we'll have every currency on a
blockchain I'm pretty sure about that
that's unreal now I have a question as
far as I mean just a few minutes ago
you're talking about all the alt coins
and how there's you know so many coins
on the market I don't know if this
delves into your area of expertise but
if somebody wants to get into mining a
cryptocurrency and and all that how do
they know what's a legitimate coin and
what is a fake coin that's just somebody
starting it up for the sake of starting
enough to see if they could do it like
how you know if you're gonna invest in
it how do you know where to put your
resources that is an awesome question
because if you don't follow the basic
guidelines you will get burned yeah I
I've lost a lot of money doing that and
why because there are people there
pumping dumb clubs out there for example
so there's people that are pumping a
coin it goes up in price and next day it
falls down again you if you're not part
of that Club and you suddenly see coin
going up in value you might think oh
this is a coin that has got a great
future you invest in it you lose money
so the the most important thing is if
you're beginner
you're an absolute beginner stay with
the top ten coins there you there are
you pretty safe the volume is big so you
can trade them there's liquidity in
other words and there's enough
infrastructure like wallets and so on
now everybody will get into this
especially if the prices will go up
again which everybody is saying that
that's the case we'll jump on this wagon
of Oh to the moon or I want to have a
Lambo or so you've heard that and that's
what you get burnt if you're not careful
so if you want to invest in a coin make
sure that it's somewhat a coin that is
being traded to specific volume so that
there's liquidity what do I mean by that
there are some coins where there's only
one transaction per day yeah so if you
want to sell or you want to buy you have
to wait a long time until you can
fulfill your orders that's not good yeah
so that prices has will have a huge
volatility regardless whether you like
it or you don't like it then the others
where you should go onto the website and
the websites are visible to all the
coins and just check are there any
developers is there somebody doing work
how is the marketing concept how is the
concept as such so if you don't start
believing in this coin I would not
invest in it it's like in a company yeah
it's it's if you want if somebody comes
and says hey I've got a great hot dog
idea then you of course want to learn
more because there are thousands of hot
dog ideas so you learn more about it
what type of sausage are they using the
bun all those things and if you like the
people if you like the management if you
see that everything really works that's
what I would buy yeah and don't make the
mistake there are I don't know at least
30 YouTube bloggers and that talking
about coins every single day and they're
saying yeah you have to go into this
coin now because this coin will go to
the moon if you do that I'm pretty sure
you will lose your money because these
people everybody cooks with water nobody
knows how the future is going to look
like nobody knows how the price is going
to be tomorrow and there's a lot of
volatility in there there's a lot of
scams in there
one of them the biggest one the recently
was bit connect which was a pyramid
scheme completely illegal in many
countries but it existed because nobody
knew where the head office of that
company was a lot of people lost a lot
of money some people made a lot of money
so be very careful where you invest your
money yeah so as again as a beginner I
would go for the big ten coins and just
stay there learn more about the
technology learn what Bitcoin means get
hooked on this year I promise you that
within a week you will love if you
little bit technology mind within a week
you'll love all this year it's really
simple the the surface is simple it can
go very complicated but the surface very
simple there's a lot of information on
the internet and and you learn every
step a little bit more Wow a lot to take
in tonight Robert my perspective is
different as a miner as opposed to an
investor yes so when you talk about
watching kind of the trends and
everything else like I'm mining what's
easy to mine so I mean we're talking
coins that are 18 Satoshi and less and
so there's nowhere to go but up and my
risk is absolutely zero so you know from
a financial perspective there's no
there's no risk there but understanding
you know what we can look for as you
know if we were going to invest that's
that's excellent as well risk zero is I
hear what you're saying and I it's I
mean you will not get rich by mining but
there's a risk because you have to keep
the computer switched on 24 hours a day
so you're consuming electricity
computers don't last forever so the
computer will break down now after a
period of time that means you have the
risk of buying a new computer and you
hope that including the money off the
electricity you made enough money with a
mining there are specialists mining
equipments but that's even worse yeah so
it all comes down on the quantity and
also the electricity that that the
mining costs so if the electricity costs
the new area above $0.10 then it is
already borderline of being profitable
and
and the technology moves so far that it
is difficult to keep up with the
hardware technology yeah but it can be
fun it can be a lot of fun can I
recommend it
just to learn how this thing works
download a note yeah take a bit don't do
it do you theory because if theorem is a
little bit it's not working correctly
but if you take the Bitcoin note you
need to of course a heart big harddrive
and you run and you just learn that so
it's it's fun and just can't start
mining yeah build your own mining rig
but you need to know about IT to do so
it's not that simple yeah yeah but it's
fun where can people you know as we wrap
up our discussion today Robert where can
people get more information about about
the technology where I mean we can get
into Google and there are a million
different results for finding out more
information about the blockchain where
should we go yeah there's there's one
magazine that's called coin Telegraph so
if you google coin Telegraph comm and
then Bitcoin for beginners they have got
a good section of what what this
technology is about I would definitely
go onto YouTube and search for
blockchain 101 or Bitcoin for beginners
and just watch as many YouTube videos as
you want and as you can there will be
some explanations where even I don't
understand the word what they're saying
just switch them off and search the next
one so I would do a lot of YouTube
videos and and I would definitely go in
and open a an account on coinbase or any
of these other exchanges they exist just
to learn it gets dude I mean Bitcoin the
nice thing I mean with you store
Canadian dollar you've got ten cents or
one cent is the smallest unit in Bitcoin
it goes several digits behind the
commerce so you can with two or three
Canadian dollars you can buy a portion
of a Bitcoin right and with that you
start learning and and see what this
industry is about yeah we didn't go into
any examples of what outside of the
currency market is possible but that's
where the big music will play in future
just to give two examples one is with
bank account
but banks you touched on that before at
the moment or you know let's say twenty
years ago if you went to your branch
manager at your local bank and you asked
for a loan that branch manager could
take the decision whether they would
give you the loan or not today they just
fill out a form
right they sent that form to head office
or some central place they take the
decision that in future will be
automated through blockchain yeah so
people need to be aware of that
interesting that oh this decision-making
is linked to to a blockchain
it's called smart contracts that's what
a theorem is about neo euros and and so
on they incorporate this this
intelligence attached to to the the
chain what does that mean
banks is jobs but if for example you
want to buy a Gucci wallet then today
you don't know if it's made in China
it's a fake one you have got no clue
because we're not experts in Gucci
wallets but in future you'll have a
little sticker in there with you scan it
with your cell phone and it will tell
you exactly in which factory it was
developed food the same yeah papayas if
you want to buy papayas and you want to
make sure that they're really organic
then at the moment you have to trust
wherever you buy those those the fruit
from but in future you can't scan that
code and you know exactly that where
they came from and if there are general
or not those are just a few examples of
what would be possible with with this
technology yeah so we're we're basically
back to where the internet was 20 years
ago where the only thing you knew is
HTML and it looked horrible and then
suddenly Amazon came up with offering
books and you try it after a few months
into a book and it was delivered and you
were happy and now we do everything
through the internet and blockchain is a
similar one because you remove
completely the trust layer I don't have
to trust you anymore I know that I have
got this thing in my hands proven
therefore it's mine I've got the private
key that's it so all these things that's
what will come and that's why this is so
exciting
it is a lot to get our heads around I
know I feeling it for my viewers tonight
but I'm understanding how we're able to
now use the blockchain to authenticate
goods yes cryptography because we're
talking extremely secure cryptography
that cannot be replicated or emulated or
faked and that's that's exciting Robert
I appreciate your time very very much
tonight thank you for joining us and how
can we how can we find you how can we
give a shout out to you the easiest way
to get hold of me is through the company
that I currently have we just sent our
it's Xen ta vo other so it's like the
Spanish sent ya the Spanish sent is sent
out with the C at the beginning our word
starts with an exit sent amo calm and
then you just sent an email and I'll be
reachable so if anybody of your audience
has got any questions because I know we
went through a lot tonight and I'm sorry
about that but I think it's those were
important things so if somebody wants to
have a little bit more the information
just sent me an email I'm happy to
answer those what you've done tonight
Robert is you've taken a lot of
complicated concepts compress them into
a 40-minute interview here and said you
know this this can make sense we may
have to watch it back a couple times but
we may be able to get our heads around
some of these technologies and for that
I appreciate it very very much thank you
for for joining us tonight it's an honor
and thank you for having me was real
pleasure thank you thanks Robert
have a good night
