for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
you
273 of category 5 technology wild
reading world hello I'm fabulous I'm
proud to be here fun bit of a mix-up I
didn't know which day it was which month
it was when i'm supposed to come yeah
I'm here thank you yes everybody the
chat room tons of people presently
chatting away from the World Wide World
tech guru Oh No can you hear me now
anybody can hear me now welcome to the
show River removable rewind what episode
is it what day is it three eleventh of
December nice to see you everybody
thanks chat room we love having you here
and watching out for us you are like her
you don't even need to hire audio
engineers anymore because the guys in
the shower we like ads right there
rookie something's going on with your
mic there maybe it's not even plugged in
just saying so yeah hey Rob Gore Carly
nice to see ya what's ready everybody
they're coming to us from Chicago chart
near Charleston West Virginia that's in
the Americas ridge inc where's the world
wide world you are watching all over
where are you watching from and
certainly if you're new here make sure
you say hi in the chat room its category
5 on freenode or of course you can visit
our website category 5 TV click on
interact and join the chat room hey JP
Rob gore's watching from Melbourne
Australia nice to see ya Carly's
watching from here and Barry who hey
Barry yeah that's one for Barry we are
up three points tonight 4 points or
points for Barry hey
we are winning here Rob gar it's pretty
fabulous having everybody pressure over
yeah anyways I got some news I'm gonna
tell you a little bit of a teaser right
now what you can expect in a just a
brief while coming up in the newsroom a
virgin Galactic spaceship will cater to
both passengers and scientists yes what
if you fall under both of those
classifications then you better chance
definitely better chance excellente yes
definitely Oh a new IBM chip will use
light to speed up communications with
apps and other net services hmm google
had a pretty bad cloud outage yesterday
which we're going to talk about a little
bit more I felt that yeah as well
Twitter and Instagram are parting ways
but no worries twitter has its own
Instagram killer and lastly MIT
scientists have developed an early model
shape-shifting robot sir Graham cuz
these stories are coming up later in our
show that sounds cool uh-huh hey I got
to say greets to Dave May do who's
joining us in the chat room as well
tonight great to see ya where are you
been yeah we're glad you're there no we
are always miss yet drumstick nice to
see you again as well yeah I see like
tons of people from all over the world
here it's pretty sweet yeah we like to
talk to people from around the world in
the chat room we also like to get
people's postcards from around the world
you sure do and he'll how can they send
those in send your postcards or maybe
belated Christmas cards to category 5
technology TV p.o.box to 9009 very
Ontario which of course is in Canada l 4
&amp; 7 w 7 we would love to hear from you
that way we've got our lovely wall of
it's a beautiful collage of cards and
trinkets and pictures from around the
world from viewers like you we love it
birthday greetings go out to Chris Reich
tonight happy birthday happy 29th man
thanks for spending your birthday with
us yeah
it's a nice day for you but happy
birthday my friend nice to see ya
totally totally awesome guess 6590 is
joining us live tonight from Naples
Florida cool great to have you here
uh-huh lots of lots of friends that's
fasho we like it we love it Rob gore
says show us the postcard wall show us
the postcard wall if you're watching
backstage pass you can see the postcard
wall yes you can or if you go to our
website category 5 TV there is a picture
of it for you oh cool yeah and I think
that is let's see here I'll find it for
you that would be great yes it's it is
really cool like I'm looking at it right
now I see it's like a little bit of a
little bit of history all of our friends
yes that means so much to receive them
for sure Dolph like little highlights of
your town that's cool where you're from
we'd send you a berry postcard but it's
not exciting it is exciting it's just
that it would it would take two weeks to
get here anyway and it's Barry and it's
a local like I could just hand deliver
it the studio right true not the berries
not exciting it's just well to each
their own or something like that I'm
trying to remember where I put in fact
her the postcard wall i don't know if i
put it up on our flickr channel or it is
oh you know what it's probably on our
facebook channel cuz that's where
everything tends to go there is a
picture on our flickr channel that kind
of shows it this is a behind the scenes
from a while ago yes and you can see
that there is the postcard wall right
there so that's what the studio looks
like from heathers perspective and
that's on our flickr photo gallery on
our website yeah very very cool sweet
yeah okay so tonight we were planning to
look at this brother printer I know if
you're following me on Twitter and and
through Facebook and if you're watching
the the show's calendar at cap five dot
TV / calendar it's really really
exciting that we're gonna be looking at
the the brand new business smart line of
printers from brother this is a
they're their latest and greatest it's
got the super high yield cartridges it's
crazy awesome I I want to like lift this
up and show it to you because it is
lightweight you see that is I see it I
they have made probably the sleekest
printer that I've seen in a long time
but you see how small and lightweight
this is yeah yeah it prints 11 x 17
really figure that out we're going to be
looking at that now we wanted to look at
that this week but unfortunately the it
didn't work out because there's there is
an interview involved and unfortunately
we there's some sickness a flu going
around at the other end so so we're
going to have our guests joining us
again instead next week so hey make sure
you watch for but you see that beautiful
printer it's got a scanner fax touch
screen color touchscreen huh Prince 11 x
17 it's got the sheet feeder it is
duplexing so that means it automatically
flips to the other side all in that
little lightweight thing that's cool and
we're gonna be giving one away for
Christmas so can I get out of this
that's good you don't want to miss out
on next week's show well that's awesome
it's a it's an ink-jet Reb D Jenk but it
has four cartridges so you've got the
CMYK so you don't have to worry about
you know if you run at a yellow ink
having to replace the whole color
cartridge is just the yellow cartridge
interesting hmm Wow okay well that'll be
a sweet show I'm excited for that
definitely so what are we doing tonight
instead we are going to be looking at
how to create our very own custom
calendar o 12 month calendar and we're
going to start by creating one for
category 5 TV and when we create it
you're actually gonna be able to get
yourself one so let's stick around we're
gonna be showing you how to do that it
makes a great gift oh yeah I mean
pictures of the kids grandma's love that
sort of thing absolutely they eat it up
it's perfect so stick around we're gonna
be looking at all that and we've got
your viewer questions as well love to
receive those and we're going to be
addressing those shortly if you've got a
mobile device bring up mcat five dot TV
and you'll be able to bring that up on
your device that's our mobile website
very cool stuff and it of course gives
you access to the show through your
smart
town very very cool yes all right well
we've got to take a really quick break
before we talk about how to create our
calendar and we've got your viewer
questions coming up in a little while
and all those great stories that
Hillary's going to be talking about I
want to learn about this shape-shifting
robot as do I dance your interest in
robots so stick around we'll be right
back after this join category 5
technology TV on December 25th for our
Christmas special with musical
performances by our on-air team plus a
special guest performance by our co-host
from seasons one and two Karrie Webb
don't miss the Christmas special Tuesday
December 25th at seven p.m. eastern time
ww category five TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
that rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV episode number
273 thanks for joining us I'm Robbie
Ferguson I'm Hillary Rumble keeping it
real over here Hillary before we get
into our feature creating a calendar I
want to show you something okay so super
cool i love cool thanks for all the geek
freaks out there dream dream land from
brent Spiner oh yeah what I thought was
cool and you know who pence per day I
know but I'm waiting for it I know but I
don't know check this out yes Heather
wins okay I knew I'm like I recognize
that name but I can't figure out
personally autographed this is actually
autograph you can get it off of his
website the real brent Spiner calm I
thought that was impressive that I was
going to get this so excited about this
but look at this sent it in an envelope
and the geek and me is so excited about
that I did yes he actually signed the
envelope himself Wow how do you like
that really cool so he has on CD he's
got a couple CDs is actually a bit of a
crooner he's he's really good ah yes
that's good we love brent Spiner so yeah
Lieutenant Commander data from star trek
right yes yes yes mm-hmm now I recall
sorry everyone don't get mad fine i love
you i knew i knew the name i just
couldn't remember oh i haven't talked in
a few weeks oh I'm just kidding hey
Jamison gets it well it was 25 bucks for
the CD and he signed it and everything
but interesting that he actually stood
yeah
and the post office and said oh I
actually did another one of these
another one of these Trek nerds has
bought my CD hahahahaha you know and
then mailed it on Sunday that's cool
yeah good well I've got to the
collection of Awesome well I can't throw
away the envelope oh that's cool yeah
just can't believe that's just clutter
that's his autograph yeah you have it
twice not once but twice once once sent
directly to me hello yeah okay so
tonight we want to create an actual
calendar with our own photos and so I've
actually created a little bit of a
collection of photos from you know
category yeah really when you want to
create a calendar what's the first thing
you got to do you got to find 12 photos
or something like that you need one for
every month if you're going to do a
one-year care so in my case I'm also
going to do a couple of collages so we
might have like a Hillary Rumble page
and it's got three pictures of Hillary
right so so what we'll do we're gonna
bring up a website called Lulu Lulu yeah
lulu.com calm and once we're there we're
gonna hit sign up up here and really
quickly we're going to create an account
looks good to me mm-hmm well there we go
good strong pass yes good job always
strong passwords you want notifications
I'll turn it off just cuz then they're
gonna get our autoresponder every night
okay signed up and good to go we're
logged in this category 5 technology TV
cool let's publish so first thing now
you see that Lulu does some other stuff
to books ebooks photo books photo books
very cool thing if you're into that you
know making an actual photo books take
some wedding photos you know and and put
them together in a really nice kind of
portfolio looking thing with the printed
directly on the page they do a really
really nice job you can see you know
from the website here it's it's really
professional stuff I'll click on photo
books just so you can see kind of
another project for another day there
you go for another day but for tonight
you can go to calendars and we're
actually going to create our calendar so
you can choose whether you want a
standard size which 11 x 17 open or a
premium size which is 13.5 x 19 inches
so that's quite large you see that that
starts at 2549 whereas the smaller one
which is the regular size calendars only
1399 so we'll do that one ok ok so I've
single clicked on it and go start
creating so as I said I've already kind
of gone through my photos and picked out
some that are gonna work and I've
labeled them you know january-february
oh sorry April there's March is gonna be
your collage may-july kind of thing
right so we can take a picture like this
will actually be making that's gonna and
we'll be putting that together in a
counter so that's just loading up there
this is all this is what's neat about
you know the modern web is everything is
done through your web browser hmm we
don't need to fly software to be able to
do this not anymore I remember when you
used to have to like your special Saint
like by certain CDs to like just to get
clipart right I need and then you still
have to find something to print it yeah
I was probably getting in the car with
it on a CD or a floppy disk yeah and
taking awesome
yeah having a printed now it's all done
in one place oh so it's all done through
your web browser is so easy breezy so
looking at this there are many many
templates that you can use these are
themes that Lulu provides for you and
you can see that you can basically just
pick one that you like if you want to
take you know the real easy way out so
to speak you can choose one of these
themes that kind of already lay out your
photos in a fancy way with a background
behind them and looks like some kind of
a cutaway you know these kinds of things
and it looks really professional but for
me I want to actually fill the whole
page so this one with the puppy is
called modern and you can see that the
picture is in fact going to fill the
entire page so that's the one that I
want this is I that gives me a little
bit more control you can choose
whichever one you like so you can either
upload your photos of this step or
alternatively you can upload them at the
next step and kind of lay them out I
prefer to just go next choose my dates
so I've not uploaded any photos date
range January 2013 to December 2013 of
course that's going to be a standard
calendar for for the year of 2013 but
you can change you know what month you
wanted to end on you can make it a two
year calendar if you wanted to it's
going to increase the cost based on how
many pages we'll just do a full one year
starting from January ending in December
next we'll set events so let's say okay
we're going to add new Hillary your
birthday please july 19th so we're gonna
go like this so that everybody knows to
celebrate on that very special day
Friday sweet every year and save so
Hillary's birthday will come up there
robbie's birthday very close to mine
yeah we're actually we're like birthday
twins july 17 for wednesday super close
and notice i've set that to every year
the reason that I've done that is so
that if I do create a calendar for next
year it will automatically put my
birthday's in
nice amazing night so that's pretty cool
so that gets us started with a couple of
different events you can put in anything
that you like so we're gonna go see your
calendar you can also add public
holidays I don't know if you saw that or
not I'll just show you quickly again
public holidays pretty cool if you're
making this for Canada only you can
check off Canada and it will actually
add Canadian holidays to your calendar
for you automatically that's cool I've
opted against nap because we're gonna
we're building something for you know
the viewers that you yourself may wanna
put up in the wall we've got viewers all
over the world so if I Canadian holidays
it's it's off for you at home so we'll
leave that out but we'll put our
birthdays and show episodes and things
like that on there so so we'll leave
that but you can add that to your
calendar so there's what the front of my
calendar looks like so far pretty plain
you can see there's looking at the
inside of the calendar see what I've
done is I've just simply clicked on a
month down to the bottom here
january-february march right down here
okay so let's start with January and
you'll see that if i zoom in using the
zoom tool down here you can in fact read
what's what's in there and you'll see
that for the full size it's asking for a
3375 pixel x 26 25 pixel ok pretty sure
you can see that at home so that's if I
want it to fill the entire page just
like the picture did now I can also up
at the left hand side here I can choose
these different grid patterns ok I see
so if I'd like I can go with this grid
pattern and now it's going to break up
my calendar in such a way see if I got
it oh yeah ok so now instead of that one
great big area I've got a larger area at
the left which is 2142 by 26 25 and then
a couple of areas on the right one of
them is 12 13 and the other one is to
just a little bit of a different height
ok so you can set up your own grid
patterns like that and it allows you to
really you know place you know if you're
doing pictures
kids you have one really nice picture
and then a picture of the dog and a
picture of a toy or something next to it
it gives a real kind of almost a
scrapbooking kind of feel to it so let's
start with just a single photo that's
going to fill the entire page so now
over here at the right I'm going to go
ad images and I'm going to go upload
your images go into that folder where
I've got all those pictures and I'm
going to grab the team photo from
January for january this is the one that
I picked so it's going to upload that
nice and simple now this is just telling
me that hey you know what this is a
multi tasking website you can either
wait or you can keep on working and you
can actually keep working and that it
will do your upload in the background
which is pretty awesome so it works very
much like a multitasking environment
that you can work in I like to see kind
of the progress here so it's going going
going keep in mind that with Lulu when
you're creating your calendars there is
a 10 megabyte limit to each image so if
you've created the images yourself in
the GIMP or Photoshop you want to make
sure that they are at most 10 megs
shouldn't be a problem because it's
providing you with the dimensions that
it wants some of the pictures that come
off of our camera because there's such
high resolution if I edit them and then
resave them as a JPEG with a hundred
percent quality they're going to be
something like 15 or 16 megs so then
they don't work so so that's something
to keep in mind so these photos as you
see is there just six almost seven Meg's
so here goes almost there I can just hit
done if I want and it's going to show up
over here it's a very easy to use
drag-and-drop kind of interface yeah and
you'll notice that I didn't actually
scale this image that is uploading right
now it is just strictly well I think i
cropped it just to know I haven't even
cropped it so you see that there is you
know some studio cloth at the right hand
side there the edge of our drape you
know so we'll actually crop that using
Lulu instead of the GIMP in this
particular case so you see that it's
there okay so now I simply hold in and
drag it and drop it onto my canvas and
it puts it in there in kind of a preview
mode and you'll see that it has already
crop
the edge because of the the way that it
has scaled it so if I'm not happy with
the cropping I can actually just kind of
zoom out a little bit so that I can see
the whole canvas and single click on my
image and you see that there is an hour
zoom tool that allows me to zoom in on
the photo and drag the photo around
directly you know within my web browser
there you go some photos that you load
up might come in you know crooked or
whatever so you can rotate them and then
position them within your canvas so now
that that's done there's our January
cool so January's ready to go sweet and
that's what it looks like ok skipping
along so let's let's do March let's say
january-february March and we're gonna
do a let's do one of these collages that
I was saying about okay alrighty so what
I've already done just to be prepared
for this is we've got three pictures of
Hillary here because March is going to
be Hillary's month so there's picture
number one picture number two and
picture number three mmm okay good with
that yeah alright so let's grab the one
that I've created for the left side and
you'll see again that Lulu actually
gives you the dimensions that have wants
okay 2142 by 26 25 so using the GIMP we
can take the original photo let's maybe
do one just so that you see how it works
okay so this is the photo that I want to
use you know open this up in the GIMP
okay so I with this one I want to
actually do a little bit of cropping
myself I could just upload it and and
then have you know do the kind of
stretch it out and do it that way but I
want to actually add a little bit of a
an effect to it to make it look nice so
instead of just having the raw photo
from the camera where you can kind of
you know see a couple of the wrinkles in
the drape behind you and things like
that we want to kind of clean it up a
little bit so dimensions for this back
at Lulu are 2142 by 26 25 let's see if I
can remember k file new
214 to buy 20 forget I tried to remember
too nice see this is why I do like the
GIMP layout because I can move things
around that is see behind it unlike
Photoshop where it's all one window okay
so I've created the dimensions of a new
image now next thing very very important
go to Advanced Options and change it to
300 DPI okay so that's the dots per inch
and then hit ok so now i have a canvas
which is going to perfectly fit within
the leftmost area of this particular
calendar so we're going to grab that
photo and if we look at this photo this
photo is 2472 pixels wide so it's
obviously a lot wider than the space
that it needs which is 214 too wide so
we can either crop and scale that we
could copy it in paste it move it around
like this kind of thing right and just
let it work like that and that's
probably how I would end up doing it in
some cases you may want to crop and
scale your image itself first and see
what I've done is ctrl a ctrl C and then
over this one I've hit control V to
paste it in and then we'll let that be a
new layer so now this is perfect
proportionately to that left area so
we'll move you around the canvas to
where I like it and one of the things
that I keep in mind here Hilary is that
it's going to put this the pin hole at
the top of the canvas as well so keep in
mind that if you are doing full-size
picture yeah and the person is dead
center they're gonna have a black dot
right there in the middle of their
forehead and that's where the pin is
going to be right so so I try to
position things in such a way that none
of the none of the foreground objects
the people animals or a particular
focuses words if you've got text on your
images none of that stuff is going to be
obscured by the by the hole ok good
thinking so similarly I know that the
hole is going to be up right about here
so it's not going to be in the middle of
your hair or anything like that which
would possibly look a little silly
so now I'm going to use a circular
ellipse marquee and I'm just going to
create a bit of a vignette on the photo
itself as well just to give it a nice
kind of look that looks a little more
professional than just a plain straight
off the camera picture with GIMP it's
really easy because I can I can resize
my vignette once it's created and put it
exactly where I like it so I've created
a around vignette I'm going to go select
feather because this is 20 100 pixels
wide about 750 would be appropriate for
this image you know about a quarter to
half feathering and what that does it
doesn't look like it did anything i'm
going to go select invert and then
create a new layer which is an empty
layer but i still have this marquee and
now the marquee is outside of of you in
the image i'm going to go edit fill with
background color and see what that's
done whoo ok so it's created a really
nice kind of mark you or a vignette so
now next step is I want to actually use
this free form select tool and just kind
of click around loosely around you
doesn't have to be exact by any means
because we're going to also feather this
one it's just so that we can brighten
you up and watch what's going to happen
because the that feather is obviously
covering part of you as well see how
your darker yeah yeah okay so now I've
loosely gone around you i'm going to go
select and we're going to do a
feathering here but only about 250
pixels just so it's a soft edge and i'm
going to go control x okay and all
that's done is just popped you right out
of that vignette so now that thing that
looks like that so where you are
standing is perfectly empty would you
look at that I'm gonna put you back in
the photo and it looks like that so now
we'll file save as it's a little bit of
a gimp tutorial off hey unintentionally
little learning so I'll just throw that
on the desktop and we'll call that photo
left jpg okay I'm going with JPEG
because I do want these files to be
under 10 megs if I was going with ping
yes it would probably be higher quality
because it's lossless but then i'm going
to have issues with the actual size of
the images jpg because we're working in
fairly high resolution is still going to
be excellent you're not likely going to
be able to tell the difference so okay
so now I'm going to add images and
upload that new image from my desktop
photo left and you see that that is
about five megs so does a good fair
sized file any questions in the chat
room so far Hillary is is there I am
here this is category 5 technology TV
and tonight we're looking at at Lulu and
we're creating our very own calendar you
can create your own custom calendar as
well using free tools such as what we're
using tonight for the image manipulation
end of it which is Kim and GIMP is
available as a free download at gimp.org
and then we're using the free online
tool called Lulu and it's available at
lulu.com that's felt lu lu calm very
cool there we go that's almost up I'm
almost done questions in the chat room
feel free to to ping us send them our
way here we go and while that's loading
I'm actually going to load the the next
two files as well good thinking which we
can do because it is multitask ok those
are the two there we go I say done so
now this one is all loaded this is the
one that we just created in the GIMP I'm
going to grab that and drag it and pop
it onto the left side there ok so you
can see that that is a perfect fit for
that great the pinhole is as I said up
to your left my right not on my noggin
no and it looks good on the brick there
as well ok check on the status of our
last two files it's about halfway done
question can finish calendar be sent
anywhere around the world I believe so I
mean Lulu is is an online ordering
system and you can make sense I've never
heard of any able to limitations to
where they can send to obviously your
shipping rates would vary depending on
where you live and
are they are being sent from but we
don't see why not for sure and this one
is almost done here the month of March
so even though I'm you know those are
still uploading I'm gonna hit save I
like to save my work we're gonna call
this 2013 category 5 TV calendar cool
author will just say Robbie Ferguson
kisses it's but that is you I don't you
know right now I'm gonna leave this
private because I'm still working on I'm
not gonna set it as public yet I'm gonna
hit save okay so now here's another
photo of you ready to go so I'm gonna
drag that and drop it up here oh look at
me give me with a little stuffed dog
yeah that was how that got into the
photo we'll never know I know I was like
here take this stuff dawg i'm like i
think is eric i think it was Eric push
the puppy oh that seems like thank you
see ya it does seem like it doesn't last
photo is just loading up here here comes
oh yeah that's me so now i can drag that
there and there it is okay so now we've
got a Hillary collage so let's say I
would prefer this to be reordered so I
can actually drag this one down here and
drop it it will switch order I can move
them back and forth depending on their
dimensions I can zoom in and things like
that one of the nice things about this
too is it is that Lulu is going to watch
out for the quality of your work so if
for example let's say this left-most
photo let's say we wanted to make you
just just a face shot right so we wanted
to zoom in so let's click on that and
let's zoom in watch what happens at the
top left okay warning yeah what's
happening here is that ok you are
actually exceeding the resolution of
your photograph so if you've got a you
know a particular photo and you try to
stretch it out it's going to all of a
sudden step into
ran great grainy looking photo right
because you're you're stretching it
beyond the proportions of or the
dimensions of the image so that's
warning me that yeah you better you
better back up face is pixelated yes
exactly there you go okay so that is the
as far out as I would want to go and or
get a bit absolutely perfect resolution
okay but we actually created this image
for this space so there are you and
that's really all there is to it so
we've saved it once i'm going to save it
again and now that we've made some
changes and when we're done so create
your cover create each individual month
huh we've only done done to today but
let's pretend that we're ready to go now
we're gonna go preview and finish and it
says you know obviously me it's warning
me that I've got some n pages hey you
didn't do all the work you're supposed
to do that's okay and there is the
Hillary page Wow so if you would like
that to grace your wall yeah let's get
real here let's jump over to July as
well I want to show you something june
july and the resolution is pretty low
here but you do see that there is some
writing on the screws yes indicating our
birth and that is our birthday so we can
go publish up at the top right and
publish our calendar and now all of a
sudden our calendar is is up ready to be
ordered doesn't take very long at all
and so Lulu is going to go through those
files create a print-ready version of
the file they're going to take care of
the sales are going to take care of the
the actual order you know the order
process they're going to provide you
with a link that you can send to your
friends and it basically just goes
through this process really really fast
okay and they will let you know as soon
as the the files are ready and you can
start ordering your calendar so all in
all I mean within you know and I you
know you probably take an hour to do it
right and you'd have a really
nice-looking calendar so make sure your
photos are as good a quality as you
possibly get like any print job you want
them to be really high resolution if
you're using a little chintzy camera not
a good idea because it's going to result
in
you know you're not going to be as happy
with the with the results yeah if it's
if it's low resolution so and that's
already done it's created for me I've
got my downloadable version and I can
actually save and continue and I can
place an order my calendar is 1399 very
cool so in the event of us finishing
said caliber category five calendar yes
oh it will be done to the general public
will be done they can order it yeah real
you'll see it on real life category five
TV if you'd like to have one of those
for 2013 we've got pictures of the
entire crew here at category 5
technology TV season 6 so feel free i
mean go to category 5 TV we're gonna
finish up our lulu calendar and make it
available to you also follow me on
twitter Ravi Ferguson follow Hillary on
Twitter Hillary rumble follow the show
on Twitter its category 5 TV you see it
down there just below Hillary and we're
going to be posting it there as soon as
it's ready for you and you can order it
online direct from hulu very cool cool
and just an FYI category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's fear and the
international association of internet
broadcasters thanks oh you're welcome
ready fight I'm ready for the news are
you lot happening worldwide web
happening in the world here it is comin
atcha these are the top stories from
category 5 TV news room sir richard
branson wanted to stay ship so to become
a high-altitude science platform the
billionaire's rocket plane will carry
six fare-paying passengers just above
the atmosphere to experience a few
minutes of weightlessness and to be
clear that's fair fa re not fair right a
fair price they have to pay a lot hey
sue that not fair an arm a leg seriously
but you experience a few minutes of
weightlessness but the vehicle has been
designed so that its seats can be
removed easily and the space then
becomes filled with science gear
passengers will ride the rocket plane
for the fun of it but scientists would
also use it for the same reasons they
also fly experiments on the
International International Space
Station or on sounding rockets to access
microgravity conditions very cool meet
the weightless environment provides a
unique perspective on physical systems
and processes and helping researchers
researchers to better understand disease
and to develop new materials passenger
flights should begin in 18 months or so
research sorties could start soon after
that's awesome who knows how much
that'll cost but it sounds very cool
moving along IBM says it has developed a
chip that makes it easier to shuttle
data via pitch or view pulses of light
instead of using electrical signals the
firm says it should offer a way to move
large amounts of information between
processors and computer servers at
higher speeds than at present these
provide computing power and data used by
abs and other net services one third
party expert said the significance of
the innovation was that it was much
cheaper than other options details of
the development are to be presented at
the International electron devices
meeting in San Francisco hmm interesting
yesterday gmails outage was not just
another pain out of control code also
brought down some
browsers hurting productivity for those
affected as the boundary between cloud
services and native clients for
enterprises cannot afford this kind of
instability any longer but it was not
fun for if you are a google user for
about 40 minutes yesterday afternoon on
the east coast gmail service as well as
Google Drive experienced scattered
outages reports indicate that personal
gmail accounts may have been affected
more than the Google Apps account you
know what's it what's wild about that is
that people think well I don't use
Google maybe I use a different search
engine that's why I'm not affected maybe
I don't use Gmail or anything like that
but Google and and all these different
cloud services are everywhere I mean if
what actually happened to us if you can
believe Google's outage took out the
category 5 website really yeah weird but
how does that happen right they just own
the world don't gay I'll show you how
this happened and you don't realize and
me as a program I'd never even thought
that yeah you know what well Google will
have one day you know in December will
have an out intact so we'll take our
website you go to our website and there
it is and there's all our episodes and
everything you scroll down you take it
for granted but all of a sudden you
realize so you know what there's a
calendar over here that shows you what's
coming up on the show that's powered by
our calendar on which is cool google
calendar right huh there it is would you
look at that powered by google calendar
so this is where everything is stored so
what happened in our case it's trying to
load the calendar and it ended up
failing out the website never loaded the
homepage so if you did see an error
message there during that Google outage
that's what happened as soon as I caught
on to that I rewrote some code and made
it so that there was an error handler
there but a lot of people didn't realize
and in our case because we cash the
calendar so that is not making requests
to Google all the time it basically
connects out downloads the information
saves it on our server and then serves
it up to our viewers so that they're not
actually making that connection because
of that it was a cache file so even
after you know they say well it was only
down for 30
answer it was only down for 40 minutes
well we cash for ya a day so if I didn't
catch that and a lot of web yeah people
won't be that proactive if I didn't
catch that the cash could have left our
website down for an entire day brother
yeah so that's what they never would've
thought such as yeah they don't really
realize that know it affects a lot more
than just you google users that are on
gmail yeah right absolutely huh got
another story for you peeps keeps on
coming the crazy this one affects me
personally oh no twitter has introduced
a new feature allowing members to apply
retro and other filters to their images
replicating instagram the popular
facebook own photography app which is
cut ties with the micro-blogging network
the move is part of an effort by twitter
to take more control over its service it
has gradually restricted how much data
it shares with outside apps and
introduced its own competing versions of
them thus you can see in the picture the
different layers and things you can add
to your pictures the introduction of
in-house image filtering software by
Twitter was anticipated last week
Instagram severed a link with Twitter
cards a system that ensured photographs
would be well presented if they were
shared on Twitter over the weekend it
stopped its members embedding
photographs and tweets completely
sharing an Instagram image now means a
link is posted hmmm ouch now I can't see
my Instagram pics well there'll be links
if you want that yeah that's interesting
because Instagram used to be while I
mean twitpic what was the big thing and
then Twitter went and created something
to replace them and that was unfair that
was that was unnecessary but here is an
instance where Instagram was the one was
for Twitter right and then all of a
sudden facebook bought it made it for
facebook and then shut down yeah its
ability to use Twitter that's sneaky
sneaky so now hey your ego there's
another option for it
um least the features haven't been lost
I yeah at least they're doing something
else that's true something their own
thing all right last story it may not
look like a character from the
transformer franchise but a tiny robot
made in the u.s. is able to change shape
built at the massachusetts institute of
technology MIT it uses magnets to mimic
molecules that fold themselves into
complex shapes the research could lead
to robots I could be reconfigured to
perform many different tasks the beard
weird because I when you told us about
this I was kind of expecting something
that could make itself look like a
hamburger or a sandwich not yet but this
looks more like a human chain link of
metal we need a video when he see it
yeah maybe see it actually changing
shape morphing yeah transform Autobots
what do you think it's kind of like hey
so what else could it turn into maybe
like a circle circular kind of version
of itself but hey to start it is a start
and that's it for the newsroom you can
get these full stories online at
category 5 TV / newsroom the newsroom is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions from our amazing community
of viewers if you have a story you
think's worthy of on-air mention shoot
us an email at category 5 or newsroom at
category 5 TV from the newsroom I'm
Hillary rumble thanks health tonight's
show is brought to you in part by
quarter II electrical contracting inc
find them online at quarter electric com
if you're looking for an electrician an
electrical company anywhere in Simcoe
County the surrounding areas make sure
you give them a call 705 326 to 179 also
we would love to give you a free one
month trial of netflix cat5 TV / netflix
cool dude mm-hmm so hey you got some
viewer questions for me I do all right I
do I do thanks for sending your question
we love getting them because that's what
we love to do answer your questions help
you out this comes to us from Lewis from
Ireland see lewis dear robbie i have
installed a version of ubuntu knoppix i
call it the german version i find it
very easy to use the computer details
are athlon 750 dual processor
the moment two gigabytes of memory but
by the time you read this we will have 8
gigabytes of memory the processor speed
is 2.7 gigahertz we have installed
VirtualBox and works okay but will not
recognize the USB port why can you tell
me how to solve this the USB port works
on Abu tube but does not seem to work on
VirtualBox with Windows the computer has
two extra cards that gives me extra USB
ports many thanks and um thanks for help
sure so kubuntu is the host yes I think
and and windows is the guest on virtual
motley USB is a proprietary system and
and so if you installed depending on how
you install your virtual box is going to
determine whether or not you're able to
access USB so there's a couple of
different ways now if you go into
synaptic package manager and do an
install a virtual box through that
you're going to be getting what's called
the OSE or the open-source edition
VirtualBox ok virtualbox OS e ok so that
does not include USB support because it
is strictly open standard stuff so in
order to get the USB support you need to
have the full version of virtual box
which is available through their own
repositories which you can get on their
website virtualbox org and let's see
it's been a while since I've been here
but downloads over on the left hand side
scroll now let's click on VirtualBox for
linux hosts ok and you can either get
the prepackaged stuff here I would
scroll down here and actually get one of
the Debian repositories get the one
that's appropriate for your version of
ubuntu how you can determine that C
precise when Eric natty maverick lucid
quick way now there's a couple different
ways but let's go administrative system
administration system monitor
system and you see that I am running
Maddie okay so for me I will take that
line that has natty okay and i will copy
that to my clipboard and then i will go
into administration either synaptic
package manager or i can go into i can
go into it directly but i'll do it
through synaptic package manager just so
you can see that's probably where you'll
install it from settings repositories
other software add and then paste in
your apt line with ctrl v get rid of
that character that I got at the end
there if you get one like that and so
that it just reads the text and then hit
add source and then you'll have that
source to be able to install the full
version then you want to follow the
commands here just follow the
instructions it's pretty easy grab this
line well you know what they've got a
combined line here get this line here
what this does is it gets the gpg key
for their repository which sounds fancy
dancy what it means is it's going to
prevent you getting errors because it's
it basically gives it gives your
computer the information to know that
this is a trusted repository so if you
copy that combined link and paste that
into your terminal copy bring up a
terminal window there you go edit paste
and then hit enter it's going to
actually download that key and it's
going to add it so that you can now
install without any problem follow the
instructions there apt-get update and
then install virtualbox dash 4.2 at this
point on December 11 2012 okay so that
gives you the full version now we need
what's called the extension pack let's
see where we can find that downloads
okay so we've got virtualbox installed
now let's pretend okay this is the next
step Oracle VM VirtualBox okay I must
have there it is okay cool
looking for the extensions there it is
okay virtualbox extension pack release
for virtual box personal use evaluation
VirtualBox older builds no don't want
that their builds oh here we go
extension pack all supported platforms
right up at the top okay that extension
pack in fact gives now virtual it sounds
all complicated but this is when Oracle
took over right virtualbox when they
bought out sun microsystems and took
over they broke everything up so now
it's it's a little more complicated off
the get-go but it's really actually
quite a seamless way to do things so now
I've actually got that file okay so i
can copy that file it's from my
downloads i can go into VirtualBox go
file preferences extensions now you see
that I already have it but now I can
click on this fancy little thing over
here for add package and I can grab that
file okay and then open it that's going
to give me the extension pack and that
extension pack now says I've got SATA
support I've got USB support I've got
all these different things that don't
come with the free version of a virtual
box because they're not free as in
freedom so then you've got your Windows
machine up and running with the
extension pack installed on VirtualBox
you need to hit devices and then install
guest additions even if you've already
done it make sure you do it again it's
going to update you to the latest
version is going to give you support for
all of the things that are supported but
do be mindful that on your system here's
a window system here i'm going to go
settings now that you've got the
extension pack installed go to USB here
and just make sure that USB controller
is enabled and USB 2.0 is enabled okay
so that will ensure that your Windows
machine is in fact going to have access
to your USB ports hmm all right good
luck hope that works out well for you
let us know virtual box is amazing to
allow you to run multiple operating
systems on your computer gives you a
good testing environment if you want to
mess around with something in
that you don't quite trust or if you
just want to be able to clean things up
really easily and revert them back to a
previous state a virtual machine just
makes it so easy breezy but it also
allows you to use system resources to
their fullest extent because these days
we've got such fast powerful computers
and it's wasted resources yeah you know
why do I have 16 gigs of RAM well let's
run three more operating systems at the
same time as well I'll give them each
four gigs happy happy wow thanks very
much for the question your question it's
flying by tonight ain't no only seven
minutes left of the show no lots of
questions but I have I have some
questions of my own yeah what's up Wow
I'm wondering tis the season to be jolly
where does one find music my Christmas
music for festivus how do i access the
Christmas songs on the interwebs without
paying a hefty fee because we love doing
stuff for free and or inexpensively here
on the shipping you and I have looked at
you remember looking at shoutcast before
that's one of the first places that I
would drag I have a vague memory of that
yes ok this is cross-platform so if you
and it doesn't have to be Christmas
music but if you're if you're interested
in Christmas music I'll just I am yeah
and I am too but what I mean by that is
there are there's every genre that you
could ever want ok alternative blues
country whatever so if that's what I
mean when I say it doesn't have to be
Christmas this is shoutcast calm now
what is this you think oh well this is
just some website that's a whole bunch
of radio stations and that is completely
untrue shoutcast is a service provider
by nullsoft now do you remember nullsoft
they're the creators of winamp and back
when internet radio was in its heyday
they created the you know the the winamp
service and shoutcast the service to be
able to stream they basically made it so
that radio stations could stream online
so this is still in existence shoutcast
still exists and people still broadcast
through the shoutcast servers so
these are independent radio stations
these are FM radio stations these are
online only radio stations I love live
Ireland which is a real Irish radio
station from Dublin Ireland Ireland and
it's actually broadcasting from Dublin
and Here I am a very and I can listen so
for us tonight for for Christmas music
fest we can just click on seasonal &amp;
holiday at the left hand side well that
was easy easy crazy and there are you
know a ton of different stations to
choose from show more you know it just
keeps going and going and going and
you'll find which ones you like the most
you'll notice that they're sorted by
listener and and quite often time you'll
find that the more listeners generally
speaking the better the quality of the
radio station you're not going to see
one of the real chintzy radio stations
with with one or two listeners right so
got radio Christmas celebration for
example it's broadcasting at only 64
bits per second probably kilobits per
second per me so half of CD quality as
far as mp3 is concerned but it is a AC
so that means it's going to actually be
really good quality sound this one here
this is got radio Christmas celebration
it's broadcasting 128 bits kilobits per
second mp3 so this is similar to CD
quality so you're actually listening to
this thing at close to CD quality both
of these right so if I click on the play
button next to one of them it's simply
going to now this one downloaded a pls
file because my linux system is set to
open pls files in movie player just
totem and that's fine that's how i would
so there you go okay so that's one
station if you're not happy with that
one click on the next one it's all free
oh that's the same one it's the same
radio station that's that's right just
two different versions so whichever one
you think sounds nicer so next one you
know let's say okay we were more into
the inspirational classics this one's
playing silent night right now yeah
gusta carols yeah so there there are all
these options and then of course when
it's over when Christmas is over you
head on over to the country stations
here and you can click on kickin country
and taking caltrain you know if that
wasn't a country split second clip that
I don't know what what a better
personifies country than that yeah so
that's shoutcast calm for christmas
music it's it's simply seasonal &amp;
holiday on the left-hand side check it
out that was easy absolutely free and it
has that ability to play directly within
your browser by default so that even if
you don't have a player like totem
installed you can still listen if you
want to change those settings go up to
help and settings you do not need to
create an account by default it's going
to be just the web player which is cool
and that's going to that's going to do
pretty well for you what I mean by you
don't have to create an account when you
when you usually when you go to a
website that allows you to save settings
it requires a login and a password and
given them personal information there's
none of that on shoutcast instead they
just use a cookie so if you clear your
browser cache you're gonna lose your
settings and just have to reset them
again but that's all fine and dandy and
private mmm good stuff cool thank you
for sharing that cuz i know i was
curious and i am I vaguely remembered
this setup I couldn't remember the
website if you're on Android as well if
you've got an android phone or android
android tablet you install the winamp
app that will give you access to
shoutcast if you're on iOS iphone or
ipad there is actually an app called
shoutcast so by the roar so when app on
android shoutcast on iOS and you'll have
access to that entire repository that
entire list of radio stations including
the chris
stuff hey like that thank you fabulous
this is category 5 technology TV can't
believe how time is flying by tonight
always flies when you're having fun have
fun here on show yes hey chat room don't
forget we've got lots of stuff to give
away for Christmas we've got our
Christmas specials I'm not very very
excited about that and it's it's been a
lot of work getting ready for it so I
hope that you can join us it's going to
be broadcasting at the same time as ever
but on Christmas Day because Tuesday is
Christmas so we'll actually be
broadcasting our live show hey Dennis
John so it's it's gonna be a lot of fun
and what is happening that's a little
bit different with our Christmas special
I don't want to give anything away but
let's just say if you're into some music
you won't need to go to show cast not it
at all that's all I'm saying ok we also
have we've got that printer to give away
which we're going to be reviewing next
week's going to be talking about that
that will be given away during our
Christmas special also we have packs of
batteries from ecole alkalines check
them out Eco alkalines calm and that
we've got I believe six kind of packages
of batteries that we're going to be not
not individual packs but Lee oh yes of
batteries in it you'll get an assortment
of batteries so yeah and lots of other
stuff as well so don't miss it it's
gonna be awesome and yeah Bobby what's
tomorrow quickly what's special about
tomorrow oh yes thanks hill no foul I
was 12 12 12 and at 12 well in the
afternoon I expect everyone to be
tweeting and retweeting each other oh
it's kind of the last time that that's
gonna happen for a while right I mean I
guess we'll be all binary some time to
consuming I mean we've got to go through
another hundred years to get there so
that's kind of a big deal alright have a
a wonderful night um yeah and really
looking forward to what's to come over
the next couple of weeks Heather thanks
for being here again tonight fabulous
photog
yes check out our Facebook web page fill
it as well on our website category 5 TV
click on the facebook link and Heather
is here shooting some behind the scenes
and and some really cool stuff there
that you don't normally get to see and
that all gets posted to Facebook so
happy yeah check it out get out make
sure you suck us on Facebook as well
that's important to us it makes us feel
a warm and fuzzy inside it they really
like us like this my place oh thanks for
being here take care bye everybody next
Tuesday and Sasha dear mantis will be
here next Tuesday night
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat where
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
