here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom is
amazon planning to track its employees a
patent has been granted for an
ultrasonic wristband that can monitor a
workers every move data on soldiers
running patterns captured by fitness
apps Travie has been discovered to
detail the secret whereabouts of
military bases best by use and for music
companies that it will stop selling CDs
this July YouTube is developing new
policies to protect itself from the
fallout caused by creators that are
posting inappropriate content these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere whether you shop on thinkgeek
gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching this is the category-five
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias i'm
becca ferguson filling in for sasha
Rickman this week and here are the top
stories we're following this week Amazon
it seems wants to keep a close eye on
its employees the firm's latest patents
suggests it's working on an ultrasonic
wristband that can monitor a workers
every move according to the patent data
about the position of the workers hands
is sent to the company in real-time
Amazon describes the technology as a
time-saving device but some have
criticized the system for going on us
for going a step too far in monitoring
performance sayang at the verge writes
while the patent describes this tech as
a time-saving system tracking workers in
this way it seems dystopian the amazon
patent was published by the United
States Patent Office
it describes ultrasonic tracking of a
workers hands that would be used to
monitor
performance of assigned tasks diagrams
show how workers will wear bracelets on
either hand which contain ultrasonic
units the ultrasonic unit is configured
to be worn by a user in proximity to the
users hand and to periodically emit
ultrasonic sound pulses States the
patent these silent pulses would then be
picked up by ultrasonic transducers
placed around the warehouse the patent
also outlines a feedback system which
means the device will vibrate to point
the wearer's hand in the right direction
the patent further states the management
module monitors a performance of an
assigned task Amazon sees the bracelets
being used by workers not only in its
warehouse but also outdoors and on cargo
ships the patent includes this
tongue-twisting statement existing
approaches for keeping track of where
inventory items are stored may require
the inventory system worker to perform
time-consuming acts beyond placing the
inventory item into an inventory bin and
retrieving the inventory item from the
inventory bin such as pushing a button
associated with the inventory bin or
scanning a barcode associated with the
inventory bin accordingly approved
approaches for keeping track of where an
inventory item is stored are of interest
the company insists that this is a labor
saving measure intended to verify that
correct items are being processed and to
avoid the need for computationally
intensive and expensive monitoring it is
not clear however if the designs will
ever actually materialize Amazon has
declined to comment on the patent way to
go what a tongue-twister indeed yes and
long-winded
it kind of you know I think about the
fear of being chipped and how companies
in San Francisco have you know pursued
shipping employees and and other places
in the world as well and how that's a
big concern to employees and human
rights and things like that and
conspiracy theorists yes yes sir I was
thinking of there was an episode of
boss we watched together once and he
went to the shipping warehouse of his
company I can't remember what his
company was but he was undercover as a
new employee and he was being trained
how to build boxes and package items so
he had to make the right size box put
the item in get the address labels and
that was immense
yeah and he there was a certain quota
you had to have a certain amount of
boxes packed within every 30 minutes and
he's scrambling trying to get these
boxes made trying to fill them trying to
get the address on he was getting more
and more stressed and the first time he
was training him she was getting
stressed because she's just like you're
not going fast you're gonna get fired I
was thinking if you had bracelets on
tracking how fast you were going you
would just be you would just be so
stressed out the whole time because you
knew you knew they were seeing exactly
how fast you're packing the boxes and I
don't know it just seems like it would
be a very stressful working environment
because you can never just pause the
moment take a breath there's two sides
to it I didn't really think of it that
way but is so obviously if Big Brother
Amazon my boss is watching my hand
movements using these ultrasonic devices
then it's like they're spying on what
I'm doing and but the big run-on
sentence that you had about the
inventory bins made sense in that
well I deal with a little bit of
inventory and sometimes things get
misplaced and you don't really know
where they've gone and then finally you
find them and well you've missed the
sale so the one perspective that I
gleaned from that is that because of
this they'll know where that product got
placed yeah always
and in a warehouse like Amazon I can't
imagine how massive the inventory is
yeah I kind of if you've ever seen the
Canadian show warehouse 13 where the
warehouse looks like it's my you
couldn't find item if you could just be
sort of like okay lead the way ah yes
sad end of things might be it might
actually put not cartoonish but that
would explain how they see it as
productivity thing yeah for sure you're
not gonna be wasting time looking in all
the wrong aisles for
take you straight to it so that side of
things could for sure be if more
efficient I think what do you think
comment below let us know the hidden
locations of secret US military bases
patrols and forward operating bases have
been accidentally revealed by the
fitness op Strava Nathan drew sir
founding member of the Institute for
United conflict analysts initially
revealed the information on Twitter
noting that data from strophes heatmap
makes the u.s. basis clearly
identifiable and mappable
in subsequent tweets ruse er was able to
identify a Russian operating area in my
min and guard patrol a Turkish Patrol
Afghanistan fo B's and a soldier running
routes Wow the revelation shows some of
the dangers inherent with the growth of
the Internet of Things and unrestrained
shadow IT Strava users are automatically
opted into sharing their data
anonymously on the heat map and must
manually opt out if they wish to not
share that data the version of Stratus
heat map that was used in Reuters
analysis was released in November
according to a straw a blog post it
takes into account data from 1 billion
activities and three trillion latitude
longitude points 10 TB of data in total
stratas privacy policy knows that the
data is anonymized but that doesn't
actually make it unusable usable for
hackers cyber attackers or in this case
possible military threats this
information should serve as a wake-up
call to security and IT professionals
alike that even seemingly harmless apps
such as a fitness tracker can prove
dangerous to your organization
enterprise's need an IOT policy and it
must account for all devices used in
connection with the company not just the
ones handling sensitive data wow that's
scary
we need to take a look at this mm-hmm
here we've got a building of some sort
and just to demonstrate what what we're
talking about somebody has been running
around in a circle here and you know you
can see the floor plan of the building
itself and you can you can basically
make out what what it looks like mm-hmm
and that's all because of the the heat
map and as I mentioned there it looks
like they've they've clued in to this
news story and taken it seriously in and
remove some of the stuff that should
have been hidden in the first place
which is good
what exactly is shadow i T shadow i T so
in this case the term is being used
because you're wristband this Strava
device is something that is not
necessarily approved by the organization
so it's an internet-connected device
that my boss has not approved me to use
on the network so shadow IT is like IT
infrastructure that exists within a
corporation or a company or an
organization that is not endorsed by and
approved by the policies in place by
that organization so for example in a
military base you would have a very
specific type of phone it would be
approved and it would have a very
specific set of applications installed
on it by the organization and you're not
allowed to bring your own personal phone
it's gonna be that one so shadow ite on
the other hand is stuff that is not it
has not gone through that approval
process and it's that wristband that's
monitoring your tracking name your
movements it's sometimes shadow IT is a
very good thing think about Google a lot
of innovations come out of Google
because they specifically set aside time
and say to their employees okay you've
got time to work on your own side
projects those projects in and of
themselves are technically shadow IT
they're creating infrastructures and
creating projects that are not really
approved by the blanket organization the
company that runs it and is happening
internally but is not approved by other
than just the blanket go ahead and do it
but then innovation says ok now
somebody's created something awesome now
it becomes part of the in the actual IT
infrastructure of the company so it's
not always a bad thing yeah and in the
case of Strava where users not aware
that they need to opt out if they don't
want their data
shared as well are they just assuming
that the anonymity is the same that's it
we think oh it's anonymous so it's safe
yeah you don't necessarily clue into the
fact that anonymous is not necessarily
safe you may be tracking my data
anonymously but it is still drawing an
outline of a military base yeah so I
think it's more of a just a case of hey
it's in semantics where we've just made
a mistake and maybe it maybe it needs to
be I I don't know how you resolve
something like that well maybe just more
awareness raising awareness within the
staff maybe
yeah within the staff you're always
gonna have somebody that just doesn't
follow policy yeah and they're still
gonna have my advice cuz they're
thinking I'm not losing steps mm-hmm
right maybe there should be an anonymous
you that they could opt out but if you
opt out do you lose your steps do you
lose because it's competitive so if I'm
if I'm jogging I'm getting steps steps
what would be the point of the fitness
app the fitness app is meant to promote
friendly competition between other users
so so you wouldn't there'd be no point
to opt out because that would you lose
the purpose you lose that competitive
nature of the app itself so I think
there's that too yeah Sasha's always
bragging about her steps yeah I look at
my phone and I'm like nothing the end of
the CD format might be insight as to
major retailers are set to push for
change in their relationship with the
industry through the end of this year
according to consequence of sound 89
million CDs were purchased in all of
2017 paling greatly in comparison to the
800 million sold in 2001 the drop in
popularity for the format has already
caused a shift in how each store carries
inventory with target for example only
handling a limited selection now
compared to nearly 800 titles at its
height according to Billboard Best Buy
on the other hand is going to get rid of
CDs altogether by July sources artists
are suggesting that the company's CD
business
nowadays only generating about 40
million dollars annually while it says
it's planning to pull out CDs Best Buy
will continue to carry vinyl for the
next two years however keeping a
commitment it made to vendors sorry the
vinyl will be purchase merchandise with
the turntables from now on target is
taking a different route instead of
getting rid of music they are pushing to
change the payment structure for both
CDs and DVDs from the movie distributors
the store has sold music I'm told music
companies that they would like to switch
to a consignment arrangement with
consignment the inventory risk will
shift back to the labels themselves any
pushback on these new deals and sales
terms could hasten the demise of CDs
they also note that music companies are
keeping a watchful eye on what happens
with DVD sales as well before making any
final decisions okay YouTube says it's
developing new policies to deal with
video makers who damage the reputation
of the website chief executive Susan
Wojcicki
[Laughter]
yep yep said egregious behavior by video
bloggers caused significant harm to the
entire community of video makers the
site has been under close scrutiny after
video blogger Logan Paul made a video
which showed a dead body in a so-called
suicide forest but many video makers are
frustrated with YouTube's policies in a
bid to stop advertisements appearing
next to controversial content YouTube
has been using algorithms to identify
contact that it judges or content that
it judges not to be advertiser friendly
yet many of the platform's biggest stars
have complained that their videos have
nevertheless being incorrectly marked as
unsuitable for advertising YouTube
creators have coined the words D
monetization and ad pocalypse to
describe this problem the platform has
also been criticized for what video
makers perceive as a lack of
transparency about its policies in a
blog post mrs. watchett cheeky that you
wanted to strengthen the trust that our
community places in YouTube
through open and frequent communication
addressing the so called ad pocalypse
she said the company was working on a
more accurate solution that would
involve an increase in human moderators
to review videos were also currently
developing policies that would lead to
consequences if a creator does something
egregious that causes significant harm
to our community as a whole she added
when Logan Paul uploaded the video he
recorded in the suicide forest YouTube
retaliated by removing him from the
Google preferred program which sells
premium advertising for the websites top
5% of video makers this is a big problem
for YouTube creators because even us
like we're pretty benign here we don't
get into political debates we don't get
into that kind of stuff at least we try
very hard to avoid it yeah to be very
neutral but we last week alone so last
week's episode we were talking about
open Banking with our interviewee we
were talking about various topics like I
had talked about net neutrality and sure
some of them are you know maybe it's on
the fence but several of our videos got
flagged as non monetizable is what I'm
getting at so even as benign as our
statements here on the show are we're
dealing with it and we're having to I
had three videos last week where I had
to request a manual review by a YouTube
staff and it's work for me and it's
extra work for the creator and and
you've got to catch it because if if I
ever missed that they have flagged one
of my videos and each video cost me
money to make so if I ever missed it and
then they pull all the monetization from
that video I could lose a lot of money
that is meant to reimburse the cost of
creation and pay the rent and help with
the bills yeah so it's a bad situation
so yeah they absolutely need to improve
things for sure now does YouTube have
contracts though did Logan Paul know
that it was not appropriate to post
video with a dead body well I think that
as a human being it should be ingrained
into our our souls our spirits that that
is not appropriate
yeah in any case now there is a lot I'm
there are things like that on YouTube
but is it just that those videos have
been demonetised so they are allowed to
put graphic content because they're not
making money or is it more of it maybe
they don't get caught because they're
not making money or because they're not
big enough to be noticed that's true too
yeah and so there has been a change
there too because if they're not big
enough they'd simply D monetize to the
channel so mangofox 70 has been
demonetised new every day has been
demonetised because we just don't have
enough subscribers on those channels and
so now we're losing money because
YouTube has put this into place Thank
You mr. logan paul for making them have
to make this change no but with logan
paul like it was said that these are in
violation of YouTube's polishers
so we accepted coins YouTube does have a
policy of no dead bodies in this case
I'm assuming that specific so if yeah so
if they're saying is in violation of
policy where is the policy that said no
dead bodies like well and did Logan Paul
should they have youtubers sign a
contract or in some way acknowledge that
they have read the policies and know
exactly what they are I'm not sure
specifically what policies they're
referring to but I know that there are
two policies that I can think of
immediately that would apply to him
first of all when you sign up for a
YouTube like an account to create to
become a creator you have accepted their
Terms of Use so you're more than 13
years old you accept this this and this
and it's a big long document yeah
then if you are going to become a
YouTube partner that is a monetizable
partner with they call them partners so
we are a partner with YouTube and so we
are able to monetize the video so when
you see the ads at the bottom of our
YouTube channel that helps to pay for
our bills
through our YouTube partnership so we
have accepted yet another contract with
them with regards to our partnership and
that one is very specific that you will
not create content that is of a
controversial nature that is yet on to
really summer summarize or it can't be
anything that an advertiser is going to
find offensive or because it's just
advertised he knew better
he should have known better had he ran
the contract that he clicked YES on so
it to me it seems that it was at YouTube
had every right to absolutely absolutely
probably now it's hurting a lot of
little guys so he's a big guy how
directly does it hurt the little guys
what's the I can only use myself like
how can we blame Logan Paul well it's
easy to blame him because that's what me
because the little guys aren't posted
dead bodies no just you see what he did
made you to YouTube realize we need to
make changes now
and so now part of that as you said I
just are they too little to get noticed
so now they've just cut off all the
little guys so all of the small monitor
utilization if they're because if
they're wanting to use more human
moderators they don't want to be wasting
- yeah little channels where previously
you could post a video like that takes
you time and possibly money to create
and you might have a couple thousand
views and you might get twenty bucks
back yeah and that helps to encourage
you to grow and to become better and to
do more now they're saying no no money
for you so how many subscribers do you
it what's the threshold before you can
start making a thousand now that
thousand subscribers the thousand
subscriber I suppose in some ways it's
an incentive for the little guys to get
to promote their channel and get their
subscribers up there mm-hmm absolutely
yeah for sure yeah I don't disagree with
the choice I just it does hurt a lot of
people and I think that they're they
need to fix the system like yeah the
fact that our videos get Deema
ties all the time now I would hate to be
somebody who was a little more
controversial than we are and you know
there are news channels that make their
living off of broadcasting the news and
the news is controversial but is that
included they get they get D monetized I
know that channels they have to show
censored video footage and things sure
mm-hmm
so I I'm sure there's a difference
between what you're allowed to talk
about versus what you're allowed to show
oh absolutely
yeah but YouTube and Google use
speech-to-text and then they run that
through the test the the filters and oh
this person said this this and this and
so now it's flagged and you cannot
monetize that video based on robotic
algorithm yeah and so that is where it's
hurting people because it's not very
accurate mmm I see again we welcome your
comments below if you're using creator
it would be a good opportunity for you
to share as well yeah how has it
affected you big thanks to Phil priest
Roy W Nash and our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe and subscribe for all your
tech news with a slight Linux bias and
for more free content be sure to check
out our website from the category-five
TV newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
[Music]
