welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 243
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
may the 15 2012 I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm
Hillary Rumble I don't greetings world
hey world nice to see you it is it's
good to be here I tell you always a
pleasure to have you here I do declare I
love it we were just talking it's funny
that she would say that just just before
the show we're talking about how much we
love it we do and you should too I'm we
know you do because you watch Us Weekly
and you're in the chat room and you're
awesome so thank you for being here with
us too hi Michael Iowa nice to see you
greetings to all our friends in the chat
room we got tons of groovy people here
and maybe it's your first time watching
live so if it is give us a shout out and
say hey this is my first time we'd love
to mention you and give you special
special greeting for tuning in speaking
of which I'd love to say hi to Chris
Reich and Pirus Rock really inside joke
nice to have you guys here greetings
greetings so we got a lot coming up on
the show today excellent does he often
do don't let you be your host tonight
this is good I like it I love this it
back well I just want to get going Oh
geez because what's coming up cuz we got
lots going on all right I'll tell you
okay let's go coming up in the newsroom
a new retinal implant could help blind
patients see without batteries hey new
software is designed to disrupt torrent
peer-to-peer networks in an effort to
stop piracy facebook is launching
launching its own app store that's kind
of crazy got Thompson lied on his resume
to become CEO of Yahoo what the guy from
paypal and I got him fired oh my so we
shall see what that means as well lastly
video game ratings are being made
simpler and stronger according to the UK
government you can stick around because
these stories are coming up later in the
show Thank so exciting news hey I want
to give big shout out to our viewers who
are on YouTube we don't often enough say
hi to people like dosbox mom who joins
us there on a regular basis hi there and
and I gave dosbox mom a little bit of a
fright this week and I thought I'd
mention to everybody who watches through
YouTube you're going to start noticing
that a lot of odd videos are going to be
showing their way on the category 5
channel and that's because if you recall
YouTube used to be limited to 10 minute
videos then they increased it to 15
minutes and then they said okay well a
select few of you are going to be
upgraded to an unlimited amount of time
so we were selected during that phase so
yes we started uploading full one-hour
episodes of category 5 technology TV at
that point but we're already you know
season 3 at that point so now what we're
doing for those of you who are watching
through YouTube is we're going back
finally going back it's a long time
coming we're going back and we're
putting in season 1 season 2 season 3
and this is all part of our venture to
launch our brand new website which is
coming to lie first on that website
you're gonna be able to go back as far
as season one back in two thousand seven
hmm I don't know what to think about
that
they're oldies but their goodies it'll
be more like for the nostalgic value
Soulja yes yeah you know how you have
that box in the top shelf of the
cupboard and Scott really stupid things
in it like you know mummified fish heads
for example and stuff that you just
don't normally keep around that for some
reason this means something to you and
that's what episodes one through 200 are
too so so people you know be mindful
this broadcast as it is if you see it
we're on episode number 243 right now so
243 244 245 they're all current episodes
abc15 not so current seemingly archaic
one a week do the math it's pretty
simple diff I know that most of the
stuff that we talk about in that episode
is no longer available because it's
obsolete but we got to get it up there
pretty memories for the memories huh the
jokes the different hairstyles of Robbie
you know that kind of sad the hairstyles
like the time that I had the faux hawk
didn't happen but now I made you look
you'll be like oh ok where is that I
find it unfortunately youtube doesn't
give us a real chance to put stuff it
kind of puts things sequentially so when
you upload a video it becomes the new
video on your channel grey so
unfortunately that means as we're
uploading these videos it's going to be
really old episodes that are going to be
showing up there so this also affects
our viewers on blip TV as well so but do
stay tuned july first is a very exciting
day for us as we launch our new website
we're going to be making sense of it
because it is going to be indexed
searchable it's going to be listed and
alphabetized and organized and you're
gonna have the ability to reorganize
based on now let's say we want to see
all the episodes that have Hillary
rumbling OH easy breezy kind just click
on her name and boom you got them all so
it's gonna be very very cool that is
pretty sweet that's what's going on on
YouTube all right also big news bad news
for one good news for potentially a
potential if potentially
they potentially tonight good news for
one good news for everybody who who is
qualified or was qualified for the Eco
alkalines giveaway unfortunately we have
been unable to contact our winner of a
year supply of eco alkalines batteries
unfortunately for them fortunately for
you we are reopening the contest we have
a year supply of eco alkalines
environmentally friendly carbon neutral
alkaline batteries to give away we'll
send them anywhere in the world wherever
you are all you gotta do is get on to
cat5 TV / eco that's going to take you
to their website scroll down you're
going to see two things going to see
their facebook page and you're going to
see their Twitter account follow them on
Twitter like them on Facebook that's all
you have to do cat5 TV / eco that's
going to put your name in the draw
that's going to cast your ballot for the
upcoming draw that's going to happen in
two weeks time a year supply of eco
alkalines batteries Wow yeah I eat it is
yeah I'm impressed wish I could win
speaking of impressive stuff tonight
we're gonna be teaching you how to save
a ton of money not by compromising
anything at all just by using technology
smartly we're gonna put 500 to
potentially a thousand dollars in your
pocket after this evenings broadcast so
stick around we're gonna be learning all
about that sounds good to me mm-hmm now
when you mentioned eco alkaline prize
pack being sent anywhere in the world
yes it reminded me of the fact that
stuff is being sent to us from all
around the world we get lots of it stuff
look you know stuff but what's actually
cool is the postcards we get because
they're little snapshots of your town
and we can see your handwriting and see
your personal story and then kind of
highlight where you're from from around
the world so we don't have any new
postcards today
I'm afraid that's what I look like when
I go into the post offices am i crying
today say none of my friends sent me a
postcard but let's turn that frown
upside down and this is how you do it
send your postcards address to category
5 technology TV peel box 29 009 Barrie
Ontario and of course we're in Canada
the best country in the world al gore
and 7 w 7 so send us a postcard and we
will highlight your your little home and
native land on the show not that there's
anything wrong with where you're from no
but Canada is the best I'm bias I think
well I'm biased I like Canada's pretty
groovy I'd say we do love to receive
your postcards and it's actually a lot
of fun because it is fun um well for one
thing it starts for for me when i get to
the postal box and I open it up and
quite often as a postcard in there for
me and then I you know I do my shopping
and stuff and I go through the checkout
and the cashier quite often notices that
hey that's a postcard from Afghanistan
like or Malaysia or wherever it may be
from and it you know it sparks up
conversation we start talking about the
show and how wonderful the viewers of
category 5 are how much we appreciate
you and and I certainly love to receive
those I know Hilary does as well diesel
and we're working on the wall love to
put your postcard on there yeah hey also
check out our mobile website it's m-cap
five dot TV you can scan that code or
you can just type it into your mobile
device m dot cat five dot TV sweet yeah
so we have to take a real quick break
here at category 5 technology TV don't
go anywhere again we're going to be
teaching you how to save a ton of money
tonight we've got your viewer questions
you've got fewer questions yeah I always
got questions we've got the wonderful
Hilary Rumble here Oh shucks so don't go
anywhere I'll see you in the chat room
category 5 on freenode and we'll be
right back after this at eco alkalines
we believe you should be able to trust
your batteries not just here but
here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm you are
watching category 5 technology TV and we
are a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here we love getting
your questions folks live at category 5
TV is the way to email us bring join us
in the chat room tonight category 5 on
freenode or visit our website category
five dot TV right there you'll see a
link for the live chat room if you're
watching this after the fact if you want
to join us in the chat room throughout
the week the link disappears from our
homepage but is always available on the
interact menu the website easy not to
see you yeah join us cool all right
first question of the evening and love
questions me too this comes to us from
Andrew Jamison hey Andrew saying i
recently downloaded a set of free
template in an effort to customize them
the template came with a PSD mock-up of
the images on the site pre-sliced for
the web I was told in order to change
colors and other image edit I could edit
the slices then export using photo shops
export to web feature this is fine
except for one small issue i do not own
photoshop and do not plan to spend close
to eight hundred dollars on a coffee of
it it is there a way you can get the
GIMP to view other the pre-sliced
portions of the PSD files then you can
edit them and if so how would you then
export them in a similar fashion to the
export export to web feature in
photoshop see so he has attached one of
the season smiles CSS PSD file and he
hasn't edited anything
in it so this was straight the file
straight as he download it did so this
is exactly as it was yes you'll notice
that GIMP opens a PSD file just fine but
unfortunately we lose those slices and
what slices basically are cut lines
where it's going to cut the image up
into a whole bunch of little images
unfortunately the GIMP isn't going to
import those from a Photoshop file I say
unfortunately but to be honest slicing
in that regard is kind of the old-style
way of doing things or in looking at
this template real briefly I I'll
explain what what I mean by that Andrew
essentially what i see when i see this
image let's say we have slices okay and
you can create slices in the GIMP and
I'll show you how to do that what I'm
going to do is I'm going to hold my
cursor down on the ruler up at the top
and I'm going to drag and I'm going to
drop but what that does is it creates a
slice at the top here and so i end up
with all these weird little slices that
can be tabled which is what this was
designed for originally with Photoshop
these slices can be tabled to create a
nice layout you can do that with the
GIMP as well you can create them but
it's a little bit you know as far as web
goes it's a little bit can be sloppy
because you're you're working with
basically what it does is it takes the
rendered image the the rasterized image
so all layers combined and then cuts it
up and spews it out so instead of having
a nice clean back up which I put dibs on
top of that are nicely stylized using
css3 or CSS too I'm instead ending up
with little bits and pieces of all these
different things and instead of using
border radius and CSS to make a nice
rounded edge on my on my website mockup
on my website layout I'm instead having
to use all these little images that give
me those rounded corners so it's kind of
an old-style way of doing things that
said it can be useful it is useful to
know how to use slices so you see that I
did create some slices here by dragging
ruler up at the top and the ruler on the
left you can create those slices they're
always square it's not like a you know
it's not like I can cut out a slice like
that it doesn't happen that way so I've
created those slices I can right click
and I can go filters web slice tell it
where you want to save it's going to
create a slice HTML which as I said is
it's going to just be a jumble of table
it's a table it's going to use HTML
tables to layout and position that stuff
not to say you can't with a little
know-how fix that so that it's using
divs but it's going to spew out a table
and that's the way Photoshop does it as
well so you would choose JPEG for
example ping if you want to have
lossless imagery but in this case
because they're square edges you could
just go with JPEG and use high quality
JPEG there are no transparencies right
because it's a slice and there's nothing
there's no alpha layer so that's how you
would create new ones unfortunately not
in portable but what I would do looking
at this image andrew is I would do
things a little bit differently so i
would look at this I lose the slices
let's see if i can just revert okay so
now let's turn off some of the upper
layers get rid of all this mess of stuff
here and let's look at that background
there it is so that's the background of
my website you'll notice what I see from
this is that it has a gradient that
extends down okay so that's to see 4161
and you'll notice as I go up it's still
to see at about the midpoint I don't if
you can see my cursor or not what i did
is i clicked at the very very bottom
right about here and then i clicked up
around here and i notice that the colors
are exactly the same here so when i
create my image I can actually crop that
a little bit i'll show you what the gimp
does this really really nice i'm going
to control a for select all i'm going to
edit copy visible and then i'm going to
paste as a new image now I've got the
background just as an image it's
completely flat but what i can do is i
can right click on that and i can go
image auto crop image
that's going to take it down to this
nice little tiny file I'm going to go
file save as slap it on my desktop call
this header background dot jpg let's
export that save it at eighty percent
quality just to compress it down a
little bit without losing any quality
hit save and now on my desktop I'm going
to have this file which is only 12k it's
not a slice it's now an image that I can
place as my as my body background
position top Center and then create and
then set the color of the background of
your website to the very lower most
color right down there just do a Doppler
sample at the very very bottom and then
it's going to look like the exact same
thing that you had up there so then
going back to the the mock up the
original mock up there let's see I'm
going to revert again so now we've got
this thing in the middle I'm going to
lose the background there we are so the
one thing about this is that all this
could be done with CSS without any
images except for these little frilly
things here so all these rounded things
I would suggest that you create a rapper
div with it at FFF background which is
white it's what it looks like you're
using there and use border dash radius
this is the CSS that you want to use to
do that you can do box shadow as well if
you want to add a little bit of a
feathered edge around the edge and and
study up on that stuff because then
you're not going back to they'll call it
web one point oh but you know old school
using tables to create really terribly
laid out as far as the code goes as far
as the code base goes terribly laid out
websites it's really about now it's it's
about creating sites that yeah they look
exactly the same it looks very
attractive but you're able to create it
in such a way that it's it's very
lightweight very fast works on mobile
devices and is using new technologies
not tables when divs was with CSS and
css3
that's the way I would approach that
Andrew so good luck I hope that that
puts you on to some interesting
adventures but see right off the top i
showed you how to do the slices if you
really really want to don't recommend it
though i want you to learn the real deal
so right on yeah oh he was just saying
in the chatroom he's actually in the
chat room okay um Leandra initially Oh a
few minutes ago he said the slices were
used to pull image fragments out so CSS
could stretch it um there really aren't
any though releases not tables either
they use the image slices to pull the
small image out to stretch oh okay I see
what you mean so they have and a CSS
sample and what they're doing is they're
creating a slice you know like this kind
of idea and they're saying okay well
there's an itty bitty slice in the
middle there that's going to give you a
little square that you're going to
repeat dash X but again you're using
images you could use CSS gradients to
create that get on to let's just jump
over to Google CSS gradient generator
click on the color Zilla one there and
that looks pretty similar the default
one pick one that looks blue play around
with it sample your colors right all I'm
doing is picking a CSS gradient let's
say it's like that that I want to use
pretty similar to what's at the top and
then just copy the code to your
clipboard and you've got something to
work with the CSS no images right very
very quick it's going to cash because
it's in your CSS file so you can put it
behind a CDN or something like that a
proxy cached proxy and it's going to be
extra extra fast to serve it up to your
your site visitors so but that said you
know repeat-x on an image is sometimes
required with what this template looks
like it's not required so I would stay
away from it myself cuz I'm all about
super zippy not website coding
right very cool cool he says that is a
cool tool thank you very very much for
your question I hope that that you know
I I I know I'm kind of just throwing
some ideas at you yeah but here here you
go it's an adventure learning to do web
design I think that it's important to to
see all the different ways to do it it
doesn't necessarily mean you got to take
the code that they've given you and work
with that experiment a little bit have
fun all right thanks again for the
question thank you have another question
here coming to us from Ron Smith hey Ron
hi Robbie in the past I've been able to
download your show like the next day by
starting the video stream and then
saving it when I try to get the video
file now I only get a 2.5 megabyte file
and not the full video so I'm assuming
something has changed on your new site
what's the best way to get the video now
with the same quality so i can watch it
offline i see what's happening is it
you're bringing up the pop-up player and
you're trying to save from that i guess
so what what may have happened the
behavior that you were experiencing
before is just a side effect of html5
because a lot of the videos depending on
what platform you're on tuna detect that
you're on an html5 compatible browser
it's going to load for you the h.264 a
QuickTime file that's the word I was
looking to the QuickTime file will load
in an html5 browser and then you file
save as and all of a sudden you're
saving the QuickTime file that's not
necessarily the case of all of a sudden
better copy is detected for your system
and it served up in a different way
perhaps it uses a particular flash
player for example which we only lean
toward flash if your browser supports it
so our site detects that gets supported
and intelligently chooses the best
option for your browser so and then
you're going to see changes like that
happening that you're going to see on
the b2 website the existing website as
we continually build the version 3
website which launches and launches the
first of July because a lot of the the a
lot of the programming is shared between
the two sites like the player it is
obviously shared but
the two sites there's no point in
reinventing the wheel but we improve it
for them certainly okay so to answer
your question get over to our website
category five dot TV or if you're
watching this and you just want a quick
link it's cat five dot TV / CS no one
RSS I'm thinking about Andrew Jameson's
question still CSS okay RSS is for your
aggregator alternatively the wait for me
the way you can get there is watch the
show and subscriptions and RSS feeds
okay so on that page no matter how you
get there you're going to see an HD feed
and SD feed and a portable mp4 feed the
top two are h.264 they should for all
time as far as I can tell at this point
unless some other format comes along
five years from now as was the case with
mp4 and then when H dot 264 took over
these feeds the top two should always
contain all the most recent and many if
not all of the old episodes as well so
there-there can't we're leaning toward
those are the feeds that you should be
subscribed to if you're subscribed to a
different feed at this point maybe
consider switching just in case so what
you would do if you're using a device
with let's say a 19-inch or under
monitor use the SD feed if you're using
something with a larger monitor you'll
want to use the HD feed which is going
to give you a 720p file you can
aggregate that yourself if you want if
you have an aggregator such as Miro
internet TV for example or any podcast
aggregator alternatively you can just
simply click on it and it's going to
bring you to a web page version of that
and you'll see that each one each
episode up until last week's episode is
there and the play now button is indeed
a link to if you can see at the very
bottom of my screen the m4v file so I
can right click and go save link as and
now I've got the MP m4v file coming over
okay be mindful of course that the HD
feed is going to be quite a bit larger
as far as the
download goes then the SD feed st being
standard definition HD being high
definition so give that a go you don't
need to have an aggregator to get it I
suggest using an aggregator just because
then it's already downloaded by the time
you want to watch it but if you want to
do it manually pardon me our servers are
extra fast you should be able to
download it in only a couple minutes as
well cool bit sprocket says +1 for mere
oh yeah euro duck Bureau internet TV
it's a fantastic application at get mera
kaam and I definitely support it and
recommend it it gives you not just
category 5 but tons of other television
shows as well that are available for you
online so very cool yeah speaking of
cool I have an email that's not a
question all right I'm non question we
fun too mm-hmm ok jot sent us his email
regarding his common dung collection as
featured in the common dung collection
in the video game entropia universe like
this is a collection that he keeps him
well collection he sends me this would
an email yeah that has stuff grouped
with fruit Papillon bombard oka root
stuff like that it's just a really
lengthy email so I'm trying to summarize
because it's super fun and there's lots
of fun stuff in here anyways one thing
he says that people complain to him
saying um that he can't be his friend in
entropia universe and in rising to him
because he's happy to be friends with
them Oh an exact program bug I don't
know a bunch of photos as well some
hotties up for sure so one photo shows
that if you right-click you can select
system and then select the player
register and search for JA but nothing
shows up oh nothing shows up then you
can't be friends I said I understand ok
so he's saying that in the game people
are having trouble befriending him in
the game
I thought you meant because of his dumb
collection that makes sense too it's not
it's like that no that's why they
wouldn't want to be friends confusing
just so confusing yes so C is it anyways
oh is that ok ok so this is his calming
down collection I'm planet calypso ok
that's the collection magnificent shot
you should be very proud groovy so you
sent us another photo here if you tried
to search to be John's friend don't
search for jot so right Joshua Josh just
don't do that various search instead for
a various so now you know anyone who was
wondering okay um what else so if you
search for Joshua jot there he is this
is on planet calypso you can download
the free game at cap five dot TV /
Calypso you can and friend John now now
you know how you know how yeah um what
else does he say here one good thing
though is if you search in the mentor
register under the system menu than
searching ja you'd find Jack so anyways
he's saying just if you're looking for
him you couldn't find him search for
Joshua ja he also sent us this other
photo which is pretty amazing isn't that
cool he is just check this out people he
is playing the game he's in game is
watching category 5 he's got a TV in
entropia universe planet calypso and is
watching category 5 TV that is cool I
didn't know you could do that that is so
it's like yeah that's just my belief you
tur in the computer and it's a little
weird it's like paradoxical yeah it's
kind of my head a little yeah but I love
this green gram that's pretty awesome i
love that everything is so neatly
decorated for Christmas too and i love
that Robbie's giving eric the stink eye
I'll ok I just happened to be late in
the photo it's free awesome so thank you
for that hilarious email full of fun and
just hilarity really humorous I've
actually
around in planet clip so a couple times
with shot he saved me from monsters and
things in the past thank goodness yeah
or else thanks man what would have
happened it can be a lot of fun at the
exploration nature of the game huge vast
landscapes and amazing apartments it's
just so fascinating to me what what
possessed you to get a TV in your
virtual apartment so that you can watch
a show that you can watch without the
virtual apartment hmm curious
interesting how neat thanks for sending
that enjoy yes thank you very much that
was fun well I'd say it's just about
time for the News Center here's the top
stories for category 5 teenies ran a
retinal implant or by honest I which is
powered by light has been invented by
scientists at Stanford University in
California implants currently used in
patients need to be operated are powered
by a battery the new device however
described in the journal of nature
photonics uses a special pair of glasses
to beam near-infrared light into the eye
whoa could these by any chance look
anything like a visor that would be cool
I'd be something else Lana dahlia
pressing onward this power the implant
in tons of information which could help
a patient to see retinal implants
stimulate the nerves in the back of the
eye which has helped some patients to
see better early results of the trial in
the UK show that two men have gone from
being totally blind to being able to
perceive light and even some shapes
that's so cool really cool it's a step I
mean a kid okay so some shapes and you
think oh Lord oh that's amazing like
people who are blind huge seeing
something it may not be what I see but
something something that they never
returnable conceptualized before yeah
fascinating additionally this is
fascinating our Russian company has
developed software it says can disrupt
and prevent people from downloading pie
good content pirate pay has been backed
by Microsoft and has so far worked with
walt disney studios and Sony Pictures to
stop thousands of downloads the tool
poses a real or sorry the tool poses as
real bittorrent users and then confuses
them the peer-to-peer networks causing
disconnections then I can understand how
that that makes sense but what about
legitimate torrent servers like I mean I
download my ubuntu desktop operating
system through a torrent mm-hmm so how
is that it would confuse it does it only
do they only pick out like the ones that
are known to be distributing illegal
material perhaps but then what about
people who distribute legitimate
material on those networks that also
distribute illegal material because
they're peer-to-peer yeah that's the
peers that are doing that it's the peers
you should investigate this further we
should report back let us know Facebook
has launched its own app store to
promote mobile programs that operate
using the social network the company
said the app center will become the new
central place to find great apps like
draw something and other titles
developers will have the ability to
charge a fee for apps sold in the store
in the near future facebook said the
announcement came as Facebook admitted
growth in the mobile use could hurt
future advertising revenue the App
Center is expected to be rolled out
globally in the coming week said
Facebook's Erin Brady in a post on the
network's developer blog on the apps
which make use of Facebook's login
system connect are eligible to be
included in the store in January yahoo
name's Scott Thompson the president of
PayPal as its new head but investment
firm Third Point discovered that mr.
Thompson did not hold a degree in
computer science as he had claimed
Thompson apologized to staff in a memo
on Monday but made no mention of why his
biography had listed the degree he had
not received yahoo has acknowledged the
inadvertent error and has said it will
conduct a review and then oh it said it
will conduct a review and then fired him
as CEO on Sunday
Ross Levinsohn a 48 year old executive
who oversees Yahoo's media and
advertising services it's taking over as
the interim CEO don't lie on your resume
people don't lie just be true to
yourself it's important because they
could have searched it on yahoo and then
found out it was false nobody searches
on yahoo but he worked at yahoo
silylation maybe he searched him do you
think he was using google they oh that's
just another issue whoa okay this poor
guy all right the system by which video
games are rated in the UK is to be made
simpler and stronger the government has
said games will now be rated by the
video standards council in line with
europe-wide guidelines previously
additional ratings were decided upon by
the British Board of Film classification
the new system means for the first time
that anybody selling a 12 rated game to
a child under that age could face jail
time but does not apply the games that
are bought online you can get these full
stories at our website at category five
slap or category five TV / newsroom the
category five TV news room is researched
by Ward WH who's awesome as well as we
have contributions from our stellar
community of viewers if you that means
you have a new store you think's worthy
of honor mentioned send us an email at
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Hillary
rumble thanks Hilary rumble no problem
tonight she always brought to you in
part by garden gate farms com for
certified organic broccoli sprout and
wheatgrass juice visit their website
Garden Gate farms com also the clean
power here at category 5 TV is brought
to you by quarter eee electric
contracting inc we find them online
quarter eee electric com and they are
the official electrical company of
category 5 technology TV were you ever
hear when we have the power issues
couple times couple times it was scary
stuff lights or things cut things
explode
yeah never again thanks to quarter
electrics they're right man they are
fantastic and they'll come right to you
if you're within about a hundred
kilometers of Barry and even beyond if
you want to contact them quarter of
electric com sweet yeah what do you been
up to oh you know keeping it real doing
my thing always when is Hillary Rumble
not keeping a real doing her thing cool
beans cool beans cool beans yeah no I'm
good I just big days coming up it's
coming yeah getting all the preparations
PS I'm getting married if you're
watching you're like what is she talking
about wedding prep is well under way
things are coming along and yeah it's
going good that's hard to plan a wedding
though because you want to have this
most amazing thing but you want to not
spend a buttload of money I'm all about
saving money so yeah it's crazy I think
you're creative though I think you can
do it I hope you come up with amazing
things like hosting a party where
everyone dresses in 1970s outfits from
thrift shops yeah yeah that was fun
while rollerskating while rollerskating
not rollerblading skating different they
have four wheels two on each side
they're like a skateboard that goes on
your feet true so it's pretty rad
interesting stuff well I know that you
want to save money I do with the
marriage coming up I mean you're gonna
start looking at okay you're gonna be
bug in the house or an apartment at
least and and getting all these new
expenses yes honey felt that we've never
had to think about before I left into
that ten years ago and you know little
things like I've got my phone bill here
mm-hmm for example and this is just last
month's phone bill 5490 254 dollars and
ninety two cents out of my pocket mm
just to have phone service that's
without any calls that's just the
service out period we pay separately for
our long distance we've got this guy
that was another twelve dollars and
forty-eight cents so if we do the math
12 got my little iphone ask Connor look
at that I like what is my calculator old
school style like it 1248 plus 50 492
that's a typical month mm-hmm so I paid
sixty seven dollars and forty cents well
last month just for a couple of phone
calls I mean that's the length of our
long-distance bill that's crazy okay
times that by 12 so for a year what are
we looking at eight hundred and eight
dollars and eighty cents you let's just
so let's just say 800 bucks is what I am
paying regularly that's a typical month
a pretty basic month I mean it's
sometimes more than that sometimes I see
a $25 long distance bell I've had it I'm
done with this okay throwing away 800
bucks that's the way we gotta look at it
so hmm get rid of it get rid of it and
along comes magic jack Oh tell me more
check out cap five dot TV / magic jack
jot that down I want you to take a look
I saw this on the TV mm-hmm and we're
intrigued I'm intrigued but extremely
skeptical right leg is this thing for
real so tonight I am NOT going to give
you a product review so much as we're
gonna do some mythbusters myth-busting
tonight eight find out is this thing
legit right so I got one of these from
cat5 TV / magic jack this is the new
magicjack plus one of the things that
was very cool about this one it doesn't
need a computer so if you were like oh
magic jack that means i have to have my
computer on all the time it's gonna be
plugged in the USB use this comes with
all the stuff so that you can just plug
it into the wall oh I'll get into your
networking you're done good to go but
how good is it still skeptical yeah have
you seen the commercials I have and I
too wondered cuz I
that was really interesting and they
make a couple of claims first of all
dirt cheap like 30 bucks a year for your
phone service I don't believe 30 bucks a
year holy I was paying eight I'm paying
800 ok so the 30 bucks we'll just round
it up it's 2995 / 12 simple math two
dollars and fifty cents a month fairies
hence the skepticism you're like yeah
how can we can't work they also make a
claim that basically a child a baby
could install it so I set out you know
in our myth-busting style to find out if
a baby could could do this and from what
I can tell he hasn't even noticed it oh
there oh look at the magic jack it's
maybe the hardest part is getting it out
of the package yeah I mean I'm not gonna
give my baby boy a pair of scissors
sorry magic jack not gonna happen so a
baby cannot install the magic jack but
maybe I can I think I can do it in under
six minutes wonder if you could handle
it think i could probably they make it
look so dead simple like no you just got
to plug it in and it's done the one
thing that's a little disappointing
about the magic jack plus i'll say as a
linux user is you have to have windows
or mac to set it up the initial setup
okay not to use it just okay so you
might have to take it to a family
member's house or a friend's house if
you're a die-hard linux user like me who
doesn't have a windows computer handy
plug it into the windows computer set it
up but because it doesn't require a
computer to run you can run it it
doesn't it doesn't matter what platform
you're on it's just that initial setup
okay so I happen to have a windows
laptop which Hilary uses yes here at the
show and so I actually set out to do it
so let's do
unboxing for one thing because you know
how much I love
boxes look at all the wires there's the
magic jack
which does not require computer comes
with an ethernet cable a USB extender a
a SI adapter so you can plug it into the
wall here i'm going to just plug it
right into your laptop there hilary and
we're going to see what happens straight
in and lo and behold what do you want to
do let's start magic jack let's see how
easy this really is okay downloading a
firmware update which is cool love that
the first thing it does is make sure
that it's up to date Oh upgrades itself
I haven't had to really push anything at
this point so that's kind of good user
friendly okay so it started up this
computer console on my windows 7 system
and so I can use this to dial
immediately or I can just let's click
and make it into a real phone line let's
click to register and we'll get a phone
number so that we can actually call out
on a regular phone or have people call
in this question is just where did you
buy it did you get it off the website
did you call an 800 number or in our
case a retail store or a gift I think
it's just a survey question I don't
think it really matters but so we're
going to create our account real basic
setup here enter my name my personal
email address because I'm going to try
this on our home phone line now we're
going to enter our info it needs to know
where we are for 911 service so if you
if you want to be able to have 911
service obviously you need to put in an
address so I'm going to choose Canada
i'm going to enter my street address and
then go next so far so good let's give
it a name home phone it's pretty easy so
far hmm terms of service which I've read
previously I'd encourage you to plants
over that it's important stuff
now we can go with a vanity number up at
the top here which basically means i can
type in robbie and get a phone number
that is actually it's got my name in it
so i can tell my friends hey call one
eight hundred yeah Robbie yeah all right
so I can reserve my number if I want to
do it that way it's going to be a US
number or I don't want a Canadian or
vanity number i'm going to go with a US
number this way it's basically no extra
charge because a vanity number canadian
number is going to is going to cost me a
little bit if you don't want a phone
number at all you can just use your
magic jack to call other magic jack call
users which is cool if you have a family
member that has one but in my case i
want to use a canadian number notice
that you can also in some cases you can
convert your magicjack into your
existing phone number transfer from your
existing phone company in my case i
couldn't so i'm going to create a new
one in ontario 705 area code i'm going
to choose a berry phone you know
three-digit first three digits of the
number there we go so i'm creating a
brand new number right here and Barry
easy enough reserve my number let's see
what happens
okay so it's asking me for my address
again in the drop down it has my address
so I'll select that and it's
pre-populated all the fields for me and
it's asking me for a credit card number
reason for this is that I've agreed now
I want a canadian number so i am going
to pay what ten dollars okay so these
are some ads do you want to go with five
years of platinum service for only a
hundred bucks you might want to do that
if you want to that's cheap gives you
all this stuff you want an extra magic
jack do you want long distance overseas
do you want a lifetime warranty for free
that I will take you can turn it off at
any time and of course I can subscribe
to any of those previous promotions at
any time too there's my bill ten dollars
and forty-eight cents well is that going
to cover me for the month that's going
to cover me for the year whoa that's my
full year service with my new magicjack
now it's sent me an email so I'm just
going to enter the code I got the code
via email so you need to use a
legitimate email address of course
activate my magic jack enter a password
so that I can log into voicemail and the
web interface do settings on my on my
phone line and then you want to use this
on a computer or do you want to use it
standalone I'm going to click the green
button which is going to let me use this
as its own phone line simply unplug it
from the computer now and here's where
things get exciting i'm going to plug
that ethernet cable directly into my
router then get your magicjack plus and
all we need to do is just plug the
ethernet cable the other end of the
ethernet cable into the internet port on
that device it's so simple like you
can't go wrong here there's the USB
extender just to make it so that the
power is a little bit more flexible so
I'm not sticking this thing out you know
three inches from the wall kind of thing
i'm going to plug mine into a UPS so
that if the power goes out my phone
still works so in this case i'm using an
extension cord just for the sake of the
demonstration you'll see that it's
powered up and in fact it's already
getting
indicators on the Ethernet port as well
just to show that there's some form of
activity there next and final step is
simply to plug in your phone and this is
a wireless phone that I'm plugging in
and you'll see now what I'm going to do
is turn on the phone and see what
happens this is the moment of truth
because really it's like I'm still
skeptical at this point I've set it up
it's easy breezy hey I've got a dial
tone that's that's promising is anybody
in the United States want to receive a
call from category five right now
private message me your phone number if
you're in Canada or the US because with
my magicjack now I can call anywhere
apparently in Canada or the u.s. sweet
and it cost me nothing private message
me your phone number if you're in Canada
or you ask do it do it it does overseas
calling as well but you do have to get a
data plan or a long-distance plan for
that and in that case if it's still very
large probably yeah significantly
cheaper and yeah other means that's
private message me your phone number
please if you're in Canada or the US get
near a phone private message me your
phone number I want to give this thing a
try now it would be risky for me to do
so because we're broadcasting live at
the same time using our internet pipe
that's something that's important to
understand to thank you Chris Reich is
that it uses your internet connection so
it's a whole different kind of thing
because you're now reliant on your
internet instead of your phone line yeah
which makes me nervous because where I
live my internet work sixty percent of
the time forty percent of the time if
it's windy or there's leaves on the
trees or if it's snowing oh not bad yeah
it's pretty brutal okay well here's
something about the magicjack okay
that's a problem because you need to
have a working home phone and if your
internet is unreliable then I'm sorry
yeah it does have to be a good solid
high-speed backbone for sure I mean ah
but we're just on cable internet here
and so far I've got a dial tone yeah
sounds promising yeah
um here's the thing let's say your
traveler I've got my home phone now on
my magicjack with a cordless phone or
whatever it plugs into the regular phone
jack yeah yeah apparently now I can
unplug that from it's an Internet device
right so I can unplug it from the
internet I can fly overseas I can plug
it in to an Internet at the hotel or at
mom and dad's or wherever I am over in
Europe and it rings my home phone number
I can call people and Barry locally and
they can call me locally injured if your
traveler if you're on business Itzik one
it's unbelievable as far as what that
can do okay let's give this a go notice
one of the things I'm not going to do is
I'm not going to dial the number one I'm
gonna dial first the area code okay I no
longer have to dial one there's no such
thing as long distance gotcha that makes
sense okay let's give this a go I'm so
excited yeah I'm gonna put on speaker
make sure you turn down your speakers
okay Chris this is you Chris right I get
your voice mail dude hey Chris hey buddy
we're live on the air this is robbie and
Hilary hello thanks for watching hope
you're enjoying the show this is on my
magicjack so how does it sound maybe you
can let the chatroom no okay awesome
let's see who else has given us their
number here oh okay another one it
sounded pretty clear they're not do that
I'm getting excited this is my
skepticism is ok now bleh bleh bleh so
this is going to Iowa highs is Michael
yeah hi Michael this is Robbie Ferguson
calling from category 5 technology TV
hey excellent how about you
the phone yeah you know I'm getting kind
of excited about this this is kind of
cool you've been using it are you on a
magicjack right now okay so I'm calling
your home line a landline I'm calling
through the internet right now I'm
actually uploading like we're streaming
the show live right now too so beg your
pardon and there we are he says where
he's watching us right now we're talking
yeah all happening right now I'm doing
my best with speakerphone here for me
yeah she's right here hi all right nice
talking to you Michael I'm gonna I'm
gonna make a couple more calls here
thanks man bye bye that was pretty cool
it worked a Jameson saying the chat room
you can now do category 5 wakeup calls
there you go hey Robbie here I'm gonna
have to wake up at 5am yeah I have to
wake up at one oh boy people are from
all over the world here this is
incredible Freddie neat pretty rad Oh
Michael I want how are you sir all right
where are you watching from Fort Myer
fort myers nice to have you watching the
show thanks buddy this is great how does
how do things sound to you but there you
have it folks by the way your your phone
kept on dialing while mindful my phone
rang so it must be Oh a little bit of a
delay from if you're watching the feet
at the same time for sure Michael thank
you very very much for helping us test
this this is exceptional cheers thanks
for watching okay buh-bye all right
we've got time for one more Arizona
interesting so exciting now here this is
bit sprocket who's mentioning that we're
actually calling into an asterisk box
and they're using google voice on that
I bit sprocket how are you I'm well how
are you ready I'm excellent thank you so
much for helping us test this how do
things sound on your end oh it's all
fantastic is you're quite quite a long
way away so it sounds really great we
sure are hey have you ever heard of the
magic jack yeah actually I used one for
a couple years although it wasn't the
standalone version it was okay prior
model so this being the new magicjack
plus of course I'm doing this just
plugged into power and ethernet and my
cordless phone it sounds pretty great
yeah I was skeptical up until now my
friend I think this thing actually works
more it sounds really great like I said
I used mine for a couple of years via my
computer and I loved it so I think
you've been made like the purchase
Cheers alright thank you sir thanks for
watching hey well yeah Cheers well bye
Wow all right two dollars and fifty
cents a month seems very reasonable to
me including long distance I just called
all over the great old American in the
United States and one in Canada and
fantastic that's pretty cool I like that
I don't think I have a right to be
skeptical anymore same but I think what
happens with a product like this is it's
so new and so fandangled and so
unbelievably out there as far as how
good it is yeah for what it costs that
you figure it can't possibly work and
plus they do a lot of really how do you
say like Slap Chop kind of advertising
you know like commercial really classy
commercials where it's like you know
yeah it's really over the top a little
bit as far as the the commercials go but
here you've seen it you know for real
hey your category 5 i'm pretty excited
about that that's the magic jack plus
you can find out more you can order one
no obligations you're gonna try it for
30 days there's your dad cat five dot TV
/ magic jack the cost if you decide to
keep it now you got to pay up front but
they'll pay they'll give you your money
back if you decide no it's not working
for me so try it if your internet isn't
necessarily reliable give it a try first
you're going to pay 6995 for the
magicjack plus doesn't require a
computer they still have the one that
requires a computer i would say you know
now just go
this one yeah makes more sense your
first year of long of all your services
calling it's got voicemail it's got call
waiting call ID all that it's included
in the 6995 your whole year service
that's what I'm paying in one month yeah
okay after the first year it's 2995 per
year and like I say if you want to get a
canadian phone number or one of those
fancy Robbie numbers then you're going
to pay like 10 bucks or something like
that 25 so yeah that is how do you like
that so this could be a good option if
you get if you're moving a berry or
something and get a fairly reliable
internet connection there you go more
I'm thinking idea where yeah and then be
able to bring it like that's really cool
huh thank you so much cat five dot TV /
magicjack to check that out thanks
everybody really appreciate your
participation tonight and very cool that
I could try it live on the air that was
cool and risky at the same time I mean
I've done that before and it's failed
not the magic jack but other products
that we've tried tried on the air you've
had a few as well and it's always a risk
and that's why I do it because I want
you to know for real like we're not here
promoting a product you say yeah we're
not I don't want to sell you something
that doesn't work there you have it it
works we did it great legit legit too
legit I'm gonna use it here at the
studio I got a vanity number you did to
545 cat5 TV 2 5 4 or 5 cat5 TV ring me
up give us a ring all the time leave me
a voicemail on my magicjack it rings on
my home phone in the studio it rings on
my ipod touch wherever i am as long as
I've got Wi-Fi and hey we're be looking
at that on a future show cool stuff yeah
so i went i opted with the vanity number
that is people that was pretty cool well
i would probably do want to take 1 800
Hillary whatever I don't know that you
get it's not the 1-800 but you know what
I mean yeah you'll get just something
cat you'll end up like me with a phone
number that has your name in it but you
have to call Texas cuz to five four or
five catfight
TV is in Texas but we love it because we
have so many wonderful viewers in Texas
who can now call us locally oh i guess
and i just mentioned one last thing
while we've got 20 seconds left that
just reminded me that if you buy one of
these and somebody else buys one let's
say somebody over in the UK buys one
then I can call them for free because
they're even though they're in the UK
it's a magic jack I just jacked my free
cam so if you have family over in
Australia and you're here in canada send
them one yeah you get ten bucks off your
second one so speed and then it's free
calling for you and your investment yeah
really good I'm very impressed that's my
schpeel cat5 TV / magic jack and of
course our website is category five dot
TV Hillary fantastic having you here
thank you I loved being here thanks a
lot cheers have a great week everyone
and thank you so much for joining us in
the chat room we'd love to receive your
viewer testimonials this week all you
have to do is go to category 5 TV click
on interact and viewer testimonials love
to receive them by one talk to you next
week
Oh
