we've worked with ping images before if
you've got a website and you want to
work with alpha layers it's really a
great thing to be able to do so what
that means is if you look at this really
sloppy job that I did in the camp of
cutting his phone out of don't mind the
fact that I did a sloppy job I did that
with my touch pad all right if you had a
mouse you'd be able to do a much nicer
job you see that alpha layer what is
nice about an alpha layer is that lets
you throw a nice background behind that
image so no matter what it is you'll see
if you go to our website for example
category 5 dot TV what do you have
you've got this big image in the
background and you've got our logo up at
the top left and it is transparent it
has an alpha layer but the the
compromise is that pinging images are
quite pretty large oh yeah the file size
so that slows down websites if you have
too many of them and they're too big but
it also makes it so that it's it's you
know pretty frustrating for people using
a mobile device all right the data that
they're using I can't believe you made
me say data that's his name it's not how
I say database but being able to put
anything in the background is fantastic
especially for web oh yeah
because you can change out the
background you can do whatever you want
or layer things on top of one another
but also it doesn't tie you to any
particular background the old day the
front-page days we used to have to put a
background behind our images and then if
we change the background we had to
recreate all those images many steps
gone are those days things are big
though so let's get a look at these this
particular image but let's treat it as a
ping I'm gonna save this to my desktop
now this is a rather huge image so this
is going to be a significantly large
file but let's do this just for fun so
that you can see the difference here so
we're gonna say I'm gonna create a
folder called test ok and we're gonna
save this as our master image so we're
gonna call this master dot ping and
we're saving it as a ping so that we
maintain that alpha layer so if I jump
over as that saving to my desktop and I
see the test folder they
is and if I view nada is a I want to
view it as list instead of icon so I can
see that that's four point nine
megabytes so if I click on it there it
is it has the Alpha layer it does not
actually have that grid as a part of the
image itself it what it means when you
see that is that you can now paint
behind it so let's say I create and now
I've got that ping file I can create a
transparent layer behind it in the GNU
image manipulation program and I can add
a gradient and now I've got this behind
it okay see how I can just at will
change the background without affecting
the foreground it's a beautiful thing
but pings are huge so let's say let's
fill that background with white and
let's save it as a JPEG to show you what
we typically tend to do we're gonna go
with a lossy JPEG image and let's say we
really want this to be smaller so we're
gonna set the quality very low to sixty
okay so the higher that number the
better the quality but let's export that
file and you'll see at 60% let's leave
that open actually just so that we can
work with it at 60% quality it is five
hundred and twenty seven point seven
kilobytes so it is significantly smaller
file size but the quality is
significantly different as well so
here's the ping let's get in there at
full resolution see the chrome icon is
very very nice and crisp let's jump back
to my JPEG and get in there at full
resolution we start to see some jagged
edges especially that browser one we can
see some loss enos on there and so you
really start to see a difference in the
quality okay you're gonna see that even
more significantly I think in web sized
images so let's let's do that let's pull
up that image again and let's resize
this for web and we'll go let's say 600
pixels by 400 pixels and scale that okay
I mean a scale that's that's not to
scale
let's overwrite our master jpg file and
then turn off the Alpha layer let's see
the actual size and let's save that as a
okay and this initial step is so that we
can really get a comparison of the
various formats and see that hey ping is
always a heck of a lot bigger as far as
the size goes so our JPEG now is itty
bitty tiny like that but it's twelve
point eight kilobytes our ping is
significantly more ninety eight point
four kilobytes there's the ping let's
bring up the JPEG and let's get it let's
get in there and we're gonna we're gonna
use digital zoom three you know what
let's bring it up fullscreen and let's
get in there so there's the ping let's
look at the JPEG there it is so the JPEG
you can't even read the text the ping
it's fairly it's quite a bit clearer one
two three four five six seven eight nine
ten one two three four five six seven
eight nine ten do you see the loss enos
on the JPEG see all that and loss enos
means see all that pixelation and weird
stuff there yeah that's happening on the
image and then switch back to the ping
and even though the ping is a little bit
fuzzy it's not getting that that blocky
artifacting and in fact I can still see
the clock here and read it
there's back to the JPEG back to the
ping so the JPEG is significantly
smaller than the ping but one we lose
the Alpha layer yeah so we lose that
transparency but too it also becomes
very like highly less quality and lossy
as far as formats go so we want to work
with that ping file but how do we
actually get that smaller now when I
saved it as a ping you'll see export as
master dot ping replace and what am I
doing here well I am compressing with a
compressive compression level of nine
that's the highest that it can be if I
went any lower than that the file is
actually going to be bigger so ping
compression is neat because it allows
the ping file to be smaller in size but
it is still lossless you don't lose any
quality whatsoever it's at the behest of
it will actually take a little bit of a
CPU hit on your browser because
it has to then decompress once it's
finished downloading but it downloads a
lot quicker so it's a you know it's
which which one is more important to you
quick download is probably the one so
with this that's as small as GIMP can
make that file using full compression on
that file I could turn off a couple of
the other things save background color
we definitely need to well you know what
we don't need to keep that because it's
alpha layer it's transparent save
resolution yeah save creation time we
don't need that information save color
values for transparent pixels we don't
need that either because they're
transparent let's export that and see if
it made any difference so head back to
our file and the file is still ninety
eight point four kilobytes so the most
compressed we can get that ping image is
still going to be ninety eight point
four kilobytes it's quite large compared
to the twelve kilobytes of the JPEG so
now what we're going to do I'm going to
do this in the terminal because hey our
patrons our patrons are saying we want
to see more Linux stuff we want to get
into the terminal we want to see some of
this stuff we appreciate your feedback
folks if you are a patron you know that
we're in the middle of pulling you for
information about what do you want to
see on the show because hey our patrons
get first dibs so Linux is one of those
things let's jump into the terminal and
see how we are going to do this what
wrong screenshot sorry but whoops there
we go
okay so we're gonna jump into the
terminal here I'm on Ubuntu Matei and
this is running great on my laptop
alright so let's go onto my desktop and
I called that folder test there are our
files if I do an L a H I can see we
don't need the double H that was just a
typo it's okay so we can see the 97k
file so there's a program that I am
going to install in this particular
program is going to give us the
capability to compress that file lossy
but not as lossy as JPEG and still
maintain the ping file extension and
still maintain the alpha layer Wow okay
this is perfect for web perfect for web
so we're gonna go sudo apt-get update
that's the first thing that we want to
do enter our password what that does is
it looks at the repositories and it
grabs all the latest
file information so that we get the
latest version of what we want think of
the word quantize and that's what we're
gonna think about when we say ping quant
okay so P ng qu AM T so that's the
program we want sudo apt-get install
ping quant all right you can find out
more about that on their github page but
there it is it's installing on my
computer there we have it so I've got
the two files let's look at it with an
lah again so that we can see the file
size is 97 K and let's type ping quant
you'll see that gives us the options
that we can use so we're gonna say pink
want and we're gonna say - - ext new dot
ping just like the example and what that
does is it adds new dot ping to my file
name so that if I look at this it's
going to be master new dot ping when its
output then we're gonna say quality and
we're gonna start with the minimum so we
want this to be at least 60% because
that's what we did with JPEG and then at
most let's say 80 because we don't want
to go much higher than that because then
the file is gonna be large then the
speed do you want it to be super super
super fast that's gonna cause it to be
fast we can go up to 11 but it's going
to lose a lot of quality sometimes it's
better to go slow because you're gonna
get better quality so we're gonna
actually say you know what I don't need
speed it's not gonna take long anyways
let's do speed 1 we're gonna go as slow
as this bad boy can go and we're gonna
do that so that we get the best possible
quality and then we're going to say the
input file name which is master dot ping
now remember I don't need to specify an
export file name because I've already
specified - - ext new dot ping hit enter
and it's done so even its slowest speed
it was instantaneous so why go any
faster than that let's jump back you
know what I'm gonna still do the
terminal LS - lah master new ping is
only 23 kilobytes 23 kilobytes down from
98
Wow so we expect that ok the quality is
gonna be really low yeah that's what you
think we would think that let's take a
look at our files here go back to our
GUI here's our master dot pink remember
what happened when we did it with master
jpg let's do the same test with master
new ping first of all what we noticed
with master new dot ping is we have
maintained our alpha layer okay jump
back to the main master ping this is the
full quality one and we're gonna go one
ten go back to this one what are you
giggling about
did I mention I had to use my touch
Robby didn't bring a mouse to this
Rumble okay so cool it I'm so kidding
all right let's jump over to there
that's our master dot ping and there is
our master new dot ping oh let me alt
tab ah keeps wanting to go there okay so
master new dot ping look at that I can
still read the clock
there's master not compressed 98k still
read the clock there is not a
significant difference between them I
can see so this is the original I can
see look at the Google search bar at the
very bottom of that if I switch back to
the compressed version I start to see a
little bit of aliasing there which means
that the line of that search bar is ever
so slightly stair casing but from my
perspective looking at that on the web
seeing that on your website at the at
that difference in size so there's the
new one looks beautiful and there's the
original you can't beat it that pink
pink want it's available on other
platforms as well we're
showing it to you on Linux but you can
also get it on Mac and Windows and you
can go on to github.com and do a quick
search for PNG qu a and T if you want to
compile it from source learn more about
the project learn some of the commands
that you can use or submit your own poll
request Hey alright essentially on Linux
you can install it just directly from
your favorite package manager ping quant
and that's gonna compress those down
they say between 60 to 80 percent from
zyk your ping file that's incredible and
I could have gone lower I could have
gone with a very very low quality and
you can experiment you could start with
10% and go up to 40 and see the
difference and if I did that if I did
that because there's time because I'm
gonna say the X text it's gonna be new
to ping let's do it 1040 render done
that file is now nineteen point nine
kilobytes in looks like that looks like
that folks so play around with the
settings hey start at one work your way
up to ten and enjoy
[Music]
you
