welcome to the pixel shadow on mangafox
70 you voted in our Twitter poll when I
asked what would you like to see next on
the pixel shadow and the results are in
this week we're going to get a look in
the crafting in survival mode stick
around this is going to be fun every
diamond minecart fans dream is to be
mentioned by dantdm this weekend I got a
big surprise when I tuned in to his
latest draw your comments feature and
from over 100,000 comments mine was one
of the only three chosen you can check
out my reaction video by clicking here
and please don't forget to give me a
thumbs up funny thing is I was wearing
my diamond minecart shirt that day and
that wasn't even plan big thanks to
everyone who liked my comment to make
this happen on to a park or update last
week I had a really tough time making it
through Robbie s parkour challenge we'll
call it like I guess you shall we but
some of our viewers beat me by a long
shot and to rub it in a little wsd guy
2014 posted this video to show this his
amazing parkour skills in the same
course
you
yes
Oh
incredible I didn't stand a chance
especially with all that leg if you'd
like to see the full length video by WC
guy 2014 which features four of the park
or challenges on our creative server
click here all right now on to the show
the past weekend we launched our
survival server yay adding a new
challenge to mind test and survival mode
you have to mine and craft your own
tools and items today we'll look at what
has been built so far and how to use our
own built-in crafting guide to help you
craft all of the things you need to make
an amazing structure first of all let's
connect to the pixel shadow survival
server so the address in the poor as you
can see here is servers dot mind STV the
same as the creative one then the port
3000 one is replacing the last 20 with
the one so i'll try and login and
everything
this is the new spawn and I've been
playing around on the server a little
bit so that's why I is in stuff in my
inventory these are the rules but I
won't really explain them too much right
now you have to read the rules and
everything to be granted interact we
need to keep this door closed the whole
time and we're going to go find some
buildings that have been built over here
it looks like there's some build so
we'll go over there
so the first bill looks like a home but
I'm not quite sure whose is it Seether
gaming of thousands cute kitty cat or
tots 1524 then this next house which is
owned by gaming with flows in hi she's
online today hello hello hello and so
she's got some chest and such this is a
really nice home trash bin I have not
built a home yet by bed this is pretty
impressive for survival mode so let's
show this interesting house that looks
like it's been exploded so this is
Kendall's home that looks like or
something something like that made of
acacia wood it's got one of these
thingies I forgot they're called and
tables and chairs which is really good
because i personally do not have those
and let's see where we need to go next
to show another build right now i'm
looking at a map from dennis Kelly's
blog I think I'm going around way so hmm
she's going to be harder to find
anything a sheep in a rat I'm going to
share your wall you right-click a sheep
and this is the right spot and you will
get two or three wool you just
right-click simple as that and
let's try and find the next
here's a
links going out of it the last so this
is the neighbor from the south some
chess you need to protect this buddy get
some off chess up here and the kelly of
residents which is really impressive
which is possibly my favorite it's this
whole really nice and it's a nice home
Scott is this baseman so it's got some
chess you really need to lock those just
saying so this is a really nice home i
love this it's got some furnaces that
are out of fuel
shut down
that was annoying and I have spawned
outside of the house i was showing and
i'm about to fall into a giant wall word
world hole so here are some fridges
pretend that never ever happened an oven
that cook that costs a lot of iron and
stuff television I forget how the craft
these are we and really really nice
balcony overlooking the water there's
something over here so I'll have to go
check that out in a second oh there's
also a second floor looks like an addict
doesn't quite look done yet so over here
some short of ginormous mansion good job
good job in there and you have a pet
sheep mind if i share it can I share
your pet sheep sheep look so hilarious
share it there we go
now we'll try and find the the home in
ice so let's follow d kelly attends
names another pet sheet cheer in
collecting rocks ignored for years
coming she's just taking so long
but there's a swimming sheet sheer sheer
no he died oh wait he didn't
but it's going to die in another shape
their sheep everywhere ugly ugly machine
in store by all my hope I'm going right
way d kelly eight-tenths over there so
taking so long too low because this land
hasn't quite been generated fully yet
it's only been explored a couple times
I'm coming coming as quickly as I can
which isn't very quick wow just okay
there we go
it's another Bridge forest rich forst's
are just so nice and there are a lot of
things online
but its name
hope you're right here I love
oh well I'll try and front do that later
now I have to go all the way back
cute on our website we have created a
map so we can see what parts of the
world has been explored and when it's
not so far this is the map I'm going to
scroll out there hasn't been much
explored but that's some space here so
we'll scroll back in lots of water and
here is the spawn point and the white is
places that have not been generated so
if you're looking for a spot to build
then head over there so that you can
find it things like that and this looks
like the way that I was looking for the
snow house so the snow house is right
here and here so we'll try going there
later on so it's not a very big map
right now but it'll show you where you
can find things to build and such so
yeah that's the that's the that's the
survival map so let's close that and get
back into my test
we want to show you how to craft some
items from the home decor mod so let's
try and get back to this bond without
killing ourselves and looks like Dennis
Kelly has found the snow home so I'm
I'll go over to him
the snow home hey so so here is the
beginning of a home I do not know who
owns this hmm let's see on the map here
it doesn't say it says that there is a
mind system underneath well it looks
like possibly this one this is quite
nice I like mine system going on and
then Lucy great house nothing in the
furnaces I love this this is a really
nice and also it looks like there's some
place here this is owned by nan Amy UK
just checking to see what he's done not
much so here's cobblestone pickaxes well
so he's got a lot built here go back
into the house this is really nice I
like it but now how am I supposed to get
back Oh No so we'll try and find my way
back to the spawn without killing myself
because I don't want to lose this
beautifulness even now I could just
easily get it back but still
so so this thingy is well you such and
we're almost there
and I forget where the spawn is here is
so we're running out of time but i'll
try to show you a few of the crafting
recipes from home decor so i have a
bunch of pine wood so i can just make a
super simple house not too big not too
small craft a door so one of the the
recipes from the home decor is pine wood
glass and wood oak colored things so you
put three wooden planks any type of
planks and then you will get this so
i'll do all oh whoopsies I can make
quite a lot of these doors so that's one
object from the home decor which is
really nice what else can we try and
careful with these items about a table
so three wooden planks in two sticks one
is we've gotten a table from a whole
divorce
to open a crafting grid you press you go
check inventory and then so you go into
your inventory and their people invading
my house you left click the object you
want you can also search here whatever
you want to search and when you left
click on it it will show you the
crafting and then if you have the
objects I'll try and make it on the
table press you can either make 110 or
all to put into the crafting grid so if
i push one all of my objects get
immediately put into their so now i have
two tables yay and they are facing the
wrong way so we'll knock that out put it
this way let me there we go so what else
should we try and get there's a sheepy
sheep maybe we could try and get a fancy
bed yeah let's try and do that but we're
running low on time so I might have to
do that later on the future episode and
I've run out of planks I'll just do with
a fancy white roof and I need to protect
this and then we're going to have to end
the video t / to protect t / area pose 1
so that's protected and I'll get out a
dirty dirt and that will turn into grass
block and go to the highest corner area
pose to t / protect hmm d cor test and
now it's protected so I would really
like to do more in this video but since
we're running out of time and we've
already shown quite a few things on the
new survival server I might I probably
won't be able to do that
so thanks for watching if you are new to
my channel then please subscribe and
leave a like and thanks for watching
sorry that this video was kind of all
technical difficulties and people are
breaking into my house close it art oh
no I'm gate being where I'm good I'm
being robbed no
Oh goodbye
