I wanted to share this because I know a
lot of you viewers run your own websites
maybe you even in business are in charge
of maintaining websites and there's a
really interesting and smart clever but
potentially dangerous piece of bot spam
malware that's going around right now
it's very very interesting when we build
a website we tend to link to other
websites right okay so category 5 TV for
example if somebody blogs about us or
talks about us I might if I know about
it I might link to it from category 5
TV's website so that our viewers can
find it and read it
right in a business you've got your
business site you're linking to your
partners you're linking to your
suppliers you're linking to your
customers maybe in testimonials and
things like that right right here's an
example think about that you're linking
to your customers so what this bot spam
does is it spiders through the internet
it finds your website and it looks for
two things okay one the title of your
website because the title of your
website quite often is what your company
name yeah right so category five TV
network mm-hmm that's the title of my
website and to all the exit links on my
website now with my title it goes to
every exit link on my website and it
finds the contact information on that
website be they emails
be they online forms that get submitted
to okay receptionist or whatever and
what it does now is so it has an
association that says category five TV
network is associated with this customer
say okay so say one of our customers say
chubbies all right so somebody that
we've we've worked with and done reviews
for so we link to their website so now
it's gone over to the jeebies website
and it's found all of the links to their
emails and it masked males
a single email to each contact and
through the contact us form and
everything and looks like it's coming
from category five TV network cake has
member got that in the first step it
looks like it's coming from the category
five TV network they say oh we know who
that is right so although automatically
we've got some recognition there and an
automatic trust it says that they owe
this amount of money and here's the
invoice and if you do not pay
immediately we're going to be putting
you through two collections which would
work sometimes which would work because
then that customer of mine is getting a
pass to invoice notice from me from
category five TV network that looks like
it looks legit oh well I better forward
this on to the bookkeeper and get them
to open it and and it's of course
malware could be any number of things
ransomware or whatever else so then how
would you easily spot that you wouldn't
easily spot it it looks legit you have
the trust you have the company name you
really really check your I guess your
receivables you're like we have to we're
living in a world right now where we all
in business and impersonal we have to be
a little bit untrusting of what is
coming to us right in such a way that if
I receive an invoice from somebody I
know and it looks legit and it looks
like they're gonna put me through two
collections hey if I don't if I'm not
expecting an invoice from them or I
can't think of what it is or maybe it
makes me go hmm don't open it if if you
need to look up your receivables or
whatever or payables or pick up the
phone or pop them an email and say do I
owe you any money what's happening I got
an email here it could be a phishing
scam or some other thing but it looks
like it came from you is it legit or you
know could you just double check our
account and just make sure we're up to
date yeah I guess first things first pay
all of your bills on time that way no
matter what it's gonna look
so you can just reply to that email and
say whatever I don't owe you nothing I
owe nothing to no one so watch out for
that one folks is dangerous because it
can trick your customers and it can
trick you so be careful and if you
suspect that that kind of thing has been
happening on your website or you know if
you if you want to even warn some of
your customers feel free to send them a
copy of this video and spread the word
spread this video and and let them know
that this is a very serious threat yeah
thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
