[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV back at the end of
December at nutty Pro 69 on Twitter sent
us a message and said 5 TV was the very
first Linux operating system I tried
because of you guys back in the day and
today it is free from PC - open systems
calm whoa
that's nothing wait yeah are you nutty
Lynn spires been gone for 10 years now
my friends so and that long yeah 10
years 2007 so 11 years what man I yeah I
do miss it
you opened me up to inspire Lynn spire
was a great distro that was set up in
such a way that it was built for the
desktop yes it's Linux but it was built
to help people migrate from Microsoft
Windows to the Linux platform so good oh
it was very very good especially for the
time now here's the thing I warned the
nutty one and said you've got to be
careful because anyone who's claiming
that Lynne spire is available for free
right now this is this is an old distro
that was discontinued yeah and it was
commercial so was a commercial and free
right so then I started looking into it
and guess what what tell us PC open
Systems LLC purchased the source code of
Lyn spire they purchased the trademarks
of Lyn spire so everything including not
just Lyn spire but also free spire which
is the free open-source version of Lynn
spire being the commercial distro we're
gonna learn all about it tonight
here's the thing Lyn spire as we
mentioned was always like the best
desktop OS way back in the early days
yes like we're talking 2001 yeah
and for Linux oh yeah yeah yeah so it
started out as Lindos OS yes and then
like 12 months later Microsoft got word
of this
and sued them yes just like they there
without micro does it rhyme yeah so so
they had to change their name and it
became Lyn spire but Lindos Lyn spire
they're synonymous they're done in the
same but here's one of the things that
really was a big deal about Lyn spire
and Lindos in particular is that it was
the first Linux operating system to find
retail distribution yes we're talking
Walmart and Sears and like you could
walk into a big box store and for a
hundred ninety-nine bucks pick up a
computer that has Linux on it and it was
Windows OS those were the days so fairly
certain I bought mine from future shop
really we're around 450 miles ok so last
week I said I had last week I said at
the desk
Yeah right where is it I don't have the
disk no I was cleaning out my drawer
turns out I tossed the disc know what I
have the case it did spark joy but I you
thought we would never need it well
exactly I thought hey it's obsolete so I
use anymore what's the point of having
it right little did I know two weeks
later I'd need it first for like
wonderfully topical nostalgic purposes
well and if you want some nostalgic go
back to episode number 303 because I
found an old laptop in my storage area
that had Lyn Lyn spire five installed on
it so check that out episode number 303
now ten years ago the final version of
Lin spire came out yeah and then the
company was a it was dissolved yes it
went under and we're gonna talk a little
bit about that in just a few minutes
time with someone in the know but out of
the blue back on January 2nd of this
year that's when we got the the
announcement officially so we saw that
they were giving it away for free at the
end of December but officially January
2nd of this year it was announced that
they had purchased the trademarks in the
source code and it's time to bring Lyn
spire back from the grave so would you
help me welcome
Roberto Jade honored
the lead consultant and system designer
for PC open systems LLC it's important
to note that Lin's fire is now owned by
a completely different company so can
you introduce us please to to your
company and how it differs from sale in
spire we not only do software
development we also do hardware
development so I mean by hardware
development is is that like with our
software we have a custom our ISO
project where we take completely bare
system and start whatever programs you
need and whatever through drivers you
need of a system the hardware side is
the same way pretty much you tell us
what you need when it comes to hardware
we build it for you or we take a generic
system and add those components and then
we ship it out to you
so what's yourself what's your
experience as far as Linux distributions
go I've all went back to Gen 2 I started
actually developing with Linux
distributions back in 2006 I start with
a gem to base and I started with a with
the operating system have you heard
about PCOS pretty much was just the
initials of the company and basically
what it was was to give our customers a
long-term supported distribution of
Linux that they could use and just back
then I love you remember but the
lifespan of these the distros only like
six months right and if you're raised in
Gen 2 you don't want to have to
reinstall every six months let me tell
you that right and so back then the life
was only like six months and both races
at heart I'm adopting it especially on
their desktops because they want
something that lasts years not just
months
so that was one of the main problems
that we had so we went ahead and went
that approach we made yet to where we
would update if we would distribute it
but we would go through all the hard
work that have to apply updates patches
drivers acceptable so you've been
distribute
your own Linux distribution since as far
back as that Wow so why now here in 20
20 18 are we all of a sudden hearing
that you've bought Lynne's spire of all
things well we bought Zandro
you bought the entire thing from bridge
ways I'm look you know what bridge ways
was what they like
they hold the trademarks and things like
that right and what they did was that
they also produce some connectivity
products from Windows okay
and whether they started but they were
going down the way of the dodo so we
went ahead and talked to them
doctor trademarks and everything got
some other property from them and what
we were doing was black lab and I want
to really see that for them as a
community distribution and I want to see
that thrive with with the community
because one of the things is that if you
have a community edition then you have
the commercial edition what happens is
sometimes the commercial aspect of it
gets in the way and the community really
doesn't want you to actually get
involved in it because they feel hey as
a community is a commercial interest not
a community interest right and so what
we decided was we need to go ahead and
find a way to break away like live from
the community edition and black lab
being your distribution that you were
currently distributing pride okay and we
figured we needed to go ahead and get my
way keep that to the community and find
another way to keep our commercial
interest separate from it hmm and so
this way it doesn't pollute the waters
is something surely say so when you
speak about when you speak about the
differentiation between the community
edition and the commercial edition are
we talking free spire versus Lynne spire
here or well black labs all those always
come was always a server type
distributions yes yeah and what happened
was is that we as I wanted to start back
to go on the desktops
where we have freights fires well these
fires right free desktop OS rained I
don't know if you've read our marketing
and things like that right I know I sent
your eyes of Lin's fire yeah and we're
gonna take a look at that in a few
minutes time but and it's all very
sudden I mean this is a big announcement
all of a sudden the you know surprise
Lynne spires back and it's taken a lot
of people you know by storm especially
those of us who use it back in the day
now when Lynn spire shut down however
you know we can talk about all the great
things that Lindos and Lynne spire did
but of course when they shut down there
was a lot of controversy surrounding the
company like Michael Robertson was suing
the bank he was suing the staff who
created the very OS free open source
software advocates were condemning Lynne
spire for being kind of against the the
foss mindset so you have to understand
and you must be very aware more so than
even myself of the kind of controversy
that you have bought into with the Linds
firebrand in that all of a sudden you're
bringing back to light not just a great
distro but all of the controversy that
surrounded that distro so how do you
with this new version understanding that
this Lynne spire is a new lens fire
based on the old one brought out by a
new company how are we going to address
those kinds of concerns from the
community and and all the kind of
negativity that surrounded Lynne spire
Inc back in the day
well if you look at fire right now
please fire basically we did we removed
all the proprietary codecs we have some
proprietary drivers in there but they're
mostly for the hardware that they need
to support that people wanted to support
yeah and so our what we want to do is
create a free spire have something that
the Foss people can use as well as just
any generic computer user to use and so
and we want to educate the public
especially not the Foss public the
people that just either users in general
about that free and open source software
pure freedom so free and open source
software
and actually thrive and is usable
because right now if you look at the
landscape people say with boss these
distributions out here that Laker GNU
sorcerer's hurts r5 that's a great thing
if you look at those a lot of people
have this thinking in their head that
they're very hard to use and they're and
they're no good if they're free if
they're free you mean without the
proprietary coax and all that exactly
yeah and so we wanted to do was go ahead
and introduce these fire okay as
something that the bossman can get
behind and I something any computer
didn't get behind so just one thing I
don't know if you remember this but
Lynne spire incorporate used to actually
it was forty five dollars or forty nine
dollars a year that was click and run
access and all that stuff yeah can can I
just touch on before we get into that
can I just back up just a little bit for
those viewers who are watching here
Roberto that maybe you're not familiar
with free open source and what's the
difference between free vs because when
we think free we think about something
that's given out that's once a year
right
but if when we talk free open source
software like free spire and removal of
proprietary codecs what we're talking
about is things like mp3 the ability to
play mp3 files is a proprietary thing so
this is something that a patent has to
be paid for in order to do legitimately
so Lynne spire was you know the you
would pay for that distro and it would
come with all this great stuff available
built into that where the the free open
source versions of Linux would not
include those things because they are
proprietary so I kind of felt like at
the time so we're going back to you know
2006 I think and around there when free
spire came out I believe it was around
there it kind of felt like Lynne spire
Inc was reacting to the open source
communities condemnation of the
commercial 'ti of Lynne's fire by
bringing out free spire I mean somebody
else actually brought out the first free
spire version which was a stripped down
version of Lynne's fire so I'm getting
the impression from our conversation
here and and I
would love to hear your perspective on
this but getting the impression that
that your company on the other hand has
more of a community centric focus with
the commercial 'ti aspect as well for
the commercial customers and Ubuntu
Ubuntu has taken a similar route
canonical with distributing the OS for
free and then having commercial support
whereas you're talking about having a
free version available and then having a
commercial version for the commercial
user now am i right in that you know
from from just hearing you speak I'm
feeling like there's more of a community
focus here in spire of course it's a
totally different and is that because of
codecs and drivers and things like that
or there are other criteria things we
actually have to pay for right and we're
able to distribute them right see like
somebody came to me the other day and
email I was like well I can go to the
ability repository and install the
codecs well the thing is with those
those licenses that advertise are
single-use on them which means you have
to go download them because only you can
use them but if you pull them down and
recreate added and we spend abouttwo and
try to distribute it then the issue that
you run into is licensing right now I
think a lot of people get away with it
because they're not a corporation
they're not write a business and there's
no police coming to your door saying
have you got mp3 codecs installed it
doesn't happen yeah whereas you know
where PC open systems canonical RedHat
Novell Sousa or Micro Focus or our bones
are now okay
yeah we're we're targets and we and we
and we pretty much are then I we can't
we have to be very careful on what we
distribute because as an entity we're
more likely of a target okay
yeah so I could see like a corporate
environment with 150 computers needing
to deploy Linux if they had to install a
free open-source version of Linux and
then install all the codecs of the now
it could be done through package
management and maybe a scrip and things
like that but what you're doing is
offering something that it's
out-of-the-box ready to go it's got the
commercial aspects already built in and
expect other advantages as well is there
a real you know is there any other
differentiation between free spire and
Lind spire that you know free
downloaders would need to know about
like if I can install the codecs myself
on my own personal computer I'm okay
with that
what else is different about it and we
also include advanced security measures
like antivirus intrusion detection yep
and things like that we also include
that and VirtualBox comes pre-installed
as well now one thing that I'm trying to
do and some people in the Linux mean
you're gonna hate me for it and I'm
actually trying to work with CodeWeavers
to see if I can get crossover office we
can actually put into our own
repositories so users can get that I'm
gonna say for you guys it's gonna be
free of charge for us you know obviously
buy something but also I'm trying to
work out an agreement with some other
entities for commercial operating
systems to actually that you can
actually install aunt and inspire doing
idea only be aware not be impersonal
please VirtualBox and also be supported
that way nice so again for those who are
not really familiar with these terms
CodeWeavers wine and VirtualBox similar
reason for having those things
CodeWeavers and wine are kind of
connected in a way that they use the
same software base but they allow you to
install Windows programs on a Linux
operating system so that's key here so
we're talking about having a commercial
version of Linux that out-of-the-box
supports that and is licensed for that
VirtualBox on the other hand allows you
to install windows into Linux which I
rate thing as well if you want to be
able to say you can't get it to run
wine right so that's no one it go as far
as Roble Atlantic's I love you ever
heard of that where you have different
VMs for each individual application oh
yes that could be brutal from a user
standpoint for sure so this is
definitely much more user friendly for
the novice user and I like this Roberto
because I feel like I'm I'm personally
getting a better understanding of why
you have to sell inspire and how it
differs from free spire so me as a
personal user with Linux experience I
can install free spire and I can install
all these things I can get CodeWeavers
in VirtualBox and I can say except the
user terms and that's between me and
Oracle and me and code runners for me to
accept those licensing agreements but
with Lin spire you have included the
acceptance of these license agreements
the payment to them for the proprietary
use of their software and now I've got
something that if I'm not a Linux user
if I don't know how to set that stuff up
hey hey pay the little bit extra and get
a version that's already set up for me
that's cool looking at some of the
controversy surrounding Lin spire here's
one for ya Lin spire was always running
as the root user are we still going to
have a desktop that is running as the
root user or out of the docs thank you
all right you know and also it makes
time there to a lot of your user had to
have asked me if I plan to redistribute
the classic guys so the classic version
and we thought about that we really did
but pretty much they're useless right
now
yeah clicking run what's down there
anymore and there's really no point and
redistributing the classic ISOs except
for maybe nostalgia reasons
sure you know what I would like to see
that would be a support nightmare yes I
don't care about the ISOs I don't care
about the disks yeah as far as the
software that's on them but I would love
to get my hands on one of the old Lindos
box sets because they had retail
distribution and I can't for the life of
me find that box because as soon as you
made this announcement we all went to
our garages and looked for the old boxes
and unfortunately they've all been
recycled
Jeff one of our hosts here has the the
the case itself for Lynn aspire and
Lindos but has recycled the discs and
the box itself so those kinds of things
for nostalgic purposes are there so did
you get access to the original source
code during the acquisition oh yeah okay
so we're looking at this is officially
really Lindos lynn spire and how has it
changed with the release of lynn spire
seven this month back to okay okay it's
on a boob tube sixteen point four point
three we do have some driver changes and
everything that young that don't get
from a boom tube and so and like you
said we removed the whole route user
thinking we actually thought about that
there was a reason why they did that
before before they did that because
Windows was going back okay and they
wanted their software to be as much like
Windows as possible right we have the
same kind of interaction and we looked
at man I was like well that's crazy
these days so
and you know I had some people coming go
stop the same well it's not meant to be
to say no of course we're gonna make
improvements we're gonna make changes or
I keep going to make these changes into
this distribution yeah we certainly we
don't need a one-to-one Windows
alternative here and what I think is
important and what I think Lindos really
hit on back in 2001 2003 was that we
need and and there are other distros out
there that are doing a fair job of this
but Lindos ands and rose were always at
the forefront back in the day we need
something that's a good alternative and
easy to migrate over to linux lin Lindos
was my first Linux operating system
where I could remove lint windows
completely from my system and switched
to Linux so that's what I think what's
exciting about that you started talking
about CNR click and run is that still
something that's available on Lyn spire
these days right you don't need to have
a special infrastructure for except for
the fact that we are gonna add some
commercial repositories to inspire ok
that's a good call I think that's a good
call click and run was their proprietary
front-end for I guess apt the
installation packages right
it was brilliant but now we've got a
pitch for example which is doing a very
similar thing to what click and run did
which was give you a packaged software
that you could just install by clicking
on it just like an exe like a setup dot
exe and Windows or an MSI file that's
what click and run did but through
package management we can do the same
through app image we can do the same
nowadays so lots change so I think
that's a good call to deprecate that for
sure ok well people who learn you have
to use snap packages we also do sports
backpack then for less fire HDC which is
our high performance computing desktop
we also have support for some new UNIX
applications as
as more fedora and Red Hat based
software like the installer some cell
rpm things like that so you don't have
to use a lien anymore right okay so we
don't have to convert to Deb packs
that's you see though that's not a
regular this is art this so oh this is a
different district the Newlands right
okay lose fire HPC which is our
high-performance computing it's right
what was destined it's not something
like you would use right there spur okay
researchers yeah things like that it'll
be neat to get familiar with your
product line as as it grows I mean this
is again a very new announcement a very
fresh announcement coming out of your
company so you know it's all you have
been but we're just like what Lynne
spires back like the internet is abuzz
absolutely so with your community focus
and we we had to keep it very quiet oh
no doubt yes that we had a lot of betas
that came out between them ahead we have
it's yeah betas throughout the year
and we had to make sure we had tell
people look you can't disturb you yeah
okay was it make sure you get me on your
list okay yeah well keep it on the
down-low with your community focus
Roberto how is Lynne spire
I mean free spires the obvious answer
but take it one step further how is
Lynne spire going to give back and this
goes back to howl inspire Inc did things
wrong how are you going to give back to
open source changes are gonna go back
into the community of course anything
you changing the kernel
anything new changing the software so we
will absolutely contribute to contribute
that back to the communities at large
so does xfce which our desktop is based
off the kernel thought or guys and
things of that nature and also another
thing too is that another that yes you
have to pay subscription license for a
year
okay and but unlike Linville inspired in
where they charge $49.99 t here that was
mandatory for us it's not you pay at one
time
that's your support contract right if
after a year you decide you don't want
support or you don't need support really
don't cut off access any kind of update
any kind of software ok Software Center
was still run and everything but the
thing is if you don't pay the support
non-drive what happens like when 8.0
comes out you won't get that but you'll
be supported you'll get all ok Fortson
all the updates you have support for
you're currently installed version but
just not a role up to the next which is
it which is you know that's that makes
sense in light of the fact that we're
understanding now that this is for
commercial use and in a business
environment where you know you're paying
licensing fees and you're paying for
proprietary stuff so you know and I'm a
software sales person myself it
professionally and I understand that you
know there are fees associated with
things moving forward so from a free
spire perspective on the other hand so
looking at the community edition the one
that I might install on my home computer
for free is there support provided for
that on the free version ok they don't
care they don't care about the
proprietary codecs they don't care about
the proprietary software right you know
so that was one thing that we looked at
too and you know some people were like
what do you need to get support for a
year for free spires so that's ok side
on $29.99 for that one because it's much
less to support sure yeah so for a home
user or business that wants to just use
a basic install or whatever and it makes
sense so we'd encourage comments below I
I think we've really touched on a few
points tonight that help us to
understand first of all howl inspire
seven and forward is going to be
different from the old inspire I
certainly get a different let's say aura
from you roberto then i do from your
predecessor roberts yes and robertson
definitely a character so the you know
the the old founder of lynn spire
certainly had a very different business
model very different mindset and so you
know but but amazing software and a
really good grasp on what users really
need in order to make the transition
from Windows to Linux so this could be a
real answer to that and as sorry no you
go ahead sorry especially towards the
latter years back when it felt like it
was gonna shut down yeah was that a
feeling in 2006 after seeing what they
were doing and they were trying to make
think and run available for everybody it
kind of felt like to me they were
looking for a way out yeah and then some
of the stuff that they were doing at the
time just made no sense to me
and then the whole controversy with
Kevin came up and Bolin it just turned
to a free crap storm and it really did
was sad the way it ended yeah no I
absolutely agree and that's where that
my initial question came out like this
is the controversy that you've bought
into my friend so I'm eager you know
maybe this is step one of this interview
of you know the community understanding
the difference here and I really hope
that we've established that tonight so
really looking forward to all that
you've got to come how can we obtain a
copy of free spire or Lynn's fire at
this point will inspire go to WWE open
systems comm and you go to our web store
or to the lymphs fire or less link in
the top bar and you can go ahead and
purchase a copy from there freeze fire
you go through our open source labs page
which is on that same page as any URL go
to open source labs then go down to
freeze fire and you can actually
download through spider right there or
if you need that support you can
actually purchase it there as well cool
but you can free but you're free to
download it free to read the stream
we give them away as many times you want
you heard of here folks any hope of
getting the dot-coms I've tried to yeah
but the thing is that was set up this is
part of the crap storm we're talking
about Michael purchased freeze fire org
because of the issue that he was having
with Kevin at the time but didn't Kevin
do that wasn't it calm
oh okay cuz I know Michael was trying to
get free spire comm from him right yeah
every spy org and that was part of his
trademark lawsuit that he had Kevin yeah
was that he wanted to prove that he had
a product Palfrey spot even though he
had already sold it to Xandra made no
sense to me he already sold the damn
thing
well because free spire comm was set up
specifically to speak on Michael
Robertson's business practices a bit of
a political crapshoot as you say yes oh
yes alleged I was talking about it I'm
like yeah I better say alleged because
otherwise I'll get sued yes and you do I
guess that's another thing it's you've
got to be really careful because you've
bought into the Michael Robertson Empire
which back in the early days was it was
you know he was doing some great stuff
but you know his business practices and
things did not end up well for mp3.com
or Lynne spire Inc or any of those so
good luck some people said that he
started Windows and that they felt that
he started Windows is way as a money
grab for Microsoft because some people
say he thought he was born he knew I
actually don't agree because like I said
actually read a lot of the stuff that
you have back then from now an insider's
view of it and I really think that to
give him some credit I think you really
try to do something great I don't think
it was just a money grab like he had one
piece read up oh yeah no he he's a
brilliant guy and and he built some
really brilliant things not not to you
know digress but I'm sure the questions
will come up but like mp3.com is a great
example of something
that he built from the ground up that
was amazing but then where it all went
wrong is the sellout and the absolute
lack of care for his community where
everybody who was a user on mp3.com went
what I just lost all my files
I just lost as an artist I lost my
ability to sell my CDs and now someone
else owns it and has turned it into
something else
same thing happened with Lynne spire
where all the users were left going what
what happened all right especially these
lifetime users people have bought a
lifetime subscription mm-hmm and they're
like are you guys not honor that yeah
and guys here we actually did talk about
that every actually did think about that
and you know we're not required to
support it but one thing that - one
thing that we decided was for 59.99 we
were gonna go ahead and reestablish them
as life starting with to where they go
ahead and yet Lynne spire get the and
that's for the lifetime of the product
that's cool because they did seem like
it did seem like they got crap dog yeah
I I have no I have no records from back
then idea did you obtain a list of
lifetime subscribers no so if you were a
lifetime Windows Linux voice and prove
it to me that's tough
yeah that's tough Wow okay thank you up
there
well that's cool make that there's good
voices and stuff so they can come to me
with a voice then yeah oh the stuff that
we got from lens fire admirers it was
poorly managed towards the air what we
got was what zagros dog yeah and there's
a lot of it they just put it in a box in
the back room they just put it in a box
in the back room when they acquired
right pretty much so that why I'm pretty
much we got a bunch of USB keys I hate
these like 128 kilobyte you as mm a
megabyte you
speakeasy come out a bunch of files a
box of paperwork if we're like this is
it
wow that was some hard drives he's all
the source to it start making copies
well Roberto I am encouraged by
everything that we've heard here tonight
different company same great OS but with
major improvements and a community focus
I think we're really on the right track
here with will inspire and I'm excited
personally to see what comes of this so
so all the best to you thank you for
your time and and we'll definitely post
a link below and if you have any
questions for Roberto for myself if you
want to know more about the Newlands
fire make sure you visit their website
and is there a direct way that they can
contact you on the website I suppose yes
there's on the website especially Maya
put mine up there front and center and
honestly for fire page great to Facebook
do you have a community forum at this
point now yeah we're sit where the works
again that set up great but we do have a
Facebook page that we allow the
community to actually talk converse and
do everything day Mac so that's on top
of the page on will inspire West page
they can just click like and they can
join in the conversation as we get the
forum set up we'll definitely send you
guys a link and we'll put that up there
as well appreciate that
all right well thanks for your time man
and keep up the great work really
excited about everything that's to come
we've gotta take it really quick we've
got to take a quick break when we come
back we're gonna actually take a look at
Lin spire 7 stick around
you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Lynda learn software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals
join today and start learning we'll give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat5 dot TV
slash linda welcome back this is
category five technology TV how cool is
that
awesome we were chatting during the
break there and started talking about
the whole fact that the URL is getting
you know a little difficult to figure
out yes word of mouth is an important
thing so we've did a search and found
lynn spire linux comm so let's just
gonna set that up and get that up and
going so by the time you watch this lynn
spire linux comm check it out okay
ready to take a look at Lynn's fire
seven yes again go back to episode
number 303 to see how the old version
looked and ladies and gentlemen like to
introduce you to Lynn spire seven is a
fresh clean install and as we learned
there during the interview this has got
some commercial components I see first
and foremost Google Chrome nice not a
commercial application you don't have to
pay for it right but it is not free open
source software so but nice that it's
there I wonder then if if I can like get
straight on to things like Netflix and
that kind of stuff should we give it a
try what kind of things do we want to
check out do you're good all right so we
should find that people who have data
theft me destroy them that's right if I
can remember my Netflix password
I sign in about once every 10 years
there we go nice we've got Peppa Pig on
demand got that nice
alright so does it work out of the box
what some went wrong okay so we've we've
done this before where we can let's see
if I can remember how to do this but
we've done it on the show DRM video you
know I'm not even gonna don't worry you
can make it work in Chrome go back to
our website and do it yes for Netflix
Chrome and you'll be able to get it
going right chrome is already
pre-installed I didn't have to go
through and set it up so that's cool
alright so let's get a look what do we
have let's go all whoo-hoo so first of
all what do you notice this looks very
much like a windows yeah I like the
nostalgia of seeing these colors is just
it's bringing me back I'm loving this
yeah this is very similar to the
original look and feel yeah I like now
this is my first time loading anything
on here so if there if it uses a
selection of backgrounds I like to
stylize things although I just want to
make sure I can put it back the others
they'll inspire one because I don't want
to lose the Lynn Speier well yeah only
the nice well I guess smooth I like how
Simeon is sweet alright how was the the
boot on this computer super fast super
fast now I've got a bit of a more decent
computer yeah than I did back in the day
of Lyn spire but so look at all the
stuff that comes with it and out of the
box that worked just fine
it's got my networking and Wi-Fi one of
the things that he mentioned was the
loss of click and run yes but I noticed
that the icon is still the same so let's
bring that up and see what that looks
like
welcome to software very ingenious name
mm-hmm sweet ok so one of the things
that I'm going to want is the GIMP
so GNU image manipulation program how
would I find that oh look at that it
even shows you what apps are already
installed so you don't even that's nice
where do you see that well like oh it
has a little icon yeah ah okay now that
is a nice feature sweet
okay so graphics what do we have we've
got blender a nice dark table we've
looked at those on the show and GIMP GNU
image manipulation program like that
install sweet enter my password and as
easy as that looks like she's going nice
that's nice okay so now I'm assuming
maybe it's linked to the account that
you have created with your software but
you didn't even have the software
installer yeah you didn't even have to
create like account to sign up to get
apps or anything like it's just it's all
part of it yeah it's part of like Debian
repositories and things like that but
notice though that I did have to enter
my password yes for access to have Stoll
and your yes
and so as Roberto had confirmed for us
we're not running as the root user
correct yeah sweet oh sorry that did not
work what oh hey I haven't got internet
turned on on this computer what I did
look at Netflix install gaming GIMP
image editor failed manager phone app
transaction returned result exit failed
no hmm still that's smooth to be fair
now I I am looking at am i still online
maybe my internet has gone down because
I am on Wi-Fi let's just verify no it's
up so that's cool let's try again
because I'd hate to give y'all yeah
there's something up there with my
connection to that I don't know why I
don't want to give you a bad impression
if I run into little issues here there
because I haven't write set anything up
or or done anything and I am just oh I
do have an Ethernet cable plugged in
that's good
and it's bridged yeah let's try again
so the fact that I'm entering my
password means that it's doing this as a
non root user so it's becoming super
user when I run that I think my internet
dropped out there for a moment that's
why it was good it's bad weather outside
so and we are just so you know if you're
watching and you're not familiar with
the show we use LTE internet so we are
susceptible to that kind of thing yep
all right so that's going away what else
do we have ok office suite we've got
Libre Office so if I bring up writer for
example version 5 nice they've done away
with version 1.1 Jeff yes which is good
so that suite looks just like Microsoft
Office that kind of thing see and as I'm
looking at this I'm going man this would
it's going to be so easy for people to
migrate it's so fast into a very simple
Linux environment games doesn't really
come with much but you can install those
through the software application it's
pretty standard though yeah Linux yep I
like that's got the Skype I like not
only that but that I don't see cruft
I don't see a bunch of extra junk right
I don't see a bunch of like you remember
on Windows and I've had this
conversation before on Windows when you
installed stuff you get a bunch of like
uninstall is just full of junk and
Windows 10 is just rancid as far as the
menus go you have to know the name of
things and kiss a software updater
software updater I saw you were flipping
through here let's try if we don't know
where it was I can type in there you go
yeah software end updates software
updater yeah so software is that just a
like would that be for updating the base
software on the says GIMP is installed
well let's take a look it's all new to
us
checking for look at that I'm gonna
close out of this it says the GIMP is
installed which there's an interesting
blank button and then launch so we're
seeing a you know there there are
probably some tweaks that they need to
do to make everything kind of perfect
Wow there's already no what does it do
alright look at that so this is telling
me that there's an update for my
computer ok that's cool so again GUI
front-end we've done away with the need
for terminal
although it is still there so if you're
a terminal baby you can bring it up you
can do your stuff and it's full service
there you go what do you think Sasha
it's very nice
intuitive easy to use super fast and
it'll inspire it looks he feels very
very much like Lin spire of old but it
is xfce if you can believe it from what
I understand this is all xfce driven
really yeah so but it looks great what
do you all think I'm excited post your
comments below I think this could be
like I love I always love Lin spire oh
yeah well just the fact that it's back I
mean I've got an old laptop at home I
can't wait to put it on this see sure
how it works yeah cuz it'd be great to
add life to an old laptop if you want to
just jump pardon me if you want to jump
right in just go grab free spire free so
give it a go on your system and you'll
be flying nice I love it and that's just
out of the box so only thing I installed
was GIMP chat room you want to know how
does it look and run let's bring it up
thunder graphics nice and easy
so this is on this particular laptop as
I mentioned this is a better laptop than
what we had 10 years ago but it is it's
just got four gigs of RAM and I think
I've allocated two gigs to the to the VM
so it's not got smashing specs or
anything like that but as far as
responsiveness like when I move stuff
and touch stuff it feels very very zippy
yeah it's and and there is something to
be said for that I think yes when things
just feel zippy when I click on an
application when I move something around
on the screen I don't like there to feel
like there's latency there nice I'm
excited Lynne's spire linux.com is where
you're gonna find it good touch
[Applause]
