welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 4 21 Tuesday the 13th of
October 2015 hello I'm Robbie nice to
see ya hi my name is Ellie introducing
Shelley and we will catch up with her
ass a little bit a couple minutes time
things to do Sasha how are you I love
the look great yeah that's awesome okay
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV news room The Washington Post has
reported that Chinese police have
arrested hackers after the US government
supplied them with a list of cyber crime
suspects us computer giant doll has
agreed to a deal to buy data storage
company EMC 467 billion dollars a man
who briefly bought and owned the
google.com web domain has been rewarded
by the search giant there's some shady
taxes asian going on at facebook in the
UK but they claim they've done nothing
outside the law the maker of LastPass a
popular password manager is being
acquired by logmein in a sale worth at
least 110 million dollars three British
companies have created a device to deter
drones from entering sensitive areas by
freezing them in mid-flight stick around
the full details are coming up later in
the show this is category 5 technology
TV
starring Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
christo wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
welcome to category 5 technology TV it's
episode number for 21 Robbie it's so
nice to have you here and help me in
welcoming Shelly de Silva to the show
okay when tell us a little bit about you
and what brought you to category 5 what
you do uh wanted to try something new I
never done this before I kind of Miss
the chat room to be honest I haven't
been on one and forever is what it feels
like we are seeing yeah pretty old
school yeah back when dial-up was da
still think but yeah i'm just working
full-time at a marketing company and i'm
a graphic designer there no so what kind
of tech do you work with your just
graphics I just do billboards right up
like Photoshop and then yep illustrator
yep all that fun stuff cool you do any
web stuff a little bit of web yep I do a
little designing for I'm just just some
interfaces so cool we're good we'll look
forward to getting to know you and
through the course of the show if
there's any ideas that that you have
that are kind of up up your alley then
it's a good opportunity for for us to
introduce some of the things that you
enjoy doing and and if you have any
questions Shelly's in the chat room
tonight is Shelly des not to be mistaken
for nintendo DS but you can ping her
there mmm cool i'll be ready for it
alright we're laughing before the show
that's what happened there so tonight we
are going to look at an innovative
device that's going to do one thing and
do it really really well the attachment
may help reduce headaches I'm gonna tell
you all about that it may help reduce
the chance of disease and improve if you
experience mental fatigue it's going to
help with that and this device is
available now we're going to tell you in
a couple minutes time how allah works
for under forty dollars hmm excited cool
stuff i'll just refer back to this one
here
they're you right category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's sec it's here cat5 TV / tpn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters as well we're also a member
of that cab 5t cat5 TV / IA ib out of
the park alright folks well get in the
chat room if you're not already there
want to say thanks to everybody who's
joining us in the chat room I see I'll
pack there and Cal hydro RAB nice to see
ya and also rob shad who has been in the
chat room throughout the course of the
week and been fun to hang out with him
and get to know him a little better aye
seto be there as well and greets to
everybody who's joining us in the chat
room so hey like she says it's a little
old school it's a lot of fun get in the
category 5 on freenode and it's a great
chance to to hang out with other viewers
of the show as well as us here in the
studio will try to keep up as well so
should we get right into it yes some fun
facts about water water you need it you
gotta have it yeah common headaches
quite often are caused by dehydration
yeah and we'll go through a couple of
little fun facts with you and a lot of a
lot of this stuff you're going to say
hey you all I know that well fact is I
still don't drink enough water agreed I
know that I don't water improves and
accelerates your metabolism that's
always a good thing I think about like
I've been trying to do the whole weight
loss thing over the past year to be
honest and increasing my metabolism is a
good idea but also water helps to
prevent false hunger which is that
feeling that I need something to eat you
go to the fridge and it turns out you're
actually thirsty your body's telling you
I need something but what do you go for
you go for chips or some chocolates or
some kind of snack thing that's not a
good idea you put some water in you and
it's going to help maintain that so that
you're not not binge eating just because
it helps uh ingestion or digestion of
your food digestion as well so that's
that's a good thing as well um helps
maintain normal nor
bodily functions as you know and also
true story helps with mood swings mm-hmm
believe it or not drinking enough water
helps with mood swings you've got some
actual official stats let's talk a
little bit about hydration and and what
it's going to do for us and my
perspective is I sit at a computer desk
all day mm-hmm I drink a lot of coffee
right yeah not a lot of h2o how much
water would you say you drink in a day
in a day let's see if I was to be honest
oh no there have been days that have
gone by like three days where I would
say oh I haven't had a glass of water in
that time like maybe glass ahead it may
be may be getting a glass in the morning
or a bad time or whatever but
realistically sitting at my desk I'll
quite often just have coffee or
sometimes I'll have tea hmm in the
afternoon something so maybe that's a
little better than coffee for from a
hydration perspective but yeah I don't
drink enough yeah totally agree with you
there I sit at a desk as well so I think
just being more mindful of that I'm just
kind of getting up every so often to go
get a bottle waters sometimes a little
it doesn't happen very often or as much
as it should yeah and it's important
isn't it so maybe we can learn a little
bit about the the fun facts so much
water should you drink in a day um that
says this 68 ounces I don't know how
much that is in comparison to a lot well
an 8 ounce cup would be like our coffee
well this would be like a 12 ounce this
isn't feel like enough though you know
first well you would have about eight of
these I think 08 of the eight of these
throughout the course of the day which I
had never do nearly not enough do you do
that when was the last time he has
anyone drinking water right now just
tell me just let us know yeah um yes our
bodies are made up of seventy percent
water which doesn't really feel like it
but here's another cool fat sixty-four
percent of coffee six percent water Oh
what's less a little thick them yeah
that's the other thing oh it's like slug
anyways um besides water what else can
you consume to stay hydrated so Robbie
said tea helps you stay hydrated
so sports drinks or fruits actually fun
fact I could not eat or keep anything
down at one point because i had an
intestinal infection and the only thing
i drank was carrots ah my carrot ginger
yeah round up for whatever and orange
juice okay so I literally lived on that
for like three days so it really wasn't
water but I mean it can't be right I'm
still here okay yeah is it speaking of
sports drinks energy drinks things like
that lots of sugar yeah so when i'm
looking at weight loss and having the
exact opposite effect there yeah and
high so and a lot of sugar into my
system which is not good don't you're
looking at the potential for diabetes
and things like that if you're drinking
a lot of it na dehydrates you as well so
it makes even really her see which
sodium oh right yeah goes looking for
water or your body closer a good point
coming to us from the chat room that it
doesn't have to be necessarily eight
cups a day truth is is everybody's
different some people may need more than
that some people may need less
guidelines are put into place to
basically say if you target eight cups a
day that's probably a good place to
start everybody's different but if you
aim for that if that's your goal then
it's probably going to keep you a lot
healthier than the guy that only drinks
coffee all day long and maybe drinks one
cup a day yeah they set depending on the
weather as well if it's really hot out
you need way more make sense yeah any
other fun facts for us on hydration
although we can survive in month without
food we can only survive about a week
without water so that's I guess in
comparison try to tell you something
yeah okay another way you can stay
hydrated throughout the day if you're
not an avid cup drinker is to sip water
throughout the day so just making sure
that you pick up the bottle ever so
often and with me I don't like water at
all the taste nothing nothing as a
feeling about water to me so I have to
make sure I take two full mouthfuls of
water just to get that into know that
I'm currently you know what I do is I'm
kind of the same where sometimes water
just doesn't appeal to me so I'll take
that you can buy lime juice oh and it's
pure lime juice a hundred percent and
you just put a couple of drops in you
know you know anything in water picks up
the water picks up the taste so I cut up
watermelon and put it in my water it
tastes like watermelon water and
cucumber and water tastes good cucumber
and a couple of sprigs of mint it's like
like a non-alcoholic hydrating mojito
the question about alcohol in the chat
room here right yeah and Robbie too
smooth to your coffee thing yeah um
halfway through the day I switch to hot
water i've been i've been doing that too
now do you just drink straight hot water
like boiled water yeah I drink my water
black as I called it I don't put
anything in it because I'm lazy but it's
really good with lemon so yeah that's
that's smart I have been boiling just
water to to substitute coffee to try to
wean myself off of coffee in the
afternoon but I like the idea of just
adding a little bit to the water that's
pure agamotto in the chat room says
stick a slice of lime in there stick
some lemon maybe even some orange slices
would be another idea just to make it a
little bit more flavorful so we're all
talk about ok that's the impoverished
ninety-seven percent water there you go
there you go yeah that's good to know
yeah ok so the effects of hydration
obviously hydration is a good thing it
helps us to be healthy because we are
predominantly water-based ninety-two
percent of our blood is water and for
those of us that have you know that
don't drink a lot of water you might
find hey your blood pressure goes up
yeah well because if the viscosity of
your blood goes thicker oh so it sounds
wrong it's long right so it's really
important for our health long-term to
have enough water in us what are the
effects of dehydration headaches yeah
mental fatigue yeah we've got a list
here patient my mouth no tears when
crying I found that one kind of
interesting that is interesting um but
and obviously would lead to some pain as
well let me think because that's kind of
the body's way of keeping your eyes
feeling good and majid dizziness or
lightheadedness
and if I'm working at a computer and I
talking about fatigue working coding and
thinking oh man my head is just like I'm
robbing yeah and you're just not even a
headache necessarily but even just the
dizziness and not being able to focus on
your work by three o'clock in the
afternoon well I've been finding the
water's been helping me to do that so
what we're looking at tonight there's
some fun facts for you yeah and I hope
we didn't leave too much out but I mean
you can research it I'm going to put
some links we've got some great articles
from family doctor org there's nothing
to be happy yeah and we've got they've
got an excellent info graphic there
about the effects of dehydration on the
human body the whole body yeah and so
and it's amazing how much water really
makes a difference it's so crazy as I'm
realizing this because hmm you think
it's it's obvious but yet here I am I
still don't drink enough so so we're
looking at a product tonight that quite
literally simply makes you drink more
water let's just fix your microphone
here just because I know that it's it's
being problematic for you and so we
apologize for the wrestling there so
feel good yep that's better tyreel we'll
figure it out hula is a product that
actually just attaches to your water
bottle and you'll see that it's actually
flashing right now and that is telling
me that it's time to drink some water
it's such a simple idea but when you
think about it I will have a water in
front of me and I'll still forget to
drink from it you'll have you'll pour
yourself a glass of water maybe you
don't even pour yourself a glass of
water by sticking you on your bottle or
on your your copy yeah your cup of water
it simply just catches your eye out of
the corner of your eye so that you know
that hey it's time to have a drink so
every half hour it reminds you to pick
up your bottle and have the ring had to
drink and you'll see it's still flashing
well in order to turn it off to stop it
from doing that all i gotta do is pick
it up have a drink symbols left and set
it down no longer flashing so it doesn't
bug the other people in my office they
don't even know that it's there out of
the corner of my eye I was surprised
because the first couple days I was
using
I thought oh this isn't this isn't going
to catch my eye but in your periphery
that little LED just blinking there and
a pulse really does catch your eye and
you think and then you pick it up and
and it works so I've gone from like I
say maybe a maximum one cup of water a
day to having a drink every half hour
with Allah so it's got to make a huge
difference so I'm anxious to see what
that does for my health we look at how
how we use it I mean it's the simplest
thing in the world so this is Ulla this
little guy right here so all I've done
is just clipped to the side of my water
bottle but it does include a strap as
well so if you want to put it on
anything it basically takes any water
bottle and makes it into a smart water
bottle Sasha can you show us your water
even just this is there it is I mean
it's just a store-bought bottle of water
with Allah on it and even that is going
to work just fine so this will turn
it'll turn any bottle or glass into a
smart drink so I can just clip this onto
here and that flashes and lets me know
when it's time to have a drink sounds
like such a simple thing but it really
does work and knowing the the impact
that drinking more water is going to
have on our health not just short term
like weight loss but also long term when
I think about the diseases that are
prevented by being well hydrated on a
regular basis yeah so it keeps your
kidneys um hydrated the filters it helps
filter them better yeah it must what
other like there are diseases that are
caused by dehydration there's um my mom
has multiple myeloma or she may and one
of the symptoms was dehydration and I
thought this is a symptom yeah so
dehydration is one of the or causes I
guess what cause of yeah so now she has
a cyst on her kidney cuz I guess it's
not filming the way it should so yeah
yeah dehydration was one of the causes I
was like okay yeah there's a lot of
stuff that can be avoided by just
keeping hydrated so it's this is such a
simple device and what we can do is that
it actually has a cr2032 battery which
we're all familiar with in the that's
your bios battery right
and you can actually just pull it out
and change it I know you can do you have
nails yeah I do can you get that oh
there we go there we go you need nails
so it's just that's as simple as it is
we've got a cr2032 battery in there to
change it takes two point two seconds
there you go done and done and we're
done so and that's going to last a long
time as well so you can check this out
it's cat five dot TV / Ulla and it is ul
la you ll 8 just like that yeah so cat
five dot TV / you ll a you can be able
to pick up one of those it's so simple
but it really does work yeah we're such
creatures of habits that helps remind
you it really does it's making a
difference for sure for me so check it
out that's right a gamoto you ll a
thanks Reb D jank and thanks everybody
in the chat room check it out well we've
got viewer questions that have come in
for us tonight and I know we're gonna
get touching on those and if anyone has
any questions for me go through just let
Shelley know in the chat room I'm going
to put this on the strap it's a little
easier for me this is category 5
technology TV you'll find us online
crippled w category five dot TV make
sure you participate in the community
we've got the chat room there and of
course if you're watching this after the
fact you can subscribe to our various
channels we're on YouTube you can get us
on Cody go to cat to github.com / cat
five to download our cody plugin and
we're also on roku if you've got a Roku
device just subscribe to the category 5
TV network channel do you have any
questions for me coming in
thanks for sending in your questions
everybody you can email us live at
category 5 TV or again just get into the
chat room and we're there I don't have
to wait for the timer to go you can have
a drink and it resets it oh you're
talking about yes yeah now we're
mentioning a lot of alcoholic beverages
that have water inside though the water
content vodka vodka whiskey there's beer
what else do we have here got a bunch of
stuff that's the way the chat room is
gonna go put it on anything I think that
kind of isn't the purpose how do you
reply to someone just down at the bottom
there this is old-school IRCA yeah there
you go just sit up now you can type /
android ? yeah r EV DJ rev Li Genk
that's it hey yeah depends on device
there's one knee to unlock bootloader to
use alternate r om in an android phone
do you need to unlock the phone in order
to change the rom it depends on the
manufactured with like if it's an
official rom is gwg in the chat because
he operates the android buffet podcast i
recommend that you check out their
website android buffet calm they're
going to be able to help you with all
that kind of stuff from a more technical
perspective but you would need to you
need to root the phone if you're going
to replace it with something that's not
official if it's officially supported
then you would be able to install it
just as any other firmware kind of thing
yeah we're having some um yeah people
are asking as well well answering his
question as well oh there you know yeah
all right cool and any questions come in
by email at all let's check
question from TD rev DJ good job my
computer is old and I have been
upgrading it slowly and so far I've
replaced the graphics card and now i can
get dual monitors and upgrade the DVD
drive and i was considering getting an
SSD what are your options on SSDs it's
going to get it actually we can answer
that first because I think got a couple
of like it's a two partners solid state
drives versus hard disk drives the
spinning drives solace eight is a hard
drive that is completely chips there's
no spinning parts so they're much much
faster as you know Toby these days
they're quite reliable so if you want
the speed here's the toss-up if you go
with a solid state drive you're going to
get less capacity but you're going to
get much more speed so a good example
would be our broadcast server here we
used to use a raid 0 so we had multiple
drives to try to get the best possible
speed out of the system we replace that
raid 0 with a single SSD and it's a good
SSD a nice fast one but it is faster
than the raid 0 that had four drives in
it so the speed is astronomically better
but the the capacity is much lower so
dollar for dollar gigabyte two gigabyte
or terabyte two terabyte it's much more
expensive to go SSD so you need to use
strategies to figure out k will can I
store things on an ass device can I put
them on a server versus having to put it
all on my computer for example so those
are the things that you kind of take
into account okay need for your OS
that's going to make a huge difference
mmm there was more to that one yeah I
was going to get a sand is 32 gig
there's a gigabyte um that's small 32
gigabyte and I have a home directory on
the terabyte that I have just installed
what would I need to know about SSDs I
know you can't do a swap partition in
case it shortens its lifespan but what
else would I need to know thank you and
PS i switch my monitors to a very small
one and now you're
head is stuck in my panel haha nice i
gotta get it out to the panel cool um
okay 32 gigs is too small for an OS
guaranteed you got I mean realistically
and with the price per gigabyte I would
start at 128 gigs these days it's
probably just the way to go what you
need to look at when you're looking at
it is the speed of the read and the
speed of the right versus what you are
going to be doing so if I hear we know
oh I don't have any on this the shelf
here I wish I did for you Toby SSDs are
measured and sold showing the speed of
the read and the speed of the right so
if it's for your operating system and
all your programs then the reed is the
most important because you're not
actually writing a whole lot of stuff
although if you've got a temp folder but
as you know as you've already stated
it's probably not a good idea to have
that on the SSD if the speed is going to
impact the way your computer operates so
if you get one the superfast read and
really slow right it's going to really
crawl every time you save something so
you could open it in Photoshop it boom
that's up on the screen but then you
make some changes and you hit save and
it takes forever not not really but
there's such a significant difference so
I always aim for something that is going
to be about equal read and write and I
aim for anything over 500 megabytes per
second and that's going to be nice and
screaming fast for your OS and for
saving stuff looking at your temp folder
where you want to store stuff on a
temporary basis I would look at making
sure you have lots and lots of RAM in
your computer so you would if you've got
16 gigs of RAM in your computer set your
temp folder as of RAM disk of that Ram
so that any temp stuff goes into your
RAM knowing that as soon as you shut
down your computer it's all lost because
it's temporary but it's going to be
screaming
fastens going to save those constant
read write operations happening on the
on the hard drive which realistically
these days you're not going to probably
kill a hard drive just by having your
temp folder on it and there they're good
enough and solid enough now garbage
collection is important so make sure it
has that feature but everything does
these days so I can't say I could
imagine a hard drive being sold without
garbage collection these days so these
are all concerns that were concerned
three years ago but not so much anymore
as long as you're buying a modern drive
but so good luck Robbie yes um I had a
comment from last week Toby had said and
I wasn't able to add it into the show
but I wanted to just bring it up I guess
it was about a malicious add that was
going around and he just wanted to warn
everybody that it looks like a was at
bsod blue screen of death was created
death from windows 98 and at the bottom
it has a number and audio that comes up
saying your computer is infected please
call this number and a lot of people are
falling for it kind of like phone
scammers so he just wanted everybody to
know I took a screenshot of the
conversation Oh fantastic there we go
can we talk about that for a brief
moment shell yep have you ever
encountered that kind of thing blue
screen of death the fake malware
versions of blue screen of death russina
so and this is becoming more and more
common I get lots of calls from
customers who say hey I think my
computer is infected or whatever here's
the thing there's this advertisement and
this is just one particular instance but
and we've talked about social
engineering before phishing scams ways
that hackers try to trick you as a user
into providing information this
particular one as Toby mentions was well
it's a full screen advertisement right
like a pop under a pop oh yeah and it
looks like a blue screen of death
however it says call this number to get
your computer fixed rate because it
looks so real and because it's happening
on your computer and it makes you
nervous you tend to pick up the phone
and call that number
a toll-free number right and you call it
up and you say i got this pop up on my
computer and they and they are all
professional about it no well we'll take
care of that for you what we needed to
do is go to this website we have a
special tool there from microsoft that's
going to help us to to remedy this
situation for you will connect in and
and get that solved no problem and so
it's unfortunate that they're preying on
individuals and and largely it's it's
obviously going to be people who are not
really that savvy when it comes to
social engineering scams and and so they
trick honest hard work and people into
providing access to their systems so
then they get in they install stuff that
allows them to then remotely control
your computer while you sleep and
monitor your credit card information as
you enter it into any online stores
whatever they want to do you've
basically authorized them to have access
to it your antivirus doesn't protect you
from it because it's not a virus you
have given them that access and so it's
dangerous and scary but it goes along
the same lines of all the phishing scams
and all those yeah trickeries that are
out there that try to get you to give up
information I got one today work for
Microsoft Outlook saying that my email
was hacked and if I go to this website
then idol fix it and of course the email
comes in is got outlook branding is
completely everything yep functions
we've had to lock out your paypal
account let's click on this link and we
will reactivate it for it yeah you click
on the link it looks exactly like PayPal
so you enter your username and password
you just gave your username and password
to that hacker and it goes for any bank
yeah they're gonna they're just gonna
keep trying with by chance with an ad
blocker help to like things that pop up
like that would an ad Melchor sort of
help the blue screen of death thing that
Toby was so tough singing because this
is one of the things we touched on when
we were speaking last week with ads irk
is that we are going to be tempted to
install an ad blocker in a situation
like that because it's going to protect
us from that particular kind of malware
and it can be just an ad it could just
be a trick a piece of trickery it's all
social engineering rights
it's just an advertisement but it pops
up in such a way that it looks like you
know click OK and you know and then
sometimes there's a voice that comes on
your computer is infected yeah you know
this is in that shut it freaks you right
out ya know but it's just an ad up until
that point until you take action right
until you fall for the social
engineering tactic it's still just an ad
at that point because those don't tend
to they don't tend to I mean there are
ones that compromise things like flash
and JavaScript and things yeah but these
particular ones are really just tricking
you into proceeding with what they want
you to do call this number hmm be
careful folks and if you if you need a
hand with that kind of thing or if you
ever have concern you know what even get
into our chat room if you receive a
social engineering thing or you suspect
that it is phishing scam you could email
it to us forward it to us live at
category 5 TV I'd be happy to review it
for you point you toward documentation
that shows whether or not as legitimate
show you how to determine whether
something a social engineering or get
into our chat room and our chat room
would be more than happy to help you as
well I think we have a question well
let's we're going to have to jump over
to the newsroom uh yeah my turned doc is
excited and then we'll come back with
more of your questions right after this
right it's tuesday octobre 13 2015 and
here are the stories were covering this
week hackers in China have been arrested
at the request of the US government
buying EMC and it all goes through it's
going to be the largest acquisition in
in history between two tech companies
from the oh my gosh I can't believe this
is true files a college student owned
google com for about a minute last month
after a flaw in their renewal system
allowed him to buy the domain for just
twelve dollars facebook says it operates
within the rules in the UK while paying
less annual tax than a single worker on
an average salary time to watch the
pricing very closely LastPass is being
acquired by logmein and a new anti anti
drone device will jam the radio signals
of the operators and freeze a drone in
mid-flight these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere you've got
mad skills now hone them learn new
skills or improve your existing ones
with online video tutorials and training
from Linda calm through our special link
at cat five dot TV / Linda learn
software technology creative and
business skills you can use today to
help you achieve your professional goals
join today and start learning will give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat5 dot TV
/ Linda I'm Sasha dramatis and here the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room The Washington Post has reported
that Chinese police arrested hackers
after the US government supplied them
with a list of cyber crime suspects the
hackers are believed to have stolen
research and development information
from several US firms the arrest came
shortly before chinese president joo jin
ping visited the u.s. for talks partly
about cybersecurity the US and China
have regularly swapped accusations about
who is behind the cyber attacks they
suffer quoting their sources the
newspaper said that the stolen trade
secrets and plans were passed to Chinese
firms that are rivals of the US
businesses which were hit some of the
recipients are believed to be state-run
organizations the arrests are believed
to be the first China has carried out at
the request of the US
and I guess this really blurs the lines
Robbie between countries and and I guess
a lot of times you're in sort of a
bubble of security if you're in China
right you you have to be rested in China
even though the crimes are committing
are against the people in the US right
so because we don't have any
jurisdiction over there in the cyber
world do we well I mean other than the
embassy and things like that I don't see
how we could but at the same time okay
if we're working together and if there's
going to be a perception that we're
working together then then I guess the
government has to kind of step up and
say okay well if this if this can be
proved I hope that they're proving this
stuff right I'd hate to see people being
charged just on a well America said so
like I hope that there's an
investigation going on i'm sure there is
yeah this sort of sets the precedent
though now you can't just hide sort of
in your own country right attacking
other countries in the cyber world so
it's good US computer giant dell has
agreed to agree to a deal to buy a data
storage company emc for sixty seven
billion dollars emc shareholders will
receive thirty-three dollars and fifteen
cents per share twenty-four dollars and
five cents of that which will be in cash
if approved by the regulators the deal
would be the biggest and history between
two technology companies fault falling
demand for pcs meant dallas looking to
expand into more lucrative businesses
and it has identified data storage as a
key growth area Michael Dell says our
new company will be exceptionally well
positioned for growth in the most
strategic areas of next-generation IT
emt boss Joe Tucci said the waves of
change we now see in our industry are
unprecedented and to navigate this
change we must create a new company for
a new era mr. dell will be chairman and
chief executive of the combined group
that dell said would be the world's
largest privately owned privately
controlled integrated technology company
the deal is going to take some time it's
expected to close sometime between may
and october of
next year Wow good job down a man who
briefly bought and owned the google com
web domain has been rewarded by the
search giant an administration oversight
allowed us students and may vide to buy
the right to control the domain on
September 29th the oversight left him in
charge of google com for about a minute
until Google caught on and canceled the
transaction now mr. vide has been given
a cash reward for spotting the error
which he's decided to donate to charity
mr. vide is currently an MBA student at
a u.s. college in the early hours of
September 29th he noticed a for sale
sign next to the google.com name while
browsing sites on Google's own website
buying service how lucky he used a
credit card to pay the twelve dollar fee
to grab google calmly and got emails
confirming that he was the owner Wow
almost immediately he started getting
messages intended for Google's own web
administration team this was followed by
a cancellation message sent by the
website by the website buying service
which said he could not take over google
com because somebody had already
registered it and his twelve dollar
payment was refunded now it has emerged
that mr. vide has been given a bug
bounty by Google security team for
revealing the weakness in the domain
buying system the internal emails mr.
vide has received while in charge of
google com have been passed to the team
mr. vidas decided to give the cash to an
Indian Educational Foundation and after
hearing this google doubled the reward i
will tell you that the real reward in
this is now this guy at every first date
and every conversation he can always say
yeah I owned Google I used to own google
for one minute granted but I did it's
true I would put that is in bold on my
resume I would cancel everything else on
my resume would just say my name and
previous owner of Google yeah amazing
amazing what luck wonder what the reward
was good for him donating it but Wow all
right Facebook has insisted is complying
with the law in the UK despite paying
just 4327 pounds in corporation tax for
the whole of last year the amount is
less than the average UK worker who with
an annual salary of 26,000 500 pounds
would contribute a total of five
thousand 393 pounds through income tax
and national insurance according to the
company's accounts Facebook pushed
itself into operating at a loss of 28.5
million pounds in Britain following a
payout of more than 35 million pounds to
staff as a part of a share bonus scheme
hmm the ski met Facebook's 362 UK staff
members took home an extra 90 7790
pounds each in 2014 I hope they're
hiring I'll apply pushing their total
paycheck to an average of two hundred
and ten thousand six hundred and
fourteen pounds the payouts along with a
profit base in Ireland meant the firm
was only liable for a small tax bill for
the year despite registering revenues of
105 million pounds a spokesperson for
the company said we are compliant with
UK tax law and in fact all countries
where we have employees and offices we
continue to grow our business activities
in the UK the company pointed out that
it was taxed on their profit figures and
not the amount of revenue that they
generate in the UK and argued that all
of its UK staff paid tax on their income
including the money they received from
the share bonus scheme I feel like
scheme being the operative word in this
this is very clever facebook well played
clever and dark wow like come on I would
like to work for facebook it turns out I
would like to specifically work for
facebook in the UK they get mad hundred
thousand dollars not dollars pounds Alex
even better
that's like x 2.2 or something I don't
know I think that would be my legs 10
these days Wow all right the maker of
LastPass a popular password manager is
being acquired by logmein in a sale
worth at least 110 million dollars last
pass founded in 2008 makes software that
generates strong passwords and stores
them in an encrypted vault the software
integrates with desktop and mobile
browsers and automatically fills in
password fields on a website when a user
enters a master password the basic
software can be used for free but
individual users and businesses can pay
for premium features LastPass CEO and
co-founder Joe Siegrist wrote today that
his company is excited to join logmein
log me in in delivering the next
generation of identity and access
management for individuals teams and
companies with LastPass at the forefront
Siegrist wrote that last pass will
continue to improve its software for
free premium and enterprise customers
Siegrist slogged post drew a few dozen
comments with most expressing
disappointment about the sale and
criticizing logmein while I congratulate
the LastPass founders on a nice exit we
will as enterprise users monitor very
careful enterprise users will monitor
very carefully if that impacts the
pricing one customer wrote there is a
reason we never use logmein because
they're not delivering appropriate value
for smbs at their price points logmein
provides remote desktop management and
software support and for individuals and
businesses the company discontinued a
free version of its service products
last year log man's announcement said it
will close the deal with LastPass in the
coming weeks paying 110 million dollars
in cash upon the clothes with an
additional 15 million dollars in
payments to equity holders and key
employees of LastPass contingent on
reaching certain milestones and
retention targets in the two years after
the acquisition so it sounds like if
they take this company and for
reason the sales dropped and they're not
on the hook for the 15 million dollars
oh right keen observation there Sasha
yeah yeah I don't know I use password
box which i assume is sort of a similar
similar nature to last pass for sure
right so I mean maybe if you're not
happy with the transition that's a route
you could look at mmm it offers a pretty
stellar free service with the option to
get a premium package all right three
British companies have created a device
to deter drones from entering sensitive
areas by freezing them in mid-flight the
anti UAV defense ISM system or odds
worked by convert Lee jamming a drone
signal making it unresponsive after this
disruption the operator is like to rich
likely to retrieve the drone believing
that it has malfunctioned the system
joins a host of recently announced
technologies which can blast larger
drones out of the sky a drone flying in
sensitive airspace can be detected by
the odds radar and then cited via a
camera equipped with thermal imaging
capability so that it can be targeted
visually then a high powered radio
signal can be focused on the drone
essentially overriding the connection to
whomever is operating it according to
the manufacturer's the whole process
takes as little as 25 seconds and I
confirmed with you earlier Robbie this
is like a radio signal that only would
disrupt the drone communication well II
and I'm sure that I mean I suppose
they're talking military drones and
things like that are really the concern
stuff that's carrying a dangerous
payload when I fly my drone which is a
camera sometimes I can get interference
and if I get interference now my drone I
lose connection from my controller to
the drone so here they're forcibly
removing the connection between the
users controller and the drone so they
would lose the ability to to control it
but also the operator would probably not
be line-of-sight flying so they'd also
lose visual
so they lose that visual connection is
there a safety feature on drones like
when you lose connection does it yes say
safely and slowly fall to the ground or
once they zap it do it does it just like
well Emmett like Peter when we had I
don't you recall when we had Henry Billy
brown on the show Rome aerial support
air photography or air support aerial
photography he talked about the fact
that the higher-end drones have a GPS
system and that GPS system is used not
only to control the drone but also so
that if I lose connection it can come
home to me which is to return to the
controller it may just hover if it loses
connection so that you can get up to it
so the GPS system is going to keep it
flying in the case of these higher end
drones something like my drone which was
doesn't have a GPS it's much lower end
would just probably crash it would lose
lose connection to the controller and
whatever I was doing when it last
connected if I was flying right it would
just keep flying right and eventually
just go down well let's hope that they
don't target yours yeah I don't think
that they have to that I have to worry
about big thanks this week too sparkly
balls and Roy w notch and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
if you found a new story that you'd like
to send email at to newsroom at category
5 TV for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias visit the category 5
TV news room at newsroom category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Sasha derm atis thanks Sasha this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show I'm Robbie Ferguson hi Shelly
dasilva she's new here so newbie if it
takes her a moment to introduce herself
you know why I I got some questions came
in this one comes to us on YouTube kazu
DV says what's the name of the mic that
you use and then we got a question here
from Dell Watson del W on twitter says
hey Robbie Ferguson what's the make and
model of the wired headset microphone
that you use in this video so I said
well we've got we use hardwired
his XLR adapters we've got the
compressor and exciter that is all
available through shop category 5 TV if
you go there you're going to find links
for it is last question down Watson so
that that to answer your question kazu
DV as well as Dell Watson's first
question we've got links to these mics
these at the apex 575 s we've got these
on if you go to shop category 5 TV
caught a categories are on the right go
to studio equipment and you'll see the
mics and what I was saying to dal w
there is that you have to go through a
compressor and an exciter to get the
sound that we get so if I get louder or
if one of us is quieter it's going to
automatically level things and make it
sound good so then because we're
hardwired we go into these packs that
are so this is an audio technica 88 539
this is a little phantom power pack that
is powered by our mixing console but it
converts this thin little wire that's
made for these wireless headsets to
convert it into XLR that's how we do it
because then we don't have any
interference and we're fairly stationary
anyways if you want to go wireless
though these headsets are compatible
with you know you're sure systems and
comes with a bunch of cables to make it
compatible we went with the auto audio
technica XLR adapters because it makes
sense for us to go directly into a
console so again what I'll do is I'll
put these packs as well the XLR
converters into that shop link so by the
time you see this it may already be
there meet interesting the two of us to
different areas asking the same question
they do sound great though don't they
real good close proximity makes a big
difference to even with cheaper
microphones it's and these aren't cheap
but I mean even with the cheaper headset
you're going to get better sound than
say a shotgun that's on the camera
because it's so close to my mouth that
it picks up really well and you can see
tonight shall Shelly was having some
trouble with it like snagging and stuff
and that's partially because being your
first day here we've got to find the you
know what what
they're very flexible so we just have to
bend it and find the the perfect
placement for it they also come with a
thing that goes behind the ear maybe
that's something we could try and it
adds another hook on the other ear so
then it gives it a little more little
added support yeah oh and my waters
flashing there we go there you have it
kids he's using his bottle see how I
wasn't even looking over there I can see
the works but it works good question do
we have question alright let's do it get
right into it Oh everybody I'm currently
trying to do what you discussed in your
broadcast however your broadcast made me
aware of cons I didn't know about it's
the 2945 a standard for all DSLR cameras
so this is DSLR related okay or just the
t2i i just purchased the rebel i believe
it's called is that the same is that the
same or has something changed since your
video if there's a good DSLR option
please advise oh is this from way back
when we I think somebody loaned us at
t2i or something like that to look at
could it be used for broadcast since
then and and I I don't remember
everything that happen in that ok
particular review i think we had some
trouble with getting a good solid clean
hdmi output yeah since then we we did
DSLR for Wirecast on linux tech show
calm if you go there do a quick search
that's going to take you to youtube i'll
show you how to do it DSLR for Wirecast
shows us using the d 5100 from Nikon
it's a cheaper and I wouldn't say entry
level but it is fairly entry level as
far as the price goes camera but it's
interchangeable lenses it comes with a
nice kit lens and by hacking it we're
able to turn it into a video camera so
it's what we're using tonight I don't
know if you can tell that the quality
here live is is actually quite good
that's the D 5100 hacked running hdmi
into a mage well card it's
when you get madewell versus we also
tried black magic intensity pros because
we were looking for something
entry-level cheap okay then I tried the
a ver media gamer HD pro or something
like that gamer h HD gamer anyways and
it also didn't do it for us problems
problems have to do with that
perspective the aspect ratio of the
video coming off the DSLR the mage well
cards allows you to fix to correct the
aspect ratio so it's a little more
expensive but it's definitely worth the
investment if you're going to be doing
live broadcasting and we can't post
produce stretching or fixing the the
video go to linux tech show calm and
that's going to take you to a special
youtube channel here and here you should
find it but if we go into search and
just type in DSLR and you'll see DSLR
for Wirecast part 1 and part 2 and those
two are really really important for you
if you're thinking about doing this
that's using a DSLR camera for any kind
of broadcast way i say for Wirecast but
realistically it's for any pc doing live
broadcast also another thing for you to
look at is the show show dot TV that's a
show that you'll want to subscribe to
that's one of our broadcasts I've done
one episode so far and we're going to be
rolling out a lot more and working on a
very very in-depth series on hacking a
nikon d50 100 how to how to procure one
how to get the best deal now to save
yourself some money how to turn it into
a video camera how to make it so that
it's powered up for the entire to our
broadcast you don't have to worry about
burning your your sensors and running
out of battery life and things Adam
doesn't have to change batteries over
there because he's on it we've hacked an
AC adapter into the battery compartment
it set up so it thinks it's got a
battery in it but no it's actually
plugged in so there's all this kind of
stuff to look at go to the show show TV
and subscribe to that on YouTube and
you'll be happy about the what
see ya thanks for the question
appreciate it and thanks for tuning in
no more for me hmm let's see here we've
got a couple people heading out they're
snoozing they're going to bed sorry
they're not snoozing oh sure don't wanna
bet yeah nighters yeah sorry we're being
over in all the world let's let's take a
look at while you're looking for that
let's look at okay well if you're going
to bed guys let me clarify that map dot
cat five dot TVs a fun little tool to
take a look yeah i'm just going to show
you where people are watching from
tonight so yeah i guess some of your
it's getting pretty late over there in
mongolia yeah i would think so but
welcome to everybody who's watching from
all around the world get onto our
website category five dot TV nice to see
so many people from pretty much
everywhere australia we've got a lot of
a lot of use watches in Australia New
Zealand as well been a while since we've
looked at the map hmm that's really real
time doing that before and lots of
people watching in Japan tonight as well
that's awesome mage South Korea not
quite as many people watching in North
Korea tonight they have a really bad
internet connection yeah I hear that the
other is a hitter mess yeah we have
another question alright fantastic is
there any Thunderbolt support under
linux yeah um I haven't done it so what
are you looking to do but yes that is
part of some of the kernels for sure
there's a question from Dooley the volca
as well all right so it says Robbie can
I rent unraid sticks on a system and
boot it having and boot having it use in
control USB 3 external hard drive while
still having other hard disks in the
system that i do not want to change or
use in the session as a way to try it
out on a fast large hard drive that i
can spare the space on ok does that make
any sense
you are we trying to boot from Gibby yes
have an boot and boot having it use and
control a USB 3 external hard drive I I
see the question here Dooley the volca
yes in the chat room yes I'm thinking
it's the Vulcan is it the Vulcan Dooley
did did I or C cut you off because it's
so old school you can only do so many
characters and then they get cut off
Robbie can I run unraid 6 on a system
boot having it used and control the USB
3 external hard drive okay so yeah still
having other hard disks in the system oh
that I don't want to change or using ah
so can you try out unraid set up an
array using external hard drives give
get a feel for it connect to it use it
and not touch the OS of the main system
that's already in there yeah because
when you first boot up unraid it gives
you a list of all your hard drives so
depending on the version that you've got
so so you've got unraid pro it's
something like 20 some-odd drives you
can have mounted so you would select the
external USB drive as the one that you
want to add to the array you need to
have at least two drives to have parity
that means if one one fails are you
flicking your hair in my periphery is
that what you're doing I went yeah all
right so yeah it could be done for
testing only I wouldn't I I wouldn't
personally trust using external USB
drives in my array officially
permanently because someone could
accidentally unplug one okay on a live
array that would probably not be a good
idea worse would be if someone unplugged
to it would be even worse so I like to
put everything in such a way that it's
it's built in but yes you could do that
but be very very careful but on ray does
prompt you but when you first add the
drive it's going to want to pre-clear it
a very time-consuming process if you
have not pre-cleared it because it's an
external drive you could take it over to
another linux box use Joe h's pre-clear
script
what you'll find in the forums and use
that to pre-clear that USB Drive before
you connect it to that computer and then
that way you can just mount it and it's
done so if you go to mount one of the
internal hard drives that you don't want
to wipe and it says hey do you want to
pre-clear well this is the new no
because that's going to wipe every
sector and and what it does is it does
like a stress test on the drive to make
sure that it's going to be reliable in
your array mm-hmm remember that if you
use an external hard drive is going to
be quite a bit slower so the pre clear
process could take a long time
especially if its large I wouldn't do it
with like a 3 terabyte or something if
you want to do some testing start with
like a 500 gig nothing more than that
because it's going to take a lot of time
to pre-clear if you're just playing
around that's all thanks for the
question hope it helps yeah just to try
it out absolutely but you can boot up
from the OS unraid on a USB flash drive
anyways and just and just see what the
interface looks like you can connect to
it through sombre cifs and you'll see
the flash drive and you can open it and
but yeah if you want it you want to have
at least two drives in the array if you
want to really test it start dropping
some files on it neat thing about unraid
too is that unraid as well I should say
is that because the drives are entirely
independent and parity is on a parity
drive not striped across the array you
can unplug that external drive plug it
into your computer and all the files are
there that we're on that drive not from
the entire array but from that
particular drive so so it makes it
really easy to move data from one system
to the next and things like that pretty
decent have a second question there oh
good sound pro 69 I'm not even don't
even get a chance to pre-read your
question so this is where I get is there
any forum resources to get help with
Linux driver issues for example can I
find a programmer whom I can pay to
write Linux drivers for device provided
I send them the hardware holy cow you
have a device that are you manufacturing
something you need somebody I'm sure
there are resources for that kind of
thing but I think where you could look
is
get involved in some of the communities
that are doing DIY stuff like raspberry
pi or Arduino and and see what those
guys guys and gals say about this kind
of thing because they are probably more
you know working with that kind of stuff
making hardware work but certainly some
of those di I DIY groups would would be
helpful Reb D Jenk offering the free
software foundation as a resource as
well thanks for that so where I can't
believe it but we're right at a time did
we cover everything get it all I think
so you think so so that's that's the
show so nice to have you here it's gonna
be it's gonna be a lot of fun over the
next little while getting to know you
introducing you to the community make
sure you say hi to Shelly pop messages
to us alive at category 5 TV and thank
you for being here next week of course
is like back to the future day so here
looking at some of the tech that might
have been a hit and some might have been
a mess as far as what they foresaw for
2050 don't miss it take care everybody
yeah
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat where category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
