for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to this episode number 265 a
category 5 technology TV Tuesday October
the 16 2012 wowza how are you nice to
see everybody in the chat room lots of
people saying hi just before the show
how you been Oh busy and authors to
Wells ladies and gentlemen you folks the
one and only I try in the chat room as
the crista so special yeah if I was
rocking that's right sorry i interfere
what I didn't actually say anything else
inside uh nothing don't seen you since
the anniversary show I know I've been
busy busy busy I have getting like
business cards all done up and all that
crazy I know we got here we go see
sometimes ah there we go for me this
whole box of gadgets and gizmos fresh
out the press oh look at this graphic
design amazingness of the crista
it'd be graphic design work she's your
girl
oh he's that guy but there is that what
evolved nerd very very nice thanks
Krista ah anytime yeah someone's got a
cool up the show just kind of make it
awesome her much more awesomer and have
you been good bad yeah it's well it's
been busy and it's been kind of leveling
off it's been getting more normal yes
sissy you're normalizing yeah it's kind
of it's been that way the studio I is
looking good it's looking less boxes
well there's still lots of boxes here
actually we're kind of all this ski
those boxes I actually brought in just
before here I brought them in oh the
Fung Shui the blue I was kind of working
on getting some more than music area
kind of setup and right did that all go
on so yeah cool stuff but now it's been
good good yeah sounds great well what
you got coming up nice name yeah that's
a cool things happening hey if you're
not there already category five on
freenode our chat room and you can get
there through our website to category 5
TV alright so coming up in the newsroom
a sous padfone 2 is announced hmm an
Austrian skydiver has broken the sound
barrier in free free fall sorry oh and
Amazon won't make money on the sales of
their new kindle paperwhite on purpose
no it's interesting a wrist-worn sensor
has been revealed by Microsoft for
always on gesture control interesting
stick around these stores are coming up
later in the show cool stuff eh also
tonight we've got lots of prizes to give
away some cool stuff from TT thermaltake
eSports so stick around if you have your
ballot yeah get it ready because we're
gonna be drawn those in just a couple of
minutes so now we're going to be picking
up where we left off with our series
about publishing your very own book
using free tools and tonight we're going
to be looking at getting rid of the
distractions as you're writing and that
we're going to be talking all about some
of the free tools that are available for
you to help you with that with your
novel project so stick around I'm pretty
excited about this and
it's going to be a really really fun
series and we've been getting a really
great response on on Twitter and through
email excellent on youtube so if you
have any questions for us email the men
go to camp five dot TV / ask or you can
of course join us in the chat room and
kristas there so here all John 56
minutes yeah we got a postcard this week
and I love yes we did love love love
receiving your postcards this one comes
from a long ways blend Iceland it says
greetings from Iceland love your show
from Albert R cheers albert r &amp; albert
is joining us in the chat room as well
nice to see ya greetings from Canada
cool nice up now this is surprising this
it's almost like they took this picture
specifically to show us Canadians that
no it's not all ice there it's actually
there's actually some dirt and some
grass and a water geyser so the
stereotypes are not true it's just
absolutely I slam I think it's Canadians
though we should be like you know a
little more wary of the stereotypes yeah
you know since we have like in an igloo
polar bear erasers play hockey every
Friday Rea like you know yeah thank you
for the post card we love to receive
your postcards as I was saying Krista
how can they send in their postcards oh
you know they can send them into
category 5 technology TV at p.o box 29
00 9 in Barrie Ontario and that's in
Canada and at l4 n7w seven so wheat and
also we've got our mobile site make sure
you visit our robot at mcat five dot TV
great way for you to be able to catch
the show on your idevice or on your
tablet or your Android device blackberry
windows mobile well you can get there
hmmm cat 5 TV nice guy that's right I
know loads of fun stuff coming up we'll
be right back with some of these prizes
we should teach rises or the prizes what
get your raffle tickets ready folks if
you've got one from our fifth
anniversary show hey did you have fun on
the anniversary
I haven't even talked to you since I
know I've been avoiding you and then
super successful so far no it was great
it was a lot of fun it was um I've never
done it with like the live audience
before so it's interesting to to see
like the live audience and then like you
folks at home too so yeah we don't get
that off and I like we just were looking
we actually we have pictures of all
different people just right behind the
camera just so we can pretend that we're
looking at you and saying hi that's true
but yeah but if you were there you
picked up a ballot for our prize draws
that are happening all this month and
we've got some cool stuff coming up in
just a couple moments so stick around we
will be right back after this at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines com this is
category 5 technology TV our website is
triple w category five dot TV lots of
exciting stuff going on tonight nice to
have you here hey Dennis Kelly agamotto
yeah good to see everybody okay you've
got some some prizes but I'm reach yeah
but i think i'm gonna keep them to
myself so yeah they're pretty oh that's
portion of the show's over all right or
you know i'll share how share hey hey
thermaltake usa.com check them out they
are fantastic let's see what we've got
every one of these last week
congratulations to our winners at the so
far this is the late on gaming mousepad
from thermaltake eSports or TT esports
you wanna check this again yeah let's
see we allowed to open it well we are
going to ruin the street value of it
it's like when I opened the Star Trek
figurines and Garvey's like no they're
only worth 10 another just a paperweight
yeah brilliant no check this out you
really have to see the late on gaming
mousepad in order to understand what
makes this so awesome I showed you last
week if you want to just hold up yes my
existing mousepad here is the late on
gaming mouse pad which basically
eclipses this this little bad boy its
massive the surface area you can imagine
as a graphic designer you must love
larger surface area when you're working
with the mouse so check that out
brilliant ok cool yeah so get to get
your raffle your raffle tickets ready
Krista's gonna draw one of those for us
ok it's not just huge it's actually it's
really really good quality too it's like
it's I don't know like a saddle stitch
around the edging you can see no all the
all the technical terms are you are so
imaginate it's like super super good
quality is like the ultimate mousepad
all right folks look at that stitching
folks if you are a quilter you will just
be in awe of the mouse pad hmm or you
just a game but you guys actually like
to know who mouse pad dude who will be a
I shouldn't say going home you are at
home who we will be sending this to who
or do you just want to talk about the
stitching somewhere it is a very nice
one okay so we're looking at number 8 6
5 6 7 4 8 65 67 for you are our winner
tonight all you have to do is pop us an
email live at category 5 TV or give us a
call within the next 30 days to 5 45 2 2
85 88 and the late on gaming mouse pad
from thermaltake eSports is yours yeah
we got more stuff to give away tonight
so keep those ballots handy cool cool
yes we have we've got an amazing laptop
that laptop gaming gig bag mm-hmm so
we're going to show you that in a few
minutes
dude we've got viewer questions to look
at tonight I am sure and before we run
into viewer questions just let you know
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech kads here
and international international
association of internet broadcasters
it's cool i forgot to do that earlier so
now you know now you know now you know
and now from our awesome viewers with
excellent questions um question from
Louie or lewis says I am trying to use
zoneminder as CCTV software but when I
download it from their website it is not
a deb file it's a bunch of files I don't
understand how to low it load it on to
boone two or Zorin OS I have other
programs i would love to try but they
don't load like Deb files love the show
ok so zoneminder CCTV software ok let's
check it out downloads and what do we
got stable releases all right that
sounds awesome it's a tar.gz file
okay oh say so you see this as a linux
install saw like the program is to be
installed on linux so extract this to
your computer throw that in like TMP
there it is okay so now all you have to
do is get into your terminal this is how
you would do it with that file okay so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to go
CD / TMP to get there okay and there's a
folder called zoneminder now which I
created I think that was what it was Oh
with a capital Zent okay there it is
okay so what you would do is make while
sudo make run that oh and there's no
make file or it's not detecting it what
I the first I wanted to show you how to
do this but all you need to configure it
first sorry if you type sudo dot slash
configure it's going to go through the
configuration first things first then we
can make it doesn't work but without
even going that right what I what I
really would want to do first and
foremost before I even bother with that
is I'm gonna bring up synaptic package
manager let's see because I will nine
times out of ten you're going to find
programs in synaptic package manager
that you're not going to have to go
through that kind of install and there
you go zoneminder is in there so minor
is intended for use as a single or multi
camera video surveillance so without
even getting into building from source
the reason that I'm kind of just
skipping is because I would just install
it from a repository because then if a
new version comes out they're going to
you're going to get the update so let's
then look at the versioning latest
version is 1.2 4.2 dash 8 and on their
website 1.25 so it's a little bit newer
on the website and it says that this
primarily focusing on logging and
debugging revamp a few other minor
features and fixes so it doesn't sound
like that it's a major upgrade to get
the latest and greatest version so I
would stick with what's known as stable
in the end the repository let's try it
that way because this is so easy so you
know how to get here this is a synaptic
package manager which is system
administration synaptic package manager
on your linux system type in zoneminder
under quick filter now let's see which
repository this is in before I move on
you don't need to do this it's in the
universe repository so if you don't see
it when you type in zoneminder just go
settings repositories and make sure that
universe that's what I said it was in
right is checked off so make sure that
that one is turned on otherwise you
won't see it if that one's not in use
you're not going to see that anything
that's in that repository so for me I
have it so I'm going to click and mark
for installation tells me all the other
things that it needs to install fair a
little bit be mindful if it says that
it's going to remove something that it
might break some stuff this is going to
do some stuff with Apache because it's
it's hosting it looks like it's using
javascript stuff based on the components
that it's installing it it's probably
creating like a web interface so that
you can actually use this from anywhere
so which is cool be sure that you want
to be able to do that and then hit mark
and then hit apply and that's going to
install not just zone minder but all of
those additional things that you saw
that it needs there which could be a
problem when you're making from source
right especially if they're if they're
installation doesn't quite work very
well so I would try it in synaptic and
then you get everything that it needs
and it's most likely going to install
just perfectly so and it's very very
minorly behind as far as versioning goes
but it didn't look like the new version
is anything exceptionally awesome
compared to hope that helps great oh
here's another question um from hello
hello hello um says I tried to follow
you
ductions here and it leads us to episode
2 30 all right at about 36 minutes it's
an instructional on setting up
VirtualBox on a headless system
administered through PHP VirtualBox I
followed along exactly but my vbox web
service fails to start I have since
removed purge and reinstalled virtualbox
to attempt to resolve the issue oh right
okay let's take a look so that is the
episode where we're talking about
creating a headless virtual box which is
great there we go okay so in this
episode we walked you through the entire
process one of the first things I
believe that I had shown you was how to
create your configuration file for for
the Box web service so what what you
need to do is make absolutely certain
that you've gotten through that
particular step get your configuration
file working so that you can initialize
that service otherwise you won't be able
to run the headless VirtualBox system as
we as we show in that episode watch it
through one one more time you can go to
the website at category 5 TV go to
episode number 230 and just find here
where says feature creating virtual box
and just hit play there and that will
actually start right at that point in
the episode so that gets you right where
you need to be and then just follow the
steps it just make sure that you've got
that configuration file going because
that's what's going to absolutely stop
you if you didn't get through that step
so I hope that is that the information
is there I think that it is I think we
were pretty thorough in that episode
with with that software you're just
distracted by rachels pink hair I could
have been but I i think that the info is
there and and so I'd ask you to just
give it a quick watch and check on that
one particular thing maybe sometimes
it's just knowing where to look okay
well what steps I mess or what what
little thing have I overlooked and that
that would definitely it would be that
configuration file and then starting the
vbox web service so please give it a try
and let me know if
if it's still problematic and if that's
the case perhaps what we would do is set
up a teamviewer session so that i can
connect into your computer and get it
running for you or we could use SSH
something like that and we would
demonstrate that on the air so that we
can show how that's done so all right
thank you for the question good this
one's not so much a question it is from
rob post post Ellie possibly he says
just watch one of your episodes that you
spoke about solid state drives from the
found this from one of our suppliers if
you have a spare one hundred and five
thousand dollars this could be yours I
think he has a compare and they has this
fusion-io own drive I'm and all this
battle I gotta find this let me pull
this up solid-state drive yeah we're
talking about the price eNOS of some
solid state drives let's see here I just
want to see if there's a way for me to
load this email without revealing your
email address there from which it
doesn't gotta be there haha tricky trick
I am tricky just kind of pull it off the
screen there we go look at this so this
is from your actual supplier 5.12
terabyte so there's the the question
answer we'd say well what's the biggest
you can get well if you have the money
you can get up to well there you go 104
thousand dollars but on a plus side it
only takes three to six business days oh
so super speedy oh yeah it'll get there
fast but if you wait about a year or two
that'll be seventy dollars at future so
you're maybe too do you imagine that's
fantastic thanks for sending that Rob
that's hilarious Wow can you imagine if
you have that crash on you oh you're a
jealous dad you'd be that's like oh I
just spent like my entire life savings
it's like a small house if you won the
lottery or something would you buy a
five terabyte SSD for a hundred thousand
dollars yeah would you buy a boat other
thing I mean exactly what would you do
in that case you fish off of a solid
state drive you know I
yeah I'd really love to have that but
you know maybe just maybe a really
decent you know car with a really decent
car for a hundred thousand dollars you
can get a really decent car I think yeah
well with the trailer and the boat
attached you know Wow excellent
fantastic what would you do without some
dollars folks oh oh here is one let's
see who it's from it's from Ellen says
hi Rob I want to thank you for your very
detailed demonstration on the Wirecast
software and the various components that
you use to produce your webcast I've
experimented with webcasting the pet
this past year at the school where I
manage the website and AV services I am
now ready to step up from simple pc and
coding and using microsoft encoder pro
to something more sophisticated hmm i
have looked at Wirecast and your
demonstration has convinced me that it
would suit us very well good do you have
a definitive list of what configuration
of pc needs to have to run wire across
pro properly i have a sony exs or sorry
II x3 that I input through a black magic
studio and colder card I don't know how
much CPU load this rig creates but the
pc i have been using could barely manage
it thanks again for all the great
information and your well produced
videos cheers alan cool thanks Alan
first of all the the CPU usage is not
going to be isn't it's not going to be
really dependent on what camera you're
using right so because if if if the ex3
is a 10 HD camera then you're looking at
you know if its sourcing 1080p to the
black magic card that's where it's it's
where the encoding is taking place
that's where the CPU usage is happening
because the black magic cards are
reasonably low CPU usage for what they
are I mean it's uncompressed video it
brings it into Wirecast and and then all
of the encoding is happening there so
you do need to have a really you know a
powerful system because you're going to
be switching HD video right so we're
we're actually broadcasting in 720p we
use a 1080p camera now you watch the
Wirecast emma so you know exactly
we do that because when i zoom in and
out like this we're still only using one
camera but we can do that because of
lossless digital zoom which I described
and I describe that method in that video
but the thing is is yeah you do need a
powerful system do I have a list we're
actually it's funny that you would ask
that because we're just working on that
right now I had a conversation today
we're we're working on putting together
links for you so that you can actually
see the hardware and get access to local
you know places where you can purchase
it and have it shipped to you or
whatever if you want to build something
similar it needs to be a powerful system
I mean an i7 will do a lot but there are
other considerations too so let's let's
talk a little bit further I would love
to know more about what what your
existing system is so that i can find
out you know figure out if that's going
to if that's going to be sufficient for
you or and i'll certainly be happy to
show you what we have as well so happy
to do that yeah john thanks man I've got
a question coming in from pires rocky
saying that he's unable to access my
pogoplug com that's the login service
for pogoplug and i'll just let you know
pyrus rock that when I bring that up
here we are doing it live and it comes
up no problem so it looks like that may
be something on your end quite possibly
anybody else in the chatroom want to
give that a try my pogoplug calm hate to
do that to them but we'll test the cloud
tonight and their infrastructure you see
how well it works if it stays up now
then we know it's pires rock Dennis
Kelly doesn't have a problem says yeah
there you go Pyrus rack so looks like
there's something up on your end in a
case like that if it's you know could be
where you're located geographically in
the world there might be some kind of
issue i mean it's happened before where
you know a switch or something across
the coast is lost access or something
for some reason temporarily but it could
also be just your your modem or router
you might need a quick kick just restart
them through
yeah usually does it for you so I check
your cash to just try it from another
browser or clear your cache give it a go
everybody the chatroom says it's working
for me and still working for them even
though everybody just hit it all at once
so just flooded word and it's still good
oh we have a time for another one here
before oh sure yeah okay ah that's a
comment are you ready love ready okay
this is a comment from mihail hey mihail
i says hello my name is Mihaly i am from
sofia bulgaria and i want first to thank
you for the help last time my first
question is what prevents linux to
become more popular than windows hmm my
second question is why is your show on
Tuesday Oh ask you because it's midnight
in Bulgaria 3 p.m. and i get to work i
get up early for work and cannot watch
it can you move on can you move it to
friday or saturday so i can watch the
show live hmm wonder if I mean it's like
it's in the middle of the night 3 a.m.
yeah sounds good morning their time yeah
well why is it on a Tuesday night I mean
this is the way it's been ever since the
beginning my friend and and and the
question you know kid you could you just
move it to friday or saturday that's
what the on-demand does is it offers it
so that you can catch it at your
convenience it's so much more fun to
watch live i know it is but for the sake
of consistency it's really important
that we have a set day and time every
single week and of course we're all
volunteers here so so we do this on a
schedule and then the consistency helps
us as well as helps our viewers to know
when it is that they were going to be
live so i think we've got a pretty good
routine hmm so you know we've been doing
this for 265 weeks my friend so it seems
to be working out pretty good plus think
of all the co-hosts that couldn't make
it on Fridays I Friday they all right
party Oh having a blast I'm not gumming
the dock on the air I'm partying not
really what would just be Robbie yeah
just being boring
okay I'm kidding yeah um that's right
Dennis Kelly yeah um the first part why
why is Linux not more popular than
windows well it is here how would I say
that bias it depends on who you're
talking to I know exactly what you're
saying but I mean if we can create this
atmosphere of Lin eccentric nests which
we just made that word and it is now
official it's really I mean I it does
probably boil down to being at the right
place at the right time microsoft
launched windows when there was really
no other option other than mac on lass
and here's where the stereotype for
linux came in unless you were a hacker I
mean because if you wanted to use unix
fantastic go right ahead but you got to
be really good so windows was really the
the consumer operating system so really
it's just you know the right place at
the right time they came out before
Linux was consumer ready now Linux is
and you're looking at it's a lot of
ketchup to try to get to the point where
consumers no longer think of it as a
hacker desktop because back then when
windows was the way to go for the PC it
that's what it was you know linux and
unix and i think that's probably a big
part of it and then of course there's
the advertising and you know how many
people don't actually even know about
linux they don't know is really an
option well and that's you know so
promote our show because we'll share it
with them and show them the the features
of linux and how it works and how it can
save the money and frustration but i
think also just the fact that I mean
Windows 8 is coming out right and
Microsoft is pumping billions of dollars
like billions of dollars think about how
many $100,000 hard drives you could buy
with that right there sinking that just
into the advertising that's just the
marketing campaign just to get it into
people's heads that this is all that
there is unless you want to go Mac it's
mac vs windows right it's not the Linux
is the other option but linux doesn't
have the billions of dollars to promote
it
itself that's just not the way that it
works because it's a different model
altogether it's a different mindset so
it takes us the community of Lennox the
the users of Linux and I know that she's
nodding but will convert her never
matter but you know i'll be here there
were no anyways it takes us you know it
takes us to to promote it and i don't
mean us as in category five I mean us as
in you and me if you've discovered linux
and you and you know what it's all about
and as far as the freedom that it gives
you with your computer you know because
your computer is your computer now then
it's up to you to share it with friends
family and promote it locally share you
know if you find something like category
five anything hey this is a great
resource then tell people about it and
that that helps as well as awareness and
knowledge is what is what helps people
to be able to use it and and once
they're using it and they have help like
the show and like yourself then all of a
sudden more people know about it so I've
seen it grow a lot over my years of
using it I mean these days we you know
we have lots and lots of people that I
just bump into that use linux and when i
was using linux you know years ago
nobody else used it it was so foreign to
everybody so you're saying you're
starting you started the lush garden
wolfing yeah I did hmm at least in my
family circle yeah they still on windows
XP I'm working on Wensley once windows 8
release what why Windows 8 is so great
because everyone will want something
different so there's my opportunity yeah
get them older down yeah I hate this
stupid windows 8 there's Robbie with his
new cards midgets yeah yeah here's my
business card fancy-shmancy can't even
get a paper cut off with these bad boys
chair can't even I hear they're even to
shoot at this the dishwasher safe out
there long as I say who put it through
the dishwasher just stuck to my play
they'll just barely know whatever here's
a tip for you gravy guy watch the show
yeah busboy what I just offended
somebody insulting Shah no that's the
trick is you stick your your you know a
couple bucks in the the gravy so though
when you give it to people the guy who's
washing the dishes gets a tip cuz they
never get anything right so it's not
fair so I was actually thinking of you
and now Krista knows to do that so
greatly good thinking of you yeah keep
an eye out yeah always watching out for
for you alright how final so I wanted
bigger and better and cooler things how
about the news okay
with the sigh of the elderly I needed
any bit of breath and plus i lost the
top I needed a second stall you all so I
could get a row here are the top stories
from the category five dock TV news room
a literal mashup between smartphone and
tablet a sous has announced the padfone
2 of 4.7 inch smartphone that docs into
a 10.1 inch tablet both devices are
powered by the phone the asus padfone 2
as a follow-up to their initial padfone
with the company clearly feeling that
they can find a market with the unique
device this time the phone is not placed
in the tablets docking bay but is
designed to slide into a slot in the
back running on Android Ice Cream
Sandwich azusa's promise there will be
an update to jelly bean in the near
future names people leopard tiger well
Ice Cream Sandwich yeah jelly bean it's
delicious hmm the padfone 2 has gps with
precise mapping NFC for contactless
payments and comes with LTE which means
it will work with 4g cool stuff I you
look at the picture and you think that's
two products and in fact that is one
product the phone actually goes into the
tablet and makes it so that's up on the
big screen so it's like to the next
level a Power Ranger device you're my
power rangers they don't like transfer
think I'll go together and make like a
big super oh yeah nice totally watch
power rangers as a kid amazing we just
learned so much about Krista I think
it's cool there's been some pictures
circulating on the internet and s who
said today on I guess on YouTube they
said that's not the device everybody's
posting these pictures on the news
stories and stuff so you that is the
real picture as sue said that people are
posting the wrong picture they're
posting pictures of a prototype of the
version one product so mm-hmm get it
right interesting yeah Oh Austrian Felix
Baumgartner that right Baumgartner
anyways has become the first skydiver to
go faster than the speed of sound
reaching a maximum velocity of 830 3.9
miles per hour wowza which is 1300 42
km/h Rowan gentlemen out of a balloon
I'm sorry what you can say that again
kilometers or miles kilometers okay that
makes sense 1342 km/h I can drive that
ball DD free falling that's insane I
mean I guess it feels skydiving from a
thing that looks like a spaceship and
you can see the stratosphere then show
you're a little bit yeah little time a
little bit arias right oh yeah yeah look
I am a little bit unless it
disintegrates as you enter the
atmosphere also possible yeah I would
presume anyways mmm-hmm so in jumping
out of a balloon 128,000 100 feet which
is a 24 miles or thirty nine kilometers
above New Mexico the 43-year old also
smashed a record for the highest ever
free fall I would think so he said he
almost aborted the die because his
helmet visor fogged up scary it took
just under 10 minutes for him to descend
only the last few thousand feet were
negotiated by parachute once down he
felt his knees and raised his fist in
triumph helicopters recovery teams are
on him
moments moments later I am so glad that
he made her I think everyone else was he
was traveling it over a thousand
kilometers an hour it's pretty fast but
I mean like all that could have been
just gone because his visor fogged up
yeah you think they would have made some
little like okay yeah you know yeah like
little windshield and the extra fifty
dollars or whatever you know gonna
advance visor him I built a spaceship to
take me up to skydive that I forgot
about that ya know wilkie doodle that's
why Ozzie yeah crazy here's something a
little less crazy maybe I don't know yet
amazon has confirmed it will make oh no
not not less crazy amazon has conferred
it will not make a profit from sales of
its latest kindle tablet and ereader
devices what chief executive jeff besos
besos told the BBC we sell the hardware
at our cost so it is break even on the
hardware he made an interesting world it
would be if more companies who are doing
this everyone would be poor and it would
be a much but we would all better out
hundred-thousand-dollar hard drives
because they'd only cost sixty dollars
exactly I'm just saying I'm not dude are
you just gonna loop back to my drive
this entire just amazes me oh you made
the comments as they launch the new
paperwhite e-reader at a book lending
scheme in the UK Germany and France he
made it clear that the devices success
would depend on how many books and other
media files or subsequent subsequently
bought by their owners he told the BBC
we want to make money when people use
our devices not when people buy our
devices it is a stark contrast to the
strategy of the best-selling apple or
sorry best selling tablet maker Apple of
course that's in there the latest elink
powered ereader features a built-in
light that will help kindle compete
against barnes &amp; noble's nook glowlight
and cobos glow which offer a similar
feature hmm that's a very interesting
mindset for a business to
of me that's smart I was looking at the
the paperwhite online yeah because we're
getting into the series about publishing
our own book so we are going to be
covering ebooks as well so we need to
have some kind of ereader and I was
noticing hokey doodle it's cheap for
what it is now it makes sense but the
things that you buy on it or they even a
little bit are they a little bit more
expensive than other devices though or
is it all just the same across the board
no it's pretty much the same right I
mean and and they have a lie of this
library system where it's like a lending
facility mom but also you know you buy a
book and it's you know whether it's 99
cents or whether it's 499 or 1799 I mean
you walk into a store you're gonna pay
that anyways you read once and then what
do you do with the book by yourself you
look smart yes not with the books I read
everybody makes fun of me because it's
something I read the book and so it goes
on my shelf and now I have a shelf full
of just Star Trek not Oh Star Trek yeah
they're sophisticated folks no they're
not salted Apple yeah sorry I insulted
Star Trek that's fun is watching you Oh
Spock and me we're like this a
wrist-worn sensor that creates 3d models
of the user's hand movements in real
time has been built by Microsoft the
digits digits prototype is part of an
effort to create a mobile device that
would allow its user to allow its owner
to control a range of equipment using
hand gestures they said it could be used
as a virtual TV control a way to operate
a smartphone while it is in the users
pocket and to play video games digits
uses a camera-based sensor that detects
inferred ir light coupled with software
that interprets the data produced to
construct a model of a fully articulated
ham skeleton this is then used to
interpret what the users hand is doing
it is designed to be less cumbersome and
uncomfortable than sensor gloves the
prototype has been built using existing
off-the-shelf components but there was
scope to improve the equipment with
customized parts project leader David
Kim said ultimately we would like to
reduce digits to the size of a watch
that can be worn all the
it's kind of neat yeah if that was the
case then I'd be like yeah I can see
like bluetooth version or something be
able to control your phone just by
moving in the air mm-hmm cool be cool if
there's just like a little brain or
something that makes it even cooler yeah
yeah yeah anyways but let's not move it
I mean a watch is still pretty cool well
what if you're already wearing a watch
and then you have two watches when
you're just not cool when I inch wrist
that's why God gave you to risk one for
Microsoft watch infrared thing I want to
tell time to tell time that's why I wear
a watch I don't wear what I don't often
this kid I used to and then the battery
died and it's been dead for about three
years so it's twelve-thirty pull your
iPhone out of yeah there's the time and
it's always accessible mm-hmm and then
you have an excuse to check facebook
exactly yeah anyways if you want you can
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom category 5 opportunity newsroom
is research by roy w Nash's
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new story that you
think is where they've honored mentioned
email us at news room at category 5 do
category five dot TV for the category 5
got TV news room I on crystal walls
Thank You Christa tonight's show is
brought to you in part by Netflix you
can get your free one month trial at cat
five dot TV / Netflix also the official
electrical company of category 5
technology TV is quarter eee electric
please do check them out at quarter eee
electric com this is category five
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson I'm Cristo Wells and Krista has
more prizes for you oh we do it I have
to give them away I really want to keep
it in just a few moments we're gonna be
looking at our Mary's about writing but
check out this this is a laptop bag but
it is can we take it out of the bag I
suppose you could cuz it will look way
cooler out of the bag we can go to cat5
TV / bag and that will kind of show you
what this thing is all about this is
this is called the thermaltake eSports
battle drag
bag it's basically the ultimate gaming
bag so I mean you stick your laptop in
there your headphones your keyboard your
mouse everything fits in this bag it's
amazing but one of the other things it's
got a shoulder strap he's got a carrying
handle this way and carrying handle this
way and it doubles it does actually
double as a backpack there's the straps
are there too great turn it into a
backpack as well and it smells brand new
definitely do it is amazing so this is
for the the battle dragon back from
thermaltake esports at thermaltake
usa.com ready are you ready I'm ready
I'm ready Dave Naidu could fit his
netbook and all of his ham radio gear in
there absolutely all right number 8 65
70 1865 701 you're our winner tonight
all you have to do is email us live at
category 5 TV or phone us at 25 45 2 2
85 88 that's 25 45 cat5 TV we have lots
more stuff to give away on the show on
over the next couple weeks so of course
tune in every single week with your
ballot if you pick one of those up at
our fifth anniversary show and make sure
you contact us within 30 days of your
draw cool all right did we did we get
through enough I mean we've got a look
at writing tonight and and I know if we
if we miss your viewer question and then
forgive me will will definitely qu up
for next week do send us your questions
live at category 5 TV we love to receive
them in the meantime tonight I really
want to talk to you about being able to
write without distractions so a couple
of weeks ago episode number oh I'm gonna
do that to myself aren't I
263 I think it was yeah on 263 Eric and
I talked about self-publishing our book
with free software and we just kind of
gave a really quick run-through so if
you're if you've ever wanted to be a
writer and author you want to self
publish something check out episode
number 263 where you've we give you the
real rundown but now over the course of
the series we're going to be kind of
slowing things down and giving you a
step-by-step guide on ways that you can
you can actually do this which is to
write your novel and then publish your
novel your your your very self using all
free software so tonight I want to look
at something really cool now during that
episode we used libre office I know
during the episode I actually
accidentally call it open office and
Garbi called me on it chatroom called me
on it and Garvey said you know sometimes
people just make that mistake because it
used to be open office and then it
forked out and that's exactly what I did
so I do use Libre Office pretty much
when I when I work on stuff because it
exports beautifully to PDF and that's
really what we need to look at check out
our website cat five dot TV / published
that's where you want to go and at that
URL you're going to get all of the
resources that we talked about during
the series during the series pardon me
you're gonna be able to download the
files the the applications and all that
kind of stuff and here's what I want to
do tonight at cap five dot TV / publish
now we looked at libre office so that's
the full kind of office suite right
tonight I want to strip away all of the
extra stuff all the distractions on a
strip away facebook and msn popping up
and instant messaging and facebook chat
and Twitter and all the stuff that could
distract you when you're really meant to
sit down and do your writing because
tonight we're starting at square one
we're starting with okay well if we're
going to publish a book for me to write
it we need to sit down for be at 30
minutes a day or if we set a goal of a
thousand words a day sit down and
actually get this done did you know that
if you were to do two thousand words a
day which is a lot of lies a lot if you
were to do two thousand words a day in
one month you would have a 50,000 word
book ready to publish that's it is V
Lynaugh but for you am NSA it in
absolutely but I mean if it's it you've
got the idea and you can flow with it so
if you can actually commit to a thousand
words a day can you imagine that if you
if you really commit then two months
possibly three months you'll have a
50,000 word novel how awesome is that
like when you put it into perspective
like that if you do 100 words and then
your sister Emma sends you and your
brother chats you on facebook and your
aunt posts a picture for dogs you're
blaming family now oh it's always Wow
always families follow blow no I mean
Rebecca from simple north talked about
it at at impact Barry or ignite barry i
should say pardon me at ignite Barry she
said it's procrastination hmm it's
Facebook distracting us and we never get
anything done because that is it's just
it's there and it distracts you it's
like I was saying look at your time on
your iPhone and guess what Oh check my
messages one oh look I got two more
email those games I got there I my bird
oh wait a second I'm supposed to be
driving right yeah so tonight we're
getting rid of all those distractions we
are going to focus with focus writer
it's a free piece of software that's
available for you Windows Mac Linux okay
so we're really working to make this
platform it'll work on all platforms
because this series is not about linux
the series is about making sure that you
hopefully your linux user because that
would be awesome and i would love you
probably about fifty percent more but if
you are a Windows or Mac user we're not
leaving you out I will let you Mack
she'll love the mac users Windows users
I'm sorry you need to stop assess your
life take a look at yourself and really
what are you doing if you if you wonder
about your future with regards to
windows look at Windows 8 the
screenshots are messy and you don't want
to go there so let's just focus on focus
writer right now
hmm okay on our website cat5 TV /
publish there's the URL for you bring it
up and you'll see that there is
distraction free writing environment
called focus writer so we're going to
click on that and this is it I mean all
it is really is it's like taking your
software that you normally use to do
your word publishing which will be libre
office or possibly like Microsoft Word
if you're on Windows or something along
those lines here we're going to strip
away all of the menu bars strip away all
the msn pop-ups and anything that could
distract you put something up on the
screen that's going to be okay I'm
sitting down i'm going to right now
because that's really what you want to
be able to do okay so let's take a quick
look at the software here if you're on
Windows or Mac really really simple to
install choose windows and then download
get it okay choose Mac os10 get it okay
in linux on the other hand you could get
the source code and build it from source
or what I prefer to do is choose a
prebuilt package and you can do that for
pretty much any distro for Ubuntu or
Ubuntu based distributions in my case
I'm using Zorin OS I'm going to use the
Ubuntu PPA it's a personal package
archive I'm going to click on that okay
so this is how we're going to get it and
all you need to do is just copy this
bolded line here PP a colon got code /g
CPP a copy that to your clipboard now
we're going to go system administration
synaptic package manager this is a
program that we're going to use to
install the software okay up here we're
going to go settings repositories other
software and then add and just paste
that line in that we've copied to our
clipboard that's going to automatically
convert the PPA to apt sources so you'll
see that there they are right there
launchpad.net / got code / GP gcp PA
lubuntu natti and it's automatically
detected the version clothes and then
reload your apt sources list that's
going to get all the latest that's going
to get the details about what packages
are now available to you so that is a
really really easy way for linux users
to install this okay so once your
packages list is is all refreshed there
goes i'm going to type in focus writer
should find it for me there it is okay
so focus writer mark for installation
and then apply so that's going to go out
on the internet as synaptic package
manager does get the installer
automatically set it up for my computer
and get it up and running get it working
for us so very very cool how synaptic
package manager is able to do that and
again this is just for the s linux users
for those of you who are on Windows or
Mac as I said you can just grab those
installers from here okay so just select
windows or mac and then get it okay you
al here says is it ms word compatible
who would imagine so here's the neat
thing is that it's actually going to be
able to save 20 dt format so that is
your libre office document format if you
need it you know if there's really no
reason that you would need it to be word
compatible especially in the context of
this series because we're looking at
specifically using free software and so
what we want to be able to do is we want
to be able to save to a format oh BTW
which is going to be now opened in
LibreOffice and then in LibreOffice we
can save it as PDF or it's possible that
the software may save to PDF to i'm i'm
sure we can double check on that as we
were just installing it now but my focus
is more on not more on more on making it
compatible with free software so that's
our libre office and things like that so
it's installed anyways here okay
applications office focus writer is now
there okay so let's click on it and see
what happens
oh that's interesting it's no blank it
is so blank mm-hmm of course you at home
you see this the frilly stuff floating
around the crystal design for us the
category 5 space thing but think you
mean like that gray area that is now our
writing surface so you know if I were to
write my book how would I start my book
once upon a time oh it's a failure
instantly yeah well named krista sure
it's 02 failure instantly the classic
now the fonts really stand out against
the gray the gray is not harsh like a
white it's not blinding me it's nice and
soft and it's so clean there's nothing
obstructing my view that's the zoomed
out view there it is now if I point to
the top now I do get my file menu so
let's see what I can save as now I'm
going to save it as an open document
text it also saves to rich text plain
text and all files which is nothing so
I'm going to save it to open openoffice
format and then from open office I would
then export it as PDF so here now
without distraction I can sit here and
write my whole book right and it's nice
on the screen it actually looks really
really clean the font that it's chosen
is nice and I don't have to think about
fonts and things like that I'm not
having to think about formatting so much
that's just getting my book written just
focusing on the writing aspect now that
said if I'd like to I can do things like
italics right I can do things like bold
underline and those are all based on the
same commands that you're used to
control I for italic control B for bold
control you for underline and so on
another neat thing here that we can do I
can click on settings and go focused
text and watch what happens if I go one
line so now as i'm typing let me zoom in
here notice the text above which is
spell checked by the way and it says hey
this is terrible typing now okay so
there's my first line of text hit enter
and it kind of dims out it rid of test I
was about to speak at the same time so
it really helps you to just focus
yourself on the writing so taking one
step further now the next step is we can
tap into some tools down here for
example word count we can see exactly
how many words we have right on our
screen over here okay well it shows the
percentage of our daily goal which is
set in our settings so if you want to
set daily goals for yourself to really
challenge yourself like I said if you
want to set it to a thousand a thousand
words there you go good way to do it and
that will tell you how close to your
daily goal you are if you want to use
time you can set it that way or if you
don't care about goals and you want to
just write at your own leisure do that
but I think it's a good thing to
challenge yourself ok so then down here
you've got a clock so you can kind of
keep track of how things are going and
you can click on this little disk here
and choose to set up a timer so now we
can go new timer and we can set it to
either a delay like 30 minutes or we can
set it to a time like you know 758 for
example what time is it now 57 so now my
alarm can be okay don't forget to get
the kids right whatever it is and then I
can close that and I can just go back to
writing I don't have to know that I
don't have to worry about what's going
to happen if I bring up my other
applications it's all done within here
so it helps me to keep my focus now at
any moment now now you see I'm nine
percent of my daily goal once that clock
rolls over to 758 it's going to give me
that that notification so I can just
keep writing
it's a lousy book I know well I cry give
the software try it is it is free and
it's available at cat five dot TV
there's my alert okay so it's come up
there and I can click on it to find out
more click on that green arrow how many
words in paragraphs you've done in the
meantime and so on and so forth really
cool way for you to be able to encourage
yourself to get this book written and as
I say two thousand words a day one month
later you've got a novel if you want to
do a thousand words a day two months if
you want to do 500 you and so on right
so give it a try get yourself started
with your writing process and in order
to exit this now of course I'm just
going to point up to the top and go file
save as and I can save my file as an ODT
file which I can then open in the
LibreOffice software which is also free
and then I can go quit and there we go
so that's our free software called focus
writer we walked you through installing
and using the actual software make sure
you save your work as you go and that's
going to get you just to the point where
you're just writing writing writing set
your goals and and I'm sure that you're
in the course of the series you can have
your novel ready to go we're gonna be
able to print that for you um you will
actually ask earlier and it kind of fits
in with the same thing but does it auto
saver you just like have to make sure
you save um I would all I always say
myself does it auto save
let's just check the settings real quick
it goes off the top of my head idol Oh
automatically save changes let's see
here sorry I got there it is okay so
it's in the settings so it can
absolutely which is a really handy
feature for people like me that always
always forget to say no public / crashes
you don't want that pound over Savior
all right well that's all the time we
have tonight don't forget cat5 don t be
/ publish I don't have you
more prizes next week more fun Abigail
Smith's when you starting this week
sweeper
oh I meantime have a fantastic view nice
that will be here making questions in
love your questions
time is up all desserts let's be good
thank you
put up with it for an hour
oh dear let me give you Sookie folks
we hope you enjoy the show category five
to be broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV chickens the local show
times in your area at category 5 TV and
you can watch live and interact in the
community chat where category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital signatures
and is less
tribution 2.5 Canada we'll see you next
time thanks for tuning in
