the following program is made possible
by the friends and partners of
qwest ministries
according to the Bible Noah's Ark landed
in the mountains of Ararat but evolution
is to say hey how can we don't find
fossil kangaroos all the way from Mount
Ararat to Australia big problem and
we're going to talk about it today this
is the creation today show from the CTN
studio in Pensacola Florida I one of
your host Erick coconut i'm joined by
paul taylor and we're talking about
kangaroos it would be helpful e we could
ask an australian we need a noisy and
we've got john mccain in the studio is
for the second week welcome John Aussie
Aussie Aussie as I say yeah that's great
thank you so much for joining us we
learned some great stuff last week on
polystrate fossils evidence against
evolution it manages supports God's Word
remember folks we believe the Bible is
literally true and scientifically
accurate in every single detail and
we're not ashamed to say so
we've got a great show lined up for you
today with special guest john mckay all
the way from Australia talking to us
about some of the research he's done he
is an actual geologist that has a degree
in geology man John is going to be
exciting you've been traveling around
for several weeks now even participating
in some debates I know you've done a lot
of different amazing tell us most
recently what you've been doing well
I've been on the University of British
Columbia one of the campuses and had a
debate against a professor up there in
Canada in British Columbia and it was
absolutely packed I mean they packed the
auditorium they pack the overflow room
they packed the halls and the eyes and I
was praying Lord keep the fire warden
somewhere else you know it was really
really well attended and the
universities just about to post you know
they'd film the debate and I hope it's
posted pretty soon but what you could
really say was my opponent said we're
going to deal with evidence and then
proceeded to tell us all about theories
real fairly easy to deal with and
whenever he was asked about evidence he
said we'll handle it on the online
debate so folk can see all the above now
and evaluate whether he has given us any
evidence on a man and they always come
up lacking I mean that's the problem
right and there's nothing new Under the
Sun there it's not like there's some
magic box of evidence that they've got
that they're not you know letting us see
well I like to tell them and I've told
him you know all evolutions to
hypocrites they may believe in it but
nobody's doing it Wow yeah because
you've done some amazing debates in the
past as well yes many of which have been
filmed at on DVDs which are available
from your website creation research net
they can go and they can actually
preview some of these debates too and
they can get see creation research on
YouTube to preview all of these if they
go to creation research net and there's
a part of those there in front of you
Paul if you want to hold them up so they
get a bit of an idea debates we've done
in Australia or debates in England or
debates in Canada so there's lots of
those debates and they're really worth
seeing because most of these professors
hide behind their reputation instead of
standing on the evidence I love that
they hide behind the pillars of the
school
all in Iran instead of getting out there
and when they're actually put on the
spot they don't have what they'll say
that's right they have theories and
opinions and they contradict the Bible
but the evidence the facts never does if
you want more facts we got a lot of
great stuff coming up I mean these these
debates are great and I mean this is one
debate that absolutely fascinates me the
big question debate filmed at livable
Cathedral in England when you were
debating a chopper with a marvelous
string of titles and so on the Reverend
sir dr. John Polkinghorne Brazil he had
more degrees than a hot day that guy did
and and you blew him out of the water
what's interesting about John
Polkinghorne how well-known is in the
United States but he is a theistic
evolutionist he argues that say believes
in God and that the theory of evolution
God created everything by evolution and
that's available from our American
office to through Creation Research
dotnet one man that's incredible we got
some so we want to talk about before we
get to some of it because I you got
fossilized thorns that's correct those
have some incredible implications I want
to talk to you about those first I want
to remind you guys about a couple of
things we've got a proof of God
conference coming up in just a few
months so make sure you check that out
it's October twelfth and thirteenth in
the orlando florida area you can go to
proof conference dot-com to check that
out also the creation store is always
having new resources put on there maybe
we've got people producing some
incredible stuff you need to check the
creation store website creation store
dodgy every day really to see what's new
then what special offers are available
it really is incredible the the
information that we can get to
strengthen our faith and to share it
with other people as well and of course
John Mkhize got some great resources
that really encourage you to get a hold
of these from his American store
creation research about net and you've
got something on your stores we do today
that's right we need more of yours now
I will okay you're you have faucet
pictures and examples of fossilized
thorns hmm get into that and let's get
into what this implies especially
talking about this guy you debated who's
a theistic evolutionist what we did was
we set up an outdoor creation museum in
Australia I'll take you to it we've
called it the Jurassic ark project they
can see identification research net and
we have a Genesis 3 garden as well dr.
Diane eager who's one of our researchers
she loves plants his she is in our
Genesis 3 garden and of course this is
the one that I get to look after because
it requires no attention dear weeds
right this is 3 garden where all the
weeds right a lot of course it's all
about Genesis 3 17 to 19 because anyone
who does gardening finds it's not just
weeds that a problem but thorns and
thistles as I say I've got one of those
girls yeah it's God's judgment on man
recorded back in Genesis so the world is
no longer the perfect place that was
when God created so we grow plants like
this now if you've never seen one of
these this is a pineapple or a bromeliad
family plan and you get close up you can
see why well it's it's tough to actually
harvest pineapples because the mouser
blades are so full of thorny spikes etc
but I found that fossil here in Canada
in 2007 you can see my thumb for scale
and I love to show it to people and give
it an IQ test because ninety-nine point
nine percent of every person including
every geologists have never seen such a
fossil in a museum here's where I found
it over there in Nova Scotia and the
rocks are listed as being over 280
million years old now they're called
carboniferous which surprise surprise
was actually a term invented by a
clergyman mahi he came from a creation
background he lived near Newcastle in
England or Newcastle as we as you say
and Newcastle is famous for coal coal is
made of carbon what do you call rocks
with carbon atom carboniferous nothing
to do with millions of years of
evolution at all I went back in 2009
found another specimen of that so I went
up on top of the cliff picked a plant
with similar structure
as you can see the shadow on the rock
you can see the fossil beside it now
that's a wild rose that's there and
people say are the things on roses that
poke out that a sharp thorn so anybody
who says this is some kind of fossil
thought is in the right category now
course scientists love to divide these
things up into thorns and thistles and
spines but they're all sharp and when
you fall on them you get the point
that's right they don't look very good
ok so when did this rock containing
fossil thorns form and when I sort of do
this with geologists and the audience
you can begin to see them wrinkle at me
right because there's a question here
that's being discussed that they never
want to talk about and it really is who
is your authority yes right because all
of the geologists they weren't there
when the world was formed Charles Darwin
wasn't there Charles Lyell so they have
a theory which is the opinion of men in
the present about how the past got to be
like it was whereas the Christians got
an advantage our God was there so let me
read from Genesis chapter 3 section we
quoted before then God said to Adam
because you have heated the voice of
your wife now there's actually three
hours sermon in that too but you got to
be a brave man the fridge and God goes
on and says I put thorns and thistles
there and you will eat the herb of the
field okay so that rock formed after
Adam sinned question who is your
authority the God who was there or the
ideological just who weren't so that's
the real important issue so this rock
here is not 280 million years of heresy
the reality is that rock on God's
testimony here never lies could not a
form that till after Adam sinned and
that's what's so fascinating this gets
this right here gets rid of obviously
the Bible is our best evidence but this
gets rid of theistic evolution it really
does in fact let me go one step further
that rock may must never be more than
less than 6,000 years old given the
biblical chronology but you see when I
click the rocks and fossils there's the
trilobite there's the thorn layer and
above it even in Nova Scotia are the
dinosaur layers
now you can ask that question if the
dinosaur strata I found above the thorn
layer then dinosaur fossils didn't get
there till after Adam sinned again the
issue Christian particularly those who
are listening who is your authority if
you claim God used the evolution sorry
this shoots your argument to pieces
because you've got a book that says
there were no thorns in the beginning
there were no thorns to laughter Adam so
this dinosaur didn't get there till
after Adam seat knowing you're just
knows it and doesn't know what you're
talking about because we don't find we
don't mind fossil kangaroos over my
mouth error you got an answer for that
oh yes I will have to talk about that
right after this break creation today is
introducing a new audio resource the
Holy Bible on double speed because it is
difficult to find the time for lengthy
reading sessions we sometimes miss the
big picture produced by reading an
entire book of the Bible or a large
section without interruption the first
disc of this three-disc set presents
Alexander scorpy's wonderful reading of
the Bible at the original recorded speed
the second disc is digitally enhanced to
one-and-a-half times faster than the
original speed third disc is literally
double the speed of the original audio
recordings you can now listen to the
entire word of God in 37 hours these mp3
files can be easily copied to your mp3
player cell phone or iPad you can take
it with you for your daily commute we
offer free downloadable playlists to
maximize your reading options with this
new resource we invite you to fly
through the Bible to gain an amazing new
view of God's Word you're watching the
creation today show on the category 5 TV
network by supporting this network you
support Christian programming that's
available twenty-four-seven you can
investigate their complete programming
schedule by visiting their patron page
at patreon.com / category 5 perfectly
consider becoming a patron yourself
thanks for watching the creation today
she welcome back you're watching the
creation today show with me Paul Taylor
and with Eric joven and our very special
guest john the
I coming up next we'll be looking at
some information about the Jurassic art
project and looking at a very
interesting fossil fossilized clam but
first before we get to that we had a
question earlier we had a question
earlier which was why don't we see lots
of fossilized kangaroos all the way in a
straight line from Mount Ararat all the
way across to Australia and we thought
we need a at a great expense an
Australian geologist yes thankfully it
was his expense yes I was waiting for
the chick yeah we do whisper to you know
we're going to pay the crew here so
absolutely if there's any looked over
we'll send you some no but actually we
do want to support you and what you're
doing and you actually get support from
others to be able to do what you do we
do that you guys go into the
universities and talk to university
students and are able to influence them
in incredible ways by teaching them and
showing them what they're not being
taught at the university yep ok tell us
tilsa answer this question there's
somebody out there and I've heard this
more than once why don't we see these
Ararat where the Ark landed all the way
to Australia how did kangaroos even get
to Australia well number one people who
are in professional geology don't like
me for one reason unless they're
Christians of course and even then
struggle because i like to say God was
there remember the point we made luck
with the fossil thought I was there and
we weren't see things his way don't look
through Darwin's glasses because he
wasn't there and we keep changing our
scientific theories so if you start from
Genesis 1 the world was created covered
with water it was made very good God
raised up the dry land no fossils one
qualification of being a fossil is dead
nothing did until after Adam sinned but
after Adam sinned you could die but
there's no way to preserve you you just
die and fall to the ground you don't
turn into a fossil so you wouldn't
expect any fossil kangaroos before
Noah's Flood even though they lived
right so then you find massive
catastrophic destruction rain for 40
days and 40 nights Fountains of the deep
God's purpose is stated to judge man to
judge the animals to kill things right
to destroy the planet and as Peter said
the world was cataclysmic
that's the Greek word there right
absolutely devastated so for the first
time fossils are possible because to be
a fossil dead is the first qualification
secondly being rapidly buried right
thirdly being deeply buried so the dogs
can't dig you up again right so what you
find is the qualifications first began
to be met at Noah's Flood and in any
minor catastrophe since then like mounts
at Helens or Krakatoa or or any of those
massive volcanic eruptions or even at
the moment in Australia where we've got
an area of water the size of France
moving down through New South Wales and
last year it was as big as France and
Germany combined rapid catastrophic
destruction while is the property of
floods like Noah's Flood so okay what
happens to the Kangaroos may God send
some of them because they don't spend
too long swimming in the water but
that's why very long their land dwelling
air-breathing they meet the
qualification of the creatures God's
going to send to Noah up they hop up the
plank mrs. Noah says good morning
because there's no Aussies then they
don't have to say g'day right so they
hop onto the ark and there they spend
the year they're probably little young
ones because sending mature ones that
are going to have babies is going to
overrun the ark I mean two rabbits get
on how many get off get a real problem
so you find your kangaroo spend the year
on and then they hop off but because
they're clean animals vegetarian this at
most seven of them one is sacrificed the
biggest sacrifice of the most expensive
animal sacrifice ever made and three
pairs get off now you're on Noah's Ark
you've been there for a year the last
thing you want is an animal reunion
right you hop away so you can only go in
three directions at the most because
they can't go in every direction there's
only three pairs the well I guess they
could but they become stick around it's
so what you find is when they head away
from Noah question no matter where they
went what's going to fossilize them
answer there's no more no more
procedures until you get localized
destruction volcanic etc so a you do
find fossil marsupials in other
countries but they're rare you find them
here in Canada oh sorry I've just come
from
it was yesterday item in Canada where I
live you find them in France but you
find them living in Australia South
America etc you'll find kangaroos in
australia you'll find a couple of fossil
kangaroo like creatures in asia but you
wouldn't expect to find many of them
after Noah's Flood so you ask me how did
they get there had a dog get to
Australia people took them how did the
Aborigines get to Australia no seagoing
vessels the answer is they walked
because all you need to do in our
current climate of global warming
concept you lower the water or raise the
water you change the shape of the
continents so you two can go to google
and I swear with the CB if the water
level dropped 100 meters Lancer you
could walk around the planet from the
Shetland Islands to the tip of South
America without getting your feet wet
for all practical purposes Wow so the
Aborigines walk the Kangaroos walk but
they got there before the big killers
had devolved you know the lines that
used to eat grass is like the Ox it
right eventually became scavengers and
then became carnivores they never made
it to Australia so you have this
isolated plant place where the soft
cuddly koalas etc are safe and to
Europeans start bringing their hunting
dogs and that's when they started
hitting that's when they start getting
killed off amazing now you had some
pictures of kangaroos fossils giant
kangaroos and so on yes place called
Kangaroo Island yes I've been there but
that's way at the end of the program so
we want to get to this the clam that you
want to make you have to change the
tactic there a little out of it okay so
what are some other things that you I
mean you've done lots of geologic trips
tell us some more of the stuff you've
discovered in some of your geologic
trips yeah okay well remember that we
started out by showing you the fossil
forms previously we we set up a whole
outdoor creation museum it's the only
creation museum in Australia we called
it our Jurassic ark project you can see
our main website there to show you where
it is east coast of Australia I'm in the
state of Queensland and we just saw the
north-northwest of the town of Brisbane
there's our normally quiet Jurassic arc
we take tourists there we take students
there we originally set it up as a
fossil flood log jam
and you say why fossil flood logjam
there's some of our excavations trees
turned to stone there's a present-day
log jam okay i was in canada last week
and there's what happens to trees in a
log jam they rub against each other
their ends get rounded there's our
fossil trees that rubs against each
other the ends have got rounded every
geologist who's being in there says this
is a fossil flood log jam dump EG the
trees didn't live here but then they
didn't live in the Arizona State fossil
forest over because they had the same
characteristic it's a flood dump as well
so we set it up as a museum we take
students there we take people there and
you can actually go and see it on
creation research net but one of the
things we did set up was a living fossil
forest let me see if I can do this
before our next break beautiful plants
they love all the wet weather we've had
in Australia but we've planted the
living versions of the same things we've
been digging up as fossil so there's a
living woolamai there's some of the
fossil woolamai in my collection we call
it living fossil because Darwin had a
problem he said a theory that said
seaweed turned into cabbages turned into
trees but yet he found these creatures
that seemed to be the same in the rocks
as they are in the present so I dug up
that tree fern in our Jurassic rocks
near our Jurassic arcsight how do I know
it's a tree fern I grow them in my
backyard so the folks if you come and
visit Australia come and see our
Jurassic ark project right it's worth
seeing you can see all the fossil
evidence and it's really great to
remember that if these trees didn't grow
there they grew somewhere else and if
they grew somewhere else they've been
picked up dumped and buried real fast
before the trees rotted before the
Teredo worms burrowed through them so
its rapid its catastrophic and we can
recognize them so no help to evolution
but every evidence Genesis is true after
their own kind and you still digging
these fossils up or we are still doing
these fossils up there's no
okay well you've also got some
fossilized clam or you're going to show
you that to you soon yeah all right
we'll talk about that right after this
you
we are getting a wealth of information
from visitor John McKay all the way from
Australia and Paul are you enjoying this
this is absolutely fascinating I mean
when you seeing all this evidence we
already know God's Word is true because
he told us it is and talk about that
another day but it's revealed to us but
may when you see all this evidence in
the face of so many people trying to
deny the god of Scripture trying to deny
with scripture has clearly told us you
say look I'm gonna go based on God's
Word and then look everything supports
exactly what God's Word originally said
that's correct not something when I get
people who I debate like I had one at
Northampton University recently and he
said we're going to discuss for things
for evidences that demolish the Bible
and said the first is the Big Bang
Theory appoint evidence let's talk about
the big bang theory as an evidence Wow
and I was just first one yeah haha and
it doesn't get any better you know there
was nothing and nothing exploded that's
what the teaching of science today okay
and it has serious implications cuz what
you believe Germans how you behave and
that's where we get a lot of problems in
the world today so help us fight
evolution it really is a serious problem
in our culture today uh and really the
root problem right before that we were
talking about this yesterday when you
got in uh the probably underneath
evolution is our Authority which you
alluded to earlier that's right is a God
the Creator is it man yeah what we do is
yeah man we got it we gotta go with God
not man sorry that mean man like that
man we gotta go with God we've got that
God has to be our authority okay you and
dig up fossils on your property right
there in Australia you bring groups to
let them dig them up you found all kinds
of incredible stuff keep going I want to
just keep learning here we took a group
from our site to aim to get to the
center of Australia lake eyre full at
the moment because of all of the wet
weather we've had beautiful flowers in
our outback and we went there to click
the flowers with air to collect fossil
trees fossil trees from the coast way
out to the center of australia
magnificent fossil pine trees we know
that pine trees because they're still
here today
southern pines but then you have
southern pines your arizona state forest
in southern conifers not northern ones
you have ozzy plants in the USA no you
got us a plants in the aussie i'll come
back but see there's a map of the extent
of our fossil log jam Wow when people
say to me well where is the evidence the
world has been covered by water on so
well I have personally seen over all of
this and it's full of logs that didn't
grow there that were washed in so if you
have sort of like a half of the east
coast as one bed that's catastrophic
lead um then all the rest of it the
water was outside bringing the stuff
again and so you've made a good point
but on the last trip we bought back some
of these now I bought one so we can have
a close up let me get this out of my
pocket it's why my wife won't let me
wear suits you know Kerry do any fossils
anymore but if you have a close-up look
at that it's a fossilized clamshell when
we just go back the picture just jump
for some reason and the interesting
thing is you see it's closed and it's
got two halves and they're both closed
it's a lamellae brain shell and what you
will find is it's beautiful because it's
turned to opal now I'll put it down the
big pictures on the screen a opal opal
was supposed to form really slowly could
be the experiments tell us it can do it
in a couple of weeks see we know the
fossil was formed quickly because when
clamshells died they open so this guy
was buried alive and not only that he
was buried deeply because we've run
experiments you bury a clamshell yes
it'll stay shut but they're used to that
so they dig their way out they can dig
their way at one meter 3 feet 6 feet 9
feet and after that they've had it so
therefore you have to marry them at
least nine feet of mud and you just
divide nine feet into the depth of Grand
Canyon and you've only got a few days
one few months of rock formation so what
you find in the last thing that's
interesting on that trip I brought back
these in case you've never seen things
like that and for their fossil dinosaur
footprints okay but I can't take credit
for finding them they were found in the
ten-mile opal mine
and what everyone has been this as this
dinosaur was swimming Doug be surprised
there's clam shells in the rocks turn to
oh boy there's a dinosaur trying to get
out of there and so you've got again
water from northern Australia all the
way down to the middle southern so it
looks so easy to say well there's plenty
of evidence of rapid catastrophic
destruction and clam shells that have
produced their own kind episode factor
the Bible is true from the very
beginning therefore what do you can do
about the end because this God is coming
back and he will come as judge you need
him as Savior right now and that's what
it all comes that's what he's given us
overwhelming evidence and Romans even
tells us look nobody has an excuse you
don't have an excuse when you stand
before God one day for not trusting in
him and accepting his son Jesus Christ
as your personal Savior that's what this
really is all about it really is Wow
well we challenge you you've never done
that I would I would just really
encourage you to to make sure that you
understand the truth of God who he is
he's given us his revealed Scripture
he's given us evidence he's given us so
much the question is what are we gonna
stop believing and and trying to
understand things on an hour in and of
ourselves and start accepting what he
has said when are we going to change
from us being the authority to God being
the authority let God be true and every
man a liar oh my goodness John you are a
blessing man you go all around and you
are a blessing to so many people thank
you for blessing us with all this
information see all the folks out there
on Creation Research net or ask John
McCoy calm there we are man make sure
this make sure you're doing it and
checking that out that's rising crime we
do have viewers around the world on the
internet if you're in Australia make
sure you get to a gimpy near Brisbane
and go and find go and look at the
Jurassic argh well you've been watching
the creation today show thank you for
joining us today people can ask
questions come there they can if you
have questions go to questions at
creation today dot o RG and we'll try to
get those we've been interviewing genre
we usually go into a lot of questions
like that we're also on Facebook and on
Twitter right we are at creation today
facebook.com forward slash creations a
day yeah at creations at Twitter all
that stuff yeah
something like that where we believe
God's Word is absolutely true we're not
ashamed of that and you shouldn't be
either god bless do you need the tools
to defend your faith visit our websites
for up-to-date content attend one of our
live events and shop online at creation
store org we are creation today
Oh
