what you're a go to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson's welcome to episode number 164
of category 5 technology TV for Tuesday
November 9 2010 nice to have you here
it's nice to be here fantastic hey good
to see you hey how's your week nice to
be seen yeah it's alright yeah good so
far so good yeah fantastic I need some
more nano does sure uh today tonight
we're going to be learning how to run
planet calypso on a lesser computer if
you've got an older computer you have
been able to get to run very well we're
gonna be talking to you about how you
can do that also of course answering
your questions right there in the chat
room category five dot TV join us in the
chat room join us for the live show and
of course if you're watching this after
the fact if you catching us on miro
internet TV or itunes or any of our
syndication partners be it a roku box
plugged into your television set one of
those cool Google TVs that allow you to
watch internet TV on demand however
you're catching the show you can email
me live at category 5 TV welcome back to
Hillary rumble tonight hey hey everybody
how are you passing from my dorm room
and it's a great wonderful day sorry I'm
a little choppy that is because of my
remote location only your roommates are
singers
be a party in that dorm room the
roommates with their with their
torrenting and things like that you
can't really control that can you oh
true say it's good to see ya so Hilary
what if we got coming up in the news
tonight oh you better believe it people
there is lots going on in the world of
technology canonical plans to drop the x
window system from ubuntu linux the
number of online security breaches in
canadian industry and government is up
but the cost is down Apple is stepping
out of the real server market and
representing its users instead of their
Mac Mini or mac pro systems as servers x
marks and blog line live on and lastly
we rely on google so much that a simple
error on google maps could lead to war
stick around for the latest news from
the category 5 TV news room or don't
make an error hey tonight we are also
taking qualifiers for the brand new
brother mfc j 6 15 w you want to stick
around and find out how you can win that
beautiful printer just in time for
Christmas how's that sound sounds good
good sounds good thanks held will come
back to you in about 25 minutes already
so what do you got going on I you know
oh I'm not playing hockey right yet you
know i'm i'm in computer geek mode i'm
here with you you're saying about my
glasses I left those behind last was but
we're good yeah um we were blind all
week I have been blind all week
unbelievable should we go into some
questions that'll be great Russians in
live a category 5 TV or pop me a message
in the chat room category five dot TV oh
and before we go on a John hi everybody
how are you I'm right not very good I
didn't lose whole new meaning to the
idea of four eyes to just literally so
that way that way I won't forget my
glass and leave him on the desk you
realize he was looking for his glasses
just moments ago he is probably now with
John joining us tonight with the
microphone that he's got on John give us
a sound check testing testing there you
go everybody can hear John just fine now
John is using
a rechargeable nickel metal hydride
9-volt battery in that in that
microphone we like to use rechargeable
around here because it's environmentally
friendly but next week we are also going
to be doing a test with eco-friendly eco
alkaline batteries so this week we are
testing with this rechargeable battery
which is eco-friendly because it's
rechargeable but as you may remember
we've got that issue where all of a
sudden John's microphone starts to pick
up interference we've had that problem
with that microphone for a long time so
what we want to determine is is it the
battery that's allowing interference to
get through because the battery is not
providing enough current interesting so
next week we're going to be testing with
an eco alkaline which is an eco-friendly
disposable battery which is
biodegradable and does not contain
chemicals that are harmful to the earth
maybe something Johnny no no that that's
a different kind of interference
altogether mm-hmm so I we're gonna be so
if you hear any noise coming off of
jambalaya tonight other than you know
the desert in the room the slurping of
the coffee and the bourbon and all that
stuff that John normally does if you
hear any of that that alien noise that
we commonly get off of that microphone
make sure you let us know in the chat
room because that is going to be our
test over the next two weeks I think
that's gonna be fun John it's good to
have you here thanks thank you see
somebody's out there commenting on on my
beard not just really just doing it to
are you are you working it in so that
you know come to the number 24 you know
perhaps I just figured day your your
lack of hair i figured i should cover
you a little extra yeah balance things
out okay we've hit my attempt we have an
english teacher here asking a question i
don't know if that's gonna be a well
let's let's let's see what it is this is
from will Harper hey well hi Robbie you
responded to a ustream chat Oh in 2008
he's been saving this one up okay I'm go
you it anything that you do as a web
post or if you're however this is like
being married you remember what you said
you remember a few years ago
alright well well you tell me what I
said two years ago so you responded to a
ustream chat in 2008 all right about an
external mixer to be able to ustream
with skype connections oh I am a teacher
of English as a foreign language and I
need to skype with both my conversation
and the students while stopping starting
and controlling a video on my desktop
for the student to respond to would you
mind suggesting a sample wiring diagram
to accomplish this thanks we'll r / tefl
well I am NOT good with diagrams I'll be
honest with you Hillary I've got you up
on the screen right now just to show the
skype system that we have in place so
with Hillary of course she's connected
in to skype through another computer so
we have a computer that is a dedicated
computer specifically for skype and so
what happens then is the sound output
from that computer goes through our
mixing console so we've got just a
standard tapco little I guess an eight
channel tapco mixer which does the job
for us and does a really good job so
Hillary if you if you talk to me here
hey hey everyone Hillary here so she's
actually coming through channel 4 now if
I mute you Hillary you can still hear me
but we can't hear you at all you might
have heard her through my microphone
because I can still hear her that's the
neat thing about this kind of a setup is
that we I can hear her way I've got her
muted on the channel so you're just
hearing her through my microphone she's
going through the auxiliary so that I
can list I can actually monitor what's
happening on skype thanks Hilary and so
in that case what happens is that the
sound output from that computer here's
my diagram it's not very visual the
sound output from the skype computer
goes to the mixing console the mixing
console also is connected to my
microphone so I'm on channel 1 Hillary
on that skype computer is on channel 4
and we could do loop backs and we could
do fancy sound processing and stuff like
that but I'll be honest with you here
well what we're doing tonight and and I
think Hillary you'll probably
and notice I'm reaching up here just to
unmute her microphone Hillary how's my
sound tonight can you hear me okay you
sound pretty great actually I'm
impressed with the sound to be honest
like I talk on skype to my friends and
family back home and I don't know like
do you you're just coming in really
clear it's great excellent so we'll what
what we're doing is right here I don't
know John maybe I'll zoom out just a
little bit so that you can get a look at
that there it is now you could use a
blue like a snowflake or anything like
that if you want to use a really nice
microphone but all I've got is just a
cheap little logitech webcam that I
picked up at a thrift shop I think it
costs five dollars yeah deal that webcam
I've got it sitting on a quick pot it's
so it just it's easy for me to adjust
where it's located we don't use the
camera that we just use the microphone
it's got a USB connection that goes into
the that dedicated skype machine and the
only person who hears the audio from
that microphone is Hillary the person
who's on the other end of that skype
call works very well I'm sure there's
other ways to do it and of course if you
had to if you were in a situation where
you had to loop back audio then that's a
different thing altogether but because
of the nature of our show being a talk
show all Hilary needs to be able to do
is hear us there you go it's all hers to
it so not much of a diagram I know cuz
I'm not an artiste but I hope that that
makes enough sense that there's not not
much of a diagram that was no diagram
that was no dude if i try my daughter
draws better stick people than i do and
that's the truth we should have a
pictionary thing going on oh I would
fail thanks for the question will i hope
that that kind of points in the right
direction but it really it does boil
down to I've considered doing
virtualization doing my skype that way
which is a cool way to do it if you've
got the resources to do it but then
you've got to worry about duplexing and
then you've got to worry about are the
levels the same across all the
microphones because if if Hillary for
example had a really really hot mic and
and was super super loud compared to
somebody else running through that same
virtual kind of setup because there's no
mixing go
on the nice thing about this setup is I
can turn down Hillary's microphone I can
turn up Hillary's microphone or however
I want to do it because it's all on an
actual physical mixer works very well
alright thanks well there was a bit of a
backlash when you muted Hillary in the
chat room oh they were sad yeah they
were sad so uh no muting Hillary okay um
at some point in the preceding she's got
to say cool beans for us doesn't she I
think that's that's very part of the
news okay you're already have to stick
around okay well last week we spoke with
Doug Townsend hey Doug and the question
if you want me to recap he was having a
problem with the Ubuntu 1010 and it was
installed on a a bit of a lesser
computer it was only one with 128 makes
around that's right yeah and so is
having trouble with the desktop so hello
Robbie and Eric I wrote you last week
with the problem described below and as
you asked I'm writing back with the
results of your suggestion I did as you
said i used the ubuntu safe mode to load
the desktop and it worked i have changed
the desktop to no effects and plan on
upgrading the ram and adding a video
card so thank you yes from doug townsend
so Doug you're very welcome i appreciate
you getting in touch with us just to let
us know yeah I always love to know when
something that we've suggested his we
sent it out there and you'll want to
know like absolutely but in case
especially in a case like that where it
could have been so many things and and
we're kind of drawn at straws because we
don't know all the specs of your system
but I'm very glad that we we were able
to help you with that and exceptionally
glad that that you're able to boot that
system and actually log in now that's
that's fantastic news so if you have
problems with your technology and that
you'd like to get at least an and
attempted an answer to your question
that's what I'm here for you can email
me live at category 5 TV and we'll do
our best to help you out and Doug will
say that hey he helped me out so thanks
doc hey consider submitting of your
testimonial to Doug if you if you could
those that kind of locks your
testimonial into like our kind of time
capsule of testimonials so I'd
appreciate that if you go to category 5
TV click on interact and submit a
testimonial okay so gadwal he's testing
Canadian pronunciation I'm not sure
where he's going with this he wants to
know if I can pronounce bash um now are
we talking about a party like a batch or
a bash like a smack upside the head I
think we're engine partying three times
tonight just an observation I'm about to
get I i I'm gonna try to behave huh Oh
workhouse says I got it right where that
was work how 105 okay but if we were
talking about boss okay ya know I knew
he meant bash okay yes Oh shall we move
on why don't we say hi to some new
viewers I'll be great yeah we got we
have Tasha 23 from China hey Tasha
that's pretty cool we have case from
Compton New Hampshire okay and we have
illegible from nowhere Oh instant tempo
CP 62 from the US of A hello I'm not
going to try instance the dot dot I
think that's a decent tempo CP 62
welcome to the um I'm thinking that
might be taxi 07 talk co7 could be Toxie
07 or it could be 07 we got we got from
Germany on one hand just just not to
interrupt what you're talking about here
but on one hand we've got the people in
the chat room making fun of the
pronunciation over on this side of the
table and then on the other hand we got
the the guy making fun of the
handwriting you know you could come in
15 minutes early before the show and and
I was on a mission
we're not gonna say when that mission
was but I was on a mission today and
maybe I barely barely got here he sent
me out on a scavenger hunt we'll leave
it at that here um what else we got
Wellspring cowboy from Indiana that's a
bit easier that was much easier great so
there's some some somebody from Germany
we think its stocks e07 it might get us
out of here if you'd like to register on
our website it's a free service category
five dot dot TV omit the cough from the
middle of the URL and you'll be able to
get there category five dot TV we'd love
to have you as part of the show more
question when i'll decide it's like okay
there was silence and I thought that are
okay here we go um this is from Peter
Lewis hey Peter and last week you talked
about formatting hard disk but format
hard disk does remove the data on I'm
gonna take a run at this are you gonna
make it through I can help you okay anh
Li disc last week you talk about
formatting the hard disk does removing
the data on the disk I I think you're
paraphrasing I believe too what if you
removed the partition of disk will this
remove the data we're talking about this
was a few weeks ago when we were talking
about oh right Yes Man they already
episode 158 when we're talking about
data security i think it was when we
were talking about the fact that if you
delete files you're actually not
deleting the files so what is being
asked here and i apologize but the the
email is just a little hard to read and
and that's fine well we'll we'll figure
out what you mean if deleting the
partition itself recreating the
partition formatting that partition and
installing a new operating system or
whatever over top of it if that actually
removes the data from your data are
gonna
but is it why oh so here's a question
for you here when you delete a partition
on your hard drive does it take four
hours to do that when you create a
partition on the hard drive does it take
four hours to do that definitely not
when you format your hard drive does it
take four hours to do that definitely
not so what's actually happening is
you're doing those processes is it's
manipulating the structure of the drive
from basically there's information on
the drive that tells the drive how to
read and write where the files are
located and things like that so when you
do a when Yuri partition the hard drive
you're changing the partition table but
you're not actually changing the data
that's on the drive the the i guess the
alternative to what you're asking there
is what's called a low-level format and
that's where it does take you know
multiple hours because it goes through
sector by sector and clears out your
hard drive a different thing altogether
than just a standard format or
repartition here drive so when you
delete a partition you've basically
thrown away access to those files then
you create a new partition over top of
that you're not over writing the old
partition you're just creating a new
layout for any data that's now going to
be written to the drive so now as you
populate data on to the drive it's going
to slowly overwrite the old data but up
until sector-by-sector each piece of
that data is overwritten you still could
theoretically access that data through
data recovery through the gentleman who
was collecting hard drives at the
recycling facility if they subscribe to
data recovery they'd be able to get
information off of that drive so to
answer your question long story short
deleting the partition repartitioning
formatting your hard drive does not
safely purge your data from the drive
only way to to really do that would be a
low-level format or a tool such as
Derek's boot and nuke dban
which will do that for you okay okay
yeah war cow mentioning you could use
dd2 to randomize each sector of the hard
drive certainly there are multiple
different tools to to do something like
that DD is a linux linux command you
could do that from a linux boot CD if
you like completely destructive so but
do check out the the show that we did on
file security on your i think it was 158
where we discussed things like a derek
spooky nook that'd be a good idea for
you okay okay sorry i misinterpreted the
question i thought perhaps he was just
thinking if he took away the partition
whether he'd still be able to access his
data when he well the anima burger
usually when the end user would not
likely no but somebody with a real of a
data recovery lab forensics somebody who
has even some software tools you'll
remember way back just to put it in real
life speak remember back in the lace
Pete well I like that one in the Windows
3.1 windows 3.1 windows 95 windows 98
even into XP but especially those
earlier ones you could format your hard
drive and then there was a tool called
unformat this service remember that
missin there was a tool called undelete
so if those files didn't still reside on
your hard drive how is it that those
tools existed because all that those
would do is they would recover the
information so that those files could
become accessible again may I point out
that undelete did not always work it
didn't always work because some of the
sector's belonging to your files could
have been overwritten by other files as
long as the files weren't partially
overwritten or completely overwritten
alright like think of it as like that
one file is the whole pie so if you
clear the pie and allow other things to
be written all over then you are
corrupting the data
interesting we're corrupted by Rory nice
to see ya nice to see everybody joining
us in the chat room is anyone joining us
for the first time tonight would love to
hear from you in the chat room category
5 TV or join us on freenode in the
category 5 room all right hmm Oh robbery
did reckon like speech by I can't help
but think of fled the Conchords but
always get stuck my high like pie you'd
have to see i missed that i must have
been on the road that day must have been
ok yeah thanks Hilary the humans are
dead what 001 000 we can start talking
binary there we go Wow do you got coming
up yeah well what we have more questions
yeah well um get those in ok well if
you've got a question like I say get
into the chat room say hey Robbie F say
hey Eric Kidd will will say hey back
well hey three questions why indeed so
we have a question from the Netherlands
Peter thank you from the Netherlands
hello parted magic boot CD is a ubuntu
CD with a lot of programs hmm ok the CD
boots fast even on a 256 meg pc in the
menu you find DD to erase a hard disk
and more go right along the lines of
what we were just talking about so test
disk and photorec to recover files you
can burn files to dvds of a non-working
pc you can check your HD with smart with
parted magic you format a hard disk
clonezilla and ghosts for linux to make
a copy of hard disk truecrypt is also
usable you can check what hardware you
have with hardware lister nice CD for
your listeners greetings Peter so that
wasn't really a question that was just
just a great heads-up
hey there's lots of lots of great stuff
up there yeah it's like a boot CD that
boots you right into linux it's got all
these great tools for partitioning your
hard drive and fixing things up I see G
part ed there which is a fantastic
partition editor and all this stuff is
available for you for free oh right on
this website thanks harder to magic on
yeah okay is this now is it a free disk
now the the software that is including
our free is this is this actually free
it looks like they go by donations
that's fair enough so take a look at it
there you go first download the file and
unzip if there's an iso so you can burn
that to a disk and then if you like it
if it's been helpful for you don't drop
the disk don't drop the disk don't break
the disk don't lend it to Eric no
offense I'm offended and then if you
like the disk like I'm saying there is a
donate button and I would encourage you
to to donate to two services that you
feel have been helpful so give it a try
part ed Magik calm do we have a donate
but for the tip we sure do okay anybody
buy you a nothing her much lately okay
it's not what I was getting at we were
talking about part ed magic okay okay
fine I'm it's like I downloaded a really
great tool for for joomla we're working
on our new category 5 TV website I'm
very excited about the new website is
very belong downloaded a free tool for
joomla that saved me so much time and
what was up I think it's called admin
tools it's from the same company that
does the the backup software at kiba
back up to and just a fantastic tool for
joomla and just save me so much time and
so the first thing I thought is you know
what this is saved me so much time this
is I'm going to use this over and over
and over again so I'm going to find a
way to donate to the to the person who
created this because it's it's just
going to save me time it's helpful
and and that's kind of the way that I I
kind of think as far as cool stuff goes
because I could have paid for the
software but they didn't force me to it
was a free download so yeah yeah well
sure yeah yeah I think it's just about
time to say hello to our friend Hillary
hey Ruby everybody I am oh I've got news
I have lots of news and if you guys are
ready i will let you have it here we go
alrighty from the category 5 TV news
room a couple of weeks ago Eric reported
that a boon to will be using unity on
the desktop instead of gnome shell now
as a shock to many founder of canonical
mark shuttleworth made another bold
announcement on thursday the x window
system which provides the foundation for
almost all linux desktops will be
excluded from an upcoming release of
ubuntu Canonical's flagship product many
have believed X to be a bit of a
bottleneck when it comes to extreme
graphic performance for quite some time
however a big player such as canonical
has the power to change things for the
Linux world in marks big announcement he
made it clear that the OpenGL base
Wayland will be the window system of
choice and an upcoming release of ubuntu
continuing to push linux towards ultra
smooth graphics and effects while
Shuttleworth admits these things are
possible on the x he states that it is
extremely hard and isn't going to get
any easier Shuttleworth's company wants
to drive linux to become the ultimate
user experience and doesn't mind
forfeiting some features in order to get
their mark assure zebu to users that
canonical is confident they'll be able
to retain the ability of the village to
run x applications in a compatibility
mode so this is not a transition that
needs to reset the world of desktop free
software while it is believed canonical
could deliver something workable within
a six-month time frame shuttleworth is
projecting a year to be a more realistic
goal so perhaps we can expect this
change in time for your Bluetooth 11
point 10 release next October despite a
study by Telus in the University of
Toronto finding a twenty-nine percent
increase
and online security breaches within
Canadian industry and government it has
been determined that the cost of these
attacks has actually dropped
substantially the study found that
rather than exposing sloppy security the
dramatic increase in known breaches was
caused by better security and detection
essentially security breaches are being
detected now which would have not been
noticed in the past better IT security
is also credited with finding that the
cost of security breaches is down even
though the number detected is up the
overall cost of security breaches was
decreasing by around seventy eight
percent over the past year and even with
the xserve line in January Apple will no
longer be manufacturing or selling true
servers any excerpt server soul between
now and then will still carry the
standard one year warranty and the
applecare premium service can be
purchased to cover the systems for an
additional two years linux continues as
a leading server OS and for good reason
apples exiting from the server market
will only increase linux share cross
browser bookmark and password syncing
service x marks will remain alive it
seems the companies in the final stages
of a sale to an um to an as yet revealed
new owner who will keep the product
alive the new service will have a free
and premium component and details will
be forthcoming so those are you who have
already switched you can come back
another product bloglines a once-popular
RSS aggregator also slated to shut down
has been sold to the Merkin the merchant
circle merchantcircle provides a
business directory for merchants in
smaller towns the free service will
remain and new services will grow around
the technology the clippings feature
will be discontinued but all the other
features will remain and if you've ever
been annoyed that Google Maps has led
you down the wrong road in the wrong
directions at least you could be
thankful the error did cause a war
Google is fixing an air on its map of
Central America which gave the
Nicaraguan commanders and excuse to
invade a disputed area also claimed by
costa rica a google spokesman admitted
that it had misplaced the border adding
it had corrected its mistake after
viewing and a fish
State Department map Costa Rica which
has no army was very pleased by this but
Nicaraguan authorities protested
Google's correction saying that the tech
giant had it right the first time get
the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 newsroom is
research rut by roy w nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
becca ferguson and our community of
viewers so if you think you have a news
story that's worthy of on-air mention
email us at news room at category five
dot TV category five TV is brought to
you in part by planet calypso this
massive multiplayer online game is
available as a free download from cat5
TV / calypso now once you've got it
downloaded and installed on your Windows
computer make sure you say hi and
there's something for everyone here on
planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a Linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat five dot TV / Calypso i'll
see you on planet calypso
this is category 5 technology TV you'll
find us online at triple w category five
dot TV you saw planet calypso there I
saw that and you know I encourage people
to check out that software it's a
fantastic game it's available as a free
download at cat five TV / calypso and
it's cutting-edge it's it's based on the
cry 2 engine the thing is though being
that it is so graphic intensive a lot of
people have trouble getting it working
on older hardware so I set out this week
to find out can it be done I've got a
reasonably good computer system I've got
quad-core q 6600 the i7 kind of puts it
to shame but it was it was a fairly
decent processor and certainly with the
quad core it gives me a little bit more
power than than the average home
computer I've got eight gigs of RAM I've
got a nice video card now with the with
the one that we just put in with the gtx
460 from nvidia but the other computer
that i have is just a straight with
basic old computer it's a pentium 4 like
the old style 478 socket processor so i
know that a lot of viewers have tried to
check it out and have had issues with
getting at getting it running on their
systems now i won't i won't pretend that
you can get it working as well as you
could on a quad core system on an older
computer but can i can we get it working
can we get it playable I think certainly
we could the computer that I've been
testing with is right here and it is as
you see a 3.2 gigahertz pentium 4 which
shows up as 2.1 1 gigahertz with two
gigs of ram certainly nothing
exceptional and then as far as the video
card in this machine it is a nvidia
geforce 7600 GS so even a fairly low-end
video card in this computer as far as
modern specs go because modern specs say
okay 7600 is extremely low
so possibly you may have something even
better than that I know with a GP you
can get up to now the 7600 is probably
the best you're going to get for a GP
like an older computer like this one so
this is quite a dated computer at 3.2
gigahertz pentium 4 socket 478 with only
a GP but a gap will here has a 70-300 SE
then what happens with the 70-300 is
we're getting into really really low-end
3d because those cards are designed for
office use they're not meant for gaming
at all so whether or not we'll be able
to get it going on that system that's
that is going to have to kind of try it
so the trick with a system like this
where you know we've got a really old
hardware we've got a very basic video
card compared to today's standards
basically we're going to get graphics
looking kind of like this where all the
textures are gone there's me in the game
what what good is that when things just
don't look at all like they're supposed
to so what we'll do is we'll go into the
options screen here and the first thing
that you want to do is you want to
change the graphic quality to safe mode
which basically takes everything and
turns it down to a safe level which is
safe mode it's like it turns off all of
the effects basically so from there
you've got a clean slate and you can
start increasing the quality of certain
items as you go different video cards
will react differently to things like
shaders so if you're getting a lot of
flicker in full screen mode you might
want to play around with the shader or
you may try even running in windowed
mode some of the older cards will do a
lot better in a windowed mode as opposed
to full screen because full screen it's
gonna it's going to be dealing
differently with your shaders but then
again if you're having a lot of flickr
and windowed mode you could try full
screen and it might be the opposite
thing so back at my screen here i've set
everything to safe mode and it's asking
me if I want to apply so I go ahead with
that and then I can go to advanced and
you can see that I can change my avatar
quality which is currently set to safe
mode and increase that to say medium and
bring up my texture quality just a
little bit just to get things testing
and you'll see as I apply that that the
textures are substantially better than
what it was before and you also notice
that it's not choppy as far as the
actual gameplay goes because I've turned
down you'll know see the horizon for
example I can't see anything beyond the
hills I can't see anything beyond the
field that i'm currently standing in
because what I've basically done this
I've said okay I don't really need all
the special effects beyond the horizon I
don't need to be able to see the stars I
don't need to be able to see the clouds
so I've just got a blue sky basically
and so I've disabled a lot of the things
that are going to require higher graphic
power so you can see the textures are
still not perfect but as far as the
gameplay goes I'm able to actually play
planet calypso just fine so this is a
way by starting with safe mode you're
able to then slowly increase the quality
of the different variables if you find
that certain things like the shaders are
acting kind of finicky then take it from
safe mode and put it up too low and then
apply that and see if it and see if it
comes and works then take the the very
various settings I wouldn't go any
higher than medium with an older older
computer and you'll be able to hopefully
get into the game be able to get it to
the point of playable as you saw there
with the hardware that I have we're able
to get it completely playable with a
7600 GS card which is well below the
minimums for the game and yet it makes
it just just fine for playing nowhere
near the quality of what I'm getting
from my 460 gtx of course textures are
not the same because I've got everything
in safe mode but its operational so with
that in mind I hope that that you'll
give it a try cat5 TV / calypso and once
you've got it downloaded and installed
make sure you let me know because I'd
love to meet up with you in the game and
and say hi we actually we we actually
own here's something for you Eric
alright we we own a couple of vehicles
in the game in planet calypso so that we
can actually I don't know if you can get
a wider shot here just because we've
just where I'm gonna be impressed Emily
well the vehicles that we have I can
take up to 16 passengers at a time on
excursions and things like that so so it
would be a lot of fun to have some
category 5 viewers join us on planet
calypso and have some fun and a lot of
stuff going on in planet calypso right
now with the robot invasion go on a road
trip definitely go on a road trip see
some robots will have some fun so give
it a try cat5 TV / calypso and I hope
that that that helps you get it running
on your old old system there you all
right you look like well huh you look
like a gamer I i'll bet ya if i SAT you
down wolfenstein know hey stop if i SAT
you down in front of planet calypso you
created an avatar and we SAT here and we
and we just had an evening of it i'll
bet you'd enjoy yourself are we drinking
coffee while we're doing this definitely
drinking coffee okay you'd have a lot of
fun we'll have to don't have to do this
only anybody playing the game currently
message me in the chat room category
five dot TV of course John is here and
saying hey he's saying remember you may
still want to turn down your avatar
quality and other settings in busy areas
yeah certainly if you're if you're in an
area where there are hundreds of people
because the neat thing about planet
calypso is your you're interacting with
real individuals from around the world
okay John for example I'm quite often in
there and hanging out with him in game
but you can be in a place where there's
200 people and so if you've got a really
really low quality system it can be it
can be hard to move around so making
sure the particle particle effects and
things like that are turned off on an
older system is very important because
those kinds of things can slow you down
big time but certainly if you notice lag
turn things down a little bit hey
Jameson says that that he plays but is
horrible at it well I'd love to meet up
with him we can be horrible at it
together I'm not a good
by any means I'm a social game I want a
juror no I am a social gamer I go in and
I pretty much just hang out and drive
people around and I have a spaceship
that I can fly it's pretty cool well
John you don't owe Harvey crafting John
has a hovercraft he does i bought 12 no
in-game well not a real hovercraft okay
watch out for crocodiles I'm not gonna
it was an alligator I was talking it was
an alligator so have you been tweeting
this week after i sent one tonight no I
was traumatized by my last tweet when I
went back and looked at it speaking of
your last year you know cuz I do in fact
like to make fun of people when they
mess up in their email and other thing
it's not like Eric ever corrects my no
heavens no you even have the notes he
hands me notes during the show saying
you use this word incorrectly and he'll
underline a particular word you know
what we're looking at down here we got
these pads and he's right now I can see
where this is going you can see what has
been and you may just Hillary you may be
taking this job back Eric last week I
was on my way out said I was leaving I
thought oh I better send you in resisted
that you know what I can multitask and I
can do this and if you don't believe me
that he insisted let's let's just that's
better view let's review sorry kids I
have not been tweeting like crazy mm-hmm
we need to do I'm not sure I have an
excuse well I didn't do it doesn't
excuse you should tweet sorry that I
haven't tweeted I you don't need to do
it now I can do that right this second
you really watch
Eric you insisted you can't deny that
my friends Eric cannot multitask in
recent weeks tweets this week Eric oh
yes oops my tweets for holy man I'm
horrible at this I hope you folks enjoys
this week this week's category 5 show
Hillary what do you think of that I
think that's pretty wild that in honey
unbelievable unbelievable thanks for
that one Eric what else have we got in
recent tweets we've got Joe no bacon who
says hey congrats to the fedora team for
releasing fedora 14 and then he provides
a download link specifically for fedora
and Jonah bacon of course being I
believe he's like the community head
honcho as far as ubuntu goes at
canonical so very cool for him to be
congratulating fedora and certainly with
fedora 14 coming out putting that's a
fantastic thing Fedora is another
distribution of linux and of course you
can follow Jono's link there if you'd
like to check it out cocopuff says would
have bought an Android tablet if any
were available in canada and that
resounds across canada i am certain i
think yeah being able to buy a tablet
that's based on android would be
fantastic i know that we're going to
start seeing these things coming out but
I almost wonder cocoa puffs what do you
think of this with the announcement that
Hillary gave us tonight about Lubuntu
switching the windowing system with us
with the knowledge that they're
switching to unity as opposed to gnome
shell it really feels like Ubuntu is
being driven towards and that's just my
own opinion that's being driven towards
the tablet the the changes that they're
making to the to the windowing system
for example in any year from now are
going to accelerate graphics to the
point where theoretically we could say
you know those all those multi-touch
functions of the iPad suddenly become
available to Linux my theory would be
that we're going to start seeing not
just android-based tablets
but the new boom to based tablets are
going to be a really cool thing let's
say and let's hope a year from now
certainly I think that marked that down
it's november nine wouldn't it be
awesome though if there was an aboon to
based or linux based at least outside of
android androids fantastic of course but
I guess I see Android is more of a
smartphone but then again iOS right same
sort of idea hard to say but I kind of
feel like a boon to is pushing for that
cocoa puffs I'm with you there I would
love to see a tablet that I could hold
in my hands that is linux-based that
would be fantastic so any of you tablet
there just amazed because Robbie would
like it's a nikon it's the ipad that is
it okay now we got to compete against
this and so all of a sudden were going
to see some startups and we've reported
on a few that are kind of coming and a
lot of them start up and then fail and a
lot of them we hear coming but then they
fail or they're not multi-touch or they
don't you know they're powered by
Windows and while you can zoom in on
stuff it's not the same effect friend
was telling me today like you can't zoom
in on an icon and have the application
actually be the icon and and all these
kinds of things with windows so there
needs to be another operating system for
these kind of tablet devices that is not
windows in that is not Mac OS or iOS i
should say mark the try gates geek says
open suse is installing now via a
virtual machine looks nice so far and
sent that to the linux chat on on
twitter com and certainly open suse is
another linux distribution so i did not
know that good idea there mark the try
geek to give it a try in your virtual
machine you can install VirtualBox for
free virtualbox org get that downloaded
something to mention about virtual box
somebody had said to me i didn't realize
that you could get a free version of
virtual box because i've heard of the
non free version of virtual box and
something that I really should clarify
when you're talking about virtual box
when we say non free
this is going to this going to astound
you it's free you don't have to pay for
it when we say non-free what it means in
the context of something like virtual
box is that there are drivers that are
included there are sub systems that are
included and support for firmwares that
are included in the non free version
that are non free their proprietary
they're not open source but the software
itself doesn't matter which version you
can go with the full version of
virtualbox the non free version and it's
free you don't have to pay for so that
said get Virtual Box in virtualbox org
and download any of the Linux
distributions and give them a try if
you're running ubuntu and you're curious
about open suse or fedora 14 you want to
give it a try but you don't want to
commit to it or if you're running
windows and you know i'd love to try to
boom 2 i'd love to try linux download
virtualbox get it on your machine it's
free and then you can try any of these
operating systems within a virtual
machine and that's exactly what Mark is
doing they need lots of great idea lots
of resources to run that door you need
to have enough resources for both
operating systems the host and the guest
most modern systems are going to have
that so you're not doing that on your p4
mmm it would be pretty laggy but you
have you when you're working with an old
system like that you kind of expect to
have to take your games and cut down on
the graphics you can't expect to have
super performance on a p4 that's just
the way that is but yeah you could
probably do it with two gigs of ram not
likely you might want to do it before
gigs of RAM minimum great idea there
mark I actually tweeted that John you'll
find this interesting I said the
pogoplug makes it so much easier I was
limited to 140 characters so I had to
take out the words so I'm okay for me to
send all the photos from Christie's
wedding the gallery the slideshow
downloading of full resolution images
and the previews so nice Johnny the room
for so in there are other digits well I
had to cut it down because I had to cut
words it John you received the pogoplug
share after the wedding which has all
your photos from the wedding the
do everything how was it to navigate oh
did you look a little bugs in
peterborough nobody i sent you a
pogoplug share did you get to look at
that or was Christy looking at that
would have to be Christy Oh Christy
looked at it I would have loved if you
had had a look but so she shared them
with you I suppose yeah so so that was
how easy it was is I basically took all
of that stuff I put it on my pogoplug
and you got access to it by email so all
those high resolution images that you've
printed they all came off of my pogoplug
but the interesting thing is that I
spent so much I spent so much time John
trying to get you remember the night of
the wedding because because obviously
you're anxious to get the pictures and
and right rightfully so so I said okay
I'll do my best to try to get them up
there as quick as possible i tried like
the PHP galleries and things like that i
thought it put together a little website
for him nothing was working because i am
trigger happy when it comes to the
camera i think i took like hundreds of
photos and so no part of it was just not
working with well when you got an old
time because finally after trying all
that stuff after trying creating a
gallery and uploading it as a PHP or
HTML gallery kind of thing it just
wasn't working out with all those photos
in the video and this and that I said
what am i doing so I took them all and I
saved them on the pogoplug and I was
like why did I not do this the first
time all it took was a little next time
so I put them on the pogoplug i put in
christian john's email address and go
invite and boom they've got an email
that says robbie added photos to the
folder christian john's wedding they
click on it and instantly they've got
access to the thumbnails they can click
on them it blows them up in a preview
window instantly then they can download
the full resolution images so these are
the big you know seven megabyte images
if they want to print them or things
like that well then click on the videos
it was fantastic sweet and so now you
know I've been using my pogoplug as an
external device for backups and things
like that primarily but now i'm using it
like crazy after after the wedding i'm
using it more and more for sharing
photos then halloween came the next day
because the wedding was saturday
halloween was the 31st the sunday and so
of course that's how I ended up
barring all of our halloween photos and
the video says walking around in my star
trek uniform with the video camera
shared it with the family and friends
like it well there are little children
and dogs on Halloween pogoplug is
fantastic I had one guy say oh look it's
Captain Kirk I said dude wrong show
mm-hmm it's left telling commander grub
speaking of which Mel and this tweets I
blame you pointing this tweet at me I
blame you for my sudden interest in Star
Trek The Next Generation again I thought
I got over it 15 plus years ago and mail
at this I just have to say you can never
get over it I can remind you about your
love for Star Trek I can I can rebirth
that but it's late go over would you get
rid of it if there's something about it
that if I if I turn on the TV and Star
Trek next generation is on I've seen the
episode of thousand times but i'll still
watch it it's all good that has been
your recent tweets for this week leave
me alone Becca it's on no she loves it
Oh watches it with me fantastic that's
my kind of girl throw you catch us you
can catch it our twitter account
twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson or of
course kid Eric twitter com kid Eric
with two DS and we would love to hear
from you and hear what you have to say
on twitter full 20 NEETs Wiz theek what
okay somebody asked if there's a new
version of pogo new version of pogoplug
yes is it a no or is it I'm trying to
remember if I'm under embargo oh there
it is potentially a new version a
pogoplug and yes i believe it's out of
embargo let's just double-check
I'm not going to say anything more just
in case poco plug calm that's where you
want to go to find out all about the
pogoplug and it is not in I'm embargo
which means basically I know about it
but I'm not allowed to talk about a
pogoplug pro this is not to be mistaken
for the biz which they released
previously the pogoplug pro is a
beautiful black chassis you can plug in
up to for hard drives out of the box but
then you can use a switch to plug in
more 99 bucks was an asterisk
exclusively available now at the US best
buy location so they're saying that
you've got to buy it at bestbuy because
they're trying to promote it the fact
that they're in retail now all right
aunt astok right there is fantastic
doesn't have polka have USB 3 so far as
I know but you're you're limited by your
bandwidth of your network anyway so it's
not it's not going to be necessary 480
megabits a second on USB 2.0 and I don't
think it has USB 3 but you can use a
switch to a hub to get more hard drives
if you wanted and the neat thing about
the pogoplug pros got the Wi-Fi built in
so you don't need the extra dongle oh so
and for 99 bucks it's fantastic device
that's really cool pogoplug calm yeah
it's been out for a while Lance man I
was pretty sure that we did announce it
but I just wanted to be sure cuz I get a
lot of email next to the question yeah
cool what else do we got you got more
for me any questions in the chat room
would love to hear from you category
five dot TV you can watch the show live
of course every tuesday night at seven
o'clock eastern time and there's a nice
little ticker on the on the left-hand
side of the website you'll see that not
only does it have a countdown that shows
you when the next show is going to be
broadcast but also it has a converter so
that you can click on it and find out
what time it is actually airing what day
in your timezone so no matter where you
are in the world you'll be able to find
out exactly when you should expect the
show so you can pencil us in your
calendar and never miss a live broadcast
and that way you
your questions in and we welcome your
question all right well you have four
minutes left and MMD Murphy says what
wait no GIMP tip no gimped up today okay
mmm no tip today but if you have a
question about the GIMP I'm happy to
answer it for you oh nothing like a cold
cup of coffee mine's nice is hot I thank
you for doing the news Hillary that was
great I went and got myself a coffee yes
my pleasure hmm good offer you could
offer we'll talk about this after the
show I did offer you a coffee hey you
drink here's black why do John thank oh
you forgot the printer I didn't forget
oh we're winding down and that's the
last thing on my list you didn't forget
take more qualifier see I've been
crossing things off take more qualifiers
for brother mfc j 615 W but you want to
get your hands on this printer I'll
bring up our website just in case you
haven't seen this printer it's beautiful
it's got it's the all-in-one
multifunction Center from brother it's
one of their newest models it's got the
built-in Wi-Fi they've got apps for your
iPhone your iPad as well as your Android
or your blackberry device that allow you
to scan documents directly to your
device things like that get onto our
website category 5 TV click on interact
and win a MF c j 615 W right at the
bottom of that menu and you'll see
there's the beautiful printer there it's
got a card reader it's got a full color
screen it's got photocopying and color
and black and white it's got a sheet
feeder that allows you to automatically
feed multiple sheets if you want to scan
them directly to PDF for example if you
want to print them or photocopy them all
that can be done if you if you'd like
you can even use the device completely
pc free because it's got the card reader
it's got the USB stick reader you're
able to print from USB you're able to
print from
your camera cards just as if you were
standing at a kiosk at your favorite
photo finishing store all that stuff can
be done directly at the printer like a
kiosk so you don't actually need to have
a computer connected to that device and
that's one of the wonderful things about
brother multifunction centers is the
fact that they really work to make you
wireless make you acts be able to access
your printer from anywhere our printers
here that we use we can print from any
computer they work under linux
fantastically scanning printing whatever
you need to do using the camera card
reader it's all available through linux
as well as Windows and Mac so do check
that out that's the mfc J 615 W and we
are giving one away this season at
category 5 TV click on interact and at
the bottom of that manual you'll see how
you can cast your ballot and once we've
gathered all the ballots and once we've
decided we are ready to give that away
all right I do that we're gonna do some
pretty amazing prizes this this winter
so that's gonna sort of kick things off
so alright been fun having everybody
here the show isn't it zips by we talk
after the show it's like where did the
mind go we made it through our list we
said hi to our new folks there we go I
do invite you to submit a viewer
testimonial we didn't get any this week
but I do love to receive those viewer
testimonials even if you just want to
say hey and just let us know you know if
a tip has helped you if you learn
something from our GIMP tutorials or if
this week you're able to get entropia
universe planet calypso running on your
system we'd love to hear from you just
submit a viewer testimonial and just let
us know what you think of the show and
I'd also love to hear from you by email
if you've got a question live at
category five dot TV Hilary it's been
great having you here tonight I'll say
hello in a blast I'm so glad I was able
to make it back um via webcam the magic
of webcam yeah but it's great so thanks
for having me cool beans is what I say
to it let me to end the show that's how
we that's how we do it around here John
it's been nice having you here too hope
everybody has a fantastic week it's been
a lot of fun and we will see you again
next Tuesday night and don't forget
we're going to be taking a look at those
those eco friendly eco alkalines from
Ellie I products com check that out next
week when we celebrate our 165th whoa
episode and I wouldn't be celebrating
just by having an awesome show all right
it will be even more awesome if you are
here you're not gonna say awesomer
please don't say us I could say awesome
no don't that's have a great week
everybody see ya see ya
