we've got six action cams I could tell
you hey here's the best action cam or I
could just show you exactly you can
decide you can make the judgment call on
what you need your camera to do based on
what you see from this show it's sort of
like taking each of the six cameras for
a walk yourself you can't always do that
you can't go out and spend the thousands
of dollars to buy six 4k action cams and
give them all a try yourself
and hope that you got the right one and
certainly buying online is a great way
to save money but sometimes you're going
to get the wrong thing and be
dissatisfied with the purchase and we
want to try to preempt that for you and
that's why we do this and that's why we
provide these unbiased
product reviews I'm going to show you my
rig this is cool
I think it's cool it is cool this is
four thousand dollars worth of camera
hardware on $30 worth of PVC that's the
definition right there so this this is
what we had out in the field today
and so what do we have I suppose I can
move my coffee mug out of the way now
away from me yeah let's move some of
this stuff out of the way there we go
don't forget about them okay so can he
do it can you do it by memory point to
one DJI Osmo 4k with a 3-axis gimbal
that one is a Garmin ultra verb 30 that
is an SJ cam SJ 5000 X that is a Nikon
key mission 170 nice a Sony FDR X 3000
good job on that one this one's a tough
one try to write this down on a business
card Olympus Stylus tough TG tracker I
was doing you a favor by leaving that
one to last thank you you're a well
thank you for all the favors so we've
got all these great cameras to compare
you'll notice that we've got the sjcam
SJ 5000 in the mix couple of reasons for
that first of all I know that when
you're shopping online you see the sjcam
cameras and you think why is it so
significantly cheaper than say the
Garmin alt reverb mm-hmm 30 okay
so I want to show you again I'm not
going to tell you that it's not as good
I don't that's not what this review is
going to do I'm going to show you the
difference in quality right okay so all
of these cameras are using factory
settings so it's going to give us a real
view of what do these cameras really
look like out of the box we're going to
go through some of the things that we've
learned with each of the cameras and I'm
going to tell you right off the bat that
unfortunately now we were outside today
and it was fairly cold it was really
cold the windchill took it down to minus
17 degrees Celsius right
and it felt a little cooler than that
down by the water and you're gonna see
us down by the water in a couple of
minutes time right now a lot of these
action cams are designed to be action
cams obviously and so you would expect
that they're going to perform when
you're downhill skiing and snowboarding
and things like that right there
available everywhere which means their
intended use is for everywhere that's
the intention for sure yes take it out
shoot video you want to push record and
it's going to start recording you don't
want to have problems and you certainly
want to be able to take it into any
atmosphere if you are shooting in the
cold I'm going to just tell you right
now the Nikon commissioned 170 failed us
it filmed two minutes worth of video and
then shut down saying that there was
that the battery was cold I didn't know
that was about Robbie because I was
pretty much feeling the same yeah
it is shut down I am cool all the rest
of the cameras kept rolling we only got
2 minutes of video on the the Nikon
Commission 170 hi the first error
message that we got while we were
shooting this morning the commission 170
said after just 2 minutes of recording
battery exhausted then I turned it back
on and it said battery cold and it gave
me some kind of warning that it was
going to shoot in a lower resolution
mode and then it shut off right which I
mean I guess that as a fail-safe if that
had works that's great so if it was cold
just shooting in a lower quality say you
get like 4k in the ideal conditions but
then something a little bit lower when
it's too cool I want to be the one to
tell my camera when to turn down the
solution but the fact that it just
failed and stopped all together that I
mean that's a no-go
and unfortunately the nikon commission
170 also overheated in our tests indoors
no persnikitty one yeah none of the
other cameras had the issues that we saw
with the temperature variances with the
nikon commission 170 all the other
cameras work perfectly well okay so
we're going to get right into it I'm
just gonna let you know and when you
know you're gonna ask about well was the
battery charged all six of these cameras
had full charge batteries when we left
this morning we turned them all on at
the same time and pressed record at the
same time there might have been a
three-second variance between when I
turned on this camera and when I finally
got over to this one it didn't take too
long so and this was actually the last
one that I turned on because I went left
to right I look had the same amount of
memory and if they all had that keen SD
cards yeah they had 64 gig kingston
micro SD cards all of these are micro SD
so we were able to go with the best and
we put kingston SD cards in all of them
which basically means rather than giving
anyone of these cameras an unfair
advantage we gave all of them an unfair
advantage
excellent so they all should have
performed very well commission 170
unfortunately failed us we do have a
clip of later on this afternoon the
audio portion we were able to shoot as
well with the commission 170 so that's
the only clip that we have of that
particular camera it wasn't overly
bright this morning here waiting for the
sunrise so 20 after 7:00 we were still
waiting for the Sun to come up and it
didn't happen and then it happened
afterwards it happened afterward yeah
magnificent it was pretty neat a pillar
of light by that point I was driving I
was driving under an underpass of
highway 400 in Barry and so I actually
pulled over and walked into a parking
lot and turned on the rig and I got a
video of that sunrise as well so so
you're going to see a sunrise in
low-light conditions as well beyond that
our other tests we did footstep tests
with and without human subjects right
tell us a little bit about our human
subjects I was there and
it was there during his international
debut my Dave joined us bright and early
they were all holding hands and snugly
on keeping warm yeah he was really cold
yeah forgot his mittens forgot his
mittens ah poor guy you know what he was
so struck by the rig and by the cameras
that I like I'm really excited for him
to watch this show because I know
there's a couple that he really hey
let's see how this one and that one
performed yeah yeah his focus was
directed on a couple and now he'll want
to watch back and see exactly how they
do and maybe for Christmas again it was
yeah can I just say al Peck is just
saying you know what you could sew a
string to Dave's mittens I think that
would be cute yeah okay what other tests
did we do we did a spin test that's when
I holding the camera rig spin in a
circle and all of the cameras were going
to see a snapshot a freeze-frame of how
they how they looked during that spin
test okay so that's kind of a very high
motion scenario so if something was
moving very very quickly because I spin
fast well which you would use in an
action sort of scenario absolutely if
you're using this what the still shots
look like yes yeah what do those still
shots look like okay and then we did a
run test which is when I ran at our
human subjects and a I mentioned the
low-light sunrise test and finally I
shot an outdoor audio test of all of the
cameras all of them performed for that
so we're going to get to hear the sound
from each of the cameras do keep in mind
as I'm holding the rig right here I made
sure not to put cases on any of them
that were possible the one that does
have a case is the Garmin VirB ultra the
Garmin VirB ultra 30 yes I always mix up
ultra and verb that's okay the Garmin
camera you had to put a waterproof case
on it because it does not have any other
way to mount to the tripod adapter but
what I did is I replace the waterproof
backing with the one that is meant for
audio recording so the backing has holes
in it so that you can actually hear but
we're going to hear how it sounds with
case because that's how it works and
you'll see my sjcam I just mounted it
with some elastic bands because I wanted
it outside of the housing and that was
going to work for us
this one interestingly enough I thought
it was going to have trouble with the
with the DJI Osmo but I got an L bracket
here I put a quarter-inch wingnut and a
quarter-inch not here bolt and just put
it in that that way because it's kind of
weird because it doesn't unlike the
other cameras it doesn't have a
threading on the bottom it has a
threading on the side but a piece of
stainless steel for a buck fifty from
the hardware store did it for us that is
an impressive rig pretty cool huh
so this why we did this why it's set up
like this is because we recorded
everything simultaneously you're going
to see an approximately two minute video
from each of these cameras it's going to
be exactly the same video but it's going
to be shot from each camera so you're
going to be able to compare and go back
and feel free you know if you're
watching this on demand skim around and
compare your two favorite your three
favorite cameras and see what what you
think so we're going to get right into
it with the sjcam SJ 5000 x that is our
lower end alternative to to your action
cam it says it's a 4k camera but
technically it is actually a 2k camera
and it's interpolate 'add to 4k at 24
frames a second that means basically
they've stretched the canvas so it's not
true for K the SJ 5000 X is
significantly cheaper but it's really
truly just 2.7 K which is fine but you
know this is a 4k review right it's not
exactly in the same ball field yeah
exactly
playin I just want to be clear that it
is advertised as a 4k camera and if
you're looking for a 4k camera it's not
truly 4k I want to be honest with you
here it has gyro anti-shake built in
it's digital and you can see that it
actually shoots fairly smooth video even
though I'm just holding it in hand now
this is our spin test here's a
freeze-frame for us and that's what the
freeze-frame looks like from the sjcam
SJ 5000 X it's not going to be perfect
from any but it's you're going to see
the difference so there's a run
you can see a anytime I step there's a
bit of a jitter right it's not a
complete oh and there's that sunset or
sunrise I mean yes right over the
highway I see that pillar of light it's
awesome very cool so the camera is
fairly impressive for the price but
we're going to compare it tonight to
some others as well let's do the audio
test finally it's my turn this is a test
of selfie mode so as I walk and hold
these cameras in front of me how does
each one look also it's a test of the
sound of each of these cameras so here's
our soundcheck
hello I'm Robbie Ferguson thanks for
watching this demonstration
okay this is the Olympus Stylus tuff TG
tracker action cam this is the green one
from our rig and you can see that there
are some jitters happening as I walk
it's not very well stabilized at least
from its default settings this is a
rugged action camera which is pretty
cool it does shoot full 30 frames per
second in 4k what I mean by rugged is it
is basically shockproof so if you drop
it from 7 feet you're okay it's also
waterproof without a case you don't have
to put anything on it freeze it's freeze
proof it perform just fine I do notice
it has a rather significant fisheye
effect compared to some of the other
cameras that we're going to be seeing
tonight and there's a bit of a vignette
I can see there at the edge as well you
see that now I wonder if that's just an
out of the box setting that can be
mm-hmm disabled
there's our freeze frame with the spin
test we don't expect that to be
perfectly clear let's be clear about
that but we do want to see the
difference in the different cameras so
this looks like an okay to me anyways it
looks like an okay kind of fit in your
pocket and carry it with you I love that
it's so versatile as far as taking it in
the water you don't have to put a
waterproof case on it a scuba dive with
it I'm talking almost 100 feet down yeah
it's the sort of camera you can take on
vacation and you can give to your you
know one of your kids you know to take a
shot knowing that they may drop it or it
might end up in the water it's larger
and it'll be okay
this is a test of selfie mode so as I
walk and hold these cameras in front of
me how does each one look also it's a
test of the sound of each of these
cameras so here's our sound check hello
I'm Robbie Ferguson thanks for watching
this demonstration
next up we've got the Sony FDR x3000
action camera this one also supports a
full 4k it has an a nice stabilization
system this is Sony stabilization system
that they integrate into their handycams
and everything and it is an optical
stabilization system so even though we
don't have a gyro or anything you can
see it is a little bit smoother as I'm
walking there so it provides a really
nice video untrained eye completely
notices the difference in this yeah I
can't feel your footsteps at all in this
shot it's a lot smoother than some of
the other cameras that we're looking at
it looks good as well you know some of
the things about this camera does come
with a waterproof case but you do have
to put that on if you want to take it in
the water I'll just kind of let you see
the difference here looks pretty good to
me
I don't see a lot of fisheye there's no
vignette here's our spin yeah there's
our freeze-frame there's my days for a
run test I'm pretty impressed that it
was as smooth as it was
that's the Sony Fe rx 3000 considering
it does not have a gyro but that optical
stabilization system really makes a
difference it's a very clear shot I
really like the picture in this you can
see the detail in the tree look at that
against the sky very nice
finally it's my turn this is a test of
selfie mode so as I walk and hold these
cameras in front of me how does each one
look also it's a test of the sound of
each of these cameras so here's our
soundcheck hello I'm Robbie Ferguson
thanks for watching this demonstration
next up is the nikon commission 170 and
this is the only clip we have this is a
test of selfie mode so as i walk and
hold these cameras in front of me how
does each one look also it's a test of
the sound of each of these cameras so
here's our soundcheck hello I'm Robbie
Ferguson thanks for watching this
demonstration very unfortunate very
impressed with the video quality and
finally the Garmin VirB ultra 30 is up
this one also shoots 4k at 30 frames a
second has a bit of a darker hue to it I
can see that the the exposure is a
little lower than the other cameras
we're looking at tonight but the video
quality I'm pretty happy with on the
Garmin VirB ultra 30 you can see it in
the finer details definitely not seeing
you know out of the box with the
settings we're not seeing quite the
exposure the clarity in this low-light
situation exactly those ducts were
clearer in the last
the last duck shot mm-hmm with some
post-production I think you can really
get this to look very nice but right out
of the box right off the camera it is
quite a bit darker less detail and I
don't notice any vignette I don't notice
any fisheye that's right home about and
with our spin test performs you know as
well as can be expected the run test
gives us a real good view because you
know if you're doing action stuff you
want it to be fairly smooth video you
don't want to have it going blurry if
you will and the Garmin VirB ultra 30
perform fairly well in that scenario and
there's the sunset again this is another
great shot from this particular camera
yeah clear branches that pillar of light
that was breathtaking spectacular
soundcheck
and last but certainly not least it's
the DJI Osmo this is a 4k video camera
with the three axis gimbal and you can
immediately see the smoothness of the
video so if you're shooting what we call
running gun if you're if you're shooting
in the field and you want some really
smooth video it's a very small rig I had
a conversation today about how we used
to have to use a Steadicam in order to
get that kind of video look at this now
it is just super smooth now I do notice
it's on a bit of an angle and I'm not
sure that maybe my calibration certainly
that's not the norm for this camera I
think I had turned it in such a way that
it is on an angle but that can be
corrected of course the motors can be
adjusted so that just with a thumb on
the joystick it will fix that but in
particular we're looking at the quality
and there's our spin testing keeping the
camera that popped in there the the
Olympus camera because the gimbal wanted
to turn and keep its eye on you too
right and did you see how it kind of
followed you there yeah which would be
great in in the field like actually in a
scenario when you're running past
somebody mm-hmm look at the difference
now this is a lot tighter we don't have
quite as wide of a shot look at that
tree look at the building but the
clarity and the color and the gradient
there is just absolutely stunning
nutri these cameras so here's our sound
check hello I'm Ravi Ferguson thanks for
well there you have it that's our
unbiased look at these cameras all of
these cameras were just on our rig and
we shot it this morning lots of great
comments in the in the chat room and I
love your opinions and your thoughts
about these cameras what are your
thoughts please comment below let us
know what your favorite is and and of
course do keep in mind you can purchase
these through our site go to cap 5 dot
TV slash action cam so pick the one that
you love pick the one that is in your
price range and check out cap 5 dot TV
slash action cam thoughts at this point
thoughts at this point is well I mean
it's hard to be unbiased about the sort
of situation but as just a like a casual
observer of it to be honest and we know
that I have a love of robots and I find
you find the DJI camera pretty
impressive adorable and more like it
functions so well yeah so to give you an
idea so watch the DJI camera with the
with the gimbal here and when I was
talking about the level of it I should
have been more conscious of making sure
it was level before I started shooting
but of course I don't have a screen on
it so I couldn't I couldn't tell but
watch what the camera does see that so
where these other cameras would suddenly
be shooting cricket video exactly the
DJI Osmo does that so that's why we're
getting that so silky smooth floating
video where the DJI Osmo is not the
perfect camera is you can't really mount
it on top of your helmet right it's
really what we call a run-and-gun camera
it's a really neat form factor for
shooting video it's fairly lightweight
and allows you to shoot really silky
smooth video without a big rig right
that's the thing and it is 4k I mean
where the Olympus Stylus looks it looks
more like the camcorder of old just
shrunk down yeah did you see this right
pops right out you've got the screen
right I feel like he performs more like
the camcorder of old like you want to
use that for things like birthday
parties in right you know anniversary
sure really really easy to just pull it
out and start shooting
we've got the Sony camera this is the
FDR x3 3000 and this is the one that I
mentioned was uh has the optical
stabilization and it has really silky
smooth video for a little tiny form
factor was that the one the white
balance was so great in that one that it
was really was pretty good yeah mm-hmm
and the one that that didn't shoot in
the cold was the Nikon commissioned 170
which is such a shame it was a heartache
as I was watching the the audio test
because the video looks exquisite I know
but you know what if it's not going to
work in extreme conditions
who buys a camera that is that
persnickety unless you're using your
action camera for only indoor use
yeah right in sports a quick mention of
something that we noticed with the
Olympus Stylus tough PG tracker this
camera would only shoot four gigs of
video at a time okay so in shooting 4k
video we were getting about seven and a
half minutes worth of recording and then
the camera would simply stop recording
now remember all of these cameras have
the same type of card we put Kingston 64
gig cards in them they're all formatted
just either by the camera in case in
cases where it was required to format or
just insert it and use out of the box
right it's possible that maybe
reformatting it as exFAT or some other
file system may extend allow it to but
it didn't look like a file system thing
it didn't look like the file system was
saying can't record anymore stop it
looked like the camera was saying oh
we've reached almost four gigs is like
three point nine eight and it stopped
recording
and did not continue right and it was
happy to start recording absolutely high
tunes you have to notice yeah you have
to notice seven minutes into your video
that you need to push record a game and
that to me would be a problem I'd be
interested to learn a little bit more
about why that is and of course file
systems older file systems had a
limitation of four gigs so it would stop
recording in order to save corrupting
the data so that you don't lose your
video but I want to see it continue
recording I want to see it at least
instantaneously continue recording to a
second file
if necessary like the canon cameras do
like they just continually keep creating
new files and so you end up you know if
your video is an hour long you might end
up with ten videos but you can put them
back-to-back in your editor another
interesting thing about this camera you
can see how it is mounted on our rig and
it is upright the letters the words
everything is upright
however the video on the TG tracker was
shot upside down it was inverted so we
had to take it into our video editor and
actually turn it over so if you plugged
it into a TV or if you started watching
it on your computer
everything would be upside-down so it's
not just plug and play after no plug
interesting it'll play no I wouldn't
call it a problem but it's something
interesting to realize that you do have
to do some post-production on that in
order to get any kind of usable video
assets which were probably going to want
to do anyways and some of the cameras
that have fisheye we can remove that
digitally again in post-production using
D fishing lens so there you have it
that's our unbiased comparison review of
these six action cams please do comment
below and don't forget to check out cap
v TV slash action cam and get the
pricing and purchase any one of these
whichever one you decide is the one for
you I'd love to hear your feedback I'd
love to know what your favorite is what
your comments are about each of these
cameras and any other information that
you might want to share with the
community
[Music]
