welcome to category five technology TV
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple W category five TV
or email us at live at category five TV
and now let's begin here's your host
Ravi Ferguson welcome to episode number
253 of category five technology TV nice
to see you there two hundred and thirty
two of those before this 232 before
before and next will be aired somewhere
yeah Eric's been working on this map so
what's coming up next weeks I've been
working on all inside okay I mean next
week we can say there's been two hundred
and thirty three of them oh yes yes
Betty get me buddy back fix me just just
to kick things off tonight
it is 2:30 3:00 and and it's March 6
when this is going live but somebody
said to me on Twitter you need to you
need to be pressing your coffee so I
actually brought you there yes well some
nice pressed coffee so get things
started off right now if you could pour
Guinness Oh coffee looks good yeah it
does we're gonna get this show started
right Pete
one for you hey Dave I did not really
have to take my soccer shoes off for
counting what you been up to keep me
busy what have I been up to you really
want to know yeah well I I think I've
become a plumber
last week the downstairs water closet
well the toilet something broke but but
I I was able to fix that and then two
days later the upstairs toilet went and
I had to call Hardison fix it oh no I
haven't been hiring any plumbers and
just before I came here I was in the
kitchen
Vincente off something and the handle
came off the top of the the faucet so
luckily it was in the off position when
it went so I'm after hockey I'm gonna be
doing some more following tonight's Wow
yeah it's like after beef bean burrito
Sunday or it has been a rough week it's
been a rough week well hey it's good to
have we'll get through it thanks for
making it out I can thank you for making
it out and it's only Tuesday
it is Tuesday Tuesday tonight we're
gonna be we're gonna actually be looking
at a really awesome way to get some
amazing games on our Linux computer all
right so stick around we're gonna be
learning all about that Eric and I are
gonna be talking about backing up our
data as well and lots coming up I'll let
you kind of fill us in on what's coming
up in the news room
I've got everything kind of started for
you there but it says in there in the
taps so we can probably find it here
yeah Cheers well coming up in the
newsroom this week Google's new privacy
policy may be in violation of European
law at least one of Saturn's moons may
have been found to be surrounded in
oxygen oh yeah Google is helping small
businesses and whales get online feel
the action like never before with a new
controller prototype being pitched to
video game console makers so stick
around these stories and others are
coming up later in the show
excellent yes hey check out our website
triple W category five dot TV email us
live a category-5 dot TV get your
questions in and join us in the chatroom
fantastic way to get your questions in
and if you've got a mobile device visit
our mobile site it's mobile dot cat5 dot
TV
yeah that is your somewhere there you go
it's a great way for you to be able to
bring up the show on your mobile device
and that we'd encourage you to scan that
QR code or visit mobile cat5 dot TV what
are you up to my arms aren't long enough
I've got new contact lenses are great
for hockey and everything in here Ivan
sounds yeah but yeah I can I can
actually see them oh that's scary
but golly I can't see a darn thing up
close really yeah see I can't wear
combat that awkward age kids might
actually have to break down and get
bifocals bifocals oh my good then we'll
have some oh my goodness poke fun it's
not like robbery doesn't like to tease
these days lady well these days it's not
that bad right you can get pretty thick
bifocals that are that actually look
quite nice it's not it's not like it's
not like when we were kids right it was
the coke bottle glasses right
no and agamotto I've never tried
progressives I ya know I just have the
technology of glasses folks yeah there
it is hey I would encourage you to send
in your postcards this week there you
have it
grab a postcard from the local
convenience store from your local town
or somewhere nearby send it to category
five technology TV postal box
20900 9 Barrie Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7
yes I have you got some mail at that
address so obviously with somebody
watching the show who thought that
address that's pretty cool you go
alright viewership is up in Texas and
times and Greg I'll just say thank you
for spreading the word right no but
viewership is very very high in Texas
right now and I'd like to say hello to
all of our viewers from Texas and so
much so that we've actually opened a new
category 5 studio line based in Texas so
it's a local call for our Texas viewers
but also of course it just makes it a
little more central for viewers who are
in the United States who'd like to give
us a phone call hey guess two three nine
one is from Texas hey yeah there's
there's a I don't know what happened in
Texas but there's this if you look at
the viewer location map on our site
there's just a boom of
worship in in Texas so I think you know
there must be something going on down
there but anyways Lone Star beer that
Bob Wills music for him you know the
phone number two five four five cat five
TV so you can actually call that number
and you'll be able to get through to us
right here at the studio you won't get
us tonight live on the show we haven't
opened it up for live interaction yet
but you will be able to reach us here at
the studio you'll be able to leave
voicemail and say hello to us through
through the week and things like that as
well so and that will be opened up as
well for for viewer questions down the
road I think next week I'll bring my
guitar and sing some Bob Wills music
maybe we can have some Lone Star beer
there seems to be a real you know surge
of support in Texas for that well it is
next week is our st. Patrick's Day show
so I'll be doing overstatement alright
so it does key I'm just gonna say it
warrants bringing it to a guitar and
gear into the studio you know no
self-respecting Irishman would drink
green beer it's gonna be his black isn't
this copy made so yeah it would take a
lot of food coloring to color that green
I didn't get invited for next week so
hey we're always welcome Eric always
welcome so yes as I was saying and
sending your postcards the betta of our
new website has where Bay darted or
betta I mean quit betting a rat beating
around the bush gosh did you know this
is my this is ya know you look good tip
seems took some years off thanks Chris
right know either every time I say betta
better now I'm gonna be
well maybe snuggling on the word and do
better in the future wings and they'll
do better yes siree
the betta beta betta they started for
Thank You week the brand-new website
started this week very very excited
about the the better that's going on
thank you so much to our wonderful team
of betta testers
I'm just gonna eliminate the word from
my vocabulary can thank you hey GP okay
great to see everybody joining us in the
chat room and we are gonna take just a
real quick break and we'll be right back
after this but in the meantime get in
the chat room send us your questions if
you need to get my attention private
message me and and that will just kind
of let me know that that I've got a
question okay so jumbo alpha testers I'm
just beta testers just beat a testers
we'll be right back after this your last
chance to relax is on the way up the
hill Canada you can capture all the
action like never before without a bulky
sports cam
that's a high-definition video camera
mask from liquid image canada.com is
free HD even low-light you capture the
memories just how you experience
available now from liquid image
canada.com this is category 5 technology
TV and I'm your host Robbie Ferguson and
I am Eric Kidd the gloriously lovely and
talented co-host oh dear me and the bad
attitude was that with that description
that came through in the chat room or
that was actually we see that someone
here a meal 1976 is running is that
Xubuntu beta is that is that Rachel's
isn't that you Rachel do you know
Rachel's Ubuntu okay and cat5 beta and
win8 preview so this is just a real
tester kinda person well with Windows 8
consumer preview coming out this past
week it is kind of an exciting time for
Windows users and and those who are
wanting to be on the bleeding edge but
what's really interesting I think to me
about the the I guess the direction of
the paradigm of the desktop is that now
well now Windows Microsoft product is
pursuing a similar kind of layout a
similar kind of I'll use the word
paradigm of the desktop as Ubuntu with
its unity interface as gnome 3 because
everything's going touchscreen ok but
then I say you know what happens to the
mouse user yeah how would you like that
if we all got touchscreens here just
through the whole show it'll be like ok
well I just actually you know I've done
that a couple of times after I got a new
BlackBerry this week yes another one but
but you know touch screen and they
actually it was on something else
tonight whoops yeah I shouldn't be
telling anybody that could get really
annoying
you put that far away from you know
strawberry pie or something maybe but
the thing about the touchscreen
interface of Windows 8 and unity on on a
boom - and then gnome 3 is that a lot
it's gonna have to force a transition to
touchscreen devices and and someone was
saying to me well you know I need my
computer monitor in front of me I don't
want to have to look down at it can you
imagine the hunch and the the neck
problems I mean Chiropractic is gonna
all of a sudden have this inflow of of
customers on account of this you know I
already see it with the iPad a night and
I do it myself with the touch screen on
that on the iPod touch my kid viewers
who watch Spaceballs
what are you Colonel Sanders chicken
best line of the entire movie yeah but
jamming up the monitor is not a good
thing definitely take a sip of my hot
coffee yes is that great you ready for
questions yeah and viewer questions I
mean send them in in the chat room I
would love to receive those just join us
in the chat runs category-five on
freenode or just click the link on our
website category five dot TV yeah okay
we have a question from Scott Reeves and
yes Scott
catching up in some older episodes and
found your series on the web development
and Christa made the image in Photoshop
but I couldn't catch how big the canvas
was is there a typical starting point
thanks that's pretty decent question
yeah I think what it boils down to is
determining what size of screen what
resolution of screen your target
audience is going to have so typically
the I would guess that you know people
are gonna have a 1024 by 768 minimum
resolution we can confirm that will go
to w3schools
w3c a pardon me
yeah yeah w3c
at school and I'm gonna do a search for
browser stance let's try that now I'm
gonna I can actually link to this in the
show notes for episode number 233 to
make it easier for you okay heyyour then
I just happen to be look at that click
it congratulations you won okay so this
isn't exactly okay it's a display that I
want but this is interesting look at
this for all of those who have ever been
told oh well everybody uses Internet
Explorer that is so 1999 okay okay but
realistically on this continent
you think No okay this these are the
real stats from w3schools okay w3c
schools let's go back to 2004
alright in 2004 you can see the seventy
six point two percent of users were
using Internet Explorer well yeah and
earlier it was okay in January of that
year it was twenty four point seven well
that's where those stats come from now
if you look at you four points in yeah
did I say something else you said plenty
for Paul it probably was anyway look at
what happened to Internet Explorer going
down down down and here we go February
of this year is only at 19.5% Firefox is
at thirty six point six chrome there's
only three actually mined Firefox is
pretty Firefox is pretty good good and I
like it it's gonna give you a safer
experience than Internet Explorer in
Little Crow mine was I've got mixed
emotions about it I mean I'm using
Chrome right now okay but I do find that
I'm not too happy about the interface of
it and the way that it's but that's
that's just the direction again the
paradigm shifting toward minimizing the
amount of wasted space on the screen so
it makes sense but sometimes it's harder
to find stuff so what I wanted to show
you yeah so what's the average is the
browser display so what we want to see
is okay well how many people oh cool
congratulations we know they're serious
you one face is serious you know because
I was the nine hundred ninety nine
thousand nine hundred
ninth visitor just a week or two ago so
that's amazing amazing stuff okay so
here we go January 2012 higher than 1024
by 768 is 85% of the users on the web
how many people are still using 1024 by
768 only 13% how many people are lower
than that 1% okay so we're gonna forget
about those who are using 800 by 600
sorry oh you 1% you need to upgrade 1024
by 768 13% is still a pretty high number
so that's what we're gonna base it on so
we need to take into account that we've
got a bar on the right-hand side and
some some window.chrome as well so we're
gonna say about 960 pixels width is
about how wide you want your website to
be and that will fit very perfectly
inside of a 1024 by 768 Center it and
then if you get a bigger screen it's
going to be nicely centered in the
middle of the screen and then there's of
course fluid width as well but that's a
topic of discussion for another day cat
5 dot TV / web dev to take you right to
that web development series which I'll
point out a game that and this is
fantastic this is still active you
remember in the series we offered a 70
dollar coupon that gives you a year of
web hosting for me and a free domain
registration that coupon we're gonna
keep that going as long as they will
allow us to do so so that still exists
so get to catechin cat5 dot TV slash web
dev if you'd like to get ahold of that
I'm going to actually download the file
that Christa created because your
question is specifically won't what
resolution did she use that file is
available for download so that you can
play with it let's see okay so how does
it open up then in the GIMP I know in
Photoshop cs4 so you can over talking
both locate as a PSD so it's compatible
with both yeah
so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna grab
the guide here that she's created and I
can just you know I'll copy that to my
clipboard just to be real simple
and we can see that she went with 951
pixels width height is your relevant
because height is always going to be
fluid right the the height of the
website is going to get longer right but
again you don't want to have an image
that's super dark fitting into the yeah
take yeah you don't want it to be bigger
than their homes in your landing page
right so but what I mean is the the the
width if you go over the width you're
gonna have horizontal scrolling if if
you did if you made your website like 12
1200 pixels wide it's gonna create side
scrolling on a lot of monitor so you
don't want that it's very very annoying
vertical scrolling is expected when
you're on the way yeah we're used to
that so and your mouse wheel
automatically Scrolls down it's
fantastic so okay so she went with that
same kind of idea of 950 to 960 pixels
width and and that seemed to work fairly
well for that design again it's cat v
dot TV slash web dev to actually bring
up that that series and get a look at it
download some of the files that had to
do with it cool any questions for us in
the chatroom oh and thank you very much
for your question there Scott Cheers
how's your coffee oh you've been the
coffee's good yeah yeah let me drop a
lip you did good I'm sorry what are you
laughing at nothing all right
oh okay some folks are using two
different browsers for different
applications I suppose that's alright
now what's a komodo talking about here
in the chat room this call me weird okay
you're weird Oh Oh Myrtle stop
isn't isn't that why you would want to
versions one for low res and a regular
one you mean for a website yeah you
might be thinking fluid with which again
as I say this is a little bit a little
bit tough to get into in the in the
course of the show tonight with a fluid
with website you create something that
expands to approximately you know
there's a there's a
version which is 960 pixels wide and
then you've got a wider version and
you've got everything in between and
things scale up and down which is quite
nice
that's fluid width it uses a minimum min
width min - - width in CSS and a max
width and then you have the the flow of
percentages between that so well we can
play without something yeah maybe we
should
that'd be kind of fun and Dave majors
lovely wife wants coffee
I would love to to send you something
it's very good Dave can't make coffee
Dave bet you wish you could have some
you neither you need the French press
which you can always find for lady Sin
City yard sale greatest thing I mean my
pasta maker was 50 cents at a yard sale
cuz people these days just don't want to
be when you try his pasta dough
you know what wooden mallets are also 50
cents a yard sale so you watch out
because they can hurt wouldn't know it's
okay all right yeah I don't know where
to go from there okay Chris thinks we
shouldn't drink and he wants us to say
pastor Pastor pasta you saying pasta
I don't pastor potato potato what's the
matter you I'm just reading what it says
okay potato potato tomato tomato
Robbie is kind of out you saw the one
where he tried to I think was up there
well Rachel I we're answering some
questions quite seriously and you came
in with a knife no no that was that was
you with the with the screwdriver that
was a very random yeah okay no other
questions for us in the chatroom
because if not we will ruin your
violence you know what was sticks with
Christie and Ronald for their right but
okay they're concerned they're concerned
for your co-hosts you know really no I
think you feed Christian you feed Erik
now but yeah
PAH you know Rachel and Hillary haven't
been fed as far as I can tell they were
planning a revolt now I I did download
the the new windows development preview
or the party they the consumer preview
Oh to take a look at Windows 8 have you
seen it yeah I have not it's very
different I'd love to actually bring it
up on the show just to to see how it is
different but it works very very poorly
in virtual machines so if you're
interested in getting a part of being a
part of that betta I think unfortunately
you're gonna really need to have a
system to install it on a hard drive
that you can do that with it works
poorly in VirtualBox Garbi is
reiterating ok yeah actually Greg in
Texas wants to know how does that block
block ads from a stream that'll be a
question for this does it work the the
only thing to me the only thing to keep
in mind with blocking ads is when you're
dealing with something like category 5
is just the fact that those ads may pay
for the show to go forward but also like
those in-stream ads those are part of
what gives us the bandwidth in order to
to broadcast the show so they are kind
of important yeah so we don't that's why
we don't really get into a lot of you
know how to block ads what we should do
though when it's happened before we had
a very kind viewer who put together a
tutorial is show you if you're gonna
install this stuff anyways here's how
you can exclude category 5 uh-huh but
one of the important things to us is is
always to you know we try to present the
ads in such a way that it's non
intrusive but of course if you're
watching live you do get more ads than
the people who are watching an RSS
because you're using Ustream or Justin
TV and those services are ads supported
you can buy into it you can pay for a
subscription to those services and that
will cut the ads down but but that's
really the only option
well TOB 33 has a question with what you
said last week about what happened I was
phoning you and a few years ago the ISP
called me saying there was malware on my
PC crazy thing is there was and I knew
about it how did they know well in that
case it was your internet service
provider so this is a company that you
know right mm-hmm
what happens is you're connected to the
Internet and a lot of malware these days
what does it do
sends out spam right so your internet
service provider will sometimes even
turn off your internet connection and
even give you a warning when you bring
up your browser it says hey you're
infected you need to contact us to get
this cleaned up the thing is is that
they can see the traffic they they Asgar
be saying there but but also they know
that there's something going on where a
normal user does not send out 10,000
emails in a minute it doesn't happen so
when you get one of those end even with
rapid fire that's a challenge so when
you get one of those infections they're
gonna know about it fairly quickly and
they're certainly gonna know about it if
it puts them on a spam list if it black
lists their server if you're using an
you know if you're on a particular
service and you're using an at you know
such-and-such calm it's their domain
it's not your own and you get put on a
blacklist guess what happens to them all
their users get put on a blacklist
so they know they know very very quickly
here's one from the Emil 1976 hey yeah
Robbie F what do you think of the
current support for html5 in most
browsers it's still in an evolving
technology right so what do I think
about it it is not excellent no it's not
it's not there it's not it's not an
accepted standard yet as far as being
adapted in or adopted into all the
browsers so as a developer it's it's one
of those cases where you've got to
create backward compatibility out the
wazoo if you're gonna be going with
html5 and that's exactly what you see on
sites like YouTube you
if you don't have html5 it falls back to
flash it's just the way that it's gotta
be for now with all of our video stuff
it's gonna be html5 if you support it
and if not it's gonna fall back to flash
it's just that's necessary so but we'll
eventually see you know how long did it
take for people to stop using ie6
there's still a few old losses well if
there are you know you need to upgrade
to something because that's just
ridiculous right but it's gonna take
time it's gonna take a lot of time it'll
be nice once it is fully adopted but for
those of us who want it to get the best
web experience you want to stay on top
of your browser updates make sure you've
got a current browser Firefox it's the
one that I'm probably gonna lean toward
as Eric was saying there's also chrome
that works really well I would stay away
from Internet Explorer all together deep
I'm still using IE oh yeah yeah yeah for
shame for shame
you must have Firefox installed I do and
you use it there's some things that just
don't once you upgrade to IE 9 your
especially gonna start seeing this whole
compatibility but you know it's like the
compatibility button becomes a necessary
feature and it's like oh the Internet
Explorer yeah oh car B in the chat room
well hey thank you everyone for your
questions if if we have any other ones I
don't want to miss you feel free to PM
us
it was send me a private message in the
chat room because we don't want to miss
you and of course if we do miss you make
sure you email us live at categories
live TV yeah or give us a call this week
2 5 4 5 cat 5 TV yeah what do you said
hey invincible mutant alright alright
here in the top star is from the
category 5 TV newsroom the European
Union's Justice Commission has said the
recent changes made by Google to his
privacy policy are in breach of European
law try that's the policy change
implemented on Thursday means private
data collected by one Google service can
be shared with its other platforms
including YouTube Gmail and blogger
Google said however that it believed the
new policy complied with EU law and went
ahead with the changes despite warnings
from the EU data regulators and France
had cast doubt on the legality of the
move and have launched to Europe eat
Europe wide investigation a NASA
spacecraft has detected oxygen around
one of Saturn's icy moons the discovery
supports a theory that suggests all of
the moons near Saturn and Jupiter might
have oxygen around them
researchers say yes researches say
they're finding increases the likelihood
of finding the ingredients for life on
one of the moons orbiting gas giants on
one of the moons orbiting gas giants
how's that miss a little bit according
to Andrew coats of University College
London who co-wrote the publication the
moon has no liquid water and so does not
have the conditions to support life but
it is possible that other moons of
Jupiter and Saturn do the study has been
published in the geophysical research
letters as part of a government
initiative to help stimulate economic
recovery in Wales Google is trying to
encourage more welsh businessman to get
online as figures show around 40 percent
of small firms have no website it said
33 percent of the businesses and the
Wales have access to sell goods and
services online compared to the UK
average of 39 percent Business Minister
Edwina Hart said the Welsh government
was working with Google to help small
businesses access new markets google UK
plans to train digital agencies across
Wales to deliver training and workshops
once their initial three-month campaign
has ended a video games controller which
pulls and stretches the skin of its
users thumbs
been unveiled in Canada developer saying
their prototype provided extra feedback
about game characters actions for
example they said the device could mimic
that the recoil of a gun or the motion
of a boat on water better than what
could currently be achieved by vibrating
and controller weird that a vice is
being pitched to Microsoft among other
console maker I don't know if fewers can
see this but you see the the texture so
to think that that is actually going to
move around in such a way that the
textures emulate the touch and the feel
it looks like the little thumb pads look
like dogs you have on your laptop yeah
but then there's that other cradle that
your thumbs that's something very
strange well you can get the full
stories of category 5 dot TV slash
newsroom the category 5 TV newsroom is
researched by Roy W Nash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a news story you think is
worthy of on-air mention email newsroom
at category 5 TV for the category 5 dot
TV newsroom I'm Eric Kidd exact alright
in just a couple of moments we're gonna
be looking at interestingly enough video
games o on our Linux system we don't
have this cool touch device but we're
gonna show you the easiest way to get
some awesome games on your Linux box
tonight this show is brought to you by
quarter e electric they are of course
the official electric company of
category five technology TV you can find
them online
triple W quarter e electric calm and
we're also brought to you by garden gate
farms com4 certified organic broccoli
sprout and wheatgrass juice and is
garden gate farms calm what's up oh hey
yeah ie six hold it but Robbie hates me
no yeah I saw that at Garvey you guys
laughing about what a guy
this is category five technology TV and
our website is right there triple W
category five dot TV with our new site
launching I'd like to say very soon it's
not very soon it's in better right now
very excited beta
we can go for the awkward silence UHF
bash my head in go ahead just bash it in
oh okay
have a drink Chris and we are gonna move
on with our feature for the removal not
at all
hey to be 33 or TOB they're talking Toby
yeah it's lives and Wales oh really yeah
hey tell me how cool is that nice to see
ya nice to see ya there's Tom Jones to
live in Wales that's right alright Texas
is going along with my pronunciations
fantastic yes one of the things that is
a misconception with Linux somebody
believes in somebody's spreading rumors
and lies but there's no games who was
spreading these rumors and lies who is
it the same guy who says it's Beta Beta
we're not going to intro Pierre no
here's the thing there are tons of open
source free games available for Linux
but how do you get them where do you get
them synaptic package manager' is a
great place to get them Ubuntu Software
Center fantastic but there is something
else out there I mean you've heard of
Steam for Windows but kids get called
geeks when they're playing tux Kirk
that's stuff from the dog for the kids
love it yeah my own kids love those kind
of games from synaptic package manager'
brilliant stuff but in the entire know
there is tux cart there's super tux but
we're not looking at that stuff today
we're talking serious game in here
you've heard of Steam for Windows but
there is something for Linux called djl
that I'm not you know it's it's not as
popular as it should be and I wanted to
share it with you tonight because maybe
you maybe have heard of it maybe you've
used it maybe you've never heard of it
and you're
you're wondering what is he on about we
always wondered that Robbie what is it
Eric thank you so much for your feedback
okay I'm just helping out here I'm gonna
actually bring up synaptic package
manager on my system here you're gonna
find this on Linux under system
administration synaptic package manager
or if you don't have it you can use yum
you can use whatever and you'll see if
you do a search for djl I've already
thrown it in here you can just highlight
it and go mark for installation what is
it
djl is an open source game manager
written in Python for the Linux
operating system it's inspired by
Valve's Steam software for Windows so
what it really comes down to is well
what does it do what is it
what synaptic package manager is to all
things Linux what apt-get is to all
things Linux
djl is to Linux games
okay so we've installed that now let's
bring it up under games djl game manager
here it comes
simple interface here are the latest
updates up to just a couple weeks ago a
couple of new different things
repository up at the top there let's
take a look at this list whoo-whee
there's a list of games there is a list
of games these games are all available
to you on your Linux system for free
whether you're looking for first-person
shooters Wolfenstein that is Wolfenstein
enemy territory it's the next generation
of you know the Wolfenstein series it's
it's a it's a great first-person shooter
it's been around for several years but
it's still playable very good if you're
looking for ex moto which is a fun
motorcycle kind of game that uses
physics
what is your hockey one if you're
looking for yo Frankie 3d a Battle of
West now war zone
warsow another first-person shooter that
adds a comic element there are tons of
games and you can just go through oh and
for Eric there it is super toxic over
there you go along with super tux which
is a clone of Super Mario Brothers and
of course super tux cart being a clone
of Super Mario Kart there are a ton of
different games that are available for
you here in DJ l DJ ala game you can
install it for free on your Linux
computer and once its installed you can
grab any one of these games so let's see
how simple it is for us to grab one of
these games Oh lemmings ball cool lynn
city like a SimCity clone that it really
takes me back because I've said Laurie
yeah okay cool okay so what can we grab
let's say X moto that's one that I like
anyways
all I've done is highlighted it I can
see the description I can see the
picture so give me an idea what the
graphics are like all I have to do is
hit install I'm scared for you even
being near a motorcycle Roby
it's already started downloading see
that we're in I wouldn't go near a
motorcycle that's scary stuff
but this one I can do cuz it's just a
cool game on Linux there you go so as
that's installing I can go through and I
can grab other ones you need for more
quality I can pour Markov would you like
some more coffee as we wait for the two
seconds that it takes to install there
you go
note that all these games are being
installed online that's good sit a
little bit for you okay here's the thing
these were it's it's coming through
online it's downloading it right off the
internet
so we don't have to insert a disk or
anything like that and these are free
free full games right so let's see once
once we've got one installed this right
says DJO is not listed in the
repositories for Debian well you can get
it off of their website we'll take a
look in just a cup
the moments so so stick around or you
can hop on Gordon saying is don't be
impatient with him he gets like yeah you
know we'll go way through it we'll take
a look okay so here I've gone from
repositories this is where I go to
actually install the game okay once
they're installed you'll see that now
I've got an option down here when I
highlight that game it says I can play
Oh or if I click on games up at the top
this shows me all the games that I've
installed so far so let's say Bob Wars
blob Wars nice yes so I click on it and
launch the game and here we go alright
so remember that all these games are
available for you for free through djl
framerate is gonna be choppy there just
because I'm capturing through software
through my land but of course you can
install this on your Linux computer and
you'll be able to play this as well but
that is a gain that's available for free
and all of those tons and tons of games
are available to you in an interface
that like Steam is you just it's all
dedicated to games
kids are gonna love this one I guarantee
ya mom wonder why kids were little we
had a busy town and some of those that
Richard Scarry and there was Arthur
things are about to get scary so I'll
bet you that my game was already
installed okay there you go and X moto
is still downloading of course we're
using a lot of bandwidth and idea and I
don't care to push it so but that is DJ
L and that you can of course quite often
find it in your repositories if not
we're gonna post links for you in the
show notes of episode number 230 33 is
there work that downes would not forget
the website address for DJ l is a little
bit it's a little bit different because
it's not like a comm it's en for English
dot d jl - linux dot o RG again i will
send you the show notes the link in the
show notes for episode number 233 the
website is slightly out of date the file
the program is downloadable off of that
site though you get the source you can
get the whatever you need off of that
website if it's not in your repository
if it is in your repository make sure
you grab it and of course the games are
gonna be coming off of different sources
so those will be kept up to date as well
it's djl for linux check it out if you
want to give some games a try great way
to deter that to find games on Linux as
well because you can just highlight it
oh screen shot looks cool description
sounds cool install and then try it see
if you like it remove it if you don't
keep it if you do it's free tell it's
good
freeze good agreement free free coffee
free coffee
this is category 5 technology TV and our
website is triple W category 5 TV
love to hear from people who are new to
Linux pups an email live at category 5
TV and what are your impressions so far
you're not saying anything
they gotta send us an email Eric I had a
friend
I had a friend I have a friend okay but
I had a friend this week who had
something tragic happen to their
computer no yeah and he didn't have a
backup this is me looking surprised well
friends if you're watching have a backup
always always always have a backup yes I
just preached those sort of things if
it's worth saving it's worth backing up
three times and over you know and I'd
lose nothing what's the biggest
complaint about backups though why why
do people not backup why are you not
backing up your files your your digital
camera all of your family photos for the
past five years at least are all digital
how many copies do you have of those do
you have three copies because if your
computer crashes where is the other copy
if and I don't want wish this on anybody
but if your house burnt down
where are your copies of your files
that's what we have to consider we
because you know everyone's gonna get
out of the house safe I believe that but
what is gonna happen to all of those
memories all of the things that you can
never get back yep we call that off-site
storage is a good idea off-site storage
something that you can take off-site
something that you can throw in a safety
deposit box here's a trick for you get
to backup drives backup one take it put
it in your safety deposit box if you
don't have one you don't want to spend
the money on a safety deposit box put it
at a family members house in a safe
place
fine but then be running a weekly backup
on your other hard drive once a month
change the drives go get the one from
your family's house bring it home but at
the same time drop off the one that
you've been using every week start
backing up on the other one so you
always have a backup somewhere that's
without even going off-site I think one
of the one of the problems though is
that people generally find backups to be
a challenge to remember to do and a
challenge to actually do that do the
actual deed of of backing up there are
companies that have worked very very
hard in the past you know few years
especially to make backing up your data
extremely easy because I think that's
really what it boils down to any time
I've talked to somebody who is not doing
a backup its well why not well I have a
backup Drive but I always forget oh I
have a backup Drive but I thought it was
backing up but it wasn't working or yeah
you know it could be any one of these
things so one of the companies that does
a really good job I've got one of their
drives here it's called click free yeah
it is not okay we're not gonna talk
about pricing but we are we are gonna
talk about feature set and this Drive
loud or sharp things I am I run the
place perixx can actually give this a
try tonight because every we'll seen one
of these drives
here's the thing okay I'm gonna crack
this open this is the unboxing this is
yeah 750 gig Drive okay but it's the
click free c6 which means it's gonna
back up your entire computer all your
files incrementally it's going to do it
in such a way that if you crash your
hard drive you get a new hard drive in
it will restore everything back oh nice
and easy just plug me in all right let's
see how how easy or how difficult to
click free drive is I'll let you kind of
little yeah there you go
you take a look at that I've got you a
USB port on your laptop there well let's
see you hold that up so that yours can
just can see you want a plus yeah yeah
brand-new Drive right let's let's look
at it as if you were this was your
backup drive that you've purchased and
like I say there are companies that are
doing this kind of setup these days
there's making it easier in the air
don't
we gonna actually see okay so let's take
this drive plug in the the provided
cable which looks like a it's a slightly
proprietary manipro for plants I can't
see proprietary Chris rank do you know
what to do okay so we got this USB on
the butt and over it's got USB on the
one hand you can see because it's blue
but it is downward compatible two USB
two as well and of course USB 1.1 but
why would you want to use an old USB
like that because it would be so super
slow its sided we're dealing okay so
he's gonna it's right there at the front
there right there that's nice
there she goes up a barrack Hey okay so
I'm gonna let you plug that into your
system alright here goes
okay it's in click and we've never done
this folks okay we've got a blue light
know what's happening here installing
device drivers rather ugly
you'll see its detected hard drives open
folder to view files
this is driver but should I just let her
go or what do you want to do speed up my
system use this drive for backup
whatever close that stuff runs I closed
sure and there you go start click free
c6 look at this the software is built
right into the drive so yeah Eric if you
could just click on start click free c6
I can do that as simple as that
there you go I guess we'll agree to the
license we didn't need a CD didn't need
anything like that yeah we've read that
holder sure
okay so I'm gonna say yes do you want to
allow the following program like that
question yeah that question is asking if
the software if you trust this program
so when you see that make sure you do
read it and know what it is that you're
doing
we're of course installing a device so
we're expecting that question if you see
it out of the blue and you're surfing
the web you definitely want to say no
there goes nothing is easier nothing c6
easy so it's actually you know the
software is embedded into the the
drive of the device so in that case
there's no CD that's necessary there's
no need to install programs before you
get this thing up and running and as
it's saying the the whole idea is to
take your backups and make it so
incredibly simple you don't have to do
it yeah once you through this initial
process of letting it it's hands-off
it's it's it's gonna do it all itself
but once it's in there and it's and it's
going it's gonna back up your entire
system for you on a recurring basis
every time you plug in that drive it's
gonna do an incremental backup so it's
gonna be able to store several several
backup so the first one is gonna do the
whole drug yes first time it's gonna
take quite a bit of time right it's
gonna do your operating system problems
I go to here buy them back up take place
but we can see the how simple the
installation now that just disappeared
there we go ok so so we first of all
it's telling us that hey by the way
since you bought this we've released a
new version of the software what do you
want to do so hit update and let that go
see how you know because this is
something that you as a user are gonna
encounter you really oughta get the
latest and greatest yeah you always want
to have the latest because that means
they've found bugs they found potential
issues or perhaps they've improved the
performance of the device maybe they've
made it better as far as this software
goes the click free software does
require Microsoft Windows however
viewers who were in the chat room are
asking well what about Linux what
happens in that situation here we are
running it on Windows 7 and it works
great on Linux it is still just an
external USB hard drive so you can use
your favorite backup software you can
use back in time and you can create
incremental backups very very easily you
use whatever backup software it is that
you use we've got data dupe for example
nephew monk her Nippo monk try to say
that 10 times fast let's say me Polly is
that what it is I don't meet bolt
there you know so that is now
downloading the updates to that system
very hands-off as far as getting it to
go in this case because we're live on
the air during the broadcast I'll get
you just to push the Skip update there
Eric and we'll just kind of fast-forward
through that but of course
want to gather this uptick in our case
we do in your case let that go right
through okay so let's see what happens
next
good it's spinning its wheels it's did
we cancel everything I don't know I
think we can turn the update but let's
what's unique about the click free
device and maybe we'll unplug it and
plug it back in again
how's that sound because I sure canceled
everything maybe when I really say but
well but did close the software didn't
it it closed up plugging in the device
of course it's gonna reactivate the
software that's on the device it's gonna
ask you what you want to do what's neat
about click free here he goes is that it
automatically creates your backup sets
so you don't have to ever think about ok
well what's being backed up are my
documents being backed up are my
pictures being backed up if you cancel
that update can we do this without
running an update we're gonna find out
there you go ok now look at this this is
amazing ok this is what you're normally
gonna see when you plug in the device on
it's a countdown what's gonna happen
click free will automatically search for
and backup your files and this is gonna
start in 20 seconds 19
fully automatic so there's nothing to it
all you have to do once you've got that
update because that's gonna ask you have
the obso just click them start going
sure let's do that it'll be alright just
there you go so what is it doing now
searching for files that's going through
it's finding all the photos all of the
files on your computer that are critical
everything that needs to be backed up
and it's grabbing those and moving or
making copies of them onto your drive
this is a device that you can password
encrypt your backups as well so and this
again is just one of many different
devices that are doing this but this is
definitely a cream of the crop as far as
it could take several hours but
definitely but every subsequent time
it's gonna be just whatever you've
changed yeah or you know if you've done
some updates if you've changed some
files
some songs whatever yeah there you go
see if you understand that your first
backup is backing up everything but then
as Eric says you may create a couple of
documents in the meantime you might save
a couple of files maybe import another
50 pictures so the next time you run
your backup the next time you plug in
the click free device it only has to
back up those particular pictures
because everything else is already
backed up now I can see here on Eric's
screen that it's already started going
through Windows and programs so it's
doing the operating system first it's
backing all of that up and then it's
gonna go through all my files my email
everything without me ever have anything
oh but did I back up my email contacts
did I back up my photos did I back up my
documents because they're all in
different places on the drive this is
going through and finding them all you
able to backup just I mean restore just
one file yes absolutely
mhm and you can of course restore the
entire system as well so if you do need
to there's a catastrophic failure
failure in the case of my friend I'll
just go back to how I started this
segment as this this this guy I mean I
love the guy he's a great guy and I've
always you know hope the best for his
computer situation but he didn't keep a
backup and he called me up this weekend
and said my computer just it won't turn
on and I ran over and took a look and
sure enough his hard drive its seized up
and crashed so now we're looking at
definitely a data recovery situation you
know what that is ladies and gentlemen
you know what it is unfortunate it's
more than unfortunate when you get the
price tag on a data recovery job when it
could have been prevented by a device
like this which is under $200 well under
$200 when I say that loosely to give you
a ballpark but you know anywhere from
100 to $140 and up from there so it
could have been prevented here we are
how much how much do you bid but it
could have been prevented in that yeah
the hard drive was meant to crash
anyways it happens Power has been
fluctuating like crazy here and very
lately fortunately here in our studio
everything's been fixed thanks to
quarter electric and we
haven't lost any any hardware but other
people are losing hardware hard drives
crashing from power fluctuations and
things like that UPS batteries that
haven't been changed in over three years
and they no longer hold a charge so you
know another thing to keep in mind and
in this in this case of my friend it
could have been his data could have been
saved had he had a backup and
unfortunately that wasn't the case so
900 few thousand dollars later did he
get his files back we haven't gotten to
that point yet if the it's that data
recovery right now we'll see what
happens but that is you know it's a bad
bad case and I want to avoid that for
you you know if you have a good backup
then data recovery is not a problem I
had it happen I had my hard drive crash
at work and it was the first time I've
ever had a crash where everything is
constantly backed up I have a backup
that runs at 10 a.m. every morning so I
was able I think it was like 11:30 when
my computer crashed and it was there was
no stress none I lost a day of work as
far as you know having to get my
computer back up and run and get a new
hardrive put in an and everything but
there was no stress of oh no all those
documents that I've been working all
those websites that I was ready to go
live exactly boom there was none of that
yeah Pyrus Rock is wondering what
happens if you turn your computer off to
go to bed if it hasn't finished you in
the backup well that's fine because here
it is it's just it's it's incremental so
it's gonna save everything up until that
point and the next time you pick it up
it's gonna start from there so but the
power will go out unexpectedly for the
hard drive as well because it's powered
by the USB you correct yes so well but
you're alright be ok or well oh yeah
because your computer dismounts your
hard drives and everything before and
and closes on of any cached files right
otherwise you'd always be losing files
off of your hard drive yeah when you
shut down so everything is closed off
everything is saved from the buffer to
the drive before your system shuts down
that's why if there are big write
operations happening sometimes it takes
a little longer for you to shut down
so no problems there so folks keep a
good backup what are you doing for
backups
you know I have a little external drive
there do backups but I'm a little locks
on yeah I probably lose a couple of
weeks worth of stuff right yeah if
everything when I think about me at the
very least get that external harddrive
get something like the click free device
this is the ideal solution this really
is very nice but at least I mean if you
can't do it if you can't keep up back up
all your photos right now put them on
DVDs if you have to and get them
off-site okay so just that way I mean if
a year from now you've still not been
doing backups at least you've got all
those backed up if I were to lose all
the pictures of my kids when they were
just newborns and stuff because
everything's digital
even our videos our digital photo lose
those that'd be devastating like
honestly as you know a friend of mine
his host burned down yeah so he lost
everything including digital but all the
paper ones and everything and that's
where you know you've got your backup
sitting beside your computer in your
house code no good nothing's nothing's
there so right you do need off-site
offsite backup backup
yep cloud backups are excellent Pogoplug
is fantastic this device here though you
can see it's small enough to fit in your
purse it's small enough to put in your
in your shirt pocket for the gents that
are wearing shirts like that but here's
the thing you can get it off site you
can put it somewhere right yeah you can
get it out you can put it somewhere I
mean it doesn't have to be an off-site
backup if you can take it to mom or
dad's place or brother or sisters place
and leave it in a drawer somewhere
keeping your glove compartment it's not
a good idea mmm yeah
cold pretty bad for a question sure nano
bugs nanobots yeah my son and I love
those things so we don't get to play
with them yet but we'll play with them
after the show those of you watching
backstage pass will get to enjoy that
have a great week do your backups please
and thank you and we'll get them
off-site I have more blowing to do it
sir and hockey tonight
busy busy night you have a great night
and we'll see you next week remember do
your backup get enough
okay get it outta out of there just in
case better safe than sorry all right
have a great week good see ya see ya
Cheers
