Tuesday April 7 2015 and here are the
stories were covering this week a
sophisticated multi-level cyber thievery
campaign is underway which at its heart
uses malware to trick users into
conducting wire transfers through
thieves posing as their banks technical
help line Google is blurring the lines
and making it so Android apps can now be
run on any computer be it windows mac
linux or chromebook a russian coder
discovered a way to delete every video
from YouTube in a matter of moments many
of on lives patents have been sold to
Sony forcing them to shut down Mozilla
is working to put privacy back in the
hands of its users with their new
tracking protection feature and Internet
service providers in Australia have been
ordered to hand over personal
information about users who downloaded
an illegal an illegal copy of a u.s.
movie these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere what would you think
is a good deal for web hosting $300 made
four hundred dollars I don't know seven
thousand million gajillion dollars I
know that's not a good deal what if you
could get web hosting for only 70 bucks
for an entire year sounds actually
pretty good what if we could throw in a
free domain name registration like your
own com Wow what if we gave you
unlimited email accounts and unlimited
storage space for your website sounds
pretty good you're supposed to say
that's not enough Robbie what else can I
do for me keep giving me more stuff okay
how about unlimited bandwidth how about
a 50 gig offline off-site backup service
this is too good to be true what 70
bucks go to cap 5 TV / dreamhost that's
cat five dot TV / dreamhost and when
you're checking out use the coupon code
cat five TV and you're going to get all
that stuff and more cat five dot TV /
dreamhost with the coupon code cat five
TV back to the newsroom here's Sasha
radisson here the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room researchers said
they've uncovered an active campaign
that has already stolen more than 1
million dollars using a combination of
malware and social engineering the
direwolf campaign that as it's been
dubbed by IBM's IBM security researchers
targets businesses that use wire
transfers to move large sums of money
even when the transactions are protected
with two-factor authentication the heist
starts with a mass emailing that
attempts to trick people into installing
dire a strain of malware that came to
light last year the dire versions
observed by IBM researchers remained
undetected by the majority of antivirus
products that's scary infected machines
then send out mass emails to other
people in the victims address book then
the malware lies in wait IBM security
intelligence researchers John Kuhn and
Lance Mueller explained in their blog
post once the infected victim tries to
log into one of the hundreds of bank
websites for which the Dyer is
programmed to monitor a new screen will
appear instead of the corporate banking
site the page will explain the site is
experiencing issues and that the victim
should call the number provided to get
help logging in as soon as the victim
hangs up the phone the wire transfer is
complete the money starts its journey
and bounces from foreign bank to foreign
bank to circumvent detection by the bank
and law enforcement the success of the
direwolf campaign underscores the need
for improved training so employees can
better spot malicious emails and
suspicious ruses like the one involving
the phone call to the targets banks this
is happening more and more and it's the
scariest thing especially I mean for
this it's large sums of money but it can
happen even with small sums of money I
even my sister's fiance she's getting
married at the end of the summer hmm
he's just finishing up his last year of
university and he got at his university
is on strike or just finished a strike
and he got an email from his university
saying we're going to give you back some
of your tuition money because you've
missed so many class
and all we need you to do is let us know
where you'd like the money to go and
prove that you are who you are so please
give us your social insurance law and
your visa number so we can you know
refund you so Robbie I mean we've done a
lot about fishing so what what do you
think that's that's got to be an inside
job because they gotta know who's going
to that school they know the story of
the strike that you know something's
going on there that's a little fishy but
um bow and then unless no and then this
oh and a oh yeah what's what you're
saying now okay so it's basically
malware that gets into your computer
will call it a virus and if i go to my
online banking it says sorry this site
is down please call this technical
support phone number for service how
many people fall for it and pick pick up
the phone and say so this is a DNS
hijacker I would assume so when I go to
that website the hijacker then
intercepts it and serves up this fake
website check for secure certificates
anytime you're looking at a website
because I would assume that you're not
getting the secure certificate when
you're looking at that so we're how do
you check for a secure certificate well
that would be your your browser itself
so when I go to online banking let's
let's bring one up name a bank any bank
team here in Canada TD yeah so TD Canada
Trust com so when I go to TD Canada
Trust com it redirects blah blah you'll
see two things first thing is that the
address then skips over to https that
stands for secure it has a lock next to
it and that lock means that it is a
secure connection and it says when i
hover over it verified by verisign
single click on that and it will tell
you a little bit more about this
particular certificate okay I'm going to
zoom out a little bit here for you it
will tell me a little bit more about the
certificate when I click on it and it
says the connection is secure all right
now more information will tell you a lot
more information about who
owns this and what see that this website
does not supply ownership information so
that's just the type of certificate that
it is for some reason TD doesn't have
their name on the certificate but at
least we know that it yes it is a secure
certificate it is they're using 128-bit
encryption which is pretty lame if you
ask me for a bank a big bank in Canada
is using only 128-bit encryption sorry I
my kids personal websites have 256 bit
encryption my combos blown right now I
didn't even know that exists so if you
go to a website that's not secure yeah
it doesn't have the ass does it have
like an unlocked lucky thing or it just
has nothing uh I wonder if I have a
sample of something like I sure wouldn't
be so you're like just a general info so
yeah in general everybody should be
looking to see whether or not that lucky
thing is there and then if you're doing
anything that's secure that should be
protected behind a secure certificate so
if i go for example if i skip over to
google.com you'll see it also turns to
secure because i'm going to be entering
personal information into that so if I a
single click on that it tells me blah
blah blah verified by google inc they're
making their own certs that's handy oh
this one also doesn't show any owner
information that may be Oh verified oh
no that may just be that that's what the
browser that's Firefox and there also
some kind of deal but so a website that
isn't secure let's say category five dot
TV okay notice it did not change to a
secure cert great car and that is
because we're not doing any financial
transactions or anything like that or
now but as things change you can you can
go to let's say your website Sasha take
a dot category five dot TV so try a buy
it you'll see did turn to a secure
certificate and it's a little bit
different I have a very secure site do
have a very secure site because as the
internet evolves and as things evolved
more and more everything is turning to
secure certificate web
right so that that data cannot be
intercepted by well it can be
intercepted but it can't be read because
it's not plain text it's encrypted so it
can't be intercepted in a plaintext
fashion by I guess you know the Snowden
thing kind of brought it to light but
NSA hackers spies super spies SuperDuper
spies so the way the way this particular
virus works to get around that and the
fact that some people might know that is
they get you to call technical help
right yeah well they intercept it they
stop it so that you don't actually get
to TD Canada Trust so before I get to
this website I've typed in the website
address but instead of getting this
website i get an error message that says
the websites down call this number for
support i call that number they know
enough about me to from the from the
virus to to be able to make make it
convincing and then they take my banking
credentials well what what is your login
username and password so that i can test
it in our system here ok yeah and as
you're doing that as you're giving it to
them they're logging in on another
computer that is getting them to the
site and stealing all your funds scary
you can never be too safe never to say
folks always look for that little lucky
thing a little lucky thing all right
Google's convergence of chrome and
Android is taking a big step forward
this week after launching a limited app
runtime for chrome AKA arc back in
September Google is expanding its beta
project to allow android apps to run on
Windows OS 10 and Linux it's an early
experiment designed primarily for
developers but anyone can now download
an APK of an existing Android app and
launch it on a Windows or Linux PC Mac
or Chromebook there are some limitations
by default only one app can be loaded at
a time and you have to select the
landscape or portrait layout and whether
you want the app to run in phone or
tablet style developer developers will
need to optimize their apps for arc and
some Google Play services are now
supported right now making that process
I'll
whole lot easier so that means any of my
apps I could run on my my laptop which
is Linux right that'll be cool and I
wonder if the the convergent convergence
will end up being a drive to you know
the Chromebooks and I think about how
you know you will now you can run your
Android apps on those as well that opens
up a lot of stuff angry birds for 100 no
but I'm thinking what I'm thinking is
like is things like FL Studio mobile
edition and the ability to do really
cool camera apps and things aren't true
other platforms and because it's on
google chrome and you don't need to have
Android you can do all these things on
any kind of computer doesn't matter what
it's running that could be very good
that's great news here's interesting
news her Russian coder has revealed how
he discovered a way to delete any video
on YouTube a demonstration of the
technique was posted online showing that
once he had copied a part of the videos
web address he could use it to wipe the
clip rather than exploit the hack he
instead reported it to Google who fixed
the exploit within hours and gave him a
five-thousand-dollar reward hmm while
this exploit could have been used to
almost instantly purge YouTube of all of
its video content the coder joke that he
would have been content just to wipe
justin bieber's music videos okay so I
read this story earlier and the first
time I read it I thought this is great
the second time I read it through that's
right I read every news story twice I
thought $5,000 $5,000 come on we're
leaving at all of YouTube my goodness
like he's holding YouTube hostage really
like I've got this malicious code but I
choose to release it you know what are
they you and they say thank you here's
five thousand dollars how much money
would they have lost in even one day of
not being a 15 minutes he's talking
about the monetizing videos and how much
money and how much
business would be lost and how much like
response from users there would be if
YouTube had all its videos deleted and
the cleanup oh my goodness this is
episode number 394 category 5 technology
TV what would it mean to me if I lost
394 episodes of the show right having to
upload 394 times 2 gigs per episode yeah
we cost you more than five thousand
dollars just yeah I mean what is google
for you all of that work yet bigger
thank you a much bigger than much bigger
thank you i think that the community
could come together and do better than
that giving this guy you know a penny
each this say hey thanks for this guy
deserves a huge reward for knowing that
getting it fixed and not exploiting it
although what he said about justin
bieber is not nice and justin bieber
most recently was roasted so he doesn't
need anymore not nice wings I don't know
I just think they're not gonna touch it
folks not gonna go there a little bit
better yeah alright alright video game
streaming pioneer on live is to shut
down after selling several of its
patents to Sony the california-based
firm had allowed pc and tablet owners to
play console titles which were run on
its computer servers but controlled and
viewed in the gamers home Sony is
expected to use the 140 patents it is
acquired to support its own PlayStation
now streaming service online was once
valued at one point eight billion
dollars but has not been doing well
since 2012 when many of their staff lost
their jobs when the company was sold to
a venture capital firm after running up
about 40 million dollars in debt while
Sony is shutting down on live in its
current form cloud gaming is alive and
well as Sony works to expand its
PlayStation now service which debuted
last month in the UK bringing it to more
platforms and removing the need to use a
gaming console to play your favorite
game titles so I guess this is just one
of those cases where you know they'll
buy it and they'll turn it into
something great takes money to make
money
and when you're forty million dollars in
debt I guess yet so there are those
patents while they're hot and absorb the
feature set into your own platform makes
sense smart move I like it Mozilla is
working on a new feature called Tracking
Protection that is helping users
identify and block websites that collect
personal data despite the fact that the
browser has the Do Not Track policy
enabled browsers have included an
incognito feature for years now and you
would think that would be sufficient but
it's not some websites still gather
information and that happens even if the
user enables the Do Not Track option
that are present in most browsers today
in a world concerned very much with
privacy having websites get data from
your computer without your consent is a
problem even if it's only cookies or
other meta data tracking is the
collection of a person's browsing data
across multiple sites usually including
content um tracking down sorry tracking
domains attempt to uniquely identify a
person through the use of cookies or
other technologies such as
fingerprinting well Firefox has a Do Not
Track feature that tells websites not to
monitor your behavior companies are not
required to honor it blows my mind for
Firefox's tracking protection feature
puts the control back in your hands by
actively blocking domains and sites that
are known to track users Tracking
Protection is a very new feature and
it's only available in the nightly
builds of the browser which means it
will take a few months until it reaches
the stable branch I didn't realize like
I just assumed Robbie that when you have
like the incognito on or but never make
this assumption hey your incognito yeah
that now its safety how emails with the
president's home address social
insurance number it appears that then
they can't track you know oh wow so now
it's a little bit better I think this is
where there's a misconception I think
even the President of the United States
doesn't quite get that if you have a
phone number you can find the person's
name even if it's not on the printout
hmm so if I have your IP address go to
max mind calm blow your mind max mind
that's how we'll remember it all right
catch a little jingle max mind calm for
example uses geolocation service punch
in an IP address it'll tell you where it
is I don't like that yeah but what's
crazy about a tracking cookie is
remember we had this discussion sash a
couple weeks back and you probably
remember at home
