here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
password manager that gives your private
passwords to any website comes
pre-installed with Windows 10 a
nonprofit in San Francisco is taking
Heat because their robot worker costs
far less than a human the FCC has voted
to eliminate net neutrality rules and
Google will be using lasers instead of
fiber to deploy high-speed Internet in
India these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bytes
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week for
about eight days some versions of
Windows 10 bundled a password manager
that contained a critical vulnerability
within its browser plugin the flaw was
almost identical to the one that the
same researcher had disclosed in the
same manager plug-in 16 months ago which
allowed websites to steal passwords
google project zero researcher Tavis
Ormandy in a blog post Friday is said
that the keeper password manager came
pre-installed on a newly built Windows
10 system when he tested this
unrequested apt it prompted him to
enable a browser plug-in and that
plug-in contained a bug that represents
sleeeeep compromise of keeper security
allowing any website to steal any
password with only basic changes to
selectors Ormond ease old proof of
concept exploit worked on the new keeper
plugin his posts linked to the publicly
available proof of concept exploit which
steals and end users Twitter password if
it's stored in the keeper app and the
plugin is enabled after the post went
live a keeper spokesman said that the
bug only affected version 11 of the app
which was released on December 6th and
only when a user followed keeper prompts
to install the browser plug-in they
fixed the flaw in the just released
version 11.4 by removing the vulnerable
functionality the fix came 24 hours
after Ormandy privately reported the
flaw to keeper well at least they fixed
it quickly please
this hope it wasn't exploited in the
wild it seems like malicious action do
you think it's an accident solar or do
you think that that's good in the
conspiracy theory aspect of this
Microsoft's products are closed source
I'm assuming the app is Microsoft I'm
but it comes with Windows 10 anyway so
but it's closed source so it's not like
publicly open source application that
can accidentally accept a PR or
something and somebody can inject code
so it would have to be somebody that's
actually or just an accident maybe that
was an you know it's just whoops a bug
that allows the passwords in your
password manager to be sent to any site
which is crazy
I miss you password box I feel like
there's been enough like Windows bugs
over the years that I'm sure this is
just nothing more than it it's the same
though that happened 16 months ago
that's it yeah 16 not 15 C said yeah 16
months ago there was a bug that caused
this it was reported and fixed and now
here it is again so what does that mean
it can happen I mean it's a bad a bad
case because this these are your private
pass
right you trust these applications I
don't use this you know the Windows
password management app but does anybody
does anyone do you and are you affected
by it that's the question I don't use it
simply because I don't like the idea
that possibly being used as a marketing
thing is where does that sound Windows
yeah like if it's built into the Windows
software I'm sure there's some sort of
marketing because we've seen your past
where it is
well I pass and the thought that comes
to my mind is and there have been little
exploits here and there with with
LastPass and and bugs and and whatever
else but nothing nothing that's
revealing my passwords to any website
that requests them right but what would
happen and and first of all how does
this happen
really how are there not security
measures in place when you are building
a password management tool it's like if
you accept credit cards online
why are you storing them in plain text
in a MySQL database like it doesn't make
sense why are you storing plaintext
passwords there's no rhyme or reason to
that why would you not pay special care
right to this but what would have you
know what how would I feel if LastPass
had such an exploit well here's the
thing now I used yeah and then when it
switched over to true key now I use true
key because that what happens then like
all of my trust really and all of my
enthusiasm was in password box now they
switch this over now I just went along
with it right yeah it's the same trust I
had in password box is it the same that
I should have in true key or is it all
right but you know what I mean like aka
McAfee oh I used - lame I've never even
heard of - lame it's it's a subscription
service yes I love it
it's crop it's cross-platform and it
works on multiple devices and if I
create a password on one website it
syncs up with my account for any of my
other devices so like LastPass or pass
exactly the same deal but it's yep I
find it seamless it's I've tried getting
into the
database and it's garbling good you
can't figure it if Jeff can't hack it
folks that's the one thing he didn't try
that's the best way to exploit the
windows off did you try just entering
route and then pressing enter a San
Francisco Animal Shelter has announced
it will no longer use a night scope
security robot to patrol its office
after a widely circulated report
described the robot being used to deter
nearby homeless encampments and rising
crime the San Francisco SPCA said that
it has received hundreds of messages
inciting violence and vandalism against
their facility after the story of the
robot went viral in response to that
pressure the organization will seek a
more fully informed consensus oriented
local approach to the use of security
robots San Francisco authorities had
already advised the SPCA to stop using
the robot on sidewalks without proper
approval mountain view based nightscope
has said in a statement that the robot
was not brought in to clear the area
around the San Francisco SPCA of
homeless individuals but only to serve
and protect the SPCA the recent influx
of tech companies and their high paid
employees has helped drive income
inequality and make San Francisco the
most expensive place to rent an
apartment in the United States those
underlying tensions have boiled over in
protest against tech companies including
over private shuttles run by companies
including Google the San Francisco SPCA
facility is located in a rapidly
gentrifying neighborhood where
inequality is particularly acute
contributing to the rise of homeless
encampments on the sidewalks the SPCA
reported a recent rise in vandalism and
theft which it has said declined after
the security robot was put into service
but in San Francisco's current context
the thought of using high-tech robots to
deter homeless people doesn't go over
well
robot could also be seen as taking a job
from a human the president of the SPCA
earlier told the San Francisco business
time times that the robot costs just six
dollars an hour to rent while San
Francisco's minimum wage is $14 an hour
as a non profit the cost of a human
worker would be cost prohibitive so
while they are retiring the robot they
have no intention of hiring a person to
take its place wow that's a lot because
it's not like the robot is taking the
drop of a human right right so it's a
non-profit and they can't use a robot
which would really no doubt help but
it's because they can't use the robot
because there's this homeless situation
and so there's homeless people all over
the sidewalk the problem is bigger than
this robot but the robot seems to be
definitely a sore spot the scapegoat
thing what's not clear from this is why
are people upset like how is the robot
approaching the homeless what what is it
doing is lasers jacking is it doing
something that's upsetting them or is it
just the presence of a robot right it's
well that's the thing it's probably the
presence of a robot because truth be
told what could possibly be doing it's
just there to patrol the area
it's a monitoring system it's an
advanced monitoring system and
realistically in my view I think it's
not the robot that's causing it's what
the risk represents it's more what yeah
I mean it's shedding light on a
situation where tent cities are popping
up and the SPCA is having to bring in a
robot in order to simply patrol and it's
getting vandalized and it's getting
abused and you know so there's all kinds
and San Francisco is already making a
scene over robots accessing sidewalks
and public areas and things like that
see I mean it's a hot spot for story
like this to come out
right but sure I mean if minimum wage is
$14 an hour and it's a nonprofit
organization they're not gonna be able
to see even say to one of the homeless
people hey I'll pay you six dollars an
hour because it wouldn't be legal
they'd have to pay $14 an hour whereas
any of those people would probably take
the six yeah oh boy yeah Wow it's it's a
messy touchy subject and we're really in
that place aren't we where this is
really gonna start coming to light I
think in more places as well well it's
no different really than the story last
week of the drone flying around after
work right it's now it's it's a machine
that yeah affecting the behavior of the
people and now people are going to start
feeling a little bit what I find
interesting about this and maybe this is
more of a tongue-in-cheek comment
it's the SPCA wouldn't the dogs be
deterrent they're in cages the dogs yeah
the dogs are inside this is this is
generally outdoor this is outdoor
vandalism yeah probably
oh yeah oh yeah okay sorry like I'm just
thinking like hey put up an attack dog
on premises sign or something and you
know have somebody watch absolution is a
violent one it's the second let's make
them attack canine no no it's the
psychology of it you've got you've got
the dog in this sign up and then you go
to to spray pain now only dogs are
barking oh my god all these poor kittens
in the shelter that are scared out of
their ever loving minds because this
attack dog is constantly barking at the
homeless people have you been to the
SPCA a year and Barry yeah I was going
bark it all the time recordings like you
remember that see it's just the shotguns
[Laughter]
the Federal Communications Commission
voted Thursday to deregulate the
broadband industry and eliminates net
neutrality rules that prohibit internet
service providers from blocking and
slowing Internet traffic going forward
home and internet providers and mobile
carriers will no longer be bound by
strict net neutrality rules but rather
by whatever promises they choose to make
ISPs will be allowed to block or
throttle Internet traffic or offer
priority to web sites and online
services in exchange for payments as
long as ISPs publicly disclosed the
blocking slowing or paid prioritization
they won't be violating any FCC rules
the Federal Trade Commission could
punish ISPs if they make promises and
then break them but there's no
requirement that the ISPs make promises
in the first place the FCC will have to
defend its decision in court as pro net
neutrality groups plan to appeal
advocates are also pushing Congress to
reinstate net neutrality rules so do you
think that this repeal will go through
Jeff I mean Jeff question he works for
the Union this is a political answer at
best which we know always brings out a
lot of opinions online I mean if you
look at the way things have been going
in the US as far as changing of the
rules it's very business centric right
which was the platform that was offered
yeah exactly you know and that's you
know how he Trump got elected so this
just falls in line with that so it's a
political answer is it gonna get
overturned I don't know the big question
becomes what is going to be the impact
of it because we did have an on net
neutrality the net neutrality came in to
curb some of these issues
now you're taking it away is there gonna
be almost a wild-west type mindset
amongst the big company say hey we've
just had the leash taken off let's do
this and we're going to let everybody
know we're doing it so we're not
breaking any rules and that's going to
be the big thing is is
whether it's appealed or not remains to
be seen but what is the fallout from
this and how far is it going to go
before people go whoa
put some reins on this and what happens
then that's what I'm interested to see
when you I mean whether you're for or
against regulations when you put
restrictions on something it changes the
way that you play when you remove
restrictions sky's the limit and it's
gonna be very interesting to see how
this really tough to know really tough
to know right now because I think that
if my ISP was throttling the services
that I use and making it so that they're
not functioning very well what happens
then I would switch ISPs right so
they're gonna lose my business right so
now it's the deregulation just simply
means that the ISP has to now make wise
decisions for their customers so you
know there's two sides of it and and
maybe it boils down to is the ISP a
moral company are they obviously they're
in this to make money but would turning
down the speed of the throughput of
BitTorrent to a reasonable level
thinking of QoS quality of service way
turning it down a bit help those who are
watching on Netflix be able to watch
with better experience and if yes then
that's quality of service we're
restricting something that you're gonna
let this run overnight anyways and
whether it takes five minutes or five
hours probably doesn't make much of a
difference to you but the person sitting
there watching a 4k video on Netflix is
going to be impacted by that spinning
wheel that says they don't have enough
bandwidth right so there's really two
sides to it
oh if I recall correctly when the whole
net neutrality thing came in several
years ago was it not because people were
finding that the Netflix in particular
was throttled by certainly he's right
and what happens now is this can effect
viewership and does it now open up the
door for the services like Netflix or
any of your streaming services
to start going into business deals with
certain ISPs to say look you know we'll
cut you a portion of the revenue of all
of your subscribers who use our service
right if you don't throttle and now
we're gonna start seeing hey if you buy
our service you'll get better Netflix
right because it's actually throttled
that way it'll be interesting to see
those out and says hey we run throttled
our service is unlike work it's oh you
know and is that gonna be a marketing
gimmick now right probably yeah and how
is this gonna affect prices so
understand this the impact here is
simply that the ISPs now have the choice
so we're not saying and and nobody's
saying Netflix is going to start
buffering or category 5 is no longer
going to be viewable in HD because they
don't have enough money to pay the ISPs
for the better bandwidth right that's
probably I can't see that happening
because it's still the internet and if
it's not working I'm gonna change ISPs
but the fact is is now the ISPs will
have the legal right to make those
decisions right it's gonna be
interesting to see how it plays out yeah
those ones where I feel like popping
some popcorn sitting back and just
watching the show it's too tricky for me
to make a decision on how exactly I feel
except that I never imagined it would be
an issue like I didn't actually know
that net neutrality was a thing until it
was well we're here in Canada yeah and
we have neutrality rules in place that
protect us even though the states are
going through this but it's a finicky
thing to you know Bell is fighting that
with the CRTC and we could see it say
bye-bye as well okay and then it's it's
gonna impact us as well the one thing
that I was thinking about as I've
watched this play out over the last
couple of weeks is what about things
like online shopping online shopping is
huge right now so yeah and like with
Boxing Day deals coming up and like side
deels is this gonna open the door to say
hey we you know we're gonna partner with
this online retailer so we won't
throttle your purchases here but if you
go to this one we're gonna slow it down
so when you're trying to process your
order and there's an again quantity you
hope you hope that isn't it like buying
tickets again they they have the legal
right to do that but would they yeah it
would be silly for them it would be
silly tap that valet if it produces
dollars especially if it turns into
revenue for not gonna produce dollars if
I say you know what your service stinks
I'm gonna switch providers to somebody
who correct it works with Amazon or
whoever whoever yeah here's a good story
India there are two main components to
getting an entire nation online the last
mile and the backbone the often talked
about last mile is the final piece of
the puzzle the cable running to each
house or the wireless link between your
cell phone and a nearby Tower but in
order for that last mile to work it has
to be hooked up to something normally
that means a dedicated fiber line
running from the cell tower to a local
exchange which is time-consuming and
costly to run so faced with the
challenge of bringing rural India online
Google is trying something very
different alphabet Google's parent
company has entered into an agreement
with India's government to provide
high-speed wireless Internet to millions
of residents using a point-to-point
laser connectivity system routers
reports the system will reportedly
involve 2,000 boxes installed in total
with some up to 12 miles apart some kind
of optical system which essentially
means lasers will be used to connect the
boxes together the system will provide a
backbone for cell towers and Wi-Fi
hotspots which will allow residents to
access the Internet using basic
smartphones the optical data links have
a
paucity of up to 20 gigabits according
to alphabet far more than traditional
radio waves this wave systems that they
currently have can achieve the project
is a spinoff of alphabets project loon a
concept that uses giant floating
balloons to distribute wireless internet
to rural areas the optical link
technology might be related directly to
loon although alphabet hasn't provided
any details to that effect so I don't
know who is keeping track for the
category 5 dictionary but way do raves
is new it down shut it down I was
younger I used to have a really bad
speech impediment put me on a guilt trip
okay this is important I couldn't say my
hours at all and so I went to a speech
pathologist and it was I was like 10 or
11 like embarrassingly old by the time I
could say my arse but in order to pass
my class from my speech pathology I had
to stand in front of the class and read
a book called Ronald the racecar driver
oh my way to initiate her oh you did
great Sasha now I read the news and it's
crazy for me because there are hours in
like every like radio waves yes yes so
we've got lasers for point-to-point
communications and this would solve the
Australia problem where I just try to
eat through my lasers yeah cockatoos
okay I I love the story I love the
potential that comes with this and I
think of all those remote areas that are
stuck on especially in Canada satellite
service right a delight internet but
that's what FM or no it's a different
freak something else okay 802 11 or some
sort yeah I used to install satellite
internet dishes and I forget all the
details but but something like this
could be very effective but at the same
time I'm I'm thinking of the report that
just came out this week from I think
it's California
hey don't keep your cellphone's in your
pocket don't have your cell phones
beside your bed because the radio waves
and the cancer-causing agents blah blah
blah now we're shooting lasers
everywhere we think about the speed of
fiber-optic cable right right a laser is
basically fiber-optic without the cable
right but is somebody gonna turn around
and say I potentially have become ill
because you've been shooting lasers
through my body when I didn't ask for it
to be in there probably above oh maybe
but would they be affected by weather
and stuff like I'm looking here sure
yeah I'm like sheriff punji has a
subtropical climate in India with looks
like the city's yearly rainfall is
eleven thousand seven hundred and
seventy seven millimeters it's a lot of
rain that's a lot and rain as we know
will affect line of sight communication
laser think about a raindrop going
through a laser and how that would
affect it it would just scatter the beam
right so if they didn't have internet
before right then any amount would be
don't complain you can't expect to surf
the web when it's raining and you're
stuck inside what's the possibility of
stealing Internet this way oh boy you
have to redirect the laser beam oh
goodness me that would be but if there's
transmission I mean could you using I
don't know how it works I'm just not as
soon as soon as you intercept that
they're gonna know because it's been cut
off so the receiving point has not is no
longer receiving the signal so but yet
you're still pulling throughput so no I
couldn't do you know it it's it's a cool
concept regardless I mean we've how does
it uh down in South America you've got I
think it's Google is doing drones for
Internet now we got lasers for Internet
I think at one point I heard that there
was like balloons for Internet yeah like
then Facebook has got their drone the
big big drum yeah yeah it's like hey how
else can you get they're looking for
cool ways
yeah they're looking for technological
ways that are achievable now to bring
Internet to areas that can't normally
have it and fibre through the air would
be very fast absolutely you know
compared to speed for the copper cables
that they would probably have to run
it's cheaper much cheaper you've got the
transmitters and receivers and
everything else in between is god-given
now lasers don't have degradation over
distance do they well I suppose they
would through fog and rain and things
like that but if it's line-of-sight
clarity lights oh yes so but I mean like
degradation like no you could if it's
strong enough you can shoot a laser to
the space station okay but that's that's
where my thoughts going I mean oh so you
could have internet on the moon yes
somebody just no I think it was last
week that they're gonna put a colony on
it was it Japan so they're gonna put a
call any other man oh yeah or maybe I
didn't hear that it was an order from
Trump I've read it last week somebody
knows somebody someone wants to go back
to the moon they want to try starting a
colony and then launch from there to go
to Mars
I heard the NASA rules have changed
based on Trump's order okay maybe so
maybe that's related yeah but I mean how
cool would that be to Mars I'm thinking
about the connection between continents
yeah and how we're still very dependent
on the underwater cable yes
and that's fantastic in the back you
know it's been really quite good
considering you know holy cow they ran a
lot of cable can you grip the laser
transmission sure oh yeah yeah is this a
data transmission or reception that's oh
yeah encrypted on the transmitting end
and that's cool story I think what do
you think we're at a time big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of yours for
submitting story stuffs this week thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
like Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
