I was up to something in the virtual
world but then I found out I was in the
real world because it was really
confusing because I went to VRT Oh which
translates to virtual reality Toronto
that's pretty fun no it was a conference
that happened down I think around a week
ago down in Toronto Ontario it was
pretty much everything VR okay so is
really awesome they had some few
augmented reality stuff in there too but
the main focus was VR and it was awesome
because sure you have the gaining and
like simulations and stuff but we also
saw like a lot of neat applications and
art aspects of like VR especially when
it comes to like human social
interaction like we saw a lot of
communication stuff happened - Wow
awesome
so now what are what are we going to see
here like I have you experienced VR
before Wow and if other in like little
array in little Timbits I have but like
never never yeah so Canadian um but
never like this inductive in-depth
before like I've tried like a Nam
messing at such a rate exactly and the
thing is that I I originally try it like
around three or four years ago the
original oculus rift which is acquired
by Facebook
um but everyone at this conference had
the new HTC vive which means that you
have the space to walk around in right
as well I was like you could see like
you're frantically interact like a
touching thing exactly you have an
entire stage to walk around and the
course like that for its sensors and
everything else is all around like your
little play area um but you're going to
see some of these are so unique that
they actually have physical real-world
objects like a bike for example that in
Terraria in your game so it's a really
interesting experience and there's a
horror video game as well flush dead
space ish like game alright so black
near your disclaimer time to it's so
spooky heads out of the room I guess oh
no no no no no keep them in it's so cool
okay but no 13 and over alright I can't
wait to see this you know what I'm
really excited sure because again before
we start it's not just the gaming and
everything else asked that we see some
really amazing ideas for VR that I never
thought possible
like we
see how charities can use VR we see how
we can make it accessible how artists
like can make music video out of VR it's
it's it's insane so cool I'm really
excited to show you guys thank you guys
what happened so I want to take a look
head on over all right
see you there hey guys I was going to
Tenri from category 5 TV we are at
Ryerson University down in Toronto
Ontario today to take a look at VRT oh
the conference for everything VR let's
go take a look at what they have in
store
so here we are guys we are in probably
the best room in the entire VR
conference we're in the game arcade
right and um what do you guys have for
us today here well part of the game
arcade is this game called paper dude
which is a old-school revival of a I
guess the 90s game called paperboy so we
rebuilt it using using virtual reality
and we have people sitting on a bike and
they're fully immersed as they pedal
they're moving forward and they're using
their arms to throw newspapers inside
mailboxes so basically it's are all
image to this old classic that's amazing
he's not wearing a helmet right now so
is it considered safe it's pretty safe
although it is pretty immersive okay
that's amazing so what what a company do
you guys come from so like what do you
guys do at your studio like who are you
guys sure so we're a company called
global core and we do a lot of
interactive installations and usually
they're featured inside exhibits at
conferences or at trade shows and
museums here it's awesome it's so like
what what do you guys see in VR moving
forward like do you see a lot in gaming
do you see like more interactive
storytelling what what do you personally
see in VR in the future I see a lot more
social like a lot more people in the
yard like inside of the experience
together so yeah a lot more like club
more like multiplayer kind of scenarios
that's awesome so like a more social
aspect into it right um so I could you
kind of cap off today before he gets too
tired here um what's what's your
favorite experience so far in VR that
you personally had like in the entire VR
realm I've been really into interactive
documentary so there's a few that are
out for the Samsung gear they're pretty
good and yeah I'm gonna ask you one more
question um so today we kind of have
like a set up with him riding on the
bike so how's this working I see you
have an HTC vive here you have some
sensors behind me so how is this kind of
setup working right now for you guys so
right now we're using the HTC vive I'm
just going to reset it
and we're using the hand trackers so
these are trackers that are eventually
going to come with the vibes that allows
you to kind of put them on you know
different objects like for instance
these gloves so instead of holding the
vive controllers we're allowing you to
still be able to hold on to the
handlebar and it just kind of comes a
little bit you know a little bit more
fun a little bit more immersive yeah
that's awesome does does he get bonus
points for hitting me in the head
no okay no okay thanks okay thank you so
much guys that is some really really
cool tech and it's really amazing to see
such it such a while implementation with
it it looks really cool so I could
become believers now oh my gosh
oh so weird okay so kind of like Rudra
scrapping dirty about paper okay so
they're looking better like it all right
there and I can go like that and I like
my little safety zone here but very cool
I just start fighting to get go yes oh
my god Jack me oh that is weird
so all these like different mailboxes I
have to like mail yes oh man what
doesn't what
oh my god oh my gosh channa poached
chicken is wrong the good news is that
pepper powder yeah exactly
did you do this instead of like your own
trims ah ah ah ah pick your paper it's
like the hard shoulder oh my gosh oh my
gosh I have a new respect for Oh like we
did this oh my gosh have a seat over
here
and that is cool and here we are so we
have another treat for you guys um so
tell me about this game it's called dead
effective er so what's this game about
okay it's a first-person shooter game
it's being released very recently on
steaming in early access you get like 10
levels or already to play and it's very
good game as you see and you can see you
got a lot of enemies you get also very
heavy weaponry you have like 30 weapons
and each level you got to upgrade them
so it's very good also and in two weeks
we're planning actually release the full
version on Steam and it will have the
multiplayer and also mmm it's like a
person versus versus person it's a VP
yeah you know what I'm yeah PvP so it's
good and also do try levels so you got
to love it more in China hours more so
it's good it's great actually
that's that's amazing so as soon as you
said space I'm all-in like I love space
so this is an awesome game and you said
you had multiplayer so you can interact
with other players so you said there's
like a person person person mode right
yes definitely and I should probably
tell you something about this story but
it's great do you know a lot of this
games got that kind of story so it's a
like you are on monster in faster ships
which is heading to star and actually
the things got pretty bad there everyone
so you just woke up fro from a
Kryptonian sleep and you found out that
all your colleagues turns into zombies
that's that is not good that is that is
not good yes and you have to find
against these zombies and also against
the soldiers who actually are coming
from the earth to kill you because they
think that you are the enemy so you guys
yeah it's a bit of a sticky situation na
like it's lovely and you've got is
drones they're also the bad dogs and
yeah a lot of enemies but what's a good
thing you got free
really a lot of weapons yeah you got
like for shooting you know I don't even
know that is off yeah and also the
grenades also like a bull with arrows
swords different type of source and
upgrading still upgrading right space
explosions multiplayer how can you say
no to a game like that such is
absolutely fantastic
what's your studio name again that's fly
interactive awesome and this studio is
actually very small it's a small indie
studio based in Czech Republic really
yep wow that's awesome so you guys are
on Steam right now
people watching can go buy this right
now for early access and you can blow
stuff up in space that is absolutely
fantastic do you do you have any final
words do you have any hints or words of
advice for people trying to survive
zombies in space ah yes let's get on
let's get on the board right yes good
thank you so much for all thank you so
much that that is some really cool stuff
now I have to go blow up some zombies so
I'll see you later pleasure but
I got much really
now we're going to tone things down a
bit
and we're going to talks about some more
serious stuff and we're going to give
love to the world now so I my new friend
what exactly is give love well what is
it yeah so give love is a world first vr
donation platform and what that means is
that organizations causes charities are
able to upload their content in the form
of 360 videos and tell their stories and
then end users like yourself and me are
able to go to the oculus app store
download the app review that content and
at any time
donate seamlessly through that set wow
that's that's absolutely amazing so um I
think you said oculus like what
platforms will this be available upon so
our launch platform is the oculus app
store its gear VR headset so right now
we're considering it to be kind of a
single user in-home experience but we do
have plans on the roadmap to support
group experiences going forward that's
amazing um is it free to download or is
it like a one-time cost or absolutely
free that is absolutely amazing now how
the heck does somebody like this come up
with this like whose idea was it to
let's change the world by using virtual
reality like how do you guys come up
that idea like it must be crazy
ya know it's a great question so we work
with an organization called 3000-mile
Stoke here and what they do is they fund
brain cancer research so years back we
had developed a Google glass prototype
for them that allowed them to keep in
touch with their donors well while they
had an event called Race Across America
where the bikers could bike across the
country and then they would seamlessly
be able to receive donations and this
was kind of the evolution of that so we
wanted to know how do we make it easier
for people to keep in touch and one of
the insights that we got from them was
that there was a time lapse that occurs
between the point of impact when someone
feels compelled to donate and the point
at which they're actually able to and
this helps us close that gap
that's amazing because today I've been
hearing a lot about like kind of like
the social impact of ER like things like
multiplayer getting more social but to
know that you can physically change the
world now for the better by putting on a
headset that's that's pretty darn cool
um that's that's just amazing so like
how would an organization get involved
like this so like if there's like an
organization that's trying to like look
after water or people what they come to
you guys like or do you go to them or
how that work for these organizations so
a little bit of both right now we're
doing some organic outreach some PR this
is actually the first place that we're
demoing right here at VRT oh so for now
it's both if organizations are
interested they can reach out to us at
the primary comm slash give love and
yeah we'd be be happy to talk that's
that's that's amazing are you guys going
to give a lot of love out there we're
trying to it's do or do not there is no
try
you know - okay thank you so much your
help guys that's that's pretty cool so
we're downstairs now and now we're
seeing a lot of really creative uses
with VR so you guys made a PR you tell
me about that what what is it like so
it's like a music experiences and you
played through the story by interacting
table go ahead touch any awesome see
what you do with them and something
something nothing happened sometime and
out of view of some like Martha story up
artists like growing up childhood or
coming to coming to adulthood learning
whatever yeah for just now I get excited
that's not really into like it's a fully
interactive music we never grew this
before like how did you guys believe it
like I mean we came for Quality
Assurance around juice for sure but the
attacks it was you all the bureau that
we need your senses engineers or
anything to think of it so spread out a
little bit and virtually everything on
the coming thing I don't know we get so
we okay and interactive the top because
watch me are they so like how can
somebody like you your experience like
is it online and you how how come a like
watch your videos or is step on my
collar on say so good but I mean anyone
was oculus really okay go ahead and do
it before are you guys planning on
sharing it on a sharing a future like me
feel like I kinda like I better look
like a silo be our website or anything
would be sherry we're very great at all
sure mean executive women
yeah yeah we have it but it's a pretty
demanding mission for some super sure to
check it out plane difficult it really
sucks you big ball they hang you can
like what you can do is you can pick it
up and you see if they're real or not
but by picking it up and avert ones are
real all you know they're real then then
you got a good so this is the real mr.
stark girl okay so there now it's your
shot okay and it's real table food you
can say anything if you were happy
get in there I thought goal happen did
you qui tollis by the purple talent then
approval for yes alright then you are a
query here it's oh no like yeah he's
going to do that okay
[Applause]
you have a very aware are and then it
plays a lot of cool we have this exact
table in work seriously well oh this is
the that's the real ball doesn't look
like a because it's this button no
closeness I guess you soon yeah like how
you think you like play your buddies
like yeah like a shop get it was able
yeah go back to that like astronaut
unable to sleep it of all right yeah
[Music]
and that's it folks so many amazing
things in VR here today down in Toronto
thank you so much for watching now got a
run back to the studio
see they're running back to the studio I
switched my shirt so come on okay look
like it was so much fun it was pretty
darn fun again well I wasn't really sure
what to expect with that right because
this is like yeah like you've seen like
a lot of cool games and a lot of her
yeah but like again like artists are
really picking up on things and same
with like the social aspect to like
again a lot of it was really like social
driven like interaction between people
and of course like the charity stuff
with like give love that's cool um and
of course some video games who can go
wrong for sure at a last interview there
were some mic problems during the record
so what they were talking about they
made a music video yeah so how it works
is that they were working with another
artist down south there and um yeah so
basically it was an interactive music
video
so you basically followed along the
journeys so it's not see the whole thing
we did this yeah well no I don't
remember that but like from the screens
that they were showing us like in like a
little private area because of course
the artist stones to the music um is
really unique right because it's like um
as they're saying like you follow
through the story and you actually
interact with objects which keep things
pressing forward oh man and it's so
unique because again there's so many
uses especially in the realm of like
just artistic yeah uses for the VR that
it's exciting and unique experiences
because they're totally what's a sham a
encounter in that music video would be
different than what I think exactly and
that's the cool thing too is that you
really do make your own journey and when
you see things like ah like all these
games and like the paper throwing
because that was cool because we might
have this earlier it's exercise it is
for videos right like imagine if you're
playing that game for like an hour like
it doesn't feel like remember on Dark
Mirror you're black yeah yeah they're
they're bikes yeah
so with the big screen in front of a
Geneva are as a fitness application
that's being able to because you you I
five or ten years it's really going to
take off of that realm yeah like even
even under like five I think we're going
to see that start to pop up a lot more
often and I hope so because the great
ideas and as you saw here today there's
so many amazing uses out there for it
already yeah and it's still like it's
still new technology like they're
supposed to be coming out with a new
headsets hopefully soon like you're
still working on the controllers as we
saw with the bike one they have like the
new motion controllers but hopefully
with the new upcoming headsets that are
higher quality maybe better motion
tracking pretty cool nice pretty fun
stuff out there what do you think would
be the ultimate use for virtual reality
post your comments below and also you
can go over to our forum forum dot
category-five dot TV
you
