hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we have a special guest
with us so stay tuned we'll be right
back
[Music]
hi everyone thanks so much for tuning in
again to new every day and we're so glad
that you've tuned in because we have our
friend Josh Holden Josh thanks for
joining us
oh my pleasure hello everybody now you
might be thinking why is Josh on the
show and everyone Somali bring someone
on that we think has something to share
and as Kerry and I were preparing to
talk about Acts chapter 9 so I'd be
really cool if we had someone come on
and share their story about how they
encountered Christ and so we're like
Josh yeah we both said this would be a
great opportunity for our friend Josh to
come on the show and just share and
actually did so modest Josh I know you
shared a bit of your story at church the
other week and and we just really
appreciated that so why don't we just
get started and can you share a little
bit about your life before you met
Christ we I mean we read last week or a
couple weeks ago now about Saul and his
life before encountering Christ and how
there was a dramatic difference between
the before man and then the after man so
can you kind of take us through life
before Christ where were you at okay
well before Christ I was quite the
self-righteous individual I used to
justify a lot of the things that I did
wrong without actually acknowledging
these things were wrong in high school
the acceptable thing at the time was to
peddle and drugs and violence at the
time I think that's the only way that
you could get respect that's the only
way that you know you could be
acknowledged and that eventually led to
my use of drugs so how that was in high
school so you were in like your
mid-teens when when you started down
that road well like what happened was my
first semester in grade 9 I took high
school seriously
by the second semester I started to skip
daily my first serious girlfriend I
suppose and you know we would just have
once they go to class let's hang out go
to your host go to my house let's go to
the beach have fun
failed that year so I ended up having to
go to summer school failed summer school
because I would rather skip and go and
hang out with people that I met Barry
raid10 comes along now I was involved in
a conversation to which the next day at
school this was over MSN at the time
right so honestly I'm a fan ya know
Facebook fan I was accused of conspiracy
to murder on the first second and
manslaughter and at the time there was
zero tolerance because what happened
with Columbine they were looking at
people anybody who was ever the ordinary
perhaps social outcast and they set out
to make an example of me now now
Columbine was one of the first major
school shootings in the US and so it was
all over the news and got heightened
school security and surveillance and
yeah yeah so if you want to go online
and Google Columbine that's what will
come up yeah
so they flagged you as a suspicious
person because of your involvement in
drugs they're like well no a girl this
is before the drugs a girl had gone to
school and said that I said over the
internet that I was going to come the
next day and basically shoot the school
up Wow and take her life plus my own
okay that led to an illegal search and
seizure of my belongings the police came
in and had taken me out of the school
and handcuffs they made me remove my
shoes my sock so at this time I felt
that graded and in grade 10 I really
said to myself like I'm not going to
screw around this year I wanted to take
things seriously my dream was actually
to go to Royal Military College and
become a pilot which didn't happen and
so I was expelled from school
now a couple court hearings they had no
evidence
and at the end of the day I ended up
getting expelled and mistreated my
lawyer eventually got me off and on a
peace bond and then my parents fought to
get me back into school and the school
board had taken my mother's side though
at the time we could have sued because
of lack evidence in the way done to me
they mistreated us we just wanted to get
back into school okay and get everything
done
unfortunately I come back at the end of
the year and they didn't want to give me
any of the credits or allow me to pursue
so I had basically missed another year
right we had a bit of a rocky start to
say the least cool yeah yeah so High
School's magazine for you
not so far no okay so grade 11 comes
along and I'm put in this program called
the at-risk this is for people who were
at risk of either dropping out or
failing high school and this was
actually a turning-around point for me
because it encouraged me to seek out
leadership and I found that we would do
things like winter survival we go out
and do portaging so we learned how to I
said yeah do a whole bunch of different
survival thing we watch like the show
called survival man I don't know survive
and oh you guys remember that child
yeah let's drought yeah yeah so yeah
like uh I eventually became one of the
leaders of the group there was two of us
and I was elected one of them so that's
kind of when I realized my my gifts
naturally yeah so from there going into
grade twelve I started getting it to
selling drugs hmm okay at this time I
had gone through a few relationships
none of them ended up going well to say
the least and this is where I met a
girlfriend of nine years we used to get
together smoke we do all those things
that teenagers do cocaine and pills this
is when oxycotin started to become
popular and a friend of mine actually
worked in a pharmacy so he would go to
what they do is there was an expiry date
on the bottle
so he would take from the expiration bin
and then bring him home
so we had bottles upon bottles of sealed
product my friend at the time started
taking them while I was selling them
okay so we were generating revenue but
we were also using them yes yes and
eventually that kind of led to a demise
between our friendships and our groups
and kind of a power struggle between who
would take leadership of the original
click if you want to say that oxygen the
cocaine I start to reach out meeting
different people we had competitions but
rather than that because I acknowledge
my leadership gifts from o4 instead of
wanting to stomp out the competition
I basically realize like we can make
more money together than against each
other so I started reaching out and we
basically created a council so it's kind
of like a little Godfather scenario in
the anti Shores and you're probably
thinking wow he has some really cool
skills like some cool leadership skills
and able to connect with people and yet
how did this whole transition come and
maybe you know somebody in your life
that you're thinking man they need to
listen to Josh's story and so we're
going to pause right now so that you can
go and get your friend and bring them
back to the rest of the area I moved
back right after this so Stacy Jeff
Weston Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play oh
I don't know where are think you're
supposed to act okay
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
green domain name the roof of your own
con dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a WordPress
site fine
sign up cat v dot TV slash DreamHost
stuff instead of a papers on it just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month put a
cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
everyone thanks so much for staying
tuned in with us on new every day we
just want to say thanks to our partners
if you go to our website new everyday TV
you can click on our partners page and
see all of the organizations and
businesses who are making this show
possible so thank you so much and thanks
also to you Josh who Josh Holden has
been very gracious to share part of its
story with us we're going to jump back
in and Josh just before we took our
break you were walking us through your
your high school career that ends up
being quite prolonged because it was so
tumultuous at the beginning and then led
to you selling and doing drugs and kind
of creating this this drug community in
the area that you had grown up so my
question is obviously you're a changed
man and I the Josh and I actually went
to high school together but we didn't
know each other and you're not the same
guy so tell us about what led you to
going down a
path or a different road was there a
single event or can you kind of walk us
through that that point in your life
yeah it was definitely events leading up
now that I look back I always believed
in God but I didn't know who God was
okay
I received my diploma at 21 years old
and at that time I sort of fell down
upon myself because I respected yeah so
looking back it's kind of like I could
have done this in such a short amount of
time leaving high school I now was
entering into the real world I've always
worked a job and sort of laundered my
illegal money that way I decided to take
a break because the addiction was
starting to get to me and like because
you thought relationships fall apart
they're like well yeah friendships like
drugs money to get in the way of
relationships and eventually addiction
plays a huge part in that too so I
started to see my friends becoming
different people and although I still
had a level head on my own shoulders at
the time I would justify myself as more
righteous than them so looking back now
I see that the events that did happen
and I'm not going to go in the complete
details it was God basically leading me
out and it was His grace and His mercy
which kept me from seeing a prison cell
whereas mine my friend they weren't as
lucky
I became seriously addicted to opiates
and I didn't want to pay for them
anymore so my friend who was on the
methadone program basically said well
you can get this for free and you can
get high and basically I went on that to
get high for free every week I would go
up and then I would go up again but then
I started thinking about my future
and I mean like I was talking to my
girlfriend about getting a house getting
married what are we going to do in the
future so these questions started to
haunt me a little bit so I made the
decision to get clean and then I started
to use the program to go
down okay about four years okay two
years on to the program I enter college
right and I pursue horticultural tech
because my girlfriend at the time she
went for that we made the plan that we
would start her own company and that's
how we would basically do things but the
methadone clinic didn't want me to go on
a different day they wanted me to
basically come every Tuesday and
Thursday to see the doctor and that
couldn't be done but at the time I had
made a good rapport with the doctor's
assistants they were able to switch me
to a different day and the doctor that I
met through that dr. Gupta he actually
insisted that I go down and he saw that
since I've been on it I've been clean
we're doing most people they would abuse
it and they wouldn't they give out
carries right so I had earned these
privileges I was able to go to school I
was able to get my diploma at the time I
was also seeking for the truth and who
God is like what are we doing here what
is the purpose because in my heart I
knew that there is definitely difference
between right or wrong I've had all of
these valiant dreams you know all these
romanticized ideas about getting married
and seeing a father like these things
that were very dear to me but I didn't
understand where the desires came from
and eventually I started asking the
harder question and I started to see
people talk about contradictions
historically I loved history so I wanted
to see if there is a God
and there's many different religions let
me know that there are many different
sides to a story when a situation
happened in the truth lies somewhere in
the middle it doesn't need an alibi and
it is objective right so I started to
analyze these stories against the
historical evidence that we had and the
scientific evidence that we had to deem
which one is more logically true as I
went along this course I've always known
there was something different about
Jesus hmm but at the time I would never
admit it
I would scoff at Christians and you know
that's kind of where Paul with that you
know when we if we you have to back into
our last couple of episodes Paul without
to get the Christians you you aren't
necessarily you were kind of scoffing at
that but doing your due diligence to do
some research to see if this was
actually true so I hate to cut us off in
the middle of the story and we are going
to jump back in in our next episode Josh
so I'm going to have to break right now
and we are going to continue the story
and see what God has done in your life
to bring it to this point so I was going
to stop and we're going to pray together
and then we'll jump back in so okay
fathers thank you so much that you bring
transformation in our lives and I thank
you for Josh or thank you for his
friendship and thank you for what you
have done in this life and we look
forward to hearing more about it God and
I pray for the viewers who maybe have
had a similar story and have gone
through a hard time and what would you
just look so powerfully in their life to
show them who you are and how much you
reckon great huge change
amen thank you so much for tuning in
with Josh thank you we'll see you next
week we'll see you next
ha
you
