[Music]
while ago we review the HDP tech mini HD
media player yes define attack cat 5 TV
slash AGP Tech ta not te CH ok so we had
a couple of comments questions about it
so I'm gonna run through a few of them
quickly feel that very cool very cool
indeed it's cold cuz it's got a metal
body
very cool throwing that out there ok
what's our what's our so the first is a
cool device check out that video again
go onto our website category 5 TV do a
search for AGP Tek and that will bring
up that or go to cat5 TV slash AGP Tech
alright so Edward hey Edward how long
does it take for the devices to boot to
the home screen once powered on there's
only one way to answer that powered on I
can't give a smart-aleck response for
some reason it matters to a lot of folks
including Edward and that's valid I
guess how long does this device take the
boot up that's the question so if I
switch over to this source here you see
nothing because I haven't got it plugged
in so that's exactly what I'm going to
do I'm gonna plug in HDMI here to our
broadcast rig and you see that the only
other cable that I have is power the
which comes with the aging p-tech device
so I'm gonna switch screens there I'm
gonna tell you as soon as I plug it in
are you ready three two one plugged and
it's in and boot up time is seconds yeah
yeah I think four seconds yeah yeah so
very very quick mm-hmm thanks for the
very very random question
joven 2040 hey yeah has a comment it's
not compatible to all televisions not
720p TVs apparently in fact it is yeah
but you do see here's the thing if you
configure it to be 1080p or 1080i
unplug it and plug it into a 720p TV
that makes sense it's not gonna work
because it's running in 1080p and your
computer your TV's not going to be able
to handle it so first of all best thing
to do is plug it into a 1080p computer
or screen of some sort TV going to
setting is sorry quick questions the
1080p is that the default setting no I
you know I can't recall because I've
messed with it so much I think the 720p
is the default but it's possible I guess
I mean who really you know there's no
just thinking if your TV's if you're
trying to load it if you if that's the
first device you plug it in yes yeah
yeah so if you're not able to do it
plugging it into a 720p TV then this
would probably be why so you go down to
video output mode using and I'm just
using a wireless controller that comes
with it okay and and here you'll see
that it's got pal ntsc and then we've
got 720p at 60 Hertz 720p at 50 Hertz so
that would be like the UK versus the
United States and Canada UK at 1080p and
1080p for United States and Canada at 60
Hertz that has to do with the power
rating of our of our power so that's why
PB P are different spec what I want is
that's that's the because it's got
optical output it's got its got the RCA
output so and then it's got HDMI now
we're using HDMI so I want to actually
scroll down to the HDMI output options
currently I've got it set to 60 Hertz at
720p and I can go up to 1080p 24 50 or
60 Hertz so the options are there but if
you have it currently set to 1080p 60
Hertz and you plug it into a 720p 60
Hertz TV or 50 Hertz TV it's not gonna
work so you need to first configure that
on it probably a 1080p TV and then plug
it into that lesser device that would
fix it for you okay so another question
from Santiago Benitez hey Santiago says
yes - yes
nailed it but will it play the latest
h.265 file type will it play H dot 264
that you're prepared well this is my
little micro SD 2 SD card adapter I'm
going to just plug in my SD card here
which just goes into the side and boom
and then on my navigation here I'm going
to go back to the main menu and you'll
notice that if I go into movie and then
smart card and then into that drive I
have three files my original file I've
got a short one for loop and h.265 and
three two one no unfortunately h.265 is
as we see here not supported H dot 264
though brilliant that's good ya know
could that just be a simple software
update in the future or I don't know if
the company ever brings out firmware
updates maybe but h.265 would do better
with a hardware decoder so right I think
it would probably be a no-go for h.265
that said much of our content is H dot
264 if that works for you great now we
know the answer cool next that's it for
the AGP questions that's it ok so
Vanessa has a question hi Vanessa I knew
you had a question for me ordered one
and wants to know how do you make the
film loop I press the loop button but a
Red Cross shows and then it plays the
film once and then it says I can't play
the file basically it's just not looping
that's the main thing and Vanessa needs
it for an art exhibition oh we've got to
get this thing loopy let's get this loop
before you Vinnie
alright let's jump over here notice once
again I am prepared and I think what's
happening so you have this great remote
control and on this button is the repeat
button on there is a button called
repeat and when I push it I think that's
what you're seeing right see that oh
well I'm pushing repeat
it's not it's not working and then I'm
gonna push okay to play and it's just
going to play once and then halt so it's
just the methodology behind it
push okay first to play the video Sasha
back on Episode five ten you'll remember
now
was it spying can you guys hear me okay
over that you know what I just point it
down oh and my suggestion if I can wire
it down turn it down okay
don't worry about that can't play that's
cuz it jumped over to the h.265 okay
it's a sound back on Episode five ten
you'll remember was asking about what
she should do for display at the web so
now that it's my suggestion now I push
that button
Sasha back on episode push it again
you'll remember push it again white wine
that means clinic this one video
repeatedly so let's see that it happens
this is a ten second file that I created
just for you Vanessa let's let it play
be steampunked out and it'll be amazing
but really when it comes to your special
day I'm like just simplify yep been
there done that I've filmed some
weddings and one of the you cannot count
I was playing the original file five ten
you'll remember he was asking about
repeated once repeat were on display at
relating and my suggestion was you know
Sasha was asking about that what she
doesn't do it more than what not for a
display that way and my suggestion was
you know ten seconds of my life just
keep playing over and over and over
again so if you're gonna loop the videos
and given that it is for an art exhibit
you may want to just if you saw there
was a little bit of a flash the way that
it reset have your video fade out and
fade in for a nice smooth transition
yeah that may help yeah just so it looks
more polished and
something to think about right but it
does work so the elastic you know so
just don't do it on the menu do it on
the video itself would it be
advantageous to rip DVD's at higher res
or will it show 1080 automatically once
you plug it in asks Christine well if it
is a higher resolution file Christine
then the device is going to have to
downscale that's going to take more
processor power and therefore it's more
likely to have something like buffering
or skipping or mouths being out of sync
it can happen and that's not the fault
of this device that's just the nature of
of players in general so because we know
it's a 1080p device I would say just rip
too directly to 1080p that would be
perfect if you go any higher than that
then you run the risk of hey it's down
sampling from a 4k file I don't have a
4k file to test with unfortunately
tonight was not prepared and but that
that's what I would do I would stick
with 1080p okay
[Applause]
you
