for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
you
welcome to episode number 2 69 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the 13th of November 2012 it getting
cold out there and Barry starting to
feel a little bit like winter sort of
see the Christmas lights come up I
noticed your lights are up yeah that's
great yeah well somebody was gonna be
hard time on Twitter for being so early
and I said well I got kids okay look out
the front window they have names / dad
you know we need the the Christmas
lights out so totally I'm Robbie
Ferguson nice to see ya I'm Hillary
Rumble and I we've got a very special
treat for you bailey jay thompson an
author from here in Barrie Ontario is
joining us we're going to be talking
about her book publication and the way
that she founded her own publishing
company in order to make it happen so
just carrying on with our series about
self-publishing this is the perfect
guests to have on tonight so very
excited about that stick around Bailey
will be joining us on the show in just a
few minutes time what do you got going
on we've got lots come up in the
newsroom lots going on the world of tech
as always Steven Sinofsky the head of
microsoft windows division has left the
company bom-bom-bom I the way you said
it I had to do that so appropriate oh
the world's cheapest tablet computer is
now faster and boast longer battery life
the new nvidia drivers for linux will
provide double the performance and
lastly a new method of invisibility
cloaking has been demonstrated with
perfect results stick around because
these stories are coming up later in our
show what did I tell you the
invisibility oh I was just getting my
coffee oh sorry I'm furnace works how
you been just fabulous keeping it real I
minus I'm trying to think oh I got
something good yeah I'm flea in Canada
what's over the Christmas break nice to
get out of the snow I'm going to the dr
dominica really like yeah that's my
that's my latest news that's cool you're
spending like over Christmas they're not
the whole break but
part of the break yes very cool that's
that we need Wow so if you're in
Dominican Republic this is a very good
time to send Hillary your postcard and
say hi speaking of postcards we love to
receive them those of you who are
watching backstage pass you see that
we've got the postcard billboard kind of
thing up now so we appreciate a repost
card that you send in Hillary how can
they send those in you can send us your
postcards via snail mail to category 5
technology TV peel box to 9009 Barrie
Ontario which of course is in Canada l 4
&amp; 7 w 7 thanks oh and of course check
out our mobile website it's gone dot cat
five dot TV scan that QR code or you can
just go there on your mobile device am
cat5 TV mm-hmm great show for you
tonight stick around we've got your
viewer questions as well coming up later
in the show in the meantime we're going
to welcome bailey jay thompson to the
set of category 5 TV she'll be joining
us in the chat room as well so if you
have any questions for her make sure
that you talked to her and we'll be
right back with bailey gia Thompson
right after the break at eco alkalines
we believe you should be able to trust
your batteries not just here but here
here and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here
eco alkalines of the world's first and
only certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm welcome back this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host robbie
ferguson and I'm joined tonight by
bailey jay thompson nice to see you nice
to see you yeah we finally meet follow
me on Twitter for quite some time yeah
yeah bailey jay thompson on twitter if
you'd like to follow her and so we
brought you in tonight very specifically
because we're looking at self publishing
and as you know a lot of viewers have
expressed interest in publishing their
own books thought you'd be the perfect
person to talk to because that's exactly
what you've done so I I explore the
actuals the self-publishing route where
you pay somebody to design your books
and stuff like that and I decided to
actually create my own publishing
company so how does that come about so
we should start with okay there there
are certain things about self-publishing
that can be really really tricky one of
those as promotions definitely emotions
promotions getting your book out there
there are so many great companies that
help you do that amazon is a good
example for 41 but what what happened
within your particular case promotion
wise um you you basically have to
approach every bookstore on your own you
have to introduce yourself you have to
develop a relationship I mean if you
don't have a good product they won't
take you right so amazon.com is good but
they've got so much content that it's
good getting book stories right now
you've as far as I'm concerned you've
got great product so what what what's
going on there like as for bookstores
are ya like getting getting you saying
you've got to have a good product to get
into the stores yeah you you basically
you approach them you find you know
their marketing or you know who's ever
expected accepting the submissions right
or some of them actually expect you to
send in a full package with you know
query letter that kind of thing and you
know they decide whether to accept you
whether to carry your product whether to
carry it online in bookstores and
sometimes they'll invite you to do you
know medium
it's interesting I mean I was watching a
bit of a documentary on YouTube this
week watching a documentary on YouTube
thinking which was talking about the way
that television celebrities it's
completely changed where now if you have
a webcam and creativity you can create
your own television show and it's really
really hard to become part of like a
network television show now because it's
so exclusive but you get onto youtube or
something and all of a sudden you're the
super celebrity so similarly I think
books are kind of taking that transition
as well where before you submit and
submit and submit to publishers and that
was your job you write a book and spend
years submitting to publishers I've
spent the last four years submitting the
publishers I wrote the book and I
illustrated I photographed at they're
all photographed with live gerbils and
I'll let you meet one of them later
excellent um and I submitted a
publisher's and it's hard to find a
publisher that's right for your book
especially if it's different you know so
i was getting responses like we don't
publish pictures like actual pictures
right which is unusual but it makes
sense because you know they that's what
they've decided some of them we don't
publish talking animals you know it so
now the chat room is wondering what is
this book so tell us a little bit about
what it is that you've written and let's
gear tour it's a children's book it's
for about three years old 28 years old
um it's it's written there's a couple
different series of books so it's all
written where first series is the
gerbils discover a dollhouse yep so
they're discovering a whole new life and
they're creating their new life and it's
all the specialty of it is that it's
photographed with actual dribbles that
act out every scene in the book
basically very cool yep so starting your
own company not in order to be able to
do this what what does that entail a lot
of work um when I suddenly realized you
know because I'd spent the last four
years querying polishers and it wasn't
that I was getting that your book sucks
I was getting that we're not the right
polisher for your project right so I
decided that maybe that doesn't mean
that it can't be published it means that
I need to create a publisher that's
right
for my buck wow so you know you have to
hire designers you have to contact all
the bookstores you have to get your eyes
BN and you have to apply for that if
you're not accepted then do bad for you
all right um and yeah basically it's a
lot of work yeah quite the process for
sure I've you self publishers myself and
I know that that's a lot of work and I
and I hear you about like the legwork
and having to buy copies of your own
books to put in libraries and and all
this kind of stuff so how how will your
business which is going to be publishing
your own book how is that going to move
forward is it going to become your book
and then continually releasing new
instances of the series yep we have we
have three series that we're focused on
um herbs in the house which is about the
herbs in the little house then we have
Melvin and right now we've got Melvin in
the metamorphosis hat so that's all
about Melvin who loves to wear hats and
then we have a series coming out called
eco jerbs which is teaching kids about
the environment right so it's three
different series but I hope to start
accepting other authors that can
continue on the series because I can
only be so creative and I can only take
so many pictures so right I want to
focus on the pictures and I want other
people to focus on the writing gotcha
I've got a couple of pictures that you
sent in just for us to have a good look
at how you do this and one of the things
that of course intrigues me is the fact
that you're using card me using modern
technology in order to create this which
is the chroma Creek chromakey green
screening technique so how do you go
about creating you know getting your
gerbils to pose for one thing and then
actually creating the the imagery for
your books it starts with a lot of
patience I actually usually tell the
gerbils kind of what I want them to do
and they usually act it out oh yeah yes
and I decide to use the green screen
just because it kind of promoted
imagination it created much cooler
pictures like something a little bit
different than having a background right
so I basically converted my basement
into a studio and that's that's the
after effect so after you take out the
green
yeah that i use FX home photo key that's
an older version of the program however
it takes it all the greening the photos
and it's absolutely amazing yeah looks
it looks like there's no there's no
flaws and the best part is it does both
the green and the blue so I've started
instead of using green because green
tends to reflect you can see in that
image that i sent you with the white
background right um we kind of lost some
of the black dribbles name is Petrie we
kind of lost some of his tummy the blue
doesn't reflect like that okay yes so
blue tends to be better so I started
using that very cool so front to back
what's the process in actually creating
such a woman um I start with the
photography so it's taking the pictures
and kind of finally modifications i
would expect there is tens of thousands
of pictures on a hard drive right now
that went towards this book and i've
used probably 35 of them so yeah yeah it
starts with taking them then sorting
through them finding the right ones then
editing them and then I send them off to
a designer originally I designed my own
pages but I kinda wanted a second
opinion so I hired somebody else he's
from a really actually and he's doing
all the designs so all all of the
backgrounds actually are now a separate
color instead of the white just add a
little bit more into the rainbow and
they're a partner now on our website
right now there's a photograph of the
actual cover of the book so you can see
kind of I guess it's off right now but
i'll put that up for you in the show
notes of episode number 2 69 so then
from there because now when i use
self-publishing i'm doing that because i
don't have a printing press I don't have
the ability to take that artwork that
we've created and turn it into a book
how are you able to do that in in an
economical way in such a way that you're
able to make money because you got to
you have to afford oh that's nice right
so i'm working with a printer from the
state's actually I was hoping to find a
Canadian one but at this point I can't
find one that prints at a price that's
good enough they are very good because
you can print low quantities so you
don't have to write print near 10,000
copies like a tradition
everybody got it for sure yeah so you
can publish you know 100 as you go or
something like that you don't have to
put that much money out there and then
you can sell it at any price that you
want so you have full control wonderful
yeah so what's next what's next I'd like
to start accepting submissions for
authors and kind of build you know the
coverage where my books can be found and
go from there you know it's all about
creating the series and extending the
books I have one but kind of man for
sure every month for the next four
months and then we're kind of just gonna
go from there cool so how can people
send in their lean all their ideas and
what are the kind of the submission
guidelines which would be pretty strict
in a case like this where you're very
strict yeah um you couldn't go to gerbil
meets pants cotton that's our publisher
website that up on the screen for you
down below there um right now it says
that we're not accepting submissions
however we are accepting submissions
from local or young authors so we're
trying to help emerging authors so these
are you don't have to be Asian it or
anything like that send us your idea by
email with a query letter and you know
just if you have a manuscript but that
all of the books have to fall under
either the gerbils exploring the
dollhouse or some sort of story like
that I haven't planned out the Eco gerb
so I'm totally open to that one but I
want to educate kids about the
environment with the gerbils and hasn't
quite figured out how I need to do that
yet cool so that would be a good
opportunity then definitely to send a
brainstorming some ideas and I think
gerbils on the screen yep around in on
the page I think in terms of screen yeah
you don't need the photographs like
that's my job I'm also Melvin's series
is all about him kind of dreaming so
Melvin in the metamorphoses his hat he
wakes up with a bucket on his head and
then he falls back asleep and starts
picturing all these different hats um so
and then he kind of realizes that he
likes his head the way it is without
anything on it it's a kids book yeah um
and then his next book is about
different needing different animals so
I've had to store so gazillion different
types of animals and it's all about
accepting people for who they are you
know rather than judging for what they
look like
very good where do you get your
inspiration for this kind of thing it
sounds like it you know you've got good
lets our children oye I usually yeah
it's kind of like some people would sing
in the shower yeah yeah or sometimes
just taken in the studio with a prop or
something and we'll be taking pictures
and in my head I have some sort of
dialogue or some sort of story
developing do you hear voices of it no
no not voice it's just making sure about
that crazy yet sorry give us some time
yeah so let's meet one of these stars of
your book this is melvin he's in his
little cage gentleman and possibly taken
out if he doesn't run away so now how
many photos has Melvin been the startup
Oh thousands yeah thousands yeah areas
folks so he's he's kind of friendly he's
more he loves the camera you know when I
have him in the studio know that way I
know he's I don't know he's like he's
turned off by the no green screen or
something right but he as soon as it put
him in front of the camera he starts
posing so and he'll do like hills pause
in a pose and then home go in another
pose and it'll pause I didn't have time
ago picture you just happen to take
photo after photo after photo oh yeah
it's step step step yeah but he's the
one that wears hats so he always had on
like he'll pause long enough to put a
hat on his head so that's good okay not
right now obviously any questions for
Bailey with regards to self-publishing
or starting your own business please
feel free to post those into the into
the chat room or of course you can send
us an email or it's live at category
five dot TV and will certainly pass that
along for you if you're not watching
live so what's what's the most of it
being a tech show you know we'd like to
know what is the most interesting and
I'm sure we've already touched on
perhaps one of them the green screen the
most interesting way that the technology
has enabled you to do this um I wouldn't
have been able to do it without the
internet in all honesty you know
like I was thinking if I was back 100
years ago right you can you can start up
a publishing company you can't really
market yourself without having access to
a computer that kind of thing you know I
have tons of different cameras that I
use different lenses because troubles
are really tiny so it's hard to get you
know their hands in focus yeah exactly
sure yeah and especially the software is
well like I wouldn't be able to just
erase the green you know it would have
had to think of something else I didn't
have that software and how are you going
to be marketing it online um online in
bookstores I plan on doing a canada-wide
book tour that kind of features the
whole meet the jerbs aspect so we'll be
doing different signings and then also
allowing children to meet the actual
rodents and see kind of how it's done
like I'll have the green screen set up
and everything like that does the first
book actually has it behind the scenes
section right yeah I saw it actually
shows yet the pro side I bring that up
on the screen yep here we are okay very
cool so I can see your studio there and
the way that they can set that up my
basement for years to do that up for
years so right in your basement you've
done this and here you are publishing it
and the Internet has allowed you to do
this and and other technologies that
weren't there even you know 20 30 years
ago yes own definitely couldn't have
done it we wish you all the best and
good luck with everything and thank you
of course they can find you let's see it
is gerbil meets Mouse calm calm yet and
one of the one of the books coming out
on the first book is coming out to
summer 10th it's available for pre-order
on the website now and people can buy
right off you can buy it on the website
and it'll be shipped right to them where
are you shipping to UM worldwide okay um
Canada shipping is free Oh fantastic
yeah okay so christmas is coming folks
so is just in time for Christmas and
there you have it yeah it will be
delivered by Christmas which is kind of
what we hope yeah that's perfect you're
good alright bailey jay thompson she is
on Twitter as bailey jay thompson and of
course we're going to post links to all
of your social media if you're if you
want to connect with her just visit the
show notes for episode number 2 69 of
category 5 technology TV where and post
all the links for for that and any
questions that you have about the
process I'm sure that that she'll be
interested to receive those as well
absolutely but yeah that's awesome well
thank you so much it's a thank you so
interesting to me because I mean we do
an internet television okay it just same
idea just different technology only
changed everything and you know we
publish some books online and people can
buy them and we don't ever touch the
printing press and and that just happens
transparently in the background and and
so to see you taking that to the next
level and actually creating a company
that does this is really really neat
yeah it's an exciting process so if
you're thinking about publishing a book
we've been talking about about
self-publishing and and Bailey now has
kind of shown us that that there is
another level which you can step into
which is to create your own publishing
company which was never possible before
but is now because of some of the
technologies that are at our disposal so
if that's something that interests you
make sure that you follow the series
cat5 TV / publish and of course follow
us on twitter category 5 TV and bailey
jay thompson one kings for being on show
and there we go category 5 technology TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
and if it's tech it's here also the
international association of internet
broadcasters and the amazing switcheroo
Wow amazing any of the World Wide Web
yep this is category 5 technology TV
you'll find us online triple w dot
category five dot TV sure say how you
doing fabulous it's just great and I've
got some news for you already is it news
time already no just kidding I'm too
excited that's why coffee is good I'm
drinking water maybe I should drink a
coffee you fix my brain caffeine kick
hmm a little bit more we received an
email from our viewer who had sent this
in to us from Bulgaria
that's interesting because I had looked
at this with with Eric last week because
this had arrived in the mail that you
hadn't seen us no I thought it was cool
because it's very authentic bulgarian
girl let's read what it's called
ironically hello Robbie my name is me
Hal and I come from Bulgaria and very
glad that you like my gift for the
bobblehead have a surprise in a doll but
it is about women in your show to find
it just carefully I'd are paid doll legs
buy from me and that part I wasn't too
sure on because he's starting intermix
English with his native tongue we don't
know what the native time so I'd our pay
fortunately I had realized is to bite
the legs off like i mislike pull are you
for real seriously well like it because
I was like what are you talking about
the legs there's no legs it's just a oh
and that's how you lose at least but
look at this Eric and I were you know we
were intrigued oh I the doll itself but
look there is a special treat inside
bulgarian rose perfume I had no idea
it's actually perfume smell that and
then I smells like bull gear it's not
really my style which is probably what
I'll family mean yeah for the women so
would you look at that I don't know you
ladies are gonna have to fight over the
that is a really special what that from
me he'll well I well I gladly take care
there you go after that is it that's a
gift from from Bulgaria who is that and
now we got a secret place to stash all
our money what money that's him just
kidding that's actually really cool no I
thought that was neat thanks for the
special treat yeah we love to laugh so
now I'm gonna start taking apart
everything that arrives like oh this
cell phone that we received oh look at
that it's actually yeah it so I it is a
cell phone I broke it dang yeah that's
cloth yeah cool alright well we'll come
back to your viewer questions I'd love
to see you in the chat room it's a
category 5 on freenode
hey everybody tick-tock gee pop seven
joining us tonight good to see math man
as well good guy John nice to see ya the
whole gang everybody in the Karen Troy
74 oh yes where it's at the chat room
because you can ask questions you can
follow along like crazy ridiculous
conversations but also ask questions on
people chat room will help you out as
well like Robbie might not be able to
tackle your question right away people
chatter like boom boom boom I know how
to fix it and they know and they know
its community that's the neat aspect of
of this whole modern internet television
is that it's interactive and our
communities there that said Hillary is
watching the chat room so if you have a
question watch a ping her which is just
mentioned her name Hillary free
straightforward and it will highlight on
her screen so that she knows that
somebody sent her a message we'd love to
receive your questions we do have some
questions that have arrived by email and
are watching for more of those as well
so totally nice to see everybody mm-hmm
we love the chat well he loves the news
don't
here the top stories from the category 5
TV news room steven sinofsky the head of
microsoft's windows division has
suddenly left the company after 23 years
his department departure comes just
weeks after microsoft launched windows 8
the latest edition of its flagship
product seen as key to the firm's future
Microsoft did not give any reason for
mr. sinofsky departure however industry
watchers suggest that the real reason
could be an internal war between him and
chief executive Steve Ballmer markets
took the news badly though with
microsoft shares losing four percent in
tuesday morning's trading on Wall Street
hmm yeah I've heard there's been some
contention there I find the photo
interesting though I mean you look at
the way he's holding his left hand and
his right hand it's like it's a magic
trick yeah and I'm just waiting for it
to hover above his hand maybe pretty
neat the next big thing hovering ah
India is once again trying to make
low-cost computers available to students
across the country the country's
president has unveiled an upgraded
version of the world's cheapest tablet
computer despite the functionality and
distribution problems faced by the
devices predecessors made by uk-based
data wind the pack cash a cash to
actually has a longer battery life and
is faster than the earlier version it is
expected to go on sale in about a week
at 2263 rupees about forty dollars Oh
forty bucks are different 26 pads it
sounds a lot I say it right yeah we
always have yeah 2,000 rupees yep the
latest nvidia geforce driver released
thursday reportedly gives you linux
users double the performance and
dramatically reduces game loading times
nice very cool having been in
development for almost a year the
geforce r310 driver has been designed to
showcase the enormous potential of the
world's biggest open source operating
system users with geforce gtx 660 p use
as well as those with certain previous
generation g
gpus will benefit from using the new
drivers for more information or to
download you can head to g4s GE
force.com now that steam is in testing
that's a game platform now thats in
testing betta testing for linux i wonder
if that's kind of pushing nvidia but
then again there's they're such push
away from windows 8 as well developers
not wanting to go there and and all the
kind of you know the stuff that's going
on the back drama drama so i wonder how
much that's going to affect people's
decisions when it comes to oh well
windows 8 looks terrible I'm gonna have
to shop around anyway so let's try linux
oh it performs twice as well twice as
fast because of this new driver from
nvidia that's fantastic i can't wait to
try it we shall see what happened right
okay people scientists have succeeded in
cloaking an object perfectly for the
first time rendering a centimeter scale
cylinder invisible to microwaves hmm
many invisibility cloak efforts have
been demonstrated but all have reflected
sunlight making the illusion incomplete
a nature material study has now shown
how to pull it off flawlessly the trick
was to use a diamond shape cloak with
properties carefully match at the
Diamonds quarters the story the corners
to shuttle light perfectly around a
cylinder 7.5 centimeters in diameter and
one centimeter tall professor David
Smith of Duke University told the BBC
this to our knowledge is the first cloak
that really addresses getting the
transformation exactly right to get you
that perfect invisibility however the
cloaking game has always has its
trade-offs though the illusion works
perfectly is only worth seeing in one
direction professor Smith explains it's
like the card people in Alice in
Wonderland if you turn or if they turn
on their side you can't see them but if
you're looking at them straight on it's
obviously visible you can get these full
stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions from our amazing
community viewers if you have a new
store you think's worthy of on-air
mention send us an email at newsroom a
category 5 TV from the category 5 TV
news room I'm Hillary rumble thanks hill
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by quarter eee electric com the official
electrical contractors of category five
technology TV also we'd love to send you
a free one month trial of netflix put a
cap five dot TV / netflix to sign up and
cancel at any time but you're not gonna
want to hmmm cat five TV / netflix sweet
yeah sounds good to me folks we love to
receive your questions let Hillary take
them away but feel free to pop us an
email live at category five TV at any
point or just mention us in the chat
room as well we're watching for you
we're watching and waiting but while i
wait for you I have an email from hong
sheng jie zhang hey Hong Jang are you
ready for this I am ready okay hi Robbie
I bought an ipod ipod ipad ipod touch
for a few days ago sorry i read that way
wrong but I bought does I connected it
to my kubuntu 12.4 with the USB but the
system simply recognizes it as a camera
and I cannot copy anything to the ipod
my friend told me that i need to install
itunes in windows in order to copy the
files to the ipod is there any way to
copy the files pictures video music to
the ipod using linux instead of using
itunes in Windows or Mac okay well I
think what does tend to happen I mean I
there's my ipod touch for right I i plug
it into windows I mean I hate to say it
but when it when it really comes down to
it that's the that's the solution that
Apple has provided is either Mac or
Windows that's unfortunate that's a
drawback of this device hmm or other
Apple devices it's not a problem with
Linux it's a problem with this device
that said okay so what is the most
common technique the most common way
that people will do it and we're
probably you know very effective way is
to set up VirtualBox it's free install
windows XP into that virtual box because
everybody's got an old windows XP
license kicking around probably on the
side of the computer that you've
formatted and installed linux on and in
that virtual machine all you do is you
put itunes in it and you connect it
through samba share to your your iTunes
library or your media and then let
itunes manage everything that's the
easiest thing to do and probably the
most effective because it is using
apple's software so that way you're
getting the iOS updates you're getting
all of that kind of stuff but that's it
okay so that's that's the official kind
of answer what I'm going to do is I'm
gonna go to Wikipedia because there is
an exceptional article there so I'm just
going to look up for you and I'm also
going to link to it in the show notes
for episode number 2 69 it is simply
entitled comparison of ipod managers and
you'll see that what what this is all
about is alternative software to itunes
and many many many of them are for linux
you'll see that they're broken up into
windows mac OS and linux see linux yes
yes yes so what you look at is
comparatively from this document
comparison of ipod managers on wikipedia
so amarok we know is available for linux
it's GPL licensed and you can download
it just roll down a little ways for the
feature set can you copy music yes can
you copy videos yes can you copy smart
playlist yes copy album artwork extract
drm free music extract drm free videos
and that's it okay Clementine has a lot
of yeses can't use drm free music
extracting but you can copy content to
your ipod
so I'm going to leave that to you to
make the decision as to you know what
what when you want to look at there are
one two three four five that are listed
as being linux compatible including
rhythmbox gtk pod amarok banshee and
Clementine let's take a quick look at
gtk pod to which I just want to show you
this because this is probably your best
bet gtk pod
yes-yes-yes-yes-yes-yes-yes-yes yes hmm
everything is supported so scroll
through that list give it a good luck
i'll post it into the the chat room
right now for you just so that you have
that if you're watching live and also
we'll post it in the show notes for
episode number 2 69 sounds good there
are our alternatives I I think I kind of
take the lazy way out and i'll tell you
why though the reason that I the reason
that I virtualize windows and I actually
plug in my ipod sang I synchronized
itunes because I can I say hate I know
it's a bad word I hate itunes I I hate
proprietary formats so I just I don't
want to mess with it I don't want it
touching my media library my media
library you know it would be odd but
unfortunately most of my mp3 players I
want to be able to drag and drop files
so most of my media I've ripped from CD
to mp3 okay but I don't want itunes
controlling any of it gotcha so i've got
itunes is basically allowed to connect
to my unraid device which has my media
library on it and can put it on my
devices that are iOS driven but it
doesn't ever touch any of the
organizational structure it doesn't
touch any of the tags it doesn't let
mean it doesn't it's not allowed to do
anything else that's kind of why I just
you know take that route but if you like
media managers and you want a program to
be able to sort your your library and
keep it a little bit differently than
you know I keep a nice organizational
structure by folder so i use artist name
and then the folder below that is going
to be the year of the album and then the
name of
the album so that it sorts it in order
so uh yeah so it's well organized so
there are options for you yeah cool good
to know I never thought about that ever
to be honest Toby in the chat room I
just let me know what it is that you're
referring to and your question is that
true and while I'm watching for that
unless you see the question I hopefully
I know is yes absolutely not no it's
fake I'm kidding I don't know what the
question I don't either okay well I got
a different question um this actually
just came to me like that right is there
a way to install in boone two 12-point n
on a Mac Mini with nvidia graphics I've
tried all mainstream solutions but with
no success thanks for all you do for the
great shows this comes to us from coast
us 358 really that's something that I
haven't I haven't later on earth yeah
it's I'm just going to check if there is
a if it's possible real quick on on ask
ubuntu com that's good like whenever
you're not sure if you can't get hold
yadi check the forums and stuff from
this particular post says that you can
get it to start up fine with him after a
few minutes it'll freeze up it's not
it's not an out-of-the-box supported
thing to do so I think if you're gonna
be doing it you kind of basically
hacking the device yeah you're it's not
a supportive thing to be doing to that
device so you could encounter some
problems but unfortunately because we
don't really deal with Mac here a lot
and that's primarily because we don't we
don't have the devices to test with nice
thing about linux is we can throw it on
any of our devices and it works great
Mac not so much because it's a piece of
proprietary hardware so the question
that you have I can't really answer
because I can't do it for you we do
accept hardware though if you want to
send us one and let us try still around
ya can't guarantee what shape with my
champion
I won't Apple bash it but maybe just
have a quick quick look around interweb
Ubuntu xubuntu forumz org would be
another good place to go get in there
see what people are saying about it just
do a search within the forums for people
pardon me who are trying to do that with
a mac mini good call mm-hmm all right
got another question here comment to us
from Peter Lewis hey Peter um okay kind
of lengthy but I'm going to read it dear
Robbie I thought of a way to stop people
from inputting bad words you know like
swear words and stuff this can be
adapted to work on a website using PSP
if you have a form on your website it
will stop people from inputting these
unwanted words the swear words are not
stored anywhere on the website each word
is converted to a special number and
these numbers are stored as an array for
example the word is taken from the
inputted form and put into upper case
and convert it to a special number this
number is compared with the table of
special numbers if they match the word
is not allowed but if they do not match
then the word is allowed something ok so
like an md5 hash or something yeah from
what I and I wonder when he said PSP I
wonder if you meant PHP I wonder so
taking perhaps a list of swears hurtings
converting them to hash tags the only
problem that I could foresee with
something like that as if it's a hash
then it's going it's going to be
basically encrypted so if I use if I I
would have to think of the root word of
every swear word to create a hash of
every version of that possible swear
including you know bleeped and anything
else be tricky with with that with plain
text if you had a plain text database
you could easily search within the
structure of words for the root
so if somebody said a bad word you could
you can use PHP to do like a STR a STR
which is a search within a string in
case sensitive just DANC does that make
sense for you Peter it sounds like a
neat idea but you'd have to think of
every single word that you'd want to
block and you could do an STD like a STR
to lower to make everything lower case
and then submit it so that would rule
out you know case sensitivity but you
wrote a little bit more here I can read
it cloud I haven't read it before I have
adapted this to work in a number of
different programming languages C C++
Pascal visual basic I guess that's an
example this is very simple but it works
well the table of special world is not
very long it's about 320 32-bit numbers
we found this covers most of the swear
words and searching through them is very
quick i use the md5 to convert string to
32-bit numbers if you think this is
useful to other users I will release a
sample window program to show that it
works yeah it's a neat idea but for one
thing the md5 is going to be quite a bit
longer than the actual word so it's
gonna take up more space in your
database I can understand you'd want to
not reveal those words but keeping in
mind what this database is for it's
justifiable right half those words um
but yeah might be concern with that is
because it's an md5 if you know anything
about it what an md5 is it's a it's a
hash of a string and it's if I say the
word Hillary and I create an md5 of the
word Hillary it will always be the same
so it's it's quite commonly used to
compare password hashes so then if I
used the word Hillary as my password I
can now store the hash of Hillary in the
database and nobody can read it it's not
reversible but then when I go to login
it can then compare the hash of what I
type in as my password to the hash
that's in the database and say do the
hashes match but it still doesn't know
that it's actually the word Hillary so
if if the word hillary was a bad word
word and I use the short form he'll the
hashes won't match right so then there's
the problem of what if somebody
misspells it a little bit or yeah like
slams is some form that's a little bit
different it's an explanation mark or
something like that right that make
sense problems so I think there's a
there's a lot more programming to it
than would be necessary Peter to be
honest with you I think it's probably
best just to store them plain text and
then you can just compare against that
so let me know if I'm if I'm off base
there if i if I'm not quite following
you or maybe that gives you ideas here
yeah get the wheels turning yeah it's a
good idea thanks for thanks for the
comment for sure absolutely super good
idea okay another emailed antenna Robert
Kazinsky drama from Australia writing to
us saying hi Robbie and Hilary Robbie
I'd like to thank you for your
suggestion on using back in time to back
up my n is you know it looks great um
and it looks like it'll do the job and
it's very easy to use I would also like
to thank you for the help you gave me in
the chat room recently also I'd like to
say that all the co-hosts are doing a
great job on the show keep up the great
work gang I think they're awesome oh
that's nice as a comment Thanks common
tastic yeah thanks man I'm glad that you
think that's going to do the trick for
you certainly looks like a good solution
for me if you're wondering what that's
about back in time tune back in to
episode number 268 when Robert had sent
in his question about what kind of
backup solution to use on linux to back
up his Nass into a separate device cool
yeah as always Robbie giving us the good
news the good info I try this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
our website a category five dot TV so
great to have you here tonight if you're
joining us live please join us in the
chat room say hi if you're watching this
after the fact join our community as
well go to our website category 5 TV
either way make sure you register on
that website you'll see the button up at
the very very top of the website that
lets you register for the website that
gives you kind of backstage access and
all the awesome kind of things that
with that so cool cool I think I should
give shouts out to those who have just
registered recently oh yeah we've had
several people that have registered this
week over the past couple of weeks
welcome to our community i know that i
sent out an email to each each one of
you if you didn't receive that email
check your spam so sure chunk yeah make
sure you activate your account right now
we're being pretty lacks about account
activations but know that if you haven't
activated by clicking the link in your
email that will eventually come back and
bite you and your your login won't work
so make sure you you do check for that
email mm-hmm sounds like a good idea to
me yeah so we're just watching for
questions in the chat room here I know
the summer trying to come in so I know
I'm trying to I'm trying to follow this
dialogue that's been happening yet this
is like a pic I can't I can't you guys
figure it out couldn't figure out was
hopping in there someone did ask me a
question mm-hmm it was about your space
fish whatever happened to the fish and I
was looking around I was like oh no
maybe he slowed it into oblivion but I
see him you see him beyond the cameras I
do yeah mystery saw the fish is alive
don't worry yeah he's doing really well
your folks can see the officially that's
our space fish that we named Major Tom
very special here to the studio one
mystery solved yes evening that's our
question what else you got for us here
what do registered users get that other
users don't this is a question comes to
us from pires Rock first of all they get
the sheer satisfaction of knowing that
they are a registered viewer no that's
that's not just if you log in you get
access to coupons yes free stuff
everybody loves discounts awesome you
also get access to our high-res photo
gallery all the photos of the take place
backstage something goofy someone crazy
some of them awesome mmm those are only
available to registered views viewers
also we have certain types of
competitions click race is a good
example which we haven't done a little
while because with the launch of the new
website earlier this year it's been a
transition to get everybody moved
over to the new system and that our
regular viewers know that click race if
you're a register viewer you're able to
participate during a live show you're
able to race other viewers and win
prizes and you know we love to give away
prizes we've got lots of than give away
this year it's very very exciting as we
approach christmas as well you know keep
companies moving you know I talked about
the product so make sure you register so
you can participate in those things
there's so much other stuff too we've
got some behind-the-scenes videos that
are going to be going up how we've got a
whole whole slew of things they're
coming and and many of them are already
there plus it's like being in a club
don't you want to be in a club yes you
can like aldenjewell fan mail and yeah
we send out autographed photos of
ourselves occasionally we've done that
before yeah finally I received windows
you know you just don't know what will
happen so why not just take a little
step further you already in the
community just commit commit to this
relationship okay so is that you truly
love us that's all yeah so that's a good
question actually I did wonder I'm like
what's the what's the deal friends
what's the dish we did not register mmm
that's cool so we're gonna have lots of
pictures of our gerbil friends in the
gallery I'm like I don't know one day I
will take a couple after the show okay
are we lacking on questions this evening
I suppose are there any other ones
everybody's chatting you're just talking
about who knows what they're talking
about right now I don't even know I've
been coming in by email live at category
5 TV Wow people come on send us your
questions brand mom brings over here
marina I've got a comment from Peter who
says that he found an answer to the
question that he asked about running two
modems on the same telephone line in
short he abandoned the second modem I
just ran a category 5 good game haha
category 5 cable down to the place that
I wanted the internet downstairs that's
the way to do it my man
Peter I remember was asking about should
i install two modems to get to internet
connections in the house and I suggested
that well then maybe that you're going
to get some conflicts there if it's dsl
you can't really do that it's going to
it's going to cause some some collisions
between the two devices and problems
with the internet so you have one and
connect all your devices to that one
device hmm so seems like it worked
that's good mentions that this now makes
it possible to watch internet television
which is a growing medium of course I'm
right on the TV so that unfortunately
they do have some terrible internet
service they're waiting for fiber optic
to come out have been waiting for the
past two years hopefully it will arrive
soon and hopefully yeah that will get
resolved if you're not watching live you
can synchronize to your devices by using
something like mural internet TV grab
from our RSS feeds have the show
automatically download and you'll find
that there are tons of other shows out
there you're able to download and
they'll actually save so if your
internet is slow like too slow to watch
live or stream it directly off of the
website in HD you can download the HD
file overnight and then watch it the
next act mmm good good that bit rate hmm
makes sense mm-hmm it's good to know
thanks for the feedback valuable info is
there any viewer testimonials I haven't
looked in a long time maybe I tend to
share them occasionally you don't we
don't have any on the website per se but
we do receive them and we've received
the postcards per man oh that's true i
love this i wish i could show you up but
backstage pass sees that it's pretty
cool i'm just looking the world wide web
is on the worldwide corkboard we can see
it all here so it is cool to get stuff
for sure total anybody in the chat room
it's a strange a tonight no I was like
so quiet i'm trying to think of like i'm
using anecdotes to fill time yeah well
what some talk about you
till a question comes info I'm free
tonight I love you though I really do to
do is looking great i mean i wish that
the viewers could see this backstage
pass can see some of it but we were
really really kind of growing and
getting ready for the Christmas special
we do have the drum kit is all set up
which you can see from here yes i know
somebody could like slap one of those
symbols just let people know this here
it's a lot of fun but on our christmas
special eric it is actually going to be
here we're gonna be doing some very
special music for you that's coming up
actually specifically on there you go
hey it works in that awesome a so Eric's
gonna be here we will be doing some some
Christmas carols for ya that's gonna be
on December 25th because Christmas just
happens to fall on Tuesday and with our
level of commitment we're never gonna
miss a show bring it to you like that eh
through the good times and bad through
the sleet through the snow through the
festivus through the something you can
get through everything treed stand good
yeah I don't know treed stem good would
like to know Hillary if you and your
husband are using Linux at all I'd
prefer not to disclose that information
you guys are windows babies okay well
yes primarily but i do own a mac which i
use for video editing and such but i'm
not to totally mac savvy but no we
haven't made the switch which i know i
should after all these years but i just
i'm just home grown i think if it does
what if it's doing what you need it to
do though then that's the danger like
fix what's not broken yeah but knowing
that that option is there mm-hmm you
know we could Windows 8 I mean windows 8
people are gonna be pushed to have to
install this do you really want to know
so don't so now all of a sudden you know
it becomes practical to say okay well
let's look for an alternative for sure
but if you're happy and it's working the
way that you want I'm quite content at
this current moment yeah it's
unfortunately it's unfortunate that we
run an asset's products in a way because
you're not going to be bombarded with
the viruses that
you're pretty well protected but that
would be a good reason to switch I know
and as you may recall we've had our
share of virus yes when I killed his
computer but that was recoverable using
free tools on Linux haha I know yeah
signs point to linux okay I'm just not
ready to convert okay but I am learning
through the show don't you know she's
learning this is this should learn to
love it yeah so I am I just yeah thank
you for the question I've got one here
from pires rocky wants to know can I
allow a non admin user to mount a hard
drive so they can watch movies on on my
movies hard drive in a boom too so
you've got it like an external hard
drive and you're plugging it down and
and want to be able to play the movies
off of that on a boon to even if your
nan and men if you plug in a drive it's
going to give you access to it at /
media as long as that drive hasn't been
set in such a way that the permissions
don't allow other users to access it so
you could if you're having trouble doing
that you could mount the drive as a
super user and modify the permissions of
that drive so that the other users have
access to it because linux is a
permissions based system so if Hillary
and I both have logins on my computer
and I create something in my login and I
have it set with permissions that say
only Robbie is allowed to edit that file
so now Hilary can go in and she may be
able to see it but she can't open it she
can't edit it she can't save over it
it's basically set up so that the
permissions say only i can write Linux
has three levels of permissions which is
the user who created it the users group
that that user belongs to and the
everyone the global anyone who uses
right here so I could because Hillary is
also part of my the users group I could
set the permissions to allow Hillary
access to that file or in your case that
drive by saying that anyone in my group
now has access to that drive so where
your drive may be set as rude only you
might set it to you know to users you
know Robbie colon users or or something
like that right it's strictly
permissions and then yes it can
absolutely be done it give us specific
examples if you like we're just about at
a time here pyrus rock but if you have
trouble this week getting that going
papas an email live at category 5 TV and
we'll be happy to address that on next
week's show crystal wells is going to be
here with me so looking forward to that
yeah oh yeah good ol show yeah good old
time it's been quite the the month of
the past couple of months I mean the
show has been just we're growing all the
time and season six here we go see
interviews with with all kinds of
wonderful people over the even just the
first all right now it's been wild and
we've got so many co-host now that it's
it's like you're on this rotation are
you finding that that is working for you
or you want to be here more often well I
do love the show yeah I have you here
every night if I could but that's a
little bit I only broadcast on Tuesdays
I mean hmm but no it's nice I think it's
nice for the viewers who'd have a little
bit of variety because we all have like
different ways of approaching things
different sense of humor different
stories and comments and crazy a little
bit of crazy to everybody so I think
it's nice to spice it up a little you're
not just the Hillary in Robbie show all
time what are you guys get boring we
love to hear from you what do you think
the current rotation i'm looking forward
to christmas special because a lot of
these are going to be here and we're
gonna have the whole interaction
we're really just having a lot of fun
stuff sure we don't you Albert are as
much like for the big special shows
we're all together but otherwise you
just have to see I see everyone else
through the show not in real life so
nice to see everybody yeah I've
mentioned it before but our chat room is
a wonderful place to get to know people
and and say hi Hilary mentioned you know
ask your questions that's part of the
problem I think is that people ask the
questions in the chat room before we get
to that's true wonderful glorious
community of jam reviewers are they are
answering the questions solve the
problem and that's wonderful and I think
that's where the show is grown to is
that we're way more than just a single
you know you're not just sitting there
watching show we're interacting have a
nice time together sitting here in what
looks like our living room come on baby
comfy here we are computer land thanks
to bailey jay thompson for being here
tonight we do encourage you to check out
your website gerbil meets mouse calm and
buy that book okay it's in time for
Christmas and yeah right now I'm
definitely going to get a copy for my
kids I'd encourage you to do the same
see shipping worldwide free shipping in
Canada yeah that's a good opportunity
for you to certainly support an
up-and-coming star as far as book
publications go on look really looking
for seeing workers here
do support her and support those are the
show excellent idea thanks everybody we
have a great wonderful week thanks for
being here my pleasure always a great
old time always see everybody
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area as category five
TB and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
