welcome to new every day great to have
you back with us again today this is
part two of our kick off the season four
if you can believe that four seasons
already on new every day and we're gonna
dive right in
that's right last week we were talking
about kind of having a restart or
refresh in your spiritual life and this
week we're gonna be taking it to the
next level and if you are in a place of
success in your spiritual walk how can
you be a mentor how can you pass on some
tips and what works and have tons of
timing to your life and what works if
you have no time in your life that's
coming right up this is new every day
with Jeff Weston and Lauren Cruz
[Music]
welcome to new everyday
I'm Lawrence Cruz and I'm Jeff Wesson so
glad to have you here in case you've
missed it you're just tuning in you've
missed a few episodes we are at the
onset of season four Kerri and Jen have
moved on they felt that their time here
was done and that God was taking them to
other places and so we have taken over
it's it's a new opportunity it's a fresh
start and last week we kicked off with
that subject is getting a fresh start in
your spiritual walk
we relied upon some scripture from
Isaiah a little bit in Philippians and
we drew a parallel to Tiger Woods and
his golf swing and how he made the
conscious decision to improve his game
to get better by undoing what he had
learned and learn a new way of golfing
to ensure that his game improved that
much for that much more and he became
the best in the league and that is
exactly the same parallel we want with
our spiritual eyes and so we're
continuing that conversation yeah and
we're gonna give you some tips some
advice on how to assess your spiritual
walk and say where can I improve what
can I do we're going to talk real-life
examples and that is exactly where we
need to be and so that's that's what
we're going to continue today yeah it
was great discussion it's a it's a great
illustration of this guy Tiger Woods and
he did make the change he did absolutely
and that what a great example and he's
an encouragement to us and he decided
you know he decided I remember we were
talking also it happened to be another
sports guy Sidney Crosby he's a hockey
player right he does okay yeah and you
know you know what I learned Jeff is
that Sidney Crosby who plays for
Pittsburgh was voted by all the other
players in the NHL as the least favorite
player to play against really yeah and I
remember thinking okay now that
cool this isn't some writer who maybe
can play hockey but never made it
through the NHL this is the people who
are playing in the NHL and they said of
all the people I play I don't like
playing against him that's a compliment
yeah it is that what a huge compliment
right so they're saying he's good
they're saying he's strong they're
saying he's tough to play against and of
course it's true right
you know but here's the deal guess who
has a coach said the kid and so the
tiger what's Syd both of these guys who
have excelled dare I say to you know the
top you know yeah they're definitely
among the best of the best right
absolutely they even they have people
that they've said how can I be better
well that's exciting to me yeah that's
who I want to be I want to be a person
in my walk with the Lord who doesn't
silo himself someone said that right oh
it was like this yeah okay back off
get your own grain like I just me and
all my grain know what a what a waste of
a life but instead I'd rather be open
and invite people who I love and trust
and who I know love and trust me and say
hey can we talk about how we together
can be better in our relationship with
the Lord and you know what I found Jeff
there are plenty of people who are
willing to go on that journey with me
absolutely it's great in the last week
on episode 147 if you do want to catch
the beginning of this topic we read
Philippians 3:13 to 14 and I want to
read the continuation of that yeah but
with the with 13 and 14 in context so
brothers and sisters I do not consider
myself yet to have taken hold of it but
one thing I do forgetting what is behind
and straining toward what is ahead I
press on toward the goal I love it win
the prize for which God has called me
heavenward
Jesus we we read that last week in
relation to taking a view of your
spiritual life and and and is there
something I can do to move forward to
always improve but the continuation of
that scripture lays into what you're
talking about with having a coach so
Philippians 3 15 to 17 says all of us
then who are mature should take such a
view of things and if on some point you
think differently that to God will make
clear for you only let us live up to
what we have already attained join
together in following my example
brothers and sisters yeah and just as
you have us as a model keep your eyes on
those who live as we do and so when you
couple those two scriptures together
you've got the one side about
encouraging you to continue to press on
whatever it is that you're facing in
life whatever that roadblock is you
might have in your spiritual life it's
saying god I'm gonna keep going I'm
gonna keep running there's something
that I need to get over here in order to
get to the winning side and just like we
said with Tiger Woods and reinventing
his golf swing but the continuation is
realizing that there are others around
you that have gone through this race
that have got some experiencing some
knowledge and some insight that you can
learn from and we're on the I upon and
if you're that person who's saying man I
think right now I've got it together I'm
doing okay I'm doing alright I'm on the
winning side right yeah you know good
place to be absolutely I think for sure
if you're sitting there saying but
that's me
is there someone around you yeah there
you can be there coach could you be
their mentor could you help them
reinvent their spiritual swing mm-hmm
and that's what those verses are all
about in the big picture and that's
where we're going today is how can you
be that mentor how how can you learn
from somebody and what is it that
they're doing that you can say I want
that yeah what what is that and so I
want to know real-time personal example
how do you win
how do you win it your spiritual log
because you're in ministry all the time
that's that's your career but the other
side of that is you have your own
relationship with God and your ministry
is not your relationship yeah I'm glad
you mentioned that it's true it's it can
be a trap to think that because I'm
involved in ministry per se that that
equals my connection my relationship
with the Lord Wow
that is just not the truth at all in
fact I like it when what I do for the
Lord is just a natural overflow of Who I
am in the Lord oh man that is so big so
yeah you've asked a great question I've
had 41 years to try this to have some
good days to have days where it didn't
go good so I'm in this yeah that's a
long time excuse me while I catch my
breath Jeff I'll tell ya on two
significant occasions where I have been
privileged to know the benefit of
meeting every day we talked at our in
our on our previous episode of going to
the table like to feast right hmm I know
what it is to everyday meet with the
Lord in a time of reading the word and
then a time of praying okay that's been
so profound to me and I did it because
as a young boy I didn't my father never
went to church I didn't know I you know
church wasn't part of my life you know
from the time I was born but I found
myself in a church and that's a story in
itself mm-hmm
but when I was there sitting
there there was a nice posture and he
said well if you're a Christian then
Christians read their Bible so you know
what I did I said oh okay well I guess I
better get a Bible okay so you know I
didn't even have one but I thought I
loved everything about who God is and
what I'm feeling like he made such a
difference in my life that I just said
well I want to know more so I got a
Bible and did what the preacher said I
just started reading it right every day
and you've never turned back
I've never turned back that's the truth
I've enjoyed going to the table if you
have been going now listen I'd be I'd be
I wouldn't be telling the truth if I
said that every single day I have been
there no no no and I used to wrongly
when I thought as a kid I thought it was
about how many chapters you read and how
much time and it was a great discipline
for me but I was still working through I
almost thought that's what was gonna
make me a superstar Christian if I did
all of these things rightly well boy boy
I had to learn that that wasn't true
either
I'm so glad is not about performance
yeah that's exactly what it was for me
you know I think I was making the
mistake of thinking well if I read an
extra chapter that's gonna make me a
little more acceptable right well a
great idea to read but God already loves
me yes hey Jeff he already loves every
single one of us there's nothing more I
could do or not do that would cause God
to love me any less and he does right
now you know the truth that makes me
feel so good cuz Jeff I believe it I
don't just wonder I know that it's true
and that keeps me coming back to his
table if you know right does that make
sense
absolutely oh my goodness I love it it's
it's all about the relief
in ship yeah that's what is oozing out
of you is that the love of that
relationship and so if you're sitting
there going well what's missing what is
that relationship that you've got with
Christ do you need a new perspective on
it yeah and so it's great hearing from
somebody who's in ministry to say yeah I
go back to the basics the basics is what
works it's daily in the word and it's
praying talking to God I mean if you've
got parents you learn by talking to them
you don't you're not just born and then
you sit in a house by yourself you eat
with them you commune with them you
learn from them it's exactly the same
with God as our Father now we're going
to take a quick break but when we come
back I want to tell you what works for
me
for being solid in my faith because I
live a crazy busy life between family
and work and everything and I've had to
adapt a new way of doing things because
sometimes I don't have the time
literally to pick up the Bible yeah and
be in the word there might be a single
mom who's watching here today you have
my absolute respect right absolutely and
I mean and I've want here it's like it's
incredible what you do to pour your life
into your family into your children and
to keep all of these plates spinning at
once and then to think oh I have to do
one more thing and I have to read oh my
goodness that would just feel terrible
on a wait but we've got some good news
that's not the way that it has to be
that's right so we're gonna cover that
right back in a second
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts welcome
back thanks so much for joining us
whether you're on demand whether you
watch Roku Facebook maybe you're in
Southern California kvv be channel 33 so
glad to have you here thanks for joining
us this week Jeff you were just about to
tell us about like your busy schedule
it'll yes and we know it's busy and you
thrive on being busy I do and now you're
also thriving in your relationship with
the Lord and it's good hey you're not in
full-time ministry per se right you deal
with a lot of people come on tell us how
do you make it work so for myself I've
had a lot of different jobs in the past
I worked if twerk which makes it hard to
have consistency in life the job I have
now there's a ton of commuting it could
be that I'm on a plane could be I'm on a
train could be I'm in the car I feel
like I'm talking dr. Zeus here green
eggs and ham but no I with my work and
family and all the extra things that go
on I am so incredibly busy and for a
while I was really struggling with
having a meaningful spiritual
relationship with God and and I know
that that doesn't say a lot but I would
come to church on Sundays and that was
really about all I had time for and I
was finding that I was lacking there was
just you can't live off just one day a
week
there's so
much more than you need and so I had to
look at my life and go okay I can't just
walk away from my job I can't walk away
from my family I need to find a way to
make my life work in a way that I can
still be spiritually growing and find
success and relationship with God and
one of the big things that worked for me
was audiobooks like I'm always commuting
or it could be that I'm you know what
you know the kids are doing homework and
so on you know might be helping my wife
with supper or whatever yeah and
sometimes just throwing in the
headphones
it could be listening to the Bible yeah
as an audio book it could be some great
books that you can get through audible
which happens to be a partner linked
with us you know we've through our
Public Library here I was able to rent
audio books at no cost you get them for
a couple of days but it absolutely
changed the way that I have a
relationship with God because I'm able
to feed myself daily and also
contemplate what I'm hearing and it's
not just about reading reading the
scripture it takes a whole a whole new
life when you listen to it and for
myself I'm a very visual learner like
when I read something I play a movie in
my head and that's the way I go and so
being able to listen to scripture as an
audio source absolutely changed the way
that the Bible speaks to me it took on a
whole new life that I cannot describe
and it allowed me to have a new depth in
my sin my relationship with Christ
because I had the time while doing other
things to be able to connect to be fed
and so I don't miss my my my daily
connection I don't miss that scripture
reading and then it also opens the door
for me when I walk in the door and the
kids are like Daddy how was your day
from work my day was great guys can I
tell you okay I'm sitting in traffic
you're not gonna believe what I read in
the Bible did you know and it opens the
door to these conversations and
going back to the concept of being able
to mentor people in their spiritual walk
who are looking to reinvent themselves
and did to get to that next level why
when it comes to your kids yeah let me
tell you they are sponge
they will soak that up well they
absolutely they love to see you coming
home right yes oh yeah we want to tackle
yeah yeah sometimes I get to jump off
the stairs and how cool is it to have
something in your heart that is from
God's Word that you've been able to feed
on in your busy schedule to be able to
pass along to your kids because I know
you want to and they love to hear it
from absolutely especially when there's
this movie going through your head right
yeah it's so good and you know I think
of you know one of the scriptures that
that I have is is Ephesians 6:17 2:18
and this one carries on such a real
tangible feel to it when you think about
your relationship with Christ and it's
take the helmet of salvation and the
sword of the Spirit which is the word of
God God period yeah when you look at
that sentence at first you're going okay
there should be a comma to do what no
it's a statement take the helmet of
salvation and the sword of the Spirit
period that is the epitome of how you're
going to succeed in your spiritual life
and then it continues and pray in the
spirit on all occasions with all kinds
of prayers and requests with this in
mind be alert and always keep on praying
for all the Lord's people and that
scripture fits in for both of us as
we've talked about how do we make our
spiritual life work in our various lives
me busy you and ministry and it's so
relevant for the two of us and I
absolutely love the scripture because it
is the key to having a successful
relationship with God it's simple it's
summed up in two verses and it's all
that you need you need to be saved you
need to daily communion
with God in the word and you need to
pray not just for yourself but for other
people and if you're not doing that let
me encourage you you need to do that God
is going to open the doors of blessing
on your life when you are obedient for
him and I'm sure you see that all the
time in in ministry when people are
faithful to what God has asked them to
do it just goes here you want more let
me bless I think it's fantastic
yes I do I am so thankful for than this
the countless people who like I did and
like most of you have I'm sure like
maybe many of you are deciding you're
gonna do it again it's yeah I'm gonna
I'm going to actually I'm gonna maximize
my day and include in it a time where
I'm unhurried
and I'm just gonna listen to what God is
saying to me as I read his word or as I
listened to his word
it's so fantastic what happens to all of
us in fact Psalm 1 tells us that he who
meditates on the Word of God is like a
tree planted by streams of living water
can okay mister visual have with this
can you see the root system going right
down into streams of living water and
it's just like sucking up all the
nutrients it's not parched it's strong
and that's what happens to me that's
what happens to us when we just take
time to read and the Word of God to
listen to what God is saying to us
through his word like what a privilege
and yes what a difference he makes in
people's lives when we just take the
time to do it John Maxwell is a guy how
great he's noted as one of the finest
leaders in the world and he is and one
of the little secrets he was taught by
his father
was hae-sun and this was back in the day
before audiobooks he says I he says son
here it's one thing I want to tell you
always put a book in your glove box you
never know how much time you can redeem
when you're stuck in traffic and so he
would encourage him when he was stuck in
traffic
to pull out a book and then John Maxwell
goes on to say he goes and when I'm
between meetings
eight minutes between meetings Oh what I
can get done I thought man this is has a
lot to do with just time management
absolutely and here it is that
audiobooks have played a good role in
your life right for that evening that's
I love it so wherever you are at in your
spiritual walk whether you're on the
winning side whether you are sitting on
a plateau looking for a new fresh start
maybe you're just starting out and
you're going I have no clue what this
spiritual relationship with God is all
about I want to encourage you we want to
encourage you yeah pray every day get
into the word and ask God to open your
eyes as to what he has in store for you
and how he wants you to live because
when you can make that conscious
decision it's like going to a gym when
you buy your membership right after the
new year going I'm gonna get healthy but
I'm gonna sit here maybe my bag of
potato chips first huh no you have to be
committed you have to make that
conscious decision to make yourself
healthy spiritually so take this
opportunity and and I want to encourage
you whatever it is that works for you
press into it do it it doesn't have to
be conventional sitting down at the the
table reading your Bible find something
that works for you and your lifestyle
and you're gonna find great success in
your spiritual life great topic great
topic I love it thanks Jeff thank you
okay do you know what's coming up next
oh is that next week that is next week
okay you don't want to miss
No so here's the deal we are going to be
connecting with a couple from Karla who
has given it all up to head to Malawi
Africa to Sprunt
start spreading some seeds of change you
need to kind of check it out next week
to find out exactly what we're talking
about have a great week
catch a new episode of new everyday
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku cody flex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
