welcome to episode number 326 of
category 5 technology TV so great to see
ya it's Tuesday the 17th of december
twenty thirteen i'm robi Ferguson and
I'm Eric Kidd and here's what's coming
up in the newsroom a Bitcoin startup is
raised 25 million in venture capital
money that wasn't for melting game
developers say they want YouTube to
leave gameplay videos online even though
they technically breach copyright and a
green supercomputer has been built at
Cambridge University using just one watt
per 3361 mega flops wowsers xbox one key
sequence to allow 360 games in fact
bricked the console let me reread that
like to pick up my own the last one I
didn't I didn't catch Xbox one thing can
get key sequence to allow 360 games in
fact all rigs the console 360 games
xbox360 I heard about that okay okay
want to hear about it we're gonna make
sense of it in about a half hours time I
suppose so maybe I ought to stick around
and see what comes up later in the show
tonight is a very very special night
it's happy birthday mom
happy birthday have ever done don't I
don't have enough money to pay the
royalty you but she knows that I wish
her happy birthday hello is it a bird
tonight it was a distressing already and
we haven't finished the intro tonight we
are going to be given away more $25 visa
gift cards from ESET and we've got an
amazing show we're going to be teaching
you how to use PHP scripting to control
MIDI files you heard about it last week
this week we're doing it for Dennis
Kelly stick around I'll go anywhere it's
gonna be a great show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha germain des
Hillary rumble
Kristen wells
Eric kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
to secure your company you need
confidence in a trusted solution
technological leadership has made he
sent a pioneer of the antivirus industry
for 25 years continual research and
development has earned us trust in our
solutions
a long record of awards an independent
security testing our proof of this as
are millions of users worldwide
ESET endpoint security solutions for
your business
emerging threats are eliminated by our
unique scanning engine with cloud-based
technology lo system demands ensure fast
and efficient security web control
prevents Network overloads and controls
online activity without easily
manageable solution you can oversee
security on thousands of endpoints from
a single console flexible easily managed
and cost-effective endpoint security
solutions from ESET proven trusted and
from ESET we are giving away $25 Visa
cards good luck to everybody who's in
our chat room if you're not already in
the chat room get in there we got more
to give away tonight Napa polar bear
nice to see a puppy tacos Bob k Dave may
do whoa who do these names flying by
tonight sauce thrift
do I we go this is for a $25 gift card
from ESET and and I know Todd I'm
talking to $25 prepaid visa that's a
cool deal at $25 prepaid Visa friends
check out ESET com or of course if you'd
like to support the shown here in the US
or Canada check out our affiliate link
at five dot TV / ESET the winner of a
visa prepaid $25 gift card courtesy of D
set tonight here we go with the wind
it's picking up I can feel it right
around the bend these are the folks in
our chat room category 5 on frenos a
winner is
bill 777 congratulations bill really you
won a $25 prepaid Visa card courtesy of
ESET check them out ESET com also if you
are in Canada or the US we've got an
affiliate link cat five dot TV / ESET
very use that one and it supports the
show as you as you check them out cool
hey tonight is a very popular night it's
mom's birthday mum's birthday but yeah
Dave majors having a birthday as well
they've made his wife I believe knows
and it's Kelly's way Dennis Kel oh my
goodness really yeah Sam Dave made whose
birthday is today and Dennis Kelly's
wife is today and my mom is today and
chips bit and chips bit yep happy
birthday to all and my son is sweetie or
celebrating two years together they've
gone up for dinner Wow yeah well that's
kind of nice so yeah very good well
happy birthday to December 17 what
started out as a day yeah this is a
really big day so hey okay well where do
we start I got to say it's a packed out
show tonight it's good to see you by the
way been a while night I didn't tell you
I was gonna be here until about three
weeks 57 659 I was here today I was here
early i was here music 51 time is
amazing yeah no it's good it was good
yeah what you been up to there is a
phrase for being almost late it's called
on time sorry hi gang what have i been
up to I've been gigging playing lots of
gigs all over the place I've learned a
couple hours worth of christmas music
i'm doing some gigs in some of seniors
homes I've the old girls love me um and
I've been playing some of the local pubs
and good good I see that is ski resorts
tonight you're tweeting facebooking it
yeah yeah skiing is really happening
here already Emma this has been the best
December anywhere I don't ski yeah but
the resorts have conditions like that
heaven January so it's true we here in
Ontario anyway I've gotten a really good
snowfall we know it's going to be a
white Christmas so I blame it on my kids
oh yeah you don't have money for the
royalties on that whatever no no we
gotta stick to the you know we've got oh
oh holy night on our YouTube channel
Karrie Webb and myself singing that
right it's public domain and still
YouTube gives me a hard time and won't
monetize it that's how like this whole
world of copyrights it makes it in part
this is a royalty-free public domain
song and we still can't monetize because
somebody out there no copy rogue their
web sites you know declare songs you
know public domain and then there's yeah
some like even the one that I played
with you're my pal Chris playing the
cello and I was playing the guitar and
we did skala last year yeah we did have
yourself a merry little Christmas that
one you can't do I wish you could
because you know you told us we could
but i think i'm not sure there was one
of them that I thought oh one one site
said we could and then another site it's
so good I'd like said it was copy still
copyrighted so it's a complex world that
we live we gotta be careful so I'm gonna
throw your zest here next year so if
anyone any copyright agents are watching
but we do our best not to infringe but
this is this just reality just hanging
out yeah and if I happen to have a song
come to mine and I sing the first bar of
I think you're okay with one bird think
once you get beyond 12 notes he's a 12
notice something like that have yourself
a merry little Christmas it's 10 you're
good okay stop right there that's where
I gotta stop okay all right well I want
to give shouts out to everybody who has
contributed to the show this week it has
just been an amazing rollercoaster ride
there have been some checks that have
arrived in our postal box thank you very
very much that's listed on our website
at the footer of the website if you care
to contribute that way I've got some big
news though we have received some
interesting exciting sponsorships and in
fact you may notice if you go to our
website category 5 TV over
days absolutely you should but cat five
dot TV / studio the original length that
was for our indiegogo campaign is now
posting you over to fund raiser and
fundraisers that there's a campaign
there hosted by the crowd funder show
which is our zed are the end of that
isn't it yeah you don't need to worry
about that that's why we have cat five
dot TV / studio the crowd funder show is
a very unique and interesting show on w
u TV fox 29 out of buffalo and it
basically it airs at eleven-thirty on
sunday mornings and they're actually
featuring category five technology TV so
we're actually going to be on the crowd
funder show because they are helping us
to raise the funds to build the new
studio so it's really really exciting
but what's cool for you is if you want
to contribute but you don't necessarily
have the cash to do so or maybe you've
already contributed but you know maybe
the perks whatever here's what's cool
subsidized gift cards so if you
contribute fifty dollars you actually
get a fifty dollar gift card back so
it's really just a reality agent look
you can gift the gift card or for
example give them one hundred dollar
contribution get on one hundred dollar
sears gift card back and then you go
shopping at sears and you spend a
hundred bucks it's here so are you give
it away or sell it or whatever but but
basically you get your money back by way
of gift card which is really cool to me
or if they have lcbo cards that would be
perfect you can just stand outside the
lcbo that's the liquor store in canada
and yeah pedal notarial gives kurtis in
canada yes yeah yeah that's the Ontario
that's what the o stands for all right
but hey that's cat five dot TV / studio
but again I want to thank everybody who
has pitched in also eric rob Gore had
contributed for he wanted to get an 8 x
10 photo of the crew from 16 all sign
and autographs so while you're here I
needed to sign this for for Rob gore so
if you could just grab our ideas bella
and we i said no crystal last week we
got to assume that he's going to put
this golden frame around this so we need
to leave it enough
so I should probably sign across across
my forehead we left a black area at the
bottom oh okay make it easy for people
to time but you can probably sign
anywhere a Rob so where would you like
what would you like best wishes so I
could fill this whole area up here it's
going to be just completely destroyed by
Eric kid and his name is this perks have
gone out a lot of them have you probably
received emails from indy gogo letting
you know but those are progressively
going out this month some of them are
still waiting for them to come and thank
you Eric does he was he for the rest of
the show there you go for Robert
gorsinski there you are and we've got a
bunch going out that are just my
signature to say good day mate because
he sells says a sound like a tour as
well as it now throw another shrimp on
the barbie you mean prawns yes sir so
thank you everyone for your support I
mentioned about the crowd funder show
and here's the thing if you want to be a
part of that fundraiser this is kind of
exciting you can actually have them
interview you by email and you will
actually be a part of that they might
quote you they might use you know quote
from your responses so all you have to
do is send me an email live at category
5 TV just simply tell me who you are as
far as registered on our website the
email address that you don't mind them
emailing at and just a quick verbal yeah
I would love to have you share my email
address with the crowd funder show so
that they can interview me about
category 5 we can ask you some questions
about your viewership here and and what
you think about the show why you think
that we should be run raising the funds
to build the new studio things like that
again just emailed live at category 5 TV
give me your email address your
registered user name and an a okay to
send your email address forward and I
say that because they asked if some
viewers would like to participate and I
said you know what I would love that but
I would never I would never divulge your
poodle is for my hand at your email I
would never do that so this way you get
to actually opt into this as far as
mailings and everything go it's entirely
internal here we would never share your
personal information but if you
authorize me to do so i'll give them
your email address they'll just ask you
a couple questions and that will become
a part of this exciting fundraiser that
they're doing you privacy statement
that's it that's the privacy statement
right there so all right well category 5
technology TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
you got that I've got five dot TV / tpn
also check out our mobile site you're
out there I'm not worried about cat5 TV
we are also a member of the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters and that is cap 50 be /i a
I be cool when you start smells good to
me you want where are we what do we want
to do he's a little different
programming you wanna I'd love to all
right so so team an 810 they're sent us
an email demons is right there okay
otherwise like Mike my glasses are
really caused me a bit of grief today
hmm all right where are we right now
here we go ok I am not seeing the email
from demon 10 it's on it's on your
screen email is a computer medium it's
an amazing did he not just pointed this
and say Rita okay the part where says
Eric Reid question highlighted in green
from d man aight tenets there we go we
have a second question though Robbie you
miserable son of a gun I have a question
eventually but first some back info to
what I have set up I have a Raspberry Pi
running a rass bein debian-based the pie
is set up with a relay board to control
Christmas lights I have it working great
I love the idea so cool it plays MIDI
files of Chris
songs now for the question how can I
make a webpage to pick a MIDI file and
then play it right now i use the CLI to
execute the following command a play
midi minus p 14 song dartmouth I have
all the songs in a folder I just want to
be able to pick a song and play it
another feature might be to cue a bunch
of songs and have them play one more
time I hope that I provided enough info
oh I'm running point linux as my OS but
i would like to use a web page so i can
use my OS on my network thanks Dennis
Kelly Dennis Kelly aka demon a 10 ok
we're gonna do this and I think it's
cool and people say well I don't have
husband of the birthday girl right
indeed yes I don't have this cool
raspberry pi raspbian system connected
to christmas lights that's going to
flicker and light up so why does this
apply to me why should Robbie and Eric
commit the next 20 minutes of the show
to showing Dennis Kelly how to do this
we're going to learn some pretty cool
things that we are we're going to learn
for one how to make PHP read the files
on your file system manipulate you know
the files in an array and also execute
Linux commands in such a way that allows
you from your browser to trigger events
on a linux server so this goes way
beyond Dennis's awesome christmas light
setup which by the way dentists we
expect pictures yeah come on or this
goes way beyond that this is going to be
my own me there you go it could be but
we can use this these techniques these
this this bit of information for so many
different things so where have i got it
here okay I grabbed a couple of MIDI
files because I wanted to be you know
right up there with dennis kelly in his
collection i'm sure he has a few more
than I do there you go in a manger carol
of the bells a little town of Bethlehem
ok so the i have actually slapped those
into / VAR / w w /em ID
for MIDI and the reason I've done that
Dennis Kelly of course we've got an
Apache server installed so I've
installed the PHP 5 package on linux on
debian so you can do the same on your
raspbian box install PHP 5 gives you the
the ability to run apache PHP and you
get the front end and when you go to
local host in your browser localhost it
works that's your web server so get
those files ok so I'm going to go into
my terminal because you've got to be
root in order to use these commands or
to touch this folder bar ww because this
is all owned by root right now by
default and I've said it before we're
not really getting into security stuff
tonight as far as you know we don't need
to teach you about permissions and CA
jones on this because we're working with
a default installation right so with
this therefore if i want to create a
file i can't just you know touch index
dot PHP it's going to say permission
denied I have to do what do I have to do
sudo or I can do what was the command
that I taught you a couple weeks ago
right right exclamation acts clamation
does too is that too labels go previous
or no 11 so then I've got an index dot
PHP now ok so when I loaded my browser
it was loading that index HTML that's it
works right index dot PHP is there now
so if I go / index.php it's just a blank
file because all I did was touch it all
right so nano and again we're going to
need sudo nano index dot PHP and there's
a couple of different things that we
want to do first of all it's a PHP
script so we need to start it and end it
with the PHP opener and closer and we
want to do a couple of things so we know
that we've got a folder dot slash mid
right so we've specified now that folder
is dot slash MIT if I save that file and
exit and do
LS dot slash mid you'll see there's the
output of that okay so it's perfect and
that's because it's relative to my index
dot PHP so there's my index dot PHP mid
is a subfolder of the current folder dot
slash okay sudo nano index dot PHP so
for those of you who are not programming
who aren't fans of programming or don't
want to learn programming bear with us
over the next little bit don't forget
I've got another $25 visa gift card to
give away so stick around but right now
what we're doing is we're going to learn
a couple of really neat things with PHP
I can try to keep it as understandable
as possible feel free to stop me by
pinging Eric in the chat room Eric if
you can keep that up and just keep a bit
of a watch on that okay so what we need
to do here Dennis and for all of you
watching is we need to find out what is
in that folder so we can go dollar sign
handle equals open der if I could type
dot slash mid or in our case we're going
to go dollar sign folder because we've
already specified that so now handle is
going to be a resource handle of that
folder okay so a couple things now first
of all okay so i can do that and then i
can do reader on that but let's just
loop it and go through let's just do it
right from the get-go I kind of want to
teach you what all this stuff does so
I'm kind of going a little bit slow and
backwards but let's actually do the
command make it happen for you and I'll
explain it as we go so what I'm doing is
I'm creating a resource of the folder
that's the all of the stuff that's in
that folder okay that's where that's
what dollar sign handle is it's the
stuff that is now in dot slash mid but
it's in a resource so I can't use it
just yet i need to actually convert it
into something like an array in order to
work through it so what we want to do
i'm using what i'm actually working with
here and i'll encourage you to do this
as well get on over to PHP net
any time you want to learn some new
functions we're looking at opened ER in
order to read the contents of our mid
folder but get over to php.net do a
quick search up at the top right for
open der and when that comes up there
you go opens a directory handle okay so
we're going to use example number two
and that's going to actually help us to
get the contents of that folder so I'm
let's see example two does it exist I
thought so let's try reader example to
have read dirt there you go so read der
is is the other command that we're using
so open door is the first one reader is
the one that's actually going to go
through the handler and and work with it
so the example that we're actually going
to use is in the read der function there
we go ok so that's basically our base
for tonight so while false is not equal
to dollar sign entry equals read der
dollar sign handle and explain all this
don't worry pretty easily yeah okay yeah
that's the right function ok so notice
I'm opening braces and closing the
braces right away so that I don't get
lost within my braces okay so while now
let's back up and look at how this
command is actually working okay first
of all entry equals read the directory
entry for handle so it's actually going
to be dot dot dot away in a manger mid
etc and it's going to do that until as
long as it is not equal to false so as
soon as this no longer outputs anything
is going to break it's going to stop ok
I'm going to post all this information
for you in the show notes for episode
number 326 as well ok so if dollar sign
entry is not equal to here's where we
want to get rid of there's a couple ways
this is the way that the okay the
example says okay if it's a
dot or a dot dot just ignore it because
that's current folder and the previous
folder you're going to see that when you
do an LS right so when you look at a
directory listing you see dot dot dot
but you don't want those to be in your
output there's a couple of different
ways I would actually say if str is tr
so we're going to search within the file
name that's coming bang in the stro yes
so haystack is entry needle is dot mid
so I'm going to try instead we're going
to say if it's a MIDI file it's got a
dot mid in the file and of course we're
not doing an advanced search here it
could be you know if it was called Eric
mid dot txt it would still give a true
but we're presuming that you have some
form of control over the file names of
your files and they're just going to be
dot mid so let's try that let's go echo
dollar sign entry dot PHP eol that's an
end of line so I've press ctrl Owen nano
to save that and now if it worked let's
see index dot PHP yes there you go so
all of the dot mid files have just
outputted is that clear as mud Eric you
can help with this because you you're
familiar with coding quite quite well so
what we've done there is we've specified
dot mil dot slash mid that's the folder
we're going to be looking at then we're
going to open the directory dot MIT
because it's dollar sign folder and
we're going to assign it as a resource
handle called dollar sign handle then
we're going to assign dollar sign entry
as the next item in the directory that
is currently on dollar sign handle so
that will be the first mid file the
second dot mid file but it will also be
anything else in the folder so if there
were any text files in there it would
also show up as a part of this list so
what I've done is I've said know if
search in case sensitive that's where
the eye comes in search in case
sensitive in the dollar sign entry which
is the current file in the current
if it contains dot mid which is a MIDI
file and I based you know you know the
problems with that that I've already
explained it you may want to do some art
trim or some some reg ex or something
this is really quick nitty-gritty then
we can echo that file name so now when
we run that and if we run it in our
browser what was the p2p you'll see my
source file PHP eol means PHP end of
line well so when you see these its
output it and then it's gone to the next
line but it's not like a break it's not
like a carriage return or a br because
as out put it in your browser there's no
carriage return route but there is one
in plain text mode so output to your
your terminal or to the source code so i
could instead change that if i wanted to
make this a list i can say okay up here
we can go echo UL so we didn't either
yeah i did just that it's absolutely no
to do that yep sorry and and the UL
that's an unordered list now here we
could go li and bear with me here
everyone and dennis kelly in particular
because all i'm doing is i'm showing you
what it is that's actually happening
here i save that so now I've got an
ordered an unordered list with those I
darts see because I've assigned them
with a ul and an li and you can see how
that's done in the source code ok so
what we want to do then is dennis kelly
saying okay well we want to be able to
generate a list that we can click and
actually do stuff so there's a couple of
things that have to happen here and
that's okay first of all we need to
understand the command that we're going
to execute to play these files that's
the first step so we're going to step
away from PHP and switch over to bash
mode here and say okay let's exit here
let's look at our mid directory there
are three MIDI files and Dennis Kelly
mentioned that he's using the a plane
midi command in Linux which comes with
point Linux you may need to install it
you can just do so with a sudo apt-get
install so I need to list my
vices my port these are my MIDI ports
that are available you'll see that he's
using MIDI through on port number 14 I
have timidity installed for my for my FM
synthesis so I'm going to actually use
that I'm going to use port 128 so my
commands will differ just ever so
slightly from yours Dennis Kelly let's
take a look again at those file names
there we go away in a manger is one so
if I go a play MIDI and remember i did
add a shell and i saw that my port is
128 and then we'll just put the file
name away in a manger there we go you
should be able to work park there it is
you're a MIDI
good ol midi okay so think about that
you notice how I had to hit ctrl-c to
end it well so how do we work this into
a script because if I have to hit ctrl-c
it's going to freeze up my script it's
gonna lock up in PHP is going to
eventually timeout
alright so what I actually need to be
able to do is I need to pipe that out to
null so there's a few different things
that we would need to do in order to do
that I'll just demonstrate by going and
we're going to actually pipe to dev /
null you're the actual STD air and then
the application itself we need to pipe
as well so pipe the second one dev /
null and then an ampersand to return
back to the terminal and if I run that
you'll see that now I have a PID it's
playing and I can continue about my
business right so then to stop it
done okay so now we have a couple of
commands in the terminal that we can use
in order to control the a play MIDI
command and the files we know the file
names and now we can start playing
around with them so back in our PHP
script now that we know the commands
that we're going to use go back into our
subfolder sudo nano index dot PHP ok so
this couple of different things that we
can do here Dennis we've already started
creating a bullet list and I'd love to
go even further and do select lists and
everything but we are limited for time
so let's just play around and just say
well you know what let's do a select
list can we do that Eric do we have time
sure all right what's it interesting
make it so am I making it interesting
come on all right let's get rid of
always waked in gross laro be good all
right form method equals post I thought
we okay and the farm echo form ok notice
what I'm doing here so those are outside
of that's outside of everything that's
right of your roof yeah if ok or echo
farm okay so we need to select list so
watch what I'm doing here this is easy
breezy out putting an HTML form so we're
going to go this is the name we're going
to call this song okay and with that oh
no you know what we need to do here's
what we need to do and this is the
beauty of live television we're going to
learn the better way right here live I
can actually assign this to an array
dollar signs songs and then that is
going to actually sign 0 1 2 3 as it
goes there we go so now if i print our
dollar sign songs output that i guess i
can leave that open and just refresh my
browser you'll see that the array
is now containing 012 and the reason
that I decided to change my way there is
because we need to have some kind of an
assignment to tell the system which file
to load other than the file name because
for security reasons we're never going
to use the file name because if I ever
say okay open away in a manger dot mid
now I've opened up a big exploit in my
script because someone could forcefully
inject dot dot slash dot dot slash dot
dot slash ET c / you know whatever and
they can start grabbing files that they
shouldn't have access to so we're going
to avoid any kind of injection by
creating an array instead so that we can
now assign just 12 to those songs
without ever without them having any
control over it right if that makes
sense and for those of you who yeah it's
just it's a safety thing okay so now we
know we have an array but we're going to
say okay there could be a case where
there isn't so if is array dollar signs
songs then we're going to actually loop
through it so for each dollar signs
songs as dollar sign ID dollar signs
song okay so now we're creating two
things dollar sign ID is a number 0
through three not through to pardon me
for the three songs and dollar signs
song is the song file name so if dollar
sign get song remember we're going to
assign that from a form which we're
going to create equals dollar sign ID
okay and that again is for security so
people can't inject then we're going to
do a couple of things first of all we're
going to execute the command which stops
all currently playing music because we
don't want to accidentally start playing
three songs at once if I flicked on
Python program that before yeah so we're
going to kill all dash nine and this the
player is a play midi so first of all
we're going to kill it then we're going
to exact and this is where it gets kind
of interesting because we're doing it
with in PHP write a play MIDI and we're
going to tell it to play on port 128 in
my case
and now we need to tell the file name
but we need to put the file name within
quotes absolutely because what if my
file name in my case has spaces in it
right we need to fix that so then we've
now we're going to add the file name
dollars on file name there we go now we
need to pipe it out to Devon all right
we already showed you that in the
terminal no and then we need to pipe out
the the STD err sorry the stdio was the
first and then STD air don't really need
to know all about that but basically
what we're doing is we're telling you to
return back to the terminal or in this
case return back control to PHP okay so
there we go so we've told it to kill any
currently playing MIDI and then launch
this current file name but look there's
a problem file name is what away in a
manger mid right what's missing do you
see it some of you at home may see it
dot dollar sign folder dot slash right
because it's dot slash mid / away in a
manger dot M ID for example okay so and
i spelled exact here wrong you probably
caught that exact what exact does is it
tells PHP that it's allowed to execute a
Linux command so this is actually going
to leave PHP and on the server side is
going to do something in our case is
going to start playing a MIDI file so
now that we've got that in place to
start playing a MIDI file we need to
create a way for it to receive the
instruction to play a MIDI saw a file
which is currently set to underscore get
song we're going to set that to post
instead so we can do this all in the
background without people see it without
people seeing and then we're going to go
echo equal they're cool yeah so good
form if I can type then talk form method
equals post that's what I just changed
okay echo okey doodle
oki google mobile okay so now we know
that it's an array why don't we put it
within that because we know it's an
array okay so we're going to go for each
dollar sign songs as dollar sign ID
dollar signs song so I'm doing this
again I don't really care in this
particular case you can streamline this
okay echo going to leave that as is
we're going to open up a select name
equals song remember we need it we need
that echo select ok so Eric where we
going to do an X we've got a loop on
songs we've got the ID and the song name
so we're now creating a select list
that's a drop down list called song
which is later going to be used by this
to tell us which one to play so we're
going to say okay option value equals
dollar sign ID and then dollar sign song
option
just like that okay except for maybe
we'll spell it right mi it would help we
better add a couple PHP aol's in here
somewhere otherwise we're gonna end up
with this great big long code so that
should give me a drop-down list with all
my file names right so i can select them
now but i can't actually do anything
there's no posting going on so we need
to add a submit button so we'll call it
play in this case right it needs to be
within our forum echo input star type
equals submit value equals play okay
there we go now if i refresh you'll see
that we now have a play button so if I
select away in a manger and hit play
does it executes let's see if there's a
PID for a play midi there is not okay so
let's see where we went wrong okay a
play midi let's grab this command it's a
fun way to determine what's going on
with your script and this is you know
you'll want to do this with my SQL
queries everything so take that exact
command and instead of actually
executing it copy it to our paste paste
our clipboard and echo it so that we can
see and I can exit there we can actually
see what's going on so notice that file
name is missing from the output so
that's why it wasn't able to play so
it's got the doubt the dot slash mint
why is my file name not there let's find
out dollar sign file name ah that's what
I did it's actually dollar sign song see
oh where am I I'm over there
sometimes I think I'm in a GUI nanos
just that good okay dollar sign song
output that I've hit ctrl o to save that
now here I am back at my script refresh
resend what happens is it happen let's
echo that out or go to brief you later
yeah hmm then you have a break in there
what kind of a break are you talking
about oh I thought you were printing
about before you okay alright so let's
echo that out again see what's happening
here resend a play mid a little town of
Bethlehem okay so that looks pretty good
but here's something PHP sometimes and
I'm just guessing this is this is the i
love live broadcasting because we get to
kind of diagnose this together i hope
you enjoy it as much as I do PHP
sometimes doesn't know where to find
stuff unless you specify the actual path
so I'm guessing and I'm hope I'm really
hoping for our sake for tonight that
that's what it is let's type where is a
play midi it's located in slash user
slash bin so if I edit that file and
let's change that
slash user slash bin and I really really
hope that that's what the problem is
we'll see in just a moment here I'm
going to change that back to an exact
statement instead of an echo let's see
ok there's my file list play working
it's not working where's my PID still no
PID hmm let's try that command in our
terminal I'm just copying and pasting
and it works in the terminal so my
command is correct
away in a manger what's that one like so
that works when we do it that way so
what that tells me there's a permissions
thing going on where PHP doesn't have
access to a plane MIDI or possibly the
files let's take a look shot thanks for
to love am I to know how many music is
too low my music exec not exit okay here
we go so what I'm going to do I'm going
to assign a string so we're going to
call this output and let's actually see
what's happening here see what I've done
is I've said okay we're gonna actually
output to output control oh and let's
refresh it's giving me no output
whatsoever did I get that right it's
been a play MIDI got it exec one Eric
what did you do I broke it I thought so
what do you think
Dennis Kelly I know we're close folks I
know we're close an extra quote no we're
going to look at VAR user bin and a play
midi is owned by root wanna play put two
devil done and done no i mean do you
really want to do that yeah I do okay
otherwise it's not gonna return to my
script well
sorry guys come on I'll do what Eric
suggested there nothing ah ok so what do
I do in a case like that here's where
troubleshooting comes in and we say okay
well that stinks what can we do ok so
there's a couple of things I would say
we could output it to a bash script and
we could have what could we use this
should be worth a little food I would
think so but there's some kind of a
permissions thing here Dennis Kelly and
I Anna I I'm not bluffing at all like
I'm not the kind of guy who i'm not
going to pre set everything up on my
system and then make it work on my
system and oh look at Robby he's amazing
because he can make a go all the time
and then you go to try it in your system
and you run into this problem and it
doesn't work that's no good to you what
I'm thinking is if we instead of
executing directly from within the PHP
script we save it to a bash script and
we could have like a cron job that runs
on it on a timer could it be every one
minute say does that make sense to you
Dennis or to those of you at home I'd
love to be able just to do it through
PHP and I think we're on the right track
I really do I think that there there's
just something to do with permissions or
something on the files that's causing us
a headache and maybe it has to do with
my running user for PHP which we can
find that they're running as a super
user in the chair little wave yes but if
I exec who am i right let's see who I'm
actually running as ww data or data
right yes so it could be a permissions
thing because I'm not running as root in
the terminal we're kind of pressed for
time to know you don't really want a
pseudo no no you would do that no
security so what I would do instead is
perhaps output to a file and
run it on a cron job do you know how to
do that dentist I know it's kind of like
a half of a tutorial when it doesn't go
exactly right and I'm sorry but so if I
instead of exit exact create a bash SH
file and have it set to chmod plus X and
in that file it has to do two things one
it's got to be well it's got to be a bin
slash bash file it has to run the
command the a play mid dash p + and so
on just like we've created and it has to
delete itself it has to be a
self-destructing file guest 11 327 in
the chat room is made a good point as we
could try running through our terminal
let's do it I'm going to put back I want
to return oh let's see we've already
created it as a select list ah if only
it was just getting commands from the I
can't do it it can't do it you
understand what I'm saying it's a select
list so I can't do it through the I
can't exle it shows you the 80 minutes
long but it's gonna be a hundred and
sixty minutes no but what's gonna happen
is I'm going to finish the script and
get at work and I'm going to put it
online for you on episode number 326 is
show notes but I hope that still you
kind of learned a couple of fun little
things Dennis we're going to get to the
bottom of it I think though making a
bash script running a cron job it's a
self-destructing script so if it looks
for the file let's say it's in / TMP /
initiate music Sh it runs that every
minute and it deletes itself as soon as
it's finished running so it's not going
to run more than once and it will only
get created when you change the song
playing so it would take up to a minute
for it to change songs because of the
cron job but it would work how many
songs your moon well maybe these little
MIDI files wait I'm just saying it's
just an idea so interesting concepts
failure on my part in some ways Dennis
Kelly all right
I do believe Dennis will get over I
think so we're going to lead a
relatively normal life yeah and be sweet
to his wife was having a birthday a
lonely yeah those so so I think what I
think we've learned something tonight
it's not always beautiful and perfect
guys I wish I had more time to just
tinker with it I know that I'm close
you've been no help at all I have been
no help at all I've been sitting here
chatting with kids and having a good
time should we do new soon you ready for
it I I think we should he's interrupting
me it's some coffee yeah there you go
what do you have for us well here's the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room one coin base a startup that lets
people trade bitcoins is raised 25
million in venture capital funding the
largest by a Bitcoin startup Bitcoin a
virtual currency has been attracting a
lot of interest and its value surprised
$1,000 recently backers of the currency
which is not controlled by regulars have
been pushing for its increased usage
coinbase said it will use the funding to
educate the market and promote the
mainstream adoption a bit point Bitcoin
the firm asset in the blog post we are
nearing a tipping point for broad
adoption of Bitcoin what we at coinbase
believed to be one of the most important
shifts in the global economy in our
lifetime well this is a wild stuff
bitcoins yeah yeah that's a lot of cash
yeah major games publishers have offered
their support to fans who have had
gameplay clips removed from YouTube due
to illegitimate copyright claims changes
in the way Google owns YouTube scans
videos has caused a spike in clips being
taken down don't I know it but Capcom
blizzardon Ubisoft or we soft all said
they wanted footage of their games
remain on
gameplay videos are extremely popular on
YouTube with some channels having
millions of subscribers technically
uploading footage is a breach of
copyright however many publishers see
the clips as useful and effective means
of promotion for their games I would say
so it's like free advertising for data
indeed but how interesting that they're
standing up for it where do we draw the
line so Google is getting ridiculous
with their copyright enforcement to the
point that even we are having trouble
right now with Google + and we like I
jokingly say off the top of we were so
careful and and we really are but we
have a lot of content on the show we
bring up websites and we can't control
you know when we bring up a website what
advertisement is on there and stuff like
that so you know don't hit us for that
it gets a little ridiculous really does
well it happens apparently a
supercomputer that is the greenest of
its kind has been built at Cambridge
University it's it's actually more blue
to me it does look pretty blue huh that
was just corny okay so right now wilkes
named after computing pioneer Morris
Wilkes will be used for the development
of square kilometer array ska when the
complete when complete the ska will be
the biggest radio telescope ever made
the computer's power is the equivalent
of four thousand typical desktop
computers all working together the
University said well in some way off
being the most powerful in the world it
ranks 160 sixth wilk was built to be
efficient rather than powerful it has an
energy efficiency of 3361 mega flops per
watt what that's what I said that's
crazy what was what that's another
really bad one title it's really bad
he's on a roll late is it not true
though that my nightlight uses for watts
I don't know these guys have more been
in your bedroom now just normal
nightlight have no idea what your night
like this is for one of mickey mouse on
there saying with one over got a captain
kirk on with one watt they will do three
hundred and three thousand three hundred
sixty one mega flops dots of data that's
more mega flops than blackberry in the
past three years well if only a watt of
power you are you saying the torch was a
fault ah Wilkes comes in second place on
the green 500 ranking of the most
efficient energy efficient computers
however the legal machine built by a
team in Tokyo requires an oil cooling
system whereas Wilkes is cooled using
air making the most efficient of its
kind a lot of people standing on sorry
Xbox one owners are being warned about
an internet prank message that could
wreck their console the prank message
falsely claims to enable the new console
to play games made for his predecessor
the xbox 360 according to Microsoft the
xbox one cannot play those older games
and those following the bogus advice
could brick their console rendering it
inoperable Frank originated on a forum
on 4chan a humor and discussion site
known for playing pranks on the naive
and gullible Here I am a message posted
to one of its forms adopted a series of
button presses menu choices and ID
details required to turn an xbox one
into a device that can be used by
developers who need to test games for
the console unfortunately anyone
following the advice who is not natural
Xbox game developer and who did not have
a real ID but for their console into an
endless startup loop worse there is no
way to undo the damage once the console
has been bricked that's crazy talk no
control-alt-delete here kids they
actually put a kill switch in their
console and they don't expect people to
exploit that and they did it as a prank
might as well have been Sony saying hey
enter this into your console and all of
these xboxes done that's crazy maybe it
was okay yeah you can get the false
stories at category 5 TV / newsroom
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy wa ash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think is worthy of on-air
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm Eric
Kidd thank you so much Eric this is
category 5 technology TV check out our
website triple w category 5 TV so nice
to have you here Eric did you hear
steamos the betta is here tomato is here
this is exciting no really about it
really it is imagine being able to
imagine being able to build your own
bleeding edge gaming console that's what
steamos is basically giving to the
community well their website store dot
steampowered.com / steam OS you can
actually download the betta it gives you
instructions on how to build your own
gaming unit and you're good to go I
guess but see manufacturers are gonna
start picking up on this they're going
to build nice sleek yeah steam-powered
video game consoles with controllers and
everything but I mean when you can build
your own and just integrate with your
computer or whatever pretty exciting
stuff well Tennessee frank says yeah is
it Louis I think it's exciting I it's a
transition in the way that we do console
gaming when we can build our own or get
open source gaming consoles I've got
some visa cards these are the real deal
folks visa pre-loaded thank you to ESET
at ESET com or our affiliate link cat
five dot TV / ESET and you know what
that music means got another one of
these to give away to the chat room get
in there Sansa riff Phil you
okay Albuquerque Durkee OPC again
dreamer I am tech here we go folks we
are just to go to the time for tonight
but we want to give you another $25 visa
gift card hate jot I can't even keep up
with them at this speed folks Tennessee
Frank I saw you there Steve we Mick
Kirby you're able to help me keep up
here wowzers who's going to win a $25
gift card from these statutes this is
the this is a prepaid Visa card could be
it could be any any one of you see one
stand on the chat room right now and
let's let's find out who wins this thing
it's a visa gift card from ESET and the
new one congratulations new on to our
two winners tonight all you have to do
is get an email out to us live at
category five dot TV we need to actually
send you these things because their visa
cards it's not like something I can
email you it's an actual prepaid credit
card kind of thing so just pop me an
email with your full mailing address so
that i can pop this in the mail they're
ready to go I just got to add the
postage and stick them in for you so
don't forget live at category 5 TV in
order to claim your prize and your
mailing address to send that out to you
so congratulations to everybody who won
tonight we've got more to give away next
week plus you can win a free copy of
Wirecast 5 pro that's the broadcasting
suite that we use here at category 5
technology TV it turns your computer
into a broadcasting mega computer it's
awesome camera switching everything and
we're going to be giving away a
professional copy all you have to do is
email live at category 5 TV your subject
line should be something along the lines
of I want Wirecast send me your
registered user name in the body of the
email as we always need and that's all
we need from you in order to qualify it
you for for that awesome prize awesome
want to say hi to our newly registered
viewers you've got the list there maybe
you can work that out for me quite a few
this week hey that's a minute does the
new list there you go there it is hey we
have press m510 hey Chris and Deb Club
not like dub club
like that so it's def bucks diplo not
dumb got it now this could be you do be
or you Dobie all right Dave tacky hey
alias alias also known as name yeah Rafi
Cruz Miller and Nicki hey Nikki hey
they're keeping it simple yeah that one
was easy I was easier oh maybe sneak I
Laura could be could be making I think
thanks for being here buddy good to see
ya nice to see you next week lots going
on we got more of those visa gift cards
to give away from ESET knock knock who's
there Microsoft like resolve to it's not
really Microsoft it's actually a scammer
calling you and pretending to be
Microsoft trying to get into your
computer we're gonna be talking to I
know cheese right Sandra made us is here
we're gonna be talking to Dale pearson
from subliminal hacking he's me talking
to us all about those scams that are
calling up everybody I'm trying to trick
them into giving them access to your
computer your personal information
friend I don't we're going to see the
light it though they're gonna we're
gonna actually see the footage of this
scam going on in real time well don't
miss it that's happening next week so
we're at a time when we're sorry I don't
wanna hang out you know I know we're
gonna hang out Britain you can hang out
we're in the chat room category five on
three notes we'll see you there a great
week everybody see you next time
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
