first of all looking at the news this
week we're hearing about how Linux is
being pulled from a lot of government
computers and and being replaced with
Microsoft Windows and it made me think
about your you're getting into your
college courses and everything else and
and what is it like for an end-user
who's not like a Linux guru to to use
Linux because I think that's really
what's happening is that a lot of the
users who have Windows machines at home
they go to work and it's a linux machine
and they don't quite know how to use it
and so they've been complaining for 15
years kind of thing and so they're
switching them back to Windows just to
appease the masses but what's it like
for someone like yourself you know
you're starting a college course and
they present you with all the course
curriculum and it's all windows-based
well it hasn't been an issue so far
because I've been using LibreOffice for
a decade right so I already know that I
have to be sure to save it as a doc X
file rather than no D T otherwise other
people can't open it if they're using
Windows so I already know to do that I'm
already familiar with it I think for me
it would be the opposite if I had to
suddenly use a Windows computer I
wouldn't be familiar with Microsoft Word
or Excel because I haven't used those in
so many years so it would be the
opposite for me so the cost and the
expense of them switching government
computers from Linux to Windows simply
on account of people don't know that hey
you can just save it as a docx mm-hmm in
order to make it compatible with
Microsoft Office this yeah if you didn't
know that then you'd always be dealing
with well I can't open that phone yeah I
don't have word well does it really
matter like do you find that it's a
hindrance when your professor sends you
a task and says hey do this PowerPoint
presentation well I don't have
PowerPoint right it hasn't been an issue
so far but I do have one course coming
up that's going to be learning Excel
okay so it's gonna be all assignments
done on Excel which means I'll be using
the Linux version I forget what it's
called a Libre
this calc calc that's right so I don't
know I don't yet know if that's gonna be
an issue because I don't know how
similar the interfaces are so it might
be easy for me to figure it out
on Linux versus what's being
demonstrated in class but because I
haven't taken that class yet I don't yet
know I think I think it might be a bit
of an issue as I'm first learning it
yeah once I get the hang of how to use
the Libre calc it probably won't be a
problem after that yeah I think the the
Excel clone if you will is is very very
good like I'm I'm always impressed with
it I think they've done a great job
Libre Office of making a Microsoft
Office alternative oh yeah it looks the
same certainly looks pretty similar you
know you're used to you use a
libreoffice writer' for writing and you
collaborate with people who use
Microsoft Office on Windows and how has
that been
as far as transferring files back and
forth and you editing a word document on
LibreOffice for exam well when they send
me a Microsoft Word file it just opens
no problem but when I send them a file I
made like I said I make sure it's the
doc X file rather than dot ODT yeah
because otherwise they wouldn't be able
to open it that's too easy yeah that
really is too easy any any issues that
you've encountered as far as
compatibility between the Windows and
Linux counterparts
I haven't well like I said I haven't
really encountered issues yet I I think
there might be some issues with Excel
but I don't yet know let's do a surprise
we'll circle back to this because I
think because it's a course it's an
Excel course that's I can understand the
hesitation the fear of getting into an
Excel course without Excel yeah people's
minds if it's like oh well I can do
everything the same yes I do I do
equations you've seen my like
cryptocurrency portfolio and everything
on on Excel yeah it looks the same so as
long as the navigation is pretty similar
so that it's not hard for me to figure
out where it is in Libra versus my cells
a mess
yeah we did encounter one issue which
was was it was it in it was in calc
wasn't it no it was where where were we
having trouble with fonts only in that
you you it was a and of the course that
you had to have Times New Roman
yeah just essays and things are supposed
to be in time German writer didn't have
time seems like word right right you
didn't have the required font so we had
to download the font so on Linux you
simply even download than the now it's
the MS core fonts I think there's a
package anyways that gives you the
Microsoft fonts and installs it but the
the reason for that is that Microsoft
created fonts and included them with the
Windows operating system and so a
Windows course is going to say use these
fonts because on their Windows machine
they have all these fonts like Arial and
Times New Roman comic sans ms and if
they ever tell you to use that laugh in
their faces but so it on Linux it
doesn't come with that because it's a
Microsoft product but you can install it
easily enough it wasn't hard for us to
do that
so I'm gonna made it compatible for you
so that's cool well circle back I'd love
to circle back and find out how things
turned out on oh there was a similar
issue with the PowerPoint the font I
used when you opened it right font was
messed up so yeah it wasn't messed up
per se it was it was kind of like some
of the bullet points were overlapping
some of the paragraphs and things like
that but it was really really active
resolved
so I guess moving a file it'd be
interesting to see you know if you open
that file on we're a Windows machine in
PowerPoint would it open differently I
guess the issue would be if you sent in
the file not knowing it would not show
up properly for the other person you'd
want to be sure before you send it in
and that can have and that's probably
why the course directors say use Times
New Roman because they make the
assumption that everyone's on Windows
and so with that assumption it's safe to
say that everyone has times new roman'
so by saying that they're not saying
Times New Roman is a great font because
it doesn't really seem appropriate for
screen display it's more for like
newspapers but by saying it they know
that everyone's document is going to
come in and it's going to display the
way it displayed on their computer hmm
this is the same font but but that's
really just by a by default but so that
could be part of it anyways but let's
circle back in a couple months and see
how that how that shaped up for you we'd
love to hear from you as to your
compatibility experiences as well
we're very Len linux centric here at the
show and our household is very very lan
eccentric I think we've got one Windows
machine just and that's only as of late
and it's probably been the most trouble
of all the computers on the network
yeah we're dealing with idiosyncrasies
of Microsoft Windows and telly figure it
out yeah like do you want to tell we're
like you have to in order to get Netflix
to work you have to click on the start
button first uh-huh
welcome to Windows 10 it makes no she we
he didn't figure that out our 13 year
old daughter figured that
[Music]
[Applause]
