here are the stories recovering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Microsoft has ended production of Kinect
its motion tracking games controller it
may sound like an April Fool's prank but
no Amazon really does want you to want
to give you that their delivery drivers
a key to your house a Google company
chose Toronto Ontario as the building
site for its new futuristic city a
Microsoft rep had to switch to Chrome
during a presentation because edge kept
crashing and remember the robot that
said it would destroy humans well it
just became the first robot to gain in
the world to gain citizenship these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Westin Gelman
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
aren't you my your terrible actor what
this where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act
okay are you building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost to sign up
for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman in
here the top stories were following this
week
its motion tracking games controller
Microsoft has confirmed that the gadget
originally sold as an add-on for the
Xbox 360 console and later bundled with
Xbox one will no longer be manufactured
this will bring an end to a player
sensing platform that was sometimes
finicky Microsoft was careful to note
however that support for the device as
well as development of new software for
the hardware by third parties will not
see an abrupt end the news hardly comes
as as as a surprise though given
Microsoft's push in recent years for
augmented and virtual reality
Microsoft is aggressively pushing games
developers towards its more powerful and
immersive not to mention lucrative
Windows mixed reality VR headsets for
their new titles while the few business
use cases there were for the Kinect are
being moved over to the hololens
Microsoft has already distanced the
Kinect from the Xbox with new consoles
no longer being bundled with the sensor
bar so what business use cases was there
for Kinect yeah picture it like gaming
like dance dance dance revelution and
write stuff I think really what it boils
down to is like you think about an
immersive environment where an engineer
for example can work with blueprints and
it like think a Minority Report oh where
you can you know use hand gestures to
move things around and be able to move
them around but being off of the screen
and into hololens now you can actually
maneuver holographic looking also is
that what hololens is hololens just is
holographic like actual essentially like
from the wearer's perspective hololens
is a VR headset Oh Microsoft's brand but
what's different about it unlike oculus
rift or HTC's units and things like that
it is not
virtual reality in that it's not like
you can't see anything else
typical virtual reality oculus and so on
are a screen in front of your eyes right
hololens what's different about it is
that they are clear lenses in front of
your eyes so you're seeing the region
and then it's augmenting that world with
virtual holograms
so you see around you all these other
things great they're not actually there
so it's a different environment all
together right you can see that hololens
could work really really well in an
engineering kind of scenario think about
architecture things like that I would be
fantastic and there's no limit to what
could be you know the creativity of the
programmers and what they could do with
hololens right tarnishing naming I have
I have a big problem though with the
fact that if everything is VR headsets
or even holo lenses right then with
gaming how do you share your gaming
experience with other people in the room
obviously everyone brings their own I
can't lift that would be awesome
no typically what would be done and
you've you've built your gaming computer
you've got four 4k video outputs on that
card plus a DVI output and you can do
mirroring so for example if you plugged
in an oculus rift and did video gaming
right and the wearer is interacting in a
virtual space but the people in the room
could be watching it simultaneously on
the 60-inch TV okay that's important for
me because I'm a I'm a game connoisseur
in the watching fashion game but I love
watching the kids and I love the
excitement behind it exactly but it
would be a little bit bland if I was
just watching somebody with a VR headset
on I'm just moving around in a room what
do you see what do you see what you just
do yeah okay so it all is not lost
no it should be actually it's another
way this is crazy
yeah
it may sound like an April Fool's prank
actually but Amazon really does want to
give their delivery drivers a key to
your house the new Amazon key system
allows delivery personnel to drop off
packages inside Prime members homes
providing secure home access when the
homeowner is not available
Amazon key works in two parts choosing
in-home delivery while checking out on
Amazon and providing access to your home
through Amazon's new key and home kit
which includes a smart lock and a
special version of the company's new
cloud camp security camera the
old-school method of leaving a key
underneath your doormat is inconvenient
and often anxiety inducing as well so
Amazon believes its new lock in camera
system will make accessing your home
when you're not around more secure
Amazon delivery employees aren't given a
passcode to enter the home rather they
request access into the home and
Amazon's records verify that the
employee is at the right address at the
right time
Amazon key will launch on November 8th
and 37 cities around the u.s. and works
with same day one day to day and
standard shipping orders you know what
which one of you watching at home or
yourself has ever put a key under a rock
under the you know in the front garden
and told Amazon to put your things in
the house never ever never ever have you
know yeah goodness me I don't want
Amazon walking into my house no I will
tell my neighbors sometimes if there's
something big that's coming I'm not here
leave it with Joe next door exactly
but Amazon in my house like how how is
it that the employee requests access to
the house even well it's a smart lock oh
they would have some way of you know
they're tracked by GPS by Amazon and
Amazon you know call center is in
control of your lock so when the
delivery person arrives then all of a
sudden your cloud cam turns on and so
you can see on your app that hey the
delivery person is there you can
actually see them entering the
and Amazon will actually unlock the door
for remotely remotely right yeah in a
very secure situation they don't
literally have a key or a key code right
they walk up to the door GPS says to
Amazon headquarters hey they're here
with the delivery and they punch in
whatever in there their mobile device
and then Amazon opens the door there is
no way that that's not hackable it
really does seem like an app like a
April Fool's joke like it was not
November I remember in the old days it
beside your house yeah thank me a box
there was one of my in my childhood home
there was I think it was like a milk
delivery box to be honest they opened
just one little part and they and
there's like a compartment in the side
of your house and I'm through they can't
well and it's just big enough for
parcels yeah exactly I don't know I can
see you know we've talked about people
stealing Amazon packages from people's
front porches and stuff but really you
know that that really has to be our
responsibility to just like any delivery
system for for me I opened a postal box
I get all my parcels delivered to the
postal box and then I don't have to be
there right and it saves me a lot of
trouble so homeowners then if you have a
theft in the house any time after you've
had a package delivered what is your
insurance gonna cover because you've let
somebody you don't know into the house
and perhaps that person themselves would
have some sort of claim saying well yes
I was just delivering a package but that
doesn't save them from telling somebody
else let's go
I mean assume assuming you're cloud cam
is active and working uh-huh you can see
what's going on you can see who it is
that's entering the house so at least
you give it that right well you know I
think about stuff like what if the dog
gets it what if you know this or that or
I don't know I just I'm not for it I am
NOT for what do you think comment below
please do I have an idea Amazon actually
why don't why doesn't Amazon just sell
like boxes that you can screw to the
side of your house or a fix somehow
there are a lock box will step back to
the 60s right not not a problem at all
Amazon box that they have a key to oh my
gosh see there you go you have that goes
on this box outside of your house
exactly
garbage bin and they just put your stuff
in there and then they lock it when they
leave that's what I'm saying
bring it on Amazon
random delivery people access to my home
Google know Amazon bin gonna call it
patent that register.com do it now okay
in awesome technology news
Google's Irvine innovation offshoot
looked at hundreds of international
cities before choosing Toronto's East
Waterfront as the best site for using
technology to radically remake the
modern city Dan Doctoroff chief
executive of new york-based sidewalk
labs said his two-year-old company
looked across North America Western
Europe and Australia for the best place
to try new ideas including self-driving
buses and mass production modular homes
intended to solve major problems of
urban live living such as high housing
costs commute times social inequality
climate change and even cold weather
keeping people indoors sidewalk labs
settled on Toronto for several reasons
including unequal diversity and spirit
of openness a booming tech sector and
three levels of government that are
committed to a waterfront Toronto's
unfolding redevelopment plans for 800
acres of East downtown land Doctoroff
said his company will spend 50 million
dollars on a year long discussion
starting at a public meeting held today
with citizens governments universities
and others about what projects what the
project dubbed sidewalk Toronto should
be Google Canada will move it to
Richmond Street headquarters to the area
sidewalk labs says it would have an
insatiable appetite for partnership with
other companies including local tech
startups as well as universities and
others on the build bailed out officials
stressed that all plans are tentative
until the end of the consultations
nevertheless the sidewalk labs winning
submissions paints a futuristic picture
trays
rotation would be provided by small
self-driving taxi BOTS controlled by app
services with self with self-driving
buses to follow an already planned
waterfront light rail line would link
new communities with surrounding areas
the flow of people would be monitored
and maximized by computer sensors
constantly analyzing data instead of
city garbage trucks rumbling through
streets robot vehicles would move waste
and other goods through underground
tunnels weather mitigation features
including windshields and possibly
heated surfaces could double the time
people spend outside and encourage
cycling and walking there are big
questions and challenges some worry that
Google which makes money with data about
people's lives could use the new project
in a way that jeopardizes privacy
sidewalk labs documents that were
released last month don't dispute that
such data will be collected but do try
to lessen such concerns with assurances
that security and privacy protection
will be part of the new infrastructure
lots of concerns there like lots of
really cool stuff happening right I
think like the future city is the future
but what about putting Google in
government basically like where who
elected Google to be the government of
this future city do you know yeah I do
know what you mean
yeah it's the money that good that
elected Google yes yeah me yeah
but ya understand that like they're
gonna have to be granted basically
blanket ability to run this community
right to be the government of this
community essentially true and if that
happens well who you know what what what
does democracy have to say about that
and our voting you know who are we
voting for say you know not to get
political but there are concerns I think
that are quite valid there from a
technological standpoint right so cool
very cool one one question I really have
about that story was social inequality
being
changed by technology which doesn't
exactly like it sounds like a little bit
of like pretty talk to me like why would
they say that why would they just add
that in when how how can that how would
that work I can see some other things
right like yeah you mentioned that in
immediately you know I know social
inequality but the word socialism comes
to mind and I start to you know wonder
is it is it a utopian society is that
what they're trying to build are they
trying to build something where nobody
is for want and everybody is taken care
of or you know what's the deal right
they talk about and the you know the
papers have talked about like the
release papers that Sidewalk labs have
released discuss low-income housing and
the ability for anyone can afford to
live here and and it's designed so that
everybody has access the transportation
system is accessible and able to
accommodate everyone from all different
walks of life so how are you going to
get a spot there because there's not
going to be a limit right so that's just
a starting point the the idea is to
expand this right like the future one
thing I love about this and I saw a
video a long time ago about solar
roadways and I feel like perhaps this is
the time right where that could actually
happen yeah great and that's a cool idea
to where the you know the solar panels
in the roadway are able to absorb the
sunlight during the day and then feed it
back into the infrastructure at other
times or even feed it back into electric
cars and vehicles and things like that
right there is the thought to that if
they're doing away with garbage trucks
they're doing away with garbage truck
drivers if they're doing away with again
socialism comes to mind right I thought
that hey you know robots can do the job
for us we can just enjoy life and live
for different purposes in a way right
you know live to live right to work
right I do love the idea of garbage
being taken away by garbage BOTS
underground tunnels which also means
that you could probably get your Amazon
order
through undergrad which is amazing
Amazon underground register.com
we're ideas today okay a Microsoft rep
has been caught on video switching from
edge to chrome in the middle of a sales
pitch because the native microsoft
browser kept crashing on him the
presentation was designed to show
customers how easy it is to migrate apps
and data to Microsoft Azure except it
would seem that that's not the case if
you're using Microsoft's own web browser
edge nice edge hangs that unknown
Microsoft demonstrator says I always
love it when demos break so while we're
talking here I'm just gonna install
Chrome he chuckles as the audience
breaks into a nervous ripple of applause
it's all very charming and friendly and
everyone is on the same side but it
still makes for slightly cringe-worthy
watching he goes on to complete the demo
in the competitors browser to a course
of giggles from the audience
Microsoft edge is currently way behind
its rivals in terms of market share in
particular Google Chrome it has a far
less developed ecosystem and the number
of bells and whistles and add-ons is far
less than the competition with some also
claiming the performance is bad however
for a company that is still trying to
convince the business market that it is
is really a really good idea switch from
windows 7 to Windows 10 Microsoft
employees giving up on the company's
default browser because it crashes well
running the default cloud interface is
not going to instill much confidence Wow
true so true that is crazy and funny and
crazy kudos to him I mean good job on
just you know what we're all people like
I mean you've got a you've got to go
with what works but you know it doesn't
that say a lot about edge I know and the
poor people that you know get Windows 10
and don't know to install Chrome
mmm-hmm stuck with edge ouch right why
would businesses be reluctant to switch
from 7:00 to 10:00 Windows 7 well you
remember when Windows XP ended and you
know there are still people running it
for the next five years it just is it's
hard to it's hard to switch paradigms
for one thing but it's costly you think
about an industrial business that has
CNC machines and big equipment that is
powered by Windows 7 and then tell them
oh by the way I know you just bought
this five years ago but you need to
upgrade just because we've changed
software but the computer still work the
CNC machines still work no I'm not doing
it so you get this real hesitation that
you we're not going to invest another
you know $100,000 in equipment and
upgrades and then IT support just
because Microsoft says so so that you
get this kind of a kid mentality like no
I'm not doing it you know but also I
think that you know why why do they not
want to switch to Windows 10 I think
they see stuff like this right because
it keeps happening I think my laptop you
notice my laptop is not on the desk
because I haven't had time to fix it
after the anniversary update right
because it completely
it won't even boot anymore so in a
business when I hear these kinds of
things and I have a hundred employees
under me and I say are we all gonna roll
up to Windows 10 and hope for the best
or are we gonna keep using what we know
where we know what we've invested
software dollars on it kind of begs the
question like don't they have enough
money to make it good like what why is
it so yeah why is it so underdeveloped
wise edge versus chrome like why isn't
it working it doesn't make sense to me
with a company that has that it seems
like limitless resources why is there
there default web browser behind time I
mean you ever think about chrome and the
the release system in the development
platform that Google has for that
browser and you know you've got pretty
much weekly updates happening to Chrome
now look it now enter that market now
try to bring out a new browser in that
market and try to be competitive
a browser that has been in development
for many many years and is getting
weekly updates and getting features
added weekly and then try to enter that
and compete against that good luck
you're going down right if they weren't
Microsoft they'd be they'd already be
we're gone yeah so then why bother cuz
they want control they want that
monopoly without saying monopoly that's
true we want everyone to be running our
software mm-hmm that's crashes and then
turns delacro fantastic Oh in March last
year an empty eyed humanoid robot named
Sophia was asked during a live
demonstration at the South by Southwest
festival do you want to destroy humans
please say no and with a blank
expression Sophia responded okay I will
destroy humans and now a year and a half
later Sophia has become the first robot
in the world to be granted citizenship
Saudi Arabia bestowed bestowed
citizenship upon Sophia ahead of the
future investment initiative held in the
kingdoms capital city of Reeder on
Wednesday Sophia told the audience I am
very honored and proud of this unique
distinction this is historical to be the
first robot in the world to be
recognized with a citizenship it didn't
elaborate on the details of its
citizenship at the event
Sophia also addressed the room from
behind a podium and responded to
questions from moderator and journalist
Andrew Ross Sorkin questions pertained
mostly to Sofia status as a humanoid and
concerns people may have for the future
of humanity in a robot run world Sophia
told Sorkin you've been reading too much
Elon Musk and watching too many
Hollywood movies don't worry if you're
nice to me I'll be nice to you treat me
as a smart input/output system she did
not say what would happen if he was not
nice to her fortunately for the human
race the Sophia robot made
months that it wanted to use its
artificial intelligence to help humans
live a better life and that it will do
its best to make the world a better
place
Wow okay got in there
there's Wow okay first they made a
humanoid robot and they named it Sophia
but that doesn't make it she right or he
a female it does not like no right
exactly like I'm having a little bit of
problems with it you're still a man
through Morse yeah it's like an
anthropomorphic fallacy thing it's an it
Sophia cool name for an it but it's not
but then it's a citizen now
right so that crosses some weird divide
too and and why is this just for
publicity is it what yeah I don't know
the motivation behind today it's weird
because then like to its progress and I
know that robots are you know a key
focus point yeah if it's artificial
intelligence right so that means that
somebody somebody's obviously
programming Sophia Hanson robotics right
so and so then if keep like now if
Sophia's seen as this individual
free-thinking citizen robot the citizen
mean is it individuality or just does it
even mean in this case can a bridge be
married right you know like but I think
as a free-thinking artificial
intelligence it is a hard line to to
really draw right because when when she
responds even though it seems like you
know semi can dance or sometimes mm-hm
are they can dancers or is this AI
actually thinking and responding in the
way that it feels that it would and I
think it is because you know that's what
happened a year and a half ago when it
responded it okay
I'll destroy humans by becoming a
citizen well
it's it seems weird and then what sort
of regulations are going to be put on
like do you pay taxes I know in some
cases Oh gates thinks that they should
right do they vote and who program that
vote in citizens can vote right in Saudi
political views of a robot right yeah I
mean and in some countries there's a
huge divide as far as like gender roles
so in that case - there's a huge now
being you know where where she is I
guess it's a fine fine detail but
there's a there's a real uproar right
now because she it is considered a she
right in a place of the world where you
know the uproar involves things like her
face is not covered right stuff like
this exactly does this robot have more
rights as a female than a female right
and that's a whole other can of worms
that is erupting right now over this
whole thing it's just it's slightly
unsettling to me not slightly it's
unsettling it for somebody who loves
quietly if Jeff was here he's he
agreeing with you I know somebody who
loves robots I love robots as robots
sure I don't love robots yeah I don't
love robots being citizens having rights
at like this robot would have the right
to vote I would assume being that it's a
citizen yeah well that's a real big
question yeah what are your thoughts I
think we're just gonna have to open this
one up folks so if you're watching this
on youtube if you're watching this on
our website category 5 TV please comment
below if you're watching through cable
TV or somewhere else where you can't
comment just get on over to our website
category 5 dot TV and send us a note
we'd love to hear from you it's just too
too big to really get into it my brain
is just blown big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news for the slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
Rickman
[Music]
