we're gonna look at windows 1030 feeling
some folks have said why is a Linux
centric show looking at windows right
why does this happen pourquoi well and
it's just the simple case and if you're
watching this on Linux tech show comm
for example you're saying why are they
talking about Windows 10 well because a
lot of folks use it and we're genuinely
here to help and we want to make it
easier for all users but hey we will say
hey if you're not happy with Windows 10
why don't you switch to 2 or Linux Mint
or you know what happen so just keep
that in the back of your mind when they
say hey don't forget to try Linux Mint
that's what we're here for
but we're gonna look at an issue that
you encountered this week and a lot of
other people have come across this after
a recent update on Microsoft Windows 10
and that is this bad boy I was so
confused when I saw that it's like I'm
thinking Windows 8 fives you know when
they came out with the phones remember
the highly yeah it was horrible so when
you see that up on your screen you're
like okay well I'm gonna click on my
Start menu right yeah three two one
click three two one click I know and it
does nothing windows why click what do I
do where I like I right clicked on a
whole bunch of those tiles and start and
I hid them I thought maybe that would
help try hiding them yeah did you try
turn it off and on again
yeah I a lot of things and you're not
the first and so when when you
encountered it this week I was like
there's something odd here yeah because
I've been getting a lot of folks saying
this is how my computer looked after
today's update mmm-hmm and so you start
clicking around you're trying to figure
it out and you're gonna laugh at how
incredibly simple it is to fix this
problem okay so what it's important for
you to know like I didn't want to just
fix it and just leave it fixed and then
have it happen again and you're not sure
how to fix it mmm-hmm because it's like
two clicks and
back to normal Oh what has happened here
is that Windows 10 has for some reason
determined that you are using a tablet
so what you see there is in fact the
touchscreen interface of a Windows 10
tablet I was so close in my guess yeah
well remember I want to ask you for help
it was like my view is wrong or
something like it's my view it is it was
at a tablet view I was right okay so fix
it nice all right defects there are a
couple of different ways to fix this so
first of all if you click on the
notifier on the bottom right that's
gonna bring up this dialog and it looks
like that if you instead hit the windows
button and a it's gonna do exactly the
same thing okay so those are two
different ways to bring up that dialog
when I bring that up at the bottom left
you see a button that says tablet mode
yes click on it and you're back to
Windows 10 the way that you're used to
it's that simple I've got my taskbar
back I can bring back up discord just
the way I normally do I will never
things back to normal so if you find
yourself in this state where hey this is
welcome to tablet mode and here I go
boom now I'm stuck windows button a turn
off tablet mode paddies and you're back
that's amazing business such a simple
fix right you're it's simple but not
like whoo people are looking there
right-clicking on everything trying to
go into settings and set things well
let's just come back for a second to the
fact that I had just done my laptop I
was like on this high of ability oh and
then you get on to Windows 10 is
completely shifted why one other way
that we can kind of make this more
permanent is to go into your settings
and go into system and on the loo
let's see left hand side tablet mode
you'll see this is what happened use the
appropriate mode for my hardware so for
some reason that determined that your
hardware was appropriately a tablet well
let's just set it to use desktop mode
and then I never have to worry about it
again if Windows thinks I'm on a tablet
for some crazy reason at least now in
the settings I've said just leave it in
desktop mode quit messing with things
windows still don't leave things open
overnight because you know it's going to
reboot for you true but that's it
nope tablet mode there's how you disable
it temporarily and more permanently as
well that's permanent yeah they're gonna
reset it with the next day yeah
guarantee yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
