welcome to category 5 technology TV
while you're a bow to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 g weeks
and now let's give here's your host Ravi
Ferguson's 12 episode number 209 of
category 5 technology TV for Tuesday
September the 20th 2011 so good to see
you used to have you here I'll September
20 us already know it was like last
frontiers August so I mean time is
flying I don't know if is actually
August but it feels like it could have
been August mm-hmm we've got lots to
cover tonight lots of fewer questions
have come in and it has just been a mad
dash getting everything ready I know you
should see him he hasn't had a chance to
wipe the sweat from his brow hmm yeah
how's that how's much better Rachel can
you say hi and just make sure that the
viewers are able to hear you to say
hello you guys hear her let us know in
the chat room category five dot TV yeah
mm-hmm good to see everybody lots of
people join in this in the chat room as
well do you guys hear her okay what do
we have coming up tonight well big news
is that YouTube is now providing the
ability to edit your video directly on
YouTube oh they cool that's kind of
interesting we're gonna be taking a look
at that in a few minutes time whoa cool
everybody chatting away in the chat room
about this and that little technical
glitches of course we're good okay
justin.tv seems to be having some issues
tonight but we will we will plow through
absolutely so will ya hi Rachel nice to
have you here we'll get you to kind of
give us a sound check just to see that
things are working ok there hand me it
seems that it seems that the mic is is
really really low from what I can tell
mm-hmm what about you guys would love to
hear from the chat room just about the
sound we're not gonna bother with a lag
test cuz we know we've got it looks like
Justin's having another another issue
Rachel do you mind bringing if you could
bring your microphone here we don't
normally do this on the air McGregor
Texas says he could hear her yeah
everybody cell phone other than the
we're good what a good-looking question
I'm expecting a very important call
Jerry in the show here we go we're gonna
get Rachel else all day here yeah yeah
down so they can see your face
otherwise it looks like you're just
mm-hmm the joys of life good life Aryan
live TV mm-hmm this is the gain switch
on this microphone Rachel what are you
doing don't you even start
give me a sound check me yeah we're
getting there we're getting there and
you don't have the questions coming in
in the chat room just yet no nothing
yeah they're just talking about the
choppiness and the sound pretty much
still so just you know like again
pretend like it never happened yes okay
ray that should do it I just modded your
your microphone how's that can you hear
me now I think we can hear you now
alrighty oh there we go welcome to
category 5 technology TV unbelievable
hey Rachel it's nice to have you here
yeah welcome to category 5 TV and rachel
is going to be talking to us about
what's coming up in the news tonight
i'll let you kind of give us a bit of
information about what what we can
expect in about a half hour Rachel and
that's nice to have you here all right
Sony wants you to agree not to sue them
otherwise they'll cut you off from the
PlayStation Network some versions of
windows 8 will drop support for adobe
flash my screen has gone black and so
you know however we're learning the I
hate tonight wait I think I got it all
right hundreds of godaddy hosted web
sites were hack last weekend and
mitsubishi heavy industries came under
cyberattack and said nothing to
officials bacteria fueled cells have
shown to provide a limitless power of
surplus supply of power so stick around
these stories are coming up in order 30
minutes from now awesome thanks Rachel
and okay we've got tons of stuff coming
up we've got some new viewers you do
have some information there for a sec I
do that that I do have so the sum of the
new people who have registered on
category 5 TV I guess they qualify for a
vote for bonus viewer points and of
course all sorts of fun exciting awesome
prizes so we have and you have to
forgive me if I don't pronounce these
right lever call Tony
one old guy Jim abriano Cole Fritz Fitz
cowfoot scale rrf West fat boy 106
Medusa 93 Blythe 55 Fergie 01 greg n
loose loose k cowl sorry Rick see
Jessica Bell helden digger cosmo &amp; P
wavery so welcome everybody thanks so
much for joining out but if you haven't
already registered for category 5 TV
make sure that you do so it's free we
won't charge you we promise all you have
to do is sit here and listen to our
horrible jokes and let's pantry and on
so that's pretty much your payment but
not as great yeah is that how you see
things and only sometimes okay no it's
fun lot of stuff to do on our website
and we've got lots of cool opportunities
for you to win some stuff and speaking
of I would love to give you a year
supply oh there's the start drinking or
you're trying to get in on the batteries
again oh wow a year supply of eco
alkaline batteries to give you and all
you have to do is with visit this URL
cat five dot TV / three batteries and
you'll find out more details Eco
alkalines are the official battery of
category 5 technology TV and we use them
in in all our devices and it's their
fantastic batteries they're absolutely
and and they are carbon neutral the
first batteries to be certified carbon
neutral check them out and find out how
you can win a year's supply at cat five
TV / free batteries create any questions
for us in the chat room that the Krista
can jump right into and I'm frantically
pushing over your emails I've got Oh a
good debt right right at the at the end
there
get in about 20 emails here live in
category five dot TV so we're pushing
those over to your desk so you can read
those off to me excellent it's actually
no questions yet in the chat room I
think we might be having a little bit of
leg tonight yeah we're gonna run into
that I me tonight unfortunately great
are we gonna jump into some questions
then right now yeah if you got some form
okay eyes have to prepare myself let's
see so our first question is from Dennis
findin he says Robbie and friends i
usually have three windows on one
monitor open while watching category 5
TV main backstage and chat room who you
got us covered on the other volunter i
read my mail outlook 2010 and surf with
chrome while you were showing how to
create a stop motion video last tuesday
i happen to come across a new product
that would fit in perfectly the pickle
pickle flex dolly i hold the camera on a
miniature dolly just like the big
commercial ones only a five and a
quarter inch wide package here's the
link to have the link there i'm gonna
pull that up actually okay i have one on
order and plan to attach an RC car to
motorized the camera dolly package yeah
that's pretty cool RCR radio control
he's gonna operate this why would you
not why wouldn't you mm-hmm that sounds
like the way to do it and says sorry
that they won't ship out of the u.s. at
the moment ah maybe you could just drive
with your little RC cars through the
canada customs and hop to us here army
says i have no interest or this is
disclaimer I've no interest in the pic
OH flex dolly other than as a customer
hope your viewers enjoy the video keep
up with the great service and perform
and sorry at the great service you
perform for the PC geeks out out here
even windows users learn something every
week eric is good but Hilary and Krista
are fantastic of course I mean aw shucks
sincerely Dennis affinity find good
Finnegan Finnegan room I think and
here's here's the device that he's
actually talking about i think this is
the coolest thing so it's like a
literally like a little cart that you
can attach your camera too that'll be
really handy that was pretty cool i'm
talking about stop motion video and the
fact that where we were working with
some stop motion video for the past
couple of episodes that would be a very
cool device to have i'll post the links
in the show notes for episode number 209
for you Dennis and thanks for that
thanks very good has anybody else been
working on their stop motion voice overs
do you know about that you know I
watched I watched that part of Doug the
last show on me I didn't watch the whole
thing goes on lunch but but um yeah no
that was pretty cool so I'm excited to
see what kind of things that the the
viewer sent it under that have already
come in and we've got these these action
figures that we've created a stop-motion
video with and your opportunity to
create the voiceover for that stop
motion video is there and you know visit
our website category 5 TV I believe it
was episode 207 and on that episode
you'll see it there on our website it's
your chance to get some viewer points by
providing sending in a very cool
voiceover ally you will stop hey cool
the the ones that have come in so far
and we're going to be sharing those on a
future show as well yeah alright we have
another question here from Greg hi
Robbie I usually watch a show through
Miro recently bought an android phone
trying to watch the show on the phone
but approximately 10 11 minutes into the
show the video stops and air pops up
that says cannot play this video sorry
this video cannot be played I tried
different video players on Android with
no success any ideas I don't have an
android device I wish I did to test with
for you but it seems to me like the
videos getting loaded it's playing at
that point so there's got to be
something wrong with the file maybe in
the download
maybe in the synchronization to your
Android device what I would suggest is
try our mobile website mobile dot
category 5 TV and on that site it will
come up on your device and you can
select the episode and press play the
other option is to go to our website
category 5 TV on a PC and using your
Android device get a QR code scanner
you'll find it in in your App Store for
any device right a QR code let me let me
actually bring up our website and I'll
show you what I'm talking about category
five dot TV this is our main website ok
and if you go to any episode let's go to
last week's episode number 208 with Eric
you want facts see that part way down
the page there once it comes up there
I'm going to bring up my QR reader on my
ipod touch believe I have one installed
here maybe I don't but it's free in the
App Store you are scam there we go so
I've got just a simple q our scan
software it works very much like a
camera so it looks like a camera there
and if you look at the website there's a
QR code right there this guy on the
website right so if I hold up my device
to that it beeps and it actually brings
up the episode that is shown on the
screen there so that's another way that
you can play category 5 TV on your on
your device so you'll see that what has
come up I guess you can't really see
that let's see if this helps what has
come up is the episode with Eric that I
just scanned off of the website so then
by pressing play it should work
reasonably well I hope so let us know if
that helps but our official website is
mobile cat 5 or mobile category 5 TV for
your mobile device right on your android
should work fantastically and I hope
that that helps in the meantime yeah let
us know okay thanks for the question
great well I guess we'll try fire food
through a few more there's a ton of
questions tonight so high category five
gang this looks like it's from Alexandra
I'm about to do a dual boot with dual
boot with windows 7 and Ubuntu 12.4 the
final release on my laptop and I want to
make sure i can easily access my ubuntu
home folder from windows ideally ideally
home folder and my documents would be
one combined folder is that possible the
only way I can think of is putting the
home folder on a separate partition ntfs
so windows can read it but I know you
don't recommend that because it was
shorten the life of my hard drive she
says yes I've been paying attention what
do what do you oh great master of a boon
to suggest oh you're just stroking his
ego now that's that's dangerous thanks
for the great show I've been watching
since a bit before Kari join to keep up
the great work live long and prosper
geez now you got him going you look
swanky that's nice that's nice that's
nice the one for you too oh I'm sure you
do oh it doesn't stick that's too bad we
can use oh yeah I'm so glad that you
haven't used to love those up was that
that was from Alexandra yeah oh hey it
is so good that you're joining us that
it's been a while and I'm glad to see
that you're still joining us here in the
community what I would do in a case like
that you want to do a boob with your
and Linux system your thinking is to get
windows to read the Linux partition I
think that's probably a risky way to do
it because well I mean if you put your
home folder on an NTFS file system the
problem with that is that you're going
to lose the fact you're going to lose
the ability to use sim links which are
extremely important for your home folder
so that can be a pretty big problem in
addition to that permissions are
different on an NTFS drive versus say
like your EXT 3 so what I would do is I
would have your home folder be just as
it would be an ext3 ext4 kind of file
system but then in Windows create your
My Documents folder okay don't put any
documents in your Linux system just yet
go into Windows get your my documents
working and stuff like that the way that
you want put your doc files in there on
the NTFS drive then back in Linux get
into your FS tab file that's the file
system table and I'll bring up mine here
and see if see if it reveals anything to
us so you go into terminal own CD / ET c
/ or just enter so CD / atc and then if
I go I'm use nano for the sake of it
the file system table actually shows
what hard drives you have mounted and
where they're mounted to okay so what
you can do using that and it's going to
be different per device so i can't
really give you the the end-all be-all
solution answer but what i'm going to
say is now take your slash home slash
Alexandra slash documents with a capital
D and make that remember it's got to be
an empty folder turn that into a mount
point using FS tab now get your my
documents from the NTFS drive on the
windows drive get that mounted to your
slash home slash Alexandra slash
documents folder so now in Linux if you
open the documents folder you're in fact
seeing the My Documents folder that is
on Windows Windows has a very poor
ability to interact with the Linux file
system but linux on the other hand can
read and write to ntfs without problem
so you'll be able to save files you'll
be able to edit them and save them and
then when you reboot into windows
they'll be accessible within windows
just as if they were there in your my
documents so there's nothing to it so
hopefully that at least points in the
right direction um if it doesn't make
sense let me know but essentially we
want to mount your windows my documents
to your documents folder and same is
similarly with any other folders that
you want to do right but not your home
folder home folder needs to remain
separate on the Linux file system well
thanks to the question Alexandra again
nice to have you here and I appreciate
the question well
just flipping through okay here's a
question from not really question from
John Zimmerman says that this is the
follow up because of your help he's
getting closer but now getting in air
see attachment okay see if I can track
that one down um yes okay so this is
we're working with the pogoplug device
and John I appreciate you getting back
to me and filling a same as to how far
we're getting here let's take a look at
the screenshot that John is provided
there we go so I'm glad that you've got
to the point where you're able to run
the script that's good so that's the
pogoplug FS script okay but it's saying
no mount point specified and that's
because you have not specified any
basically command-line arguments so what
we need to actually do is we need to
tell pogoplug FS where your polka plug
is we pardon me what your username and
password is and where it wants to be
mounted to let's see if I can bring up
that script
me I'd like to remember where I put it
last week anybody remember / bug ya look
at that so I'm getting the error while
loading shared library lib fuse wrong
elf classifying a try installing fuse
because I want to get there for you John
and if if you can bear with me just as I
get this going for John I'd like to see
if I can I'm doing this on the fly live
and so it's tough but we'll see if i can
get it real quick if i can't then john
will will need to move the question but
i will off the air i'll take care of you
let's see yeah no I'm not gonna be able
to cover it for you tonight John what
I'll do though is I'm going to get that
pogoplug FS conflict resolved on my
system because remember last week when I
tried to run it I didn't even get there
because and I just moved on because I
figured you wouldn't be having that same
problem but what you can do john best
thing for you to try just to get to that
place on your own tonight without having
to wait for me to get it fixed on my end
is in your terminal where your polka
plug script is now this time dot slash
pogoplug FS dash dash help okay that's
going to output the information for you
as to what you need to specify and what
you need to be telling that script is
you need to tell it what your username
and password is for your pogoplug
account and where you want it to mount
to and those options are going to be
shown when you do the dash dash help so
you'll know exactly what's going on all
right Rachel how are you doing over
there ah that's how I'm doing yeah you
can say hi to rachel in the chat room
and it's good to have you here I was
reading your bio tonight which is on our
website category five TV one of the
things that struck me as interesting is
that your media experience spans some
amazing talents one of which was that
you were dressed in a bovine costume and
apparently made it into the news kara
expand on that no I was just singing in
the wackadoo zoo and of all the people
they couldn't make enough
11 their animal costumes I got me as a
cow like so serious all of my media
experience because we need to do our
best to track down that photograph and
make I can I know it is okay you take
care of getting that to us and we'll put
it up on your bio Rachel's bio is of
course on our website category five dot
TV if you go to about us and you'll see
the information about the team and
Rachel's on that list who is you're
actually going to be joining us during
season five so it's nice to have you
here tonight as a bit of a preliminary
just introducing Rachel to the show and
so that she knows kind of how things are
supposed to work supposed to I say that
we experienced horrible lag from
justin.tv tonight which is unfortunate
but hopefully you're enjoying this on
the download at least so um so I guess
one more question and we'll we'll jump
right into the news with you Rachel sure
not exactly sure what this is here okay
it is from voodoo Sandman he says Robbie
what what was the chroma program that
you used to place herself at the helm of
enterprise yes I would have named a
space fish Buck Rogers after the actor
Gil Gerard also because your co-star
Krista looks a lot like Aaron gray who
played colonel wilma deering see
attachments see attachments okay this is
who you're meant to look like oh Aaron
gray okay there's you mm-hmm
that's closer I think been on the hand
for me what was yours mine was was mr.
clean a Teletubby thanks a lot right no
it was a bald guy just a random ball oh
I couldn't see the similarities yeah my
kids oh the viewers are gonna love
having you here on this one here we go
me so that's that's our viewer voodoo
Sandman Ludo Sandman mm-hmm here goes
that's that's gonna be worthy of 100
points right there Eric kid on the on
the big screen along with Aaron gray and
crystal wells why is your head so much
bigger than everyone else's I don't know
maybe I've been talking about your ego
but maybe mine's just a lot larger hmm
well like it happened my daughter did
something funny and I think she's she's
a bit saucy I don't know but you didn't
you weren't saucy when you were a kid no
I wasn't I was a good child Rachel you
we were never ever saw see where you
yeah we're sitting at a fast-food
restaurant and just decided to take them
out just just for the convenience and in
front of it and I was still hungry as is
sometimes the case with them and and so
I just kind of reached over and probably
one of her french fries oh no you didn't
i did and i'm sitting there eating her
french fry this is my six-year-old
daughter okay talking about sauce she
says dad I said I'm just helping you and
you know what she said she says if you
want to help me pick it up and put it in
my mouth she came up with this and I'm
like that's good enough for stand-up i
think my dear that's lievable that is
funny good for you my dear hmm I'm gonna
let you take it away with the news there
Rachel and then
we've got some Twitter questions that
are some Twitter comments that we like
to share with you from at Robbie
Ferguson an act category 5 TV so let's
take it away with the news Sony is
preparing to ban gamers from the
PlayStation Network unless they waive
the right to collectively sue it over
future security breaches the firm has
amended PSN terms and conditions and
users have to agree to them next time
they log in the move comes months after
string of hacking attacks compromised
over a hundred million accounts of the
PlayStation Network subscribers it is
however possible to opt out of the
agreement within the next 30 days gamers
will now have to try to resolve any
legal issues with an arbitrator picked
up by Sony before being able to file a
lawsuit and one of the web's most widely
used technologies is going to be absent
from some versions of Windows 8
Microsoft is to drop support for adobe
flash from the web browser that works
with the Metro interface on Windows 8
the Metro user interface is most likely
to be used on tablets as it displays
applications and programs as easy to
touch colored tiles clash will still be
supported in the Windows 8 desktop
interface and the desktop version of
internet explorer hundreds of godaddy
sites were compromised to point towards
a site hosting malware last weekend the
mass hack of around 445 sites involved
the injection of hostile code into the
htaccess files of the sites GoDaddy
quickly removed the hostile code before
working with its customers to take back
full control of the sites which were
reportedly compromised by a password
hack GoDaddy's chief information
security officer Todd redfoot told the
main name wire the accounts were
accessed during the accounts holders
username and password it's unclear how
the passwords needed to pull off the
attack were obtained but some sort of
targeted phishing attack is one likely
explanation Go Daddy's investigation
into the attack continues Japan's top
weapons makers has confirmed it was the
victim of a cyberattack reportedly
targeting data on missile submarines and
nuclear power plants mitsubishi heavy
metals industry said viruses were found
on more than 80 of its servers and
computers last month
the government said it was not aware of
any leak of sensitive information but
the Defense Ministry has demanded mhm I
carry out a full investigations
officials were angered after learning of
the breach from local media reports US
researchers say they have demonstrated
how cells fueled by bacteria can be self
powered and produce a limitless supply
of hydrogen until now they explained an
internal source of electricity was
required in order to power the process
however the team added the current cost
of operating the new technology is too
high to be used commercially details of
the findings have been published in the
Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences and to get the full stories at
category five TVs last newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
Roy w Nash with contributors by our
community of looters viewers if you have
a new store you think is worthy of honor
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Rachel shoe Rachel thank you so much and
of course the news tonight is brought to
you in part by pogoplug at cat five dot
TV / pogoplug and by planet calypso
check out the free online game you can
download it at cat five dot TV / Calypso
cool I would like to take a look at
Twitter tonight people who are good
enough to message us on Twitter make
sure you do follow us over there as well
twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson
twitter.com / category 5 TV where are
you I was waiting for that trying to be
quiet I don't have twitter she's not a
member of the Twitter mm-hmm Rachel are
you on the Twitter no I'm not a twit hey
now hey now
okay so we've got one here from Llewyn
from Ontario who says enterprise was my
favorite of the Star Trek's except for
the season with the expanse I like to
enterprise did you watch enterprise we
just finished it the other night my wife
and I I did it and we're very very sad
by the end like just the way that they
kind of ripped off the mirrors and the
fans and countless fans of the show but
it's funny that you know except for the
part with the expanse which is like like
a third of the entire series but very
very enjoyable show of course David may
do Dave underscore may do on Twitter
from West Midlands Dudley says I'll be
watching cat5 TV tonight there's our
hashtag first I have a night at the
local amateur radio club having a linux
night tonight very cool that he's having
what he calls a linux night lots of fun
lots of fun and dave is a is a an active
follower of the show on twitter as well
as here category 5 TV appreciate him
I've got one from you hop at you hop on
Twitter who says there's new terms for
colon slash slash in URLs they are
walrus team or double man hmm I like
that the walrus teeth I like that to
reference that kind of works for me and
I think one or two more here this one
comes to us from Cork to Canada who says
I'm finding it difficult to source a
French tutor for my daughter it's
because she's starting from scratch so
as recently moved to to bury I guess
this is from Moya Walsh who as you see
from her profile is from Barrie Ontario
it's nice to have you here at category 5
watching the show a local viewer and I
think if you're looking for a French
tutor and and your your it's
because she's starting from scratch hmm
I think that you don't you wouldn't know
the difference so how would you know if
they're good or not that's the dangerous
thing if you don't know French right
popy on twitter at popy says site
benefit of having children there are
always sweets in the house and today
it's flying saucers the daddy is
stealing and to celebrate puppies tweet
I have any candy these kind of gummy
things how long have they been here for
their mummified candy mm-hmm so poopy oh
thank you don't put this with my pile
because I'm scared I'm gonna eat it and
then at all just like be tuned for all
right we have 20 minutes halloween is
coming up and then it's exactly that
where the kids get so much candy and you
don't like to eat your kids candy pokey
I know I know that guilt that you feel
if I but at the same time they get so
much stuff it's really well you could
always pull the trick like oh we have to
look through it to make sure it's safe
and then oh this full-size chocolate bar
is not safe and I just a bacon
you know how saucy my kid is she'd be on
to that oh well you can try with the
anger on them so brilliant stuff Brian
stuff flying saucers and all hmm
speaking of Halloween mm-hmm at five dot
TV / costumes is where you can get your
ultimate costing me the best rest of the
party cat five dot TV / costumes there's
some pretty neat costumes up there I
hear you're being a kitty cat this year
hmm
oh where what are your sources I don't
know internet are you letting on wait
what you're gonna be no I know it's
crinkly that's all we know yeah I'm
expecting like some kind of 80's disco
rocker no no keep get your asses your
guess is live at category five dot TV
what do you think Krista is going to be
besides awesome because i was given
right yeah i don't know what you say
about me like when I'm not hearing them
Krista is not awesome of them you know
do we have one more question I'm sure we
do there were lots of questions but try
to squeeze in as many as we can in the
hour this one's a uber long question I
hope that's okay so it's from Peter
Lewis he says dear Robbie on the gang I
wrote to you last week about setting up
a boon to I used an old pc to install
ubuntu on i installed whoo math that
boon to Oh Miss Benton yeah that's it um
but found that when i tried to use the
networking cable it would not recognize
it so i could not use the intern that i
assume that supposed to be internet on
that machine I then uninstalled
mythbuntu and reinstall the version of
ubuntu to see if the problem was with
the mythbuntu installation disk the same
thing happened again the ubuntu worked
but it could not access the internet
then i realized that the networking card
is on the motherboard requires an
installation CD for the drivers for a
boon to this is a chicken and egg
situation and you need the drivers to
get the networking card working I was
always a problem with like windows 2000
windows 98 was a whore at windows XP
even it was horrible but you don't see
that so much with legs I list I can't
think of the Linux network card that
doesn't work out of the bonds so i would
i would be wary of weather
that card is even is functional I check
the cable that you're using I don't know
that especially this is an older system
well goodness an old pc to install a
move on so it's not like it's some card
that is like superb you know the
top-of-the-line integrated networking
card so there's something up with that
can you get a pci networking card for
like 10 bucks or something and pop that
in and see if it detects it because if
that's the case i would just go that
route but like you say like you could
you could go to all the effort of moving
that computer onto a internet connection
getting it because if it's not readily
available if you don't have internet you
don't have internet that's that's that's
all there is to it right I presume you
can get internet but like I say if if
that's the problem that you're
encountering a network card is not
detecting and Linux I think really
you're going to you're going to want to
put a new network card in there because
there's something up with that sure
seems seems like that would be the way
sorry otherwise yeah I get to get an
internet connection to see but I just
can't see it being the case there's got
to be something wrong with that card
it's just got to be or the cable check
the cable well as was saying earlier in
the show YouTube is actually allowing
its users now to edit their videos with
a rudimentary editor mind you but
they're so such a good idea that it's a
great idea and others have attempted it
but what I think is that YouTube being
as big as they are and of course they're
owned by google it it's an opportunity
for that kind of technology to really
hit the masses because now all of a
sudden if you can go to your YouTube
channel and see all your videos that are
there and you can actually now go edit
video here's a video here so if I click
on edit video on my video that has been
uploaded to YouTube now remember this is
my video I'm actually able to see
side-by-side
the two video previews there's a neat
little button up here called I'm feeling
lucky which of course google has every
right to use that term because they
coined it if you click on that what it
does is it basically equalizes the video
fixes up the the brightness and colors
the contrasts and things like that so
you see that this is the original video
it's a look at the curtain especially
compared to here where the saturation is
just it's really well saturated actually
does a pretty good job it does a pretty
good job for for something so quick and
we also have to keep in mind that what
we're looking at there is is a preview
only so when you save job yeah it's
pixelated and it's it's not the best
quality but it shows you kind of what
the effect is going to show like but
when you render the video when you save
the video it's going to re-render the
video in full quality so you're going to
get the absolute best quality that you
can get you can simply point to any of
the any of the options in order to see
what they do if i turn off i'm feeling
lucky then i can go through and actually
manipulate each individual thing like
the fill light so I can kind of fix up
the lighting of my video itself this
video lighting of course here in the
studio is pretty good so it's it's not
needing it but your video may have you
know poor lighting or if there's
backlight then it's going to have poor
lighting at the foreground and lots of
colors in the background so you can
actually play with these with simple
sliders it's really really simple and it
works really quite well for what it is
taking it one step further we've got
options like the trim which allows you
to say okay well I want to clip off the
front and the end of the video because
maybe I was setting up the camera and so
there's a couple seconds there and I
haven't been able to edit it out so you
can actually do that and it's trimmed
out just like that that quickly it's
done so I've now trimmed the video i can
add special effects and again it is very
simplistic but effective there are
things like mosaic pixelization neon
pink
on green but then there's some useful
ones like sepia see sepia yes how do you
say it's checking you know we usually
say sepia yeah that's just but I mean
that might be as graphic designers
butchering of the Union language that's
all it is mm-hmm this is this
old-fashioned that's kind of created a a
bit of an old camera hue to it with that
you can see that there's actually a
vignette around the the edge of the
video that kind of settled radiant
darkness that and what that is is this
emulating the old camera lens where you
can actually see the roundness of the
camera lens so really quite cool so I'd
encourage you to check it out if you
have a youtube account if you don't have
a youtube account sign up for one and
then that way you can subscribe to the
category 5 youtube channel which is
category 5 TV or you can get there with
a hot link it's cat5 TV /youtube other
things you can do with this is add audio
tracks you can rotate your video so if
you've taken the video on a device like
this and you want to actually change it
to landscape you can do that easily with
the simple rotation and again it's very
very fast so if I rotate this video on
the fly you can see it does it just like
that real quick it has video
stabilization features which what that
does is if you have shot that video and
your hand you're using your hand to hold
the camera you're a little bit shaky
especially if you zoom in and there's
nothing you can do about that so what
stabilization does it zooms in just a
little bit and then it moves around the
video and so it detects ok well here's a
tree so if if it's going like this let's
stabilize it we zoom in a little bit and
then hold the tree in that position so
now it gives the effect of the video
camera having been held very still so
with that stabilized feature you'll be
able to remove some of that jitter from
holding the video camera which is great
for family movies it's a fantastic tool
if if you're into you know if you want
to share your YouTube videos with family
and friends if you want to share your
home movies
with family and friends on YouTube or if
you're simply wanted to get onto YouTube
and create videos it's a very simplistic
way to that to add some cool effects and
even improve the quality of your video
by fixing lighting and other issues that
that could be a part of your your
original video dub that you know without
with doing it this way you don't even
need any software to do it so what I'd
like to see what I would love to see
youtube introduces the ability to now
actually not just trim the front end the
tail of the video but also give you the
ability to between I doubt little
segments in between mm-hmm you know like
when I'm sitting here doing a review and
then the kids run down here and scream
then you see Robbie's angry face you
just want the cut that out and then they
run upstairs and it's like oh if I could
just cut that out it would be perfect
but alas so that's that's what that's
what we would like to see I think the
cool stuff youtube com and of course
cat5 TV / youtube if you like to follow
us there whoo mmm cool I don't questions
go say there's a there's a request here
in the chat room if you're up for it
he's my son matisse minute wants to know
if you would like to say happy birthday
to Jan in westland michigan since she
has to put up with smitty sent watching
us every tuesday all right get her in
the room space man because I know that
she's probably sitting on the couch and
she's try like yeah right yeah my
birthday and you're watching category 5
45 and she's in the other room hmm you
know probably all sad because you're
choosing the show I hope you made her a
cake you had better than cake sir and if
not you were in some serious trouble and
absolutely I give you permission to just
like pop them on the side of that um
happy birthday and thanks for letting
Smitty Smith yeah oh we did just sing
the happy birthday she said we can't do
that because happy birthday is if you
can imagine is actually a registered
non-royal
free really yeah so we pay through the
teeth too so Jan just know that we are
thinking of you on your birthday happy
birthday happy birthday happy birthday
there we created a song for you that's
our own our own copyright 2011
distributed under creative commons
attribution so if anybody wants to use
it again and kool mmhmm for letting them
watch on your birthday not giving them
too much trouble oh let's see it might
be an hour question out yet I do have an
hour question it is from Jonathan says
hello cat5 TV crew hello hello this is
jonathan Acosta from Costa Rica I've
been a viewer for some months now and
I'm very fond of the show I just watched
this is pretty late yes episode 207 not
that late I'd Otis that at the end of
the show Hillary read of your question
about open shot not working properly
with blender I'm not sure about this but
I thought it would help to share another
point of view as an experimental blender
user I think that maybe the problem is
that blender is actually under heavy
development and has constant changes in
its international workings the blender
scripting engine is powered by Python
and its API might have undergone some
recent changes that make blender
incompatible with open shot and so the
open shot team might be a little behind
the API changes anyways I hope this is
of help I wish you guys the best and as
always I'll be expecting your new
episodes mmm cool that makes me makes me
think that while I I kind I I think I
sort of disagree in that I think open
shot does a fantastic job of keeping on
top of the new versions of blender but
it makes me wonder did that viewer who
was having that trouble did they in fact
install open shot as was instructed
through their repository so that they
got the newest version that would be my
only concern because if you installed it
through a boon to through that
repository you'll be getting an old
version but I cut we covered that when
we were talking about it
so make sure that that's what you've
done is gone two gone through the steps
to add the repository so that you get
the new version but they've got version
1.4 out now or 1.7 I believe out now is
it 1.4 1.7 Krista help me I don't know
open shot video com 1.4 I was right the
first time version 1.4 is out so you can
get that get that installed make sure
it's maybe that's all it was is maybe
you've got a wrong version of open shot
because I think they make it so that it
does work very well with blender I hear
you cool see I'm see any more questions
floating around here no more in the chat
room no more email well there was one
let's see if I can find it was it really
a question it was more so don't remember
who sent it just commenting that they
are very happy to see Eric was here last
week everyone missed him yeah I was
certainly nice to have Eric join us he's
been away for quite some time just with
he had been working on Tuesday nights so
it was good to get him into the studio
so what can I can't find it I did read
it I saw read it so there it is a viewer
random well I'm sure it's it's more more
common than just one beer I'm sure lots
of people like Eric firstly I got a lot
of the nice comments when Eric was here
and following his being here lots of
people had said because he brings
happiness to the show and scruffiness
happiness and scruffiness mm-hmm who
doesn't like that yeah you believe that
we are coming up on
five no I cannot believe that just a
couple of weeks away next week is our
fourth anniversary unbelievable oh my
goodness yeah and I mean rachel is just
like but it seems like just today that I
just got here but yeah one week away
from our fourth anniversary and then the
following week we're going to were going
to be launching season 5 of category 5
very excited about that very cool yes
we've got lots of treats in store for
you many that I'm not I'm not allowed to
say but I know that you're gonna be
excited for them they're going to be
excited for the me I'm sure I actually
don't know what they are either know
what they're not know well I know some
of them we kind of spoiled one tonight
hey Rachel how are you nice to see you
good to have you here but there are more
there are more surprises as well for
season 5 free from from the ones that i
dunno i don't know if there's more maybe
there's not oh they are pretty fantastic
you should be sitting down when you
start up the category 5 TV in C survive
you should be sitting down yeah yeah
next week being that it's our fourth
anniversary we have a very special guest
who you know is Kristi Burton who is now
Kristy van noort is going to be joining
us she's going to be co-hosting the show
as a special kind of celebration for our
fourth anniversary so I'm looking
forward to having her here so make sure
you've got your weather ready and I
thinks gonna be a lot of fun it's gonna
be nice to have christy back it's been a
long time I'll be great especially since
she wasn't able to make the yes let's
show a lot of had an accident mm-hmm
hurt his finger very substantially and
they ended up having to miss the
anniversary or the 200th episode mm-hmm
but she will be here for episode number
210 next week I'll be here to cool any
other questions for us in the chat room
we did oh well there's already coming in
Fanta fabulous thanks guys I'll bank
that for next week anything else for us
left I don't see I don't see any
questions stomach is growling I hope you
all can't hear that yeah it's good thing
when you switched away from getting a
lot of low rumbling feedback on the
plate hmm no questions I'm looking for
oh here's one from well a comment from
Swiss Andy that that just came in oh
let's see if i can get this out
so sandy was interested in react OS Eric
and I talked about it last week react OS
being a clone of microsoft windows um so
much so that it actually runs or is
intended to run windows software so
sandy says I gave it a try after episode
number 208 testing both the react OS
live CD as well as the pre-configured
react OS VirtualBox version indeed they
both reminded me strongly of the real
windows since both versions ended up in
a blue screen of death during budem it's
never good never good that's all they
needed to do you know here's our windows
clone and that's all it tested it does
actually no more than that's what sandy
but remember as Swiss ande continues on
to say I realize that it's alpha where
so far they're pretty close to a windows
set up with that blue screen but yeah
they are importantly they've been alpha
software for a very long time and that's
what I think makes it exciting that
there possibly going to see a large
substantial financial boost because that
could be what they need in order to
create this operating system and it's
always been an interesting project react
OS look it up it's it's pretty cool re a
CT OS thanks for the comments for sandy
Nelson chattering there you al says I
enjoyed the shows where you created a
web page do you have an idea of what it
will look like before you start creating
the web page that me a question for you
I guess so yeah when we we actually
started it I did I had and when when I
do work with programmers or developers
usually I end up laying it out so I
don't really touch the coding or
anything I just kind of make it pretty
and then I send it over and I say this
is what should look like make it happen
she says make it work and I want the
menu to do really fancy things like like
how I know you've described this before
what does it what kind of things can the
menu do well what would have you done
yeah well like how well he like a box so
dramatic watch that's a certain
specified height with a little arrow on
a mouse over and the tech way cool which
is cool enough and you know on on css3
year on on an HTML conoci SS and xml
compliant browser that's perfectly good
but then you get into cross-browser
compatibility and it's like this is why
they use images menus and we don't do
that we use text for menus and then look
like images and then Robbie makes me
feel bad and he says things like you
know what happened your navigation was
so complicated that it took me hours but
don't worry don't worry I got it to work
yes no way he makes me feel really bad
and it's in but I got it to where it'll
trip yeah terrible yeah but yeah and
then the the problem with designing
beforehand like um instead of getting a
developer to do it all is that then I
have the idea in mind and then they send
it over and say here it is and I say can
you put three more pixels in between the
navigation items I would never like
silly stupid things like that added
Robbie's kindly sent back emails and
says sure I'm sure he's good and seeing
the whole time but is after I've sliced
it that she usually request things they
have so to answer the question I usually
we designed it before yeah and you have
a really good ideas too
oops I think when I design a website one
of the first things I figure out with
the client or on my own is going through
I'm figuring out what is the navigation
going to look like what structure is
going to go into this website so that
when we build the design it is basically
around that navigation structure so we
know that we've got you know in a very
simplistic sense we've got home about us
contact us products you know things like
that so when you know that that's what
you need you know kind of how you know
if it's going to be a horizontal menu
are there going to be drop downs in that
case probably not so you kind of have an
idea and then we set the width based on
standards so the website looks good on
every browser and then build up from
there I think thanks for the question
any other questions in the chat room hey
a jot hey Greg in Texas so you Greg and
Texas has a wife who is sounds like
she's she's incredibly jealous because
Greg and Texas has ubuntu installed on
his computer and she's got win7 on hers
but to to booth Greg and Texas his
daughter also has it 12 installed so I
think when you see boon to you want it
and apparently yes well then there's a
quick and easy birthday present there or
anniversary present or you know can just
install it for her and that's it done I
get you a good idea you can do that for
oh no more questions in the chat room
we're just about a sign but i figure
i'll give you a chance to say hey or
whatever do send in your viewer
testimonials this week one of the things
that I really want to receive from you
and I've met
a couple times but just go to our
website category 5 TV scroll down to the
very bottom of the website and you'll
see our postal box address grab a
postcard from your local convenience
store that represents your city or your
country and just write some kind of note
on the back and send it off to our
postal box you know you receive that
we'd love snail now yeah for all we know
there's hundreds of them on their way
maybe they're just mail mail I mean I
haven't used it in so long you don't
know how long it actually takes I get
here I don't really know does it ever
get here Oh Touche full service just as
it may be a closing note here I just
know it's a little bit talk in the chat
room it seems you promised rachel
eminem's well and I don't see any
anything's kind of change Rachel what
are you doing where's the bowl of
eminem's I was probably right I looked
for mms and I instead what I did is I I
decided on these guys through a child is
aiming for your forehead and employment
but my wife's guy Becca told me that
dark chocolate actually gives you energy
and so I thought well hey there you go
we'll all be later energized for the
show and then you know it was such a mad
rush I didn't even get to eat mine he
did pass went over and I don't remember
what point by decided against eating it
in case i had like chocolate you know my
teeth are some things that rest the show
and then that would be really
embarrassing yeah alright sorry about
that rain maybe next time all right a
bowl of Eminem's a bowl of M&amp;MS sounds
like a plan that's one reason you're
Rachel it's nice to see you know perhaps
anal no problemo and nice to have you
here as have you get your stuff it's
gonna be back are you on top yeah
everyone's here when we'll have you back
next week again is our fourth
anniversary chris Christie is going to
be here and looking forward to that and
then we're going to be
yeah jumping right into season five in
two weeks so hope you can join us we
will see you next week Tuesday night
same time seven o'clock I'm gravy yeah
