[Music]
let's do a quick search here I'm gonna
do a 256 gigabyte microSD and I can see
oh yeah the cost is well over a hundred
bucks for these kind of things so
remember we're gonna be using this in
our video camera so we want to shoot a
wedding with this now this one's cheaper
but it's only 128 gigs again 256 gigs
Samsung it's a bit heavy so let's sort
by price because that's what I do on
Amazon right and whoa Sasha can you
believe it 256 gigs for like under 10
bucks you ate it to steal it sounds like
it this looks totally legit 256
gigabytes it's class 10 obviously it
looks the best chip and flash modules
and it's only 10 bucks okay I've got to
take a look at the reviews because I got
to be smart about this now there's only
two and a half out of five stars this
guy I mean it seems like oh yeah they
definitely are happy with this purchase
okay yeah uh-huh oh there's a lot of
one-star reviews now when I see these
one-star reviews and I start kind of
skimming these I start to think sash of
it you know what they probably they just
they got a lemon yeah they got a lemon I
mean there's there's 400 reviews Plus
here so I'm gonna add this to cart
because you know it's worth the risk of
$10
I can definitely spend $10 I mean look
at the price of a normal 256 gig SD card
so this is definitely a steal I regret
that those folks got a lemon but I think
you know I'm gonna play I'm gonna take
the risk yeah
and let's that let's give it a go place
the order free shipping yeah prime all
right who could that be oh okay um just
one second here sorry to do this to you
folks huh Amazon's gotten really fast
these days all right well let's bring
this over here to our unboxing table and
let's get a look here this got to be a
fake at $10 but let's get into the
package bit would wait a minute this
actually came from Amazon this is the
Mississauga
Amazon warehouse so this didn't come
from some obscure Chinese factory or
something like that no this came
directly from Amazon CA explaining why
it was so fast
exactly all right oh yeah look at that
oh it is a micro SDHC memory card new
made in China it's a memory card as we
learned on the front plug-and-play for
digital cameras cellular phones oh it
even does PDA is just in case you still
use a PDA like high-speed high
performance this sounds incredible for
only 10 bucks I'll get into it alright
let's take a look here this can't be
real I mean they've got a sticker over
it it's got to be a fake no that looks
completely legit to me
alright let's see if I can just get in
there okay yeah yeah there we go alright
let's get a look at this so there's a
micro SD card right there is it a 5 gig
at that price it's got to be like 16
gigs now no that's actually a 256
gigabyte micro SD card for the win I'm
shocked this is legit Sasha so let's
throw this in the camera alright alright
so we've got it in our camera we're
ready to start shooting video at my
cousin's wedding right right
it formats the camera reads it the
camera shows that it's 256 gigs for yep
that's a win good
it's obviously legit 256 gig card for
only $9.99 right steal score and do you
see any doubt in my eyes then any doubt
in my eyes whatsoever I have Linux
installed on my computer folks Linux
gives me power beyond measure and I can
figure things out that maybe you can't
do on a normal system in quite as little
time tonight we're going to look at this
micro SD card that Amazon shipped me
let's get a little bit of a close-up
look here a 256 gigabyte micro SD card
we're gonna take a look at that in Linux
and find out is this for real okay let's
back up a few weeks right we have to
talk about the folks who actually did
this and bought this off of Amazon
plugged it into their DSLR and it was
working fantastically well right so they
shot a wedding with it they did and they
shot the whole thing and then they got
at home and they went to edit the video
and everything on the card was corrupt
why would that happen well because a
fake micro SD card will in fact only be
say let's say it's a 16 gig micro SD
that they hacked the firmware of to
trick your camera into thinking it's 256
gigs and then they reprinted the
silk-screening to make it look like
physically it's 256 gigs so yeah but
when you plug it in because they've
hacked the the firmware the the
bootloader the boot sectors and whatever
else of the drive your camera your
device your phone thinks it's 256 gigs
so then it hits that 16 gig cap because
it's legitimately not 256 gigs it's only
say 16 gigs and when it hits that cap it
still keeps recording and starts and it
thinks that it's 256 gigs so there's
lots of space but where's it putting
that data the chips that are within this
card if this is in deep fake but in the
instance of a fake card is not going to
be able to write the data it's gonna
look like it's there because it's
recording the file names and everything
else but it may not be there so how do
we actually tell well we have unboxed
this now tonight we've got a SD card
micro SD card reader I'm just gonna
simply plug that in I'll set this aside
because there's a USB 3 memory card
reader and let's bring up our Linux
laptop here and I'm just going to jump
into the terminal now I'm gonna say just
straight off oh and let's let's see what
I can do here about the display because
you're not seeing what I see well that's
quickly can I bring this can I just drag
that over - yeah that way all right
folks let's see if I can just kind of no
it won't let me zoom in so I hope that
you're using a high enough resolution
that you can see that very
well but I'm gonna walk you through
there we go I'm gonna walk you through
everything that I'm gonna do here so
first of all I'm doing this on Linux you
can figure this out on Microsoft Windows
stick around if you're on Microsoft
Windows I'm going to tell you how you
can do this on Windows if you do not
have Linux but Linux is free you can
install it and then you can do this and
it's much much quicker now I don't have
a fear Sasha that Mac users ever have
this problem because a Mac user is gonna
go to Amazon and they're gonna see the
cheap cards and they're gonna skip right
over to them to the really expensive
cards right and then they're gonna
multiply the price of the really
expensive card by three and that's the
one that they're gonna buy right they're
buying the $300 256 gigs right they're
just expecting that in two years they'll
have to buy another one anyway exactly
so Mac users this is not for you I
understand that you've never tried to
find something at this price point but
for you Windows and Linux users who are
looking for a deal you might fall for
this if you go onto Amazon so what we're
gonna do on our Linux machine first of
all I'm gonna become super user so sudo
su on my this is Linux Mint aka this
one's based on Ubuntu so sudo su for any
of those or just su su on a Debian
system and I'm going to install a
program called f3 so apt install f3 it's
gonna quickly grab that from the
repositories there we go and let's run
the program so we're gonna run f3 probe
and here's where I actually well I can't
really proceed because I haven't plugged
in my microSD card yet so let's do that
first first of all I need to know what
drive this is gonna be I'm gonna ctrl C
so I'm going to go LS space now remember
I am super user so I can do this dev
slash SD star enter and I see SD a SD a
1 SD a 2 so the built-in computer hard
drive on my computer is SDA ok so now
what I'm gonna do is I'm going to
connect my USB reader right okay and as
soon as I do that now Linux is going to
probably detect a couple of new drives
quite possibly let's see maybe not but
what I can do is now I can run that same
command LS / o it is detecting something
that seemed to kind of jump around there
a little bit o on my other screen it is
it's brought up a drive here which I can
close and over here I'm gonna run that
same command what I'm telling it to do
is show me all the devices that start
with SD because that asterisk SD being
like a hard drive if you know which my
USB drive is being detected as and you
can see that now I've got SD B and SD b1
so let's now remember I installed f3 but
before I do that I'm going to go F disk
- L slash dev slash
SD B now that we've determined that that
is my drive and lo and behold its 245
gigabytes
yes yeah there you go there you go
that's what your computer shows you
that's what windows will show you that's
what Mac will show you that's what your
camera will show you that's what your
phone will show you so how do we
determine whether or not this is legit
is it really a 256 gig or what is being
reported as 245 gig SD card so that's
where f3 comes in so let's do f3 probe
now that we know that it is Devi I'm
gonna go - - this is a brand new card so
we're gonna do a destructive test Oh
which we want to do anyways because it's
the most accurate for this really really
quick test but it will destroy some data
if you have data on there so don't do
this on a car that you've already used a
destructive test just like it is gonna
overwrite sectors of the drive and
that's going to read those sectors back
to say hey did that actually work or did
it lie to me and say that it would work
but it didn't okay right are we gonna
get corrupted data so the reason we're
using f3 as opposed to some of the tools
that are out there is because f3 probe
can do this extremely quickly so where
it may take six hours on a 256 gigabyte
Drive use
traditional means and on Microsoft
Windows here on linux with f3 probe it's
gonna take under 15 minutes perfect ok
and sometimes just seconds just seconds
so - - destructive - - the type of tests
we're gonna do time ops slash dev slash
and what was the drive
Sascha I'm just quizzing you SDP SDB
sorry member that's important because if
I accidentally typed SDA that's my
harddrive in my laptop right I'm gonna
overwrite sectors on my actual harddrive
don't make that mistake be very very
careful of this command I'm going to hit
enter and it says warning probing
normally takes a few seconds - 15
minutes but it can take longer please be
patient so what this is doing right now
Sascha
yes it is writing random points on this
Drive so it knows that it's supposed to
be 256 gigabytes right and so it'll
write something at 10 gigabytes and
it'll write something at 4 gigabytes and
it'll write something at 20 gigabytes
and something at 100 gigabytes and
something at 500 gigabytes and it'll
read it back and it'll say does this
match what I wrote and if at any point
it sees that it's not actually matching
that's gonna figure out ok well where
does this Drive actually end off and
we're gonna find out how big the drive
actually is but what makes me nervous
smashes is there a chance that the $10
SD card could be legit I feel like
there's like a 0-0 percent chance
there's pretty much a zero point zero
percent chance oh it's done oh ok what
do we got
ladies and gentlemen bad news see that
if I got it bad news this device dev
slash SDB is a counterfeit of type limbo
ha the actual device geometry and it
only took a couple of moments here the
usable size of this drive ladies and
gentlemen is fifteen point six six
gigabytes the announced size is 245
gigabyte
Hauser's ladies and gentlemen we have
purchased a fake micro SD card from
Amazon legitimately
yeah Amazon dot CA shipped directly from
their warehouse right yes they're going
to be hearing from me yes I'm going to
be returning the card yes I am furious
because I shot that whole wedding and
I'm going to sue now here's the let's
back up again I love doing this think
about the scenario right at the
beginning of this Sasha we decided we
determined it's worth the risk of ten
dollars because my ten dollars that's
like five cups of coffee right right
it's worth that risk I might save ninety
five dollars or a hundred dollars writes
what is the value that you would put on
say your wedding video it's I'm raising
that example because this is like it's
like like worth what would I spend to
get it back if I didn't have it a lot of
money how would I feel and this is
rhetorical for everyone and and using
wedding video maybe that's not the
example that is applicable to you but
something that is priceless to you
photos on your phone contacts files that
are important to you what if you hit
that 16 gig limit of the physical disk
mm-hmm and kept saving to it and lost
everything else that you saved what was
that worth the $10 was that worth saving
not a potentially saving $90 and it is a
rhetorical question the answer is
absolutely not now this is a fake micro
SD card and this tool f3 and in this
particular instance of this example f3
probe the application that comes with it
is showing us on Linux that the drive is
actually only a 16 gig drive now
whoever hacked it whoever sold this
illegal fake drive on Amazon or to
Amazon and put it in their warehouse
hacked the firmware hacked the chip to
make it think and make a trickier device
into thinking that it is 256 gigs or
reporting as
245 gigs but in fact it is not now the
drive may be usable and so f3 fixes
included and has given you the command
to be able to use the full 16 gig space
so I could convert this into a 16 gig
card and start using it but that's not
what I bought and I had recorded to it I
would have lost practically everything
that I had written to it because how
quickly do you fill 16 gigs with a 4k
camera or your DSLR it just boom
lickety-split just like that
so stay away from those fake drives if
you see those red flags what do we look
for well too good to be true prices
absolutely bad reviews bad reviews are
definitely something now they're not
always the case because bad reviews
maybe you do have to I kind of joked
about it and alluded to it you sometimes
have to say oh that person obviously
doesn't know what they're talking about
a fresh new company very brand a company
that just started up right and really
you know you you can't really find out
about them yes definitely definitely I
can't think of anything else those are
really good red flags yeah bad reviews
and perpetually bad reviews right and
look at look at the good reviews - okay
can I say that can I suggest that one
way to tell if it's a fake product is to
look at the good reviews because if the
good reviews are so glowing mhm and so
poor in their English a lot of times I
hate to say it but a lot of times that
they are possibly hired by the company
who's doing this fraud or perhaps the
same people and they're adding this to
that to offset all those bad reviews and
it does happen this is legit right well
you can also be frozen out of being able
to write a review which is an
after-the-fact problem right so you're
like oh this is this is a bad device and
then you go to write a review and you're
frozen out of it you can't it's quite
sure I can post this video yes and and I
hope that I save you from accidentally
believing that a ten dollar 256 gigabyte
micro sd card
exists now if you're on Microsoft
Windows we've got a link for you at cat5
dot TV / USB test and that will take you
to this blog entry at Raymond dot CC
that has been sent to us courtesy of
David fear a viewer who was watching and
commented on our YouTube channel so
thank you David for sending this in
now this blog entry number one shows us
to use H to test W which is a very
well-respected tool to do this very test
on Microsoft Windows so if you're not on
Linux you can use this tool and it's
going to take a lot longer than a Linux
tool that we showed you tonight but it's
going to do the job for you and show you
whether that USB flash drive or in this
case a micro SD card is in fact legit or
if it's fake
[Applause]
