hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're talking about
missions trips
but we're so thankful that you were able
to join us again this week thanks for
tuning in the past couple weeks if
you've been following along we've talked
about quite a number of different topics
um and really we just decide to talk
about whatever kind of comes up through
our week or if they've been in
discussion with some of of you viewers
that's how we come up with topics to
talk about right and I really enjoyed it
so far so thanks for tuning in if you
want to be in contact with us then
please go to our website new everyday TV
and you can click the contact link and
then send us an email from there or you
can also find us on facebook new every
day separate words mm-hmm and then you
can like us on Facebook and we will
respond to you we'd love to hear your
prayer requests and yeah let us know if
you have any ideas for some shows yes
that would be great and you might be
thinking what is the concept behind new
every day and one of the things that we
talked about was our theme verse which
is from lamentations 3 it starts in
verse 22 the Lord's love never ends his
mercies never stop they are new every
morning Lord your loyalty is great I say
to myself the Lord is mine so I hope in
him and we just wanted to convey the
Lord's faithfulness every single day and
that's new every day and it doesn't
matter what happened before every day is
a brand-new gift like ready to be
received and and the Lord is ready to
walk with us through every single day
like every single day is a brand-new
gift um and so in the show we hope that
you're experiencing hope and comfort as
you listen and one of the things that we
have learned from each other from each
other is listening to other people's
stories and how they just navigate being
a believer and so in today's show we're
actually talking about missions trips
and we're going to share a little bit
about our personal stories in the hopes
that it will be an encouragement to you
because maybe you're struggling
should I go on a mission what does
missions trips look like why would I go
on one and so what is sort of pushed us
to do this particular topic today is
because Carrie is leaving for Nicaragua
in two sleeps mm-hmm and so I'm like
this would be a great opportunity to
talk about mission so yeah why do you
tell us like what are you doing why are
you going you know all those questions
that people love to to ask when I said
when you say oh I'm going to Nicaragua
no missions trips so sure so why are you
going so um this is the second year that
I'm going to this same area and it's
through threefold ministries and you can
check out their website you can look
magic base going to pee right here you
can go to their website and check it out
um but what I'll be doing is working
with a team of physicians and nurses and
just volunteers and we'll be running a
clinic for local communities for 10 days
so the way it worked last year was
there's an established center called
skylark a beautiful center in the middle
of a not so nice neighborhood but it's
really beautiful and well cared for and
they employ local people to take care of
the grounds and to run the different
programs that are going on there it's a
Christian organization um but what they
do is they have different programs that
are there to serve the community and
establish trust with them city is a one
way that they meet the needs of the
community and build trust is by having
medical clinics so they have different
teams coming in throughout the year so
every couple of months they have
different teams coming in we set up a
clinic and then we bring people in from
the different communities we triage them
we hear their to complaint do
assessments refer them to outpatient
services if they need consultations with
cardiology or ultrasounds of blood work
and then they go to the pharmacy where
they get medications that they need yeah
and it's it
really interesting experience it really
opened my eyes last year this isn't the
first time I've had exposure doing
medical work abroad but it's really
always um shocking and humbling to
realize how blessed we are to have
things that we do here in Canada now how
did you get hooked up with this mission
like the drop out of the sky did it come
in an email like how did you like how
did it happen so last year a friend of
mine named Han she attends the church
that I go to and she just said Kerry
will you come with me on this medical
mission so I prayed about it there
wasn't any reason not to and got it
blessed me with a good job that I could
pay for it so I said yes and went just
like that's like that and I wasn't going
to go back this year because I had other
expenses that i was going to need to pay
for but I said more if you want me to go
again I will go all right so I looked at
my schedule I would have had to switch
six shifts to to go and so I thought you
know what I'm not going to do it it's
gonna be real headache to do that right
and my manager called me in the office
about a month ago and said Kerry you
have to take six shifts off before june
because you have too much vacation
stored up I was like okay I noticed ones
i'm going to take so cool so cool so he
really took care of that and you know
people different physicians and friends
have donated medications and yeah it's
just been really awesome so now this is
not the first these are not the first
missions trips you've gone on know
you've gone on previous missions trips
yeah so these are specifically medical
mission so you took your skills as a
nurse and went to another country to
share your skills which is what Paul did
in the New Testament he was a tent maker
so basically he sponsored himself to go
from place to place to place in order
that the gospel would be shared with the
people in that community so that's
basically
what what you were doing but every
mission you've gone hasn't been I want
to say a tent making mission where
you're talking your skill and using your
skill no um so the very first time that
I went out of our own community here I
was 16 years old and they went with my
brother um through a free methodist
church in canada and we went to Deep
River Ontario to run a sports camp and
she read the gospel with teens there so
I had no idea what missions were about I
thought you always had to go and like
help both poor people I've got in my
mind that's what I Russian trip was ok
so this was something totally different
um but it was amazing because my family
and I we just become Christians at that
point and we pray that that God would
help us to pay for the trip so we
decided to have a garage sale we
solicited our neighbors and asked if
they would donate some what they're used
goods okay filled my dad's garage and he
was not happy about it what is this job
okay way was small like so much junk in
there and he was really like well what
do we do with all this junk and
everything so we had the Crashdown we
need everything that we had pictured me
twelve hundred dollars a garage sale so
cool and then at the end that's the day
this guy came from a used wave all it
was like a tiny village safely yeah yeah
and he showed up and said to my dad in
the day here's my card give me a call
and I'll come and pick up all the junk
out of your garage so it's funny when we
talk about that we talk about missions
and good right uh my dad always points
back to that is well god had all the
details cover to get us over yeah you
know we took care of money he took care
of even the junk out of our garage yeah
so it was really each time I've gone
somewhere it's a really encouraging for
me you know you think you go on these
trips to do something for someone else
but really it showed me who God was its
faithful provider and also made me
realize the importance of sharing
the gospel but you've had some
experience in missions as well I have
and I'd always been afraid of going on
missions trips oh hi ah cuz I didn't
think I had anything to offer and I just
kill spies skills wise okay and I'm like
well uh what happens if they ask me a
question about Jesus I know I know I
passed them what you know and I think I
was just afraid of what if I don't have
the right answer okay um and in my mind
to it you know foreign country different
language weird food weird foo you can't
I have no idea what I'm supposed to do
or how supposed to do it so I think just
the overwhelming fear of not being
equipped or knowing enough okay like it
would be a failure anyways so the very
first missions trip i went on a fellow
youth pastor said to me hey do you want
to team up and do a Vacation Bible
School in rochester which is in upper
New York State and I was like um okay so
he he's from he's doesn't work in
Rochester this is you know he knows the
people they speak English I can run a
vacation bible school okay okay so we
packed up everything I got my team
together we went and God was so
amazingly cool like he just knit the
whole thing together beginning to end um
and I realized maybe this whole missions
trip idea isn't as hard as I think it is
that really if if God calls us to go
somewhere and he's going to knit
everything together and I still remember
driving into the community and it was
just this wee little church in the
community and yet we must have had 60
people 60 kids come to vacation lab
school like there's so many kids and
just yeah you know to be singing these
songs and teaching them about Jesus sent
running around outside and
and remember them saying don't let the
girls go anywhere by themselves like we
were not allowed like even those North
America weren't allowed to go anywhere
by ourselves and as females and that was
just like oh okay we're not in Ryan
Canada anymore when I in the wee little
town that we came from yeah um but it
was just really cool and I remember we
did this object lesson as jesus is our
life saver and we hand out lifesavers to
all the kids and I remember this one kid
he came forward and we said you know he
took it and were like are you are you
gonna eat and he's like no I want to
keep it jesus is my lifesaver oh that
was just asking so um so that sort of
got me thinking missions trips are okay
and then we end up going to Sherbrooke
Quebec which basically to an African ah
community we spoke French and I'm like
okay this is not a different because um
sure pop there goes our batteries don't
you worry we're still powered up
responsered by kiko alkaline batteries
environmentally friendly batteries that
power our cameras and mics yes and the
durable and they are durable you can
drop um so I went to go back anja Paul
on boat full say and yet we were
asked to lead like I had lead songs in
French but our leaders led songs and
French we led I had to lead sports I'm
not even sporty walking doesn't count I
can walk um I had league games in French
so I had to figure out what the French
words were and then lead the games in
French and but what was the most coolest
experience there is the pasture brought
us right like he found places for us to
stay and it was basically a family gave
up their home so that our team could
stay in their apartment I remember
coming out and all the kids from the
church running around and it because I
have blonde hair and they just wanted to
touch it and they wanted to braid it and
they just wanted to be near me and some
of the best ministry this is that
one-on-one connection with those kids
yeah and that was an example where okay
language doesn't matter no like it's
what's in your heart and when Jesus said
in Matthew 28 you know the Great
Commission go into all nations baptizing
and disciple and telling them about me
sometimes we can think okay that's the
other side of the world but you have
doesn't have to be no because the same
people in our own community struggle
with the same thing and it I came to
realize that this was a last year when i
was in nicaragua and it's a spanish and
my finishes member bad but there would
be a translator and this woman came and
i had her chart from a previous visit
and it said that she really had
struggled with depression and but she
was coming this time for some pain and
why i did mention i said and how are you
doing with your depression right and she
started to cry and she said last year
she was the grandmother a little boy and
was taking care of him hmm and she was
just struggling they were financially
unstable she just found out her wits and
she said I was ready to kill myself I
said and then I came to this clinic and
I got hope in you know she she was able
to hear about hope that's found in price
and how your identity is not found in
what you have or what you don't have
yeah but it's because the key mix as a
child of God and you can
your day and it does help us yeah
physically he helps us emotionally ops s
psychologically he can help us and she
was crying and she grabbed my hand she
said and I'm so thankful and then we
prayed together and that mean realized
an that like so this is another part of
the world but every day you know we run
into people they are stronger the same
thing right here yes so we don't have to
go a million miles away yeah like this
is our mission field yeah I know you've
shared a little bit about your workplace
because i'm working a church so people
will know in my line of business tend to
know about Jesus or come asking
questions about Jesus but when you work
in a place where Jesus is not the center
you very much become the light and life
and you know the Jesus or what Jesus
might act like to those people like you
are a missionary at work I know we've
had so many conversations about yeah
being that light yeah and same with you
know my friend who works in an office or
my other friend who is living with
people who don't share the same thing
very nice other Hindu or whatever jesus
said and you can look at that verse gin
but you were the light of the world and
as a city on a hill cannot be hidden so
we were supposed to share our lights you
don't light have a light and you put it
under a basket but you put the lamp on
it stand it gives like to everyone in
the house and that used to freak me out
because oh man it's a big responsibility
and it is because we're supposed to be
ambassadors for Christ but then when I
realize it has nothing to do with me
it's as everything to do with God and
you think it like the parable of the
sower so the farmer sowing seed and it
falls on two different types of soil
right yeah if I'm the farmer anyone can
throw seed anyone can do it anyone can
share the gospel anyone can open the
door and just go meet with someone yeah
go outside and play with the kids you
can whatever have the conversation at
work you can produce some of these
where anyone can give out a tylenol you
know they need yeah anyone can sow the
seed of love and the good news of Christ
yes some plant some water but ultimately
God causes the increase yes and I I
really took heart after reading that
because like who lied to go you are we
to go yeah and one of the biggest
challenges for me because one of Carey's
gifts is evangelism that's just how she
wired his wife when she goes places she
wants to tell people about Jesus I value
evangelism it tends not to be my I wanna
say my my forte but I understand the
importance of it so we go on vacation
and I'm thinking okay I'm on vacation
I'm a believer I'm on vacation and we're
in Ireland at the time and we're walking
through the woods having a great time we
come along this older man who's what was
he walking a dog or just walking he's
just one just walking and we just
started talking to them to talk talking
to him and then I started talking to
another woman that we found along the
way and then querida started sharing
with this man about Jesus and then she
handed him a track I'm like she brought
a track on vacation actually you started
sharing and I need the track she brought
a trap on vacation and it was just so
like okay like as believers we are not
to take a holiday from sharing our faith
yeah I think it's and Timothy pulse I
believe so RuPaul says preach the word
in season and out of season yeah so
which means there is no season where
we're not to share yeah and I remember I
think we were in Australia or newseum
last year and there was a just a guy in
a girl talking back and forth no sharing
with Kerry like this is what they're
talking about to do that and then I'm
like uh we're getting ready to go and so
I'm I had to go to the bathroom that
came back and you're like cuz you we
were doing selective eavesdropping
and in mcdonalds and she's like I think
he really need to talk to them faster
kick and so I just went over and I'm
like excuse me but I been eavesdropping
on a conversation and I can't help but
you know hear what you're saying and I
have a pastor and I'm just wondering if
you would mind me sort of yeah they were
really disillusioned with Christianity
that's yeah yeah and we spend some time
just talking with them and yeah but it
really reminded me that we think you
know I need to go on a mission strip to
share the gospel but you do but you
don't and so often it feels like
whenever I'm on vacation cuz this
happened to me before at mcdonalds
another you know two friends were dad
the other end I'm have some other
friends on vacation in Arizona and she's
really struggling with her faith and I'm
sitting there I'm like I'm listening to
what she's saying she's just really
struggling and I just finally got up and
went over and said excuse me Oh
eavesdropping again I'm video shopping I
couldn't help but hear what you were
saying and I'm pastor KY no can I help
in any way we had loved who a
conversation was good I gave her my
email and but that all came from Kerry
who just really inspired me that when
like like you said we are to preach the
gospel in and out of season and I tell
you so often it's that fear what are
they doing thinking me where they say
yeah I still have that and I'm just so
thankful for the people who stepped out
in my life together share good things
with me yeah about God and not been
afraid of what I thought of them yeah
some thankful how can there's a person
the Bible it says how can they believe
in whom they haven't heard you having
people believe in lets me actually tell
them yeah so yeah we just wanted we were
talking about this a little bit before
we started recording this show
that we were just excited we want to use
this to encourage you to just tell
somebody yeah just just share yeah and
cheer with a child yeah they are
sometimes the very best people to
receive the good news because they're
they're open yeah and they so often one
just be with adults who will pay
attention to them and listen and and the
best thing that you can do about sharing
the gospel is loving loving well yeah um
yeah yes that's very true I just thought
about I i went i did another medical
mission one time in the dominican
republic and it was with a nada
christian organization and so there was
no we were giving medication we're
giving in to parasites doing assessments
dug up good stuff but there was no good
news mmm so I know it is important to
meet people's physical needs and that
sometimes what they need yes and you can
be an answer to prayer that way but
really the best thing that we have to
offer is about Jesus yeah and our
identity comes from him yeah so that you
could really feel the difference the
hope that we brings is Christ you know
hopefully it's not our skills loving
thing the necessarily although it was to
use first Peter for tenants as each one
should use whatever gift he is receiving
to serve others faithfully administering
God's grace and gifts in its various
forms exactly so it's not just about
well I'm not a preacher so I can't I
can't go on a mission series on my bed
nature yeah but I'm on the other side
thinking I can't get our creature I have
a feature in your like hood um I can't
I'm not really sporty and and so often
look at all your shortcomings ready we
look at all of our shortcomings and I
remember um I went to Cambodia and first
of all went to Vietnam and went through
the hills of Saba
and we were paired up with I want to say
a Sherpa lady they were from the black
hmong try like they look at mongolian
yeah anyway so we were paired up with
with them with each one of us had a lady
and she would walk beside you along the
trail because it was like ooh like today
I wouldn't have a problem that but back
then I was totally scared and freaked
out so on like the level she would just
be there present but you know letting us
walk and then sometimes you know if it
got a little bit more difficult she
would hold her hand out to us and we had
the option of taking it or not okay um
and then uh sometimes though when I got
really serious I remember her just
grabbing hold of me and pulling me up
because you're gonna like that I was
gonna wipe out and it taught me about
who God was cuz sometimes God walks
alongside of us he just walks um and
sometimes he holds his hand out to say
I'm here I'm here to help you do you
want you want my and sometimes he
literally grabs a hold of us and yanks
us out of a dangerous situation that
could have disastrous results and I
remember there is another lady with us
totally independent I can do it I can do
it I can do it I'm fine i can do and she
like wiped out oh yeah like seriously
she seriously like wipe out and but she
was like no I don't need your help and
it really talking about God's love for
us right like if we willfully willfully
like push away in him yeah but I just I
remember her grabbing a hold of me and
it's so stuck in my mind that there have
been times in my life that God has
grabbed ahold of me and so as I'm on
this missions trip which I was supposed
to be doing for other people okay not
speaking to my heart and changing my
heart and so um I was radically changed
by going on a missions trip um yeah so
you think sometimes there is value in
stepping
our culture yes yeah it also helped me
understand the bigness of the universal
Church yes and how believers in Canada
we are connected with the believers in
Ghana in Cambodia yes dominican and all
over the world we are brothers and
sisters it really helped me understand
that community and sometimes it also
takes going into another culture to
realize the deficits that are exists
within our own one thing I really really
realized being in like lower income
areas yeah is how they really ban
together as a community the church body
and they meet each other's physical
needs they live together they eat
together they serve you know ya moron
sometimes I think our independence
really isolates us mmm and it took going
to another culture and having people
from other cultures comment and share
that with you buy me anything down you
know what there's some changes that we
could make in our own church interesting
so that's all the time that we have for
today I feel like you still have lots
more to say about missions trips and how
they may have to this so we're gonna
close in prayer and then from the sign
up so here we go or God thank you that
you are so unique in touching our hearts
and you have so many different ways of
getting our attention sometimes right
here in our own country and sometimes
you take us overseas and Lord use all
sorts of different people to speak into
us and teach us your truth and then you
use us to speak truth into other
people's lives God thank you and if
anyone struggling right now who's
listening about going on a missions trip
lord I ask that you give them a piece
about whether they should go and I
should knock them that peace would come
from me and that they would not allow
fear to creep in and whisper things in
their ear saying that's not for you
father we thank you for your goodness
pray this in the name of
Jesus thank you so much for tuning in
again and we look forward to seeing you
next week same time same place on you
every day here on category 5 TV
you
