Eric 85
what's a reputable website to download
SNES and NES roms etc I think Oh No
so you're you're gonna ask that and make
me D monetize this video as soon as we
answer this
Google's a AI is gonna pop on and say
sorry you're not it's not agreeable with
some advertiser they just spoiler alert
but there's a lot in the news about this
- yeah okay so before now I would have
said EMU EMU paradise mm-hmm
would have been what I would have said
right we won't but we won't and the
reason that we won't isn't because it's
not great but because Nintendo all right
here here's the problem let's back up a
little bit yes retro gaming is twofold
is it piracy or is it preserving a
legacy piece of software that has been
abandoned aka abandoned we're by the
original developers so long as nobody's
interested in it it's rhetorical yeah
question
so this is my this was my theory months
ago and now he's coming to pass yes why
is window windows why is Nintendo
bringing out SNES mini why is Atari
bringing out the Atari many devices why
is Nintendo now doing an NES mini why
are these devices coming out because
they are now as the company who owns the
intellectual property for those games
they are now reira leasing them to
establish that they are not abandoned
correct they are the intellectual
property of Nintendo or Sony or Atari
and this is what is coming to pass and
this is what I had prophesied unto you
months ago it was recent and it's
happening yes and so emu paradise who
was always dedicated for 18 plus years
to making it so that all these old games
that we grew up with then by we I mean
not necessarily you young chaps that are
watching the show but you know me
generally like 30 ish plus 30 ish plus
as of 2018 so those old games that we
used to play as kids I mean we hear
stories and and even the developers at
EMU Paradise have said like we have
stories of people who have gone to war
and watch their friends die and turned
to retro gaming as a means of going back
to those times 20 30 years ago when they
were sitting in the room with those
friends yeah and playing games and and
and all these wonderful stories of
camaraderie and the the friendships that
were established around Super Mario Bros
and you know right Donkey Kong and
contra and everything else so what has
happened is Nintendo now with the SNES
mini and the NES mini has stepped up its
game and sued emu paradise so wrong and
so emu paradise has simply said fine
throw in the towel we're just not gonna
do it we're just gonna close down
everything that we've been doing here
for 18 plus years because Nintendo is
you coming at us with all their lawyers
all their write everything else so we're
just gonna shut it down so the site is
still available you can still go on to
EMU Paradise dot em E and see the
repository of games that they had but if
you try to download any of them it will
take you to a document that says can't
have it thank you for your years of
support and this is what we set out to
do to bring new life into these old
games that nobody sells anymore and so
they've just abandoned and to archive
like think about an archive remember
what's gonna happen to these games now
if
no folds up or stop selling them right
and forbids their distribution as long
as there's interest in it Nintendo will
see a dollar sign sure they will
right absolutely but are we gonna go out
and spend a hundred this is a real
catch-22 am I gonna spend $150 on an NES
mini let's just say hypothetical I don't
know what the actual prices but say a
hundred bucks or whatever that has 30
games on it or retropie cost me the same
and has 2,000 games on it mmm I think so
first off there's two thoughts running
through my head yeah the first one is
internet archive.org they have kind of
similar what they're doing way exactly
but not just not just all the banne and
where games but like even old websites
old documents all the kind stuff like
they save it all so you're gonna have to
pull you they will this is all I mean
there might be something you could find
there I don't know but I'm with all of
this I'm thinking you've got things like
you know your your Google music where
you can just pay a subscription you get
access to all this music when are we
gonna see a retro gaming subscribe
coming Sony's doing it and in tendo's
don't know that yeah with just for their
software you don't have to have rich and
the up can buy in the what is that just
a Nintendo stuff or is that everything
well I mean you can get you can get
Sonic the Hedgehog on a Nintendo Wii but
that's to say okay so the the retro
gaming roms the download that you can
put on a retro pie and install so emu
paradise is now defunct if you will and
so are there alternatives to it are
there other places that you can go that
you can trust and a go-to site that
we've used in the past is called
alternative to dotnet and when you go to
that site you find alternative
applications for commercial applications
and things like that so you can do an
alternative to Adobe Photoshop and
you'll see GIMP right okay they're
things so if we go to that site slash
software / emu paradise dot just just
like that you
you paradise we'll see okay EMU paradise
is discontinued find alternatives in the
links below so a caveat here is to say
do this from Linux if you can do this
from a heavily virus and malware
protected web device web content
filtering yes you said Internet Security
not an anti-virus like AVG forget about
it okay
get Linux on there get Internet Security
or something like that that is going to
block sites from installing Java
backends into your system and things
like that
because there is no is there a
trustworthy way to do this no I know or
Chinle not but you can see if you go
here that there are alternatives okay so
you've got like cool ROM and you can
scroll down this list and there are
other alternatives and I'm not going to
click on any of these because I'm on a
Windows 10 system and I'm not going to
trust these on a Windows 10 system but
if you've got Linux click on some find
your way around see what alternative to
is going to recommend and see how it
goes thank you yeah good luck and it's a
gray area those of you who say it's kind
of like we're not sure yet
yes and so I hope we can still but hurry
downloads today tomorrow they'll
actually be illegal yeah yeah it's a
hard hard thing for sure
[Music]
[Applause]
