have you folks seen all this stuff whoa
this the computer extraordinary oh my
goodness
sometimes I build a computer you know
sometimes first time so this is yeah
this is like the Raspberry Pi in about
3000 parts right yes what are you most
excited about this this this the
motherboard actually like the sexiest
piece of technology I've ever seen in my
life
like it's actually so super sleek it's
beautiful it's amazing folks want to
close up I'm gonna grab a camera here
that I can just kind of get right in
here look at that
it's the the Maximus VIII 8 from a soos
beautiful it is so sharp oh I love it
so we've got it we've got a couple of
things here that we're really really
excited about first of all it's got an
m2 header so that's this guy right in
here so that allows us to connect an m2
or em to and we've talked about it
through the course of the series this
being part six of the series we've got
one X 16 2 X 16 s 3 X 16 s plus 1 2 3 X
ones those are your PCI Express Lanes
and we're gonna be able to do a lot with
those as you know Sasha what do you
recognize here she takes in her bike
yeah this is where a processor is gonna
go our RAM is gonna go here notice the
solid state capacitors there gorgeous
you're not gonna have any trouble with
this motherboard and it looks great
we're excited about this folks so
tonight we're getting started right
we're just gonna get right into it it's
a big job to build a computer did you
realize that I don't even know that yet
even though you keep saying it I'm like
wow
and I have to stand here with my hands
behind my back because this is all you
girl yeah you have to be very
instructional okay all right because I
don't know how to start okay oh yeah
okay
might want to help you there
instructional starting now how do I like
am I just plugging those into there
popping them in like the Raspberry Pi
into the case not exactly okay first and
foremost this is your computer case the
chassis we got okay so a couple of
things here if we get in real tight you
can see that we've got a hundred and
twenty millimeter fan it looks like
we've got this is the bay on the back of
the computer this is where your stuff is
gonna go that's where your power supply
is gonna go down at the bottom and the
motherboards gonna go in there so we
actually have to install all this stuff
but what order do you do it inside well
you wanna know my guess okay the
motherboard first no oh if you put in
the motherboard first so think about
this and remember this if you're gonna
get into your own computer build if you
put in the motherboard first for one
thing this guy here this opening is not
gonna it's just going to be all the
parts wide open on the back of the
computer okay if I pull this out let's
see if we can get this right out of the
the box I want to show you what the back
headers look like okay oh if only it
could be that easy they've mounted good
now we've all we've both grounded
ourselves tonight mm-hmm
just FYI and that just makes sure that
going to have any static electricity on
us now this is the back of the
motherboard okay so you see this that's
what will show through the back of your
computer so the the computer that pardon
me the motherboard in the box is going
to come with this guy here
so before we install the motherboard I
want to put into the case okay this is
the simplest thing I'm allowed to open
stuff for you thank you okay what should
I be doing in prep okay well here we go
don't want to forego my phone looks like
that okay so there's that's where the
keyboard is going to be that's where the
USB is gonna be things are upside down
so we know that it's gonna go in this
way so what I needed to do sash is I
need you to actually mount this on the
inside of the computer case so it goes
on so it goes inside pops through yes
okay all right you want to give it a try
I do can I just move am I allowed to
shuffle shuffle yes it is yours okay
and then this goes does it pop in it
just snaps right in okay
I don't know this is now gonna be a
twenty seven part series just step one
sash will just pop right in yeah okay
maybe I'm not gonna break anything here
feel like you let clip in no this can't
be me there we go
did it snap nope it just fell out okay
all right you've got it right I've got
it right so okay yeah you've got it the
right way up so what I would do okay and
I'm trying I want to try to show you as
much of this process as I can folks so
what we want to do is kind of put it in
like this like a door okay and then
close the door and then push it nice and
snug so I'm gonna I'm gonna try that now
I know I'm not supposed to have my hands
in here right here that Oh see be a
little forceful with it
it's that little little guy in the
bottom there we go
is that Clifton there we go oh yeah
see I don't know all right so now the
back of the computer looks like that
okay so that's step one and and for
obvious reasons because when we put the
motherboard in we don't want to have to
then take out the motherboard to put
that silly thing in writes the other
thing before you put the motherboard in
it's important to note now because we've
got this big old heatsink right okay and
your computer you're gonna need a cooler
to keep the CPU cool the central
processing unit but sometimes sometimes
Sasha the mounting plates to do that to
to mount that on the computer on the
motherboard are gonna go on the back
okay okay so because that's the case
because sometimes they go here if you
first screw this into the computer case
you're gonna have to take it out again
which is very tedious if you've already
done the you know you've already put
some paste on and you go to it yeah
could be a mess so first thing first
thing we want to do is we want to see if
our mounting hardware is going to go on
the front or the back in this case it
goes in the back right it could in might
we've got to get into the box okay and
find out remember I'm allowed to open
stuff for you that's right okay so
there's your mounting plate this is
going to actually be what the CPU fan
mounts to okay so in this particular
case sashayed does go on the outside Oh
on this side of the computer on the
motherboard okay okay so we're gonna
have a couple of other things in the bag
here looks like a power extension for
the fan it's got the clips for the fan
to put it on the on the the the heatsink
and then we've got these kinds of screws
to to mount this on to our motherboard
okay so I want to do that because of the
way this is laid out do you see that yes
I want to do this after we've mounted
the CPU the processor okay because then
this can go on top and then we can put
some pace and we can put the fan on okay
we're not gonna put that on just yet
got it okay so we kind of choose our
order based on the hardware that we have
yeah sense right
okay so let's each build would be
different then these build will be
slightly different not it's not gonna be
you know over the top you know
everything is completely different it's
just going to be you know the processors
may be different socket set and things
like that this is an 1151 LGA 1151
processor so when we install this now we
have to be very very careful here Sasha
there's a couple of things when we
install the CPU which is this chip right
here first of all this chip has a
gazillion we pins on the underside of it
okay now this one actually these ones
are a little different you know what the
pins are going to be on the motherboard
itself not on the processor like the
days of old so if I get in there oh and
I suppose you're supposed to do this bet
so this is a little trickier so you've
got to pull this lever here and when you
pull that it kind of it springs up okay
and we have to be very careful that no
dust gets in there no dirt okay can I
leave that to you so just you want me to
do just gonna push down and those down
and out okay alright and then just open
it like that yes okay and now Sasha can
see all of the Wii pins in there so we
just match those up exactly okay yeah
and there I noticed that there is a like
a cover on that so what does it say
install processor first then remove and
keep the cover it actually says that
right on there so that kind of answers
our question of soos has done a nice job
of making it kind of so this cover will
come off after
yes okay the the processor has to be
that you can't have a piece of plastic
over top of the processor between the
cooling fan this is a heatsink right see
this this massive thing over here if you
had a piece of plastic in between I've
decreased Celsius in some case yeah melt
that plastic away in cause now I don't
want you to open this over the table
like this
and like that you need to get down and
be really really careful here but before
you open that we need to look at what a
soos is included here which is the CPU
installation tool okay so this is a
handy little thing that they've included
in order to help us to install the CPU
in such a way that we're not gonna
damage the okay so it's just a cheap
little piece of plastic but it's going
to help us exponentially because quite
frankly a lot of times when you're
installing a processor especially as a
rookie you could Bend Bend those pins
and if you do your processors shot it's
not gonna work okay so let's get let's
get right to this now I'm gonna move
this guy aside we're gonna close the box
here just so that we can use this as a
surface okay so okay so we're gonna set
down this installation tool and we're
gonna look for the little triangular
arrow do you see that yes you folks see
that at home see that little triangle
now that is going to match up with a
triangle that is printed on the CPU
itself oh look at that okay yes so
that's where we're going to line it up
so once we've got that lined up we know
that it's going to go that way okay now
you can open that you want me to open
this yes so we're just gonna and you
notice I'm just doing this really really
low to the table because I do not want
to drop a central processor use a
central processing unit very very
fragile and this is the brains of the
computer so I don't want to touch any of
the pins I'm gonna cause some problems
with the conductivity there if I do I
want to grab it by the corner
okay so when I'm holding the processor
I'm only ever holding it by the edges
never touch the dye never touch the pins
okay so I'm okay with you doing this
well you know what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna balance it on here okay I'm gonna
let you pick it up and we're going to
line that up so that the triangle is so
there's the triangle there as you saw so
we know it's in this corner okay sash so
when you get this processor it's on this
corner right there's the triangle so
it's going to go in just like that and
I'm just putting it in there yes okay
okay you ready you nervous yes wait
nervous if you're nervous you'll do okay
so I just drop it in here like placed on
I'll turn it over make sure that you're
lining it up correctly yeah so we see
that triangle on the bottom corner yes
little masked by your finger but we know
that it's going into the right corner
and I just I'm scared nice and gentle
I'm gonna use my we don't have to be so
like I I'm purposefully cautious okay
okay good think I did it I think it's
right now we just need to kind of snap
that in a little bit let's see I think
it seems to rest in there just fine yeah
but on the edge here there are some
clips will suffice if I just kind of
push in I want to be careful that I'm
not put my grubby fingers on the
contacts but you hear how that kind of
clicked right in yes
so now the processor is attacked okay
this installation tool okay okay do you
want try that nope you sure yep positive
time it's good time okay and then now
that we've got the installation tool
mounted and it's ready to go it's with
the processor okay
yes now we need the motherboard okay so
open that bad boy up
okay yeah just like that now we need to
find the triangle which is here okay
okay so turn over the processor cuz it's
gonna go the other way this way yeah and
sorry I'll change camera angles for you
folks and the triangle is here yes and
the triangle doesn't do that okay
doesn't snap or anything like that right
on um yeah okay so now close it just
like you opened it okay do I push push
just with the handle okay oh sure a
little guy close it close it first yeah
yeah and then close the handle down yeah
yeah it's a little tighter this time
there yeah and do I lock it and
everything here don't you don't touch
any other don't touch it like you don't
want to push on like a capacitor or
something cuz you could break it off
that's all so okay now you see what
happened oh that thing that we need to
get out of there is now it popped right
off okay okay so now you see what the
processor looked like it's mounted can
you folks see that I'm operating
everything by foot switch today see that
okay okay so now we've got the central
processing take a breath and it's not
scary though with it once you've done it
now do you have confidence you can do a
hundred of those right I could do that
yeah you know that I can and it doesn't
help that I'm like backseat driver over
here don't hit that person I'm like
thanks mom yeah thanks okay so next up
okay so we've got slots for RAM we're
not gonna put those in until we've
installed the board right what else do
we need to do I mean everything looks
good next up we really just need to set
up the mounting plate for our CPU
cooling system is that what that is what
that is
okay so the screws for that I pulled
those out you
a little baggie right in front of me a
little baggie right in front of me of
course all right so there's some numbers
on here yes what numbers do you see 775
11 56 1366 and that's it okay so these
are now again this processor is an Intel
1151 so we may need to look at the
instructions for Intel installation
because you want to make sure you get it
right okay
pretty simple stuff Intel okay so what
does it tell us
eleven five x11 5x is in the middle yes
that's where we need to put it okay so
the pins that we need for that are these
itty bitty plastic guys they're clear
plastic guys there they are so they look
like they look like light brights and
they go they go in the middle one what
do you mean in the middle one like well
you see no if you see this yeah there's
like oh I see either on the outside
inside or in the middle okay and if you
line them up correctly for the LGA 1155
these go in the middle yeah and I can do
that too easy and this could be done
with the motherboard installed okay so
what you actually want to do see cuz
that's loose right yeah it's gonna come
out you need to set it down on the
motherboard okay so so producing any now
that you know anyway yeah well you see
where it lines up right yeah so now that
lit up put in the first one into the
middle hole okay
and then find the hole in there and push
it well now do the next one oh okay you
just need to make sure that they go in
the right spot
I believe I'm doing that what's going
into the hole on the motherboard right
yeah perfect oh yeah it still is I think
great and next and final and remember
we're not going to touch that die on the
CPU that is okay is that in that is in
okay so now what we need is these guys
so these are the final touch to solidify
this so this is gonna go right down into
the middle of that so we're just gonna
elevate the board just a little bit and
push those down you see how I can just
kind of click okay okay so you've just
kind of hovered them on the outside of
the board just lift up the board a
little bit and push down so that it
clips okay yes fine is it going well let
me try the other one first that one was
good that one clipped there we go okay
and if you need to give a little bit of
support on the back of the motherboard
so now these things are going to
actually lock those into place so you
push that down into the center of those
oh that was actually really easy yeah
I'll do the other way this is how I
pictured the whole thing would go just
push it in done oh and then there was
that one it's pretty tool-less eh all
right it's in there it's good now just
give it a nice little tug give a nice
little lift on that motherboard here
yeah see that she's on there it's on
there she's good well done
okay so next up we're going to actually
install the motherboard into the chassis
before we do that we're gonna need power
from the power supply so that's all part
of it stick around we're gonna be right
back after this Jeff Weston gentlemen
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
what aren't you like you're a terrible
actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name so your own com dice to put
that amazing website that you've been
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a WordPress site
fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost
just don't put that of a papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
and tonight we I mean Sasha is building
a gaming PC yeah how cool is that
so cool all right so now that we've got
this kind of set up for Sasha I
mentioned that we don't want to touch
the die if you ever accidentally do a
couple of little things of the tools
that you want to have handy cotton pads
commonly used for removing makeup yes
and some isopropyl aka rubbing alcohol
seven seventy percent okay no not like
vodka in your t-shirt you know in a bond
but what a waste that would be
you might want to just wait till you can
get some isopropyl okay so all we need
to do in that case is just get a little
bit of alcohol on the cotton
and then just give a nice little wipe to
the processor just like that okay just
in case here's what you just want me to
choose yes exactly and then just give it
a nice little dry with the other side
and there you go
nice and clean we've gotten rid of any
kind of grime in good from our fingers
which can happen all right next
next up now I mentioned we got to put a
power supply in definitely but first I
actually want to get the m2 on that
board to be honest with you yeah the m2
I keep saying m2 but it's an m dot - is
the actual designation so looking in the
motherboard box we've got a couple other
things cool stickers what else have we
got more clothes Oh Sasha they gave you
a four when dave is playing video games
and you don't want people you shall not
pass nice okay what else we got you may
enter
I'm not gaming okay we've got some SATA
cables we'll use that for the SSD a few
of those and here's what I'm looking for
a riser
and a screw for an MDOT - so that's
going to actually screw our SSD into the
motherboard okay because we're not using
an SAT a traditional 2.5 inch hard drive
we're using an SATA MDOT - right it
looks like a ram module cool that's what
it looks like so if you've never seen
one now this is an 80 millimeter so it's
20 by 80 aka you'll see it's called oh
it's a 22 by 80 so 20 to 80 is the
designation that means it's 22
millimeters wide and 80 millimeters long
so when you see that designation and
wonder what it means that's what it is
so when you buy a motherboard or
anything else you need to make sure that
your motherboard supports the length so
in our case it goes all the way up to 20
to 80 22 6 20 to 50 and 20 to 40 - okay
so we could go with a nice little small
one or we can go with the long one which
is the 20 to 80 an hour
okay so you're gonna get into that sash
because is your job but first you need
to put a riser see this guy yeah first I
put the riser where there you go
the riser needs to go into the 20 to 80
screw hole oh and it goes all the way up
to 20 to 110
whoa you guys see that 20 to 110 is all
the way over here so a hundred and ten
millimeters is the length there and
here's the riser oh boy
it would have been smart to get some
scissors but they make it out of a very
stretchy plastic okay so we need to just
with your thumb and index finger just
screw this riser into the 2280 slot into
the 2284 okay that's right
and that's because ours is an 80
millimeter length normally you have to
have like elven fingers to do this
how's it going over there who me yeah
I'm good I'm good done my work perfect
nice and snug well done okay and then
we've got this handy buddy screw that we
don't want to lose okay yeah but I don't
have it open because I have a question
yes this is a what okay commit all right
forget this
I brought my tool kit okay scalpel okay
thank you you're welcome
all right you in I think so yes this is
a Kingston M - it's an SAT chip but it
is 240 gigs of storage for the operating
system it's going to be a chip on the
motherboard so you don't have to have a
bunch of cables going to your hard drive
and things like that
this is strictly this is for your OS so
I'll just hold it here so that the folks
at home can see and you see that just a
chip so that's gonna go right onto the
motherboard there and chip chips up
right down here so it's going to plug in
there take this way other way
oh this is the chip that's this way no
no this way yeah okay hold on okay let's
let's let's look so that we can
understand why I'm saying now see the
connectors here these are the contacts
that connect it to your motherboard this
side here these are just some resistors
and a screw contact for the screw hole
itself to screw in okay but the contacts
that the leads that go to your
motherboard are right there you can see
just by looking at it that those are of
course the ends they're gonna connect
into the motherboard okay okay so you're
just gonna plug it in now motherboard
steady okay it looks it looks as though
they go here is that right yes you got
it so just push it in
I must I'm scared you're right to be
gentle that's all there whoa Nellie
okay alright so now you get that little
screw that you've got I've got my trusty
screws here hold that down yeah of
course now you don't want to screw it in
so tight that it cracks you just want to
screw it in enough here you know what
let go let it fly up okay put the screw
on the end of the screwdriver like one
of those things it is magnet thing oh
yeah okay oh the precision just told so
this is good everybody can see my ring
okay there has never been until this
moment anything shinier than my forehead
on the show but now now folks alright
there it is the m2 is in there can I
just check your work yes you may a
little bit of a turn more and we're in
so this is your hard drive what so you
look at that you think where's the hard
drive well it's already there it's built
in to the motherboard yeah it's fast
it's reliable and it's a chip so you can
like be like yeah yeah it's something
about having an MDOT - and your
motherboard it's really cool but what it
does is it bypasses the traditional SATA
connectors and everything you don't have
all these wires going out and it's gonna
be faster plain and simple now because
we've got the MDOT two installed
yes some of the SATA headers on the
motherboard are now going to be disabled
okay so keep that in mind as you connect
your your MDOT to because this is an
SATA MDOT - right it's going to
automatically disable some of the
headers on the motherboard so you want
to look at your manual find out which
ones those are because if you plug in an
optical drive into the SATA one or zero
and then realize that neither of those
ports work what's going on and it's
actually that you've got an MDOT - it's
disabled the first two ports which is
pretty common and then you need to plug
into port 2 which is actually the third
port
how many headers yeah I know right
that's how many headers do we have here
okay they're all right here 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8
what are those little guys I've never
even seen those those are new to me and
it's okay that it's new to me you guys
know what it is cool yes all right how
are we doing for time well we have to do
they use at some point but I kind of
want to keep I kind of want to keep
doing this okay no this is this is what
the show is all about tonight okay so
move your stuff out of the way okay take
a sip of your water and we're gonna get
going on the actual installation I'm
gonna just kind of move some things
aside here
that's neat how she just kind of cuts
herself off like that sorry got a duck
in behind the computer all right so I'm
just gonna move the trash out of here
who's on cleanup anyways oh oh right
that's how this works so this just flops
over just flops over this is the video
card folks oh we're gonna get into that
next week
well not next week because of the
anniversary but next time next yes the
next and the seventh installment
Kingston HyperX fury ram ddr4 it's gonna
go on that mobo it's gonna be screaming
okay what else we got okay let's get
this out of the way I don't know if I
need the manual I'm gonna keep it handy
just in case okay this is your Arctic
silver this is the pace that's gonna go
on the processor to make it nice and
have a good contact or create a funny
story about that yes it's the only thing
that I had to pay shipping for I know
right everything else because I am
Amazon Prime everything else was like
free shipping completely thing that the
shipping was as much as it was
unbelievable pay twice check this out
folks this is a beautiful Corsair rm8
50x power supply now what do you notice
about it sash
on it it has a fan on it yes very good
two points for you it has no cables
coming out of it none not a one because
it's 100% modular so the only cables
that you're going to have coming out of
that power supply are the ones that you
choose because you need them for your
computer now traditionally a power
supply is going to have all the cables
coming out you got to wind them up and
try to get them out of the way so you've
got air flowing that it looks nice this
one silent operation at low to moderate
loads in this mode the fan will not spin
oh nice little warning - because you
know if you didn't know that you'd be
like oh the fan is defective first time
you fire it up you'll know if the fan is
spinning then you're in more than
moderate load yes when you're gaming yes
okay so let's let's get over here I'm
gonna bring this right that's center
stage for us and on the back here sash
there are two thumb screws and I need
you just to I'm gonna get that one
started there it goes if you could just
get those out for me right out yeah so
this we're gonna get into the back this
is a pretty cool case because everything
is kind of contained and hidden that you
don't want to see right I mean we've got
a beautiful power supply but it's
actually going to be hidden so keep that
in mind if you are purchasing one of
this one of these cases of the Versa c22
from from thermaltake gorgeous case yeah
yeah it looks sharp but one thing I
notice is that our power supply is going
to be 100% hidden down here I'm gonna
change cameras there for you so that you
can see there we go so this is where the
power supply goes inside this see that
so don't go getting one with big LEDs
and things like that because if you do
you're not gonna even see it so the
power supply is gonna go in there but
how do we get in
that's the question so we're gonna get
around to the other side and Sasha if
you just give this a little bit of a tug
this thing yeah you're gonna see that
side panel come right off now that
those thumb screws in and just pull out
Oh out that way yeah oh don't oh oh
don't do what I'm here over this way do
not have been things no it was my my
wrap it just only wants to come up I
think so Missy okay you do it no see so
this is what I wanted to avoid bending
and we didn't so don't worry see these
these clips had you opened it up that
way
it would have been tall these clips been
able to close the case
so when you open it so it kind of clips
in yeah this is awkward for me I'm
looking around like this so it you push
it in and then you push that way and
then you put the thumb screws in so then
when you're opening it you pull back and
then out okay just like that
okay kind of like what I did yes so and
I'll show you guys what what the clips
actually look like okay so knowing what
they look like helps for what it yeah so
there they are on this side of it okay
so now that we're in there can we get a
good look at the where the power supply
is gonna go right uh-huh it's actually
wide open on this side of the case so
does it just slide in there kind of
sorta doesn't look like it connects to
anything you want right do the Faneuil
pointing up yeah hand goes pointing up
because it's gonna actually I really
believe so let's let's get a closer look
at the bottom here no Stan goes pointing
down we've got a filter at the bottom
okay oh and there's a couple other
things so here's a filter here for dust
so it's actually blowing down and we've
got some risers to keep it off the
ground if you can try to put this on a
wood floor not a carpeted floor because
you can get a lot of dust if you do
although this has got a filter so you
can take that off and clean up okay okay
the other thing that we didn't know
about before because we hadn't removed
that panel is we've got some drive trays
for three and a half inch drives oh
there you go
nice not sure is there there's no
backplane so there is no backplane there
but it's somewhere that you can put your
drives that's completely hidden and
doesn't affect air flow right so we want
to stick that power supply in there okay
okay so fan down here you go I gotta let
you do this so then just put it in just
put it in I feel like there's not a
really a way to do this okay nicely okay
okay now just kind of push it right up
against the back snug and I'm not sure
if you folks at home can can really get
an impression of that can is it back
snug okay oh yeah so just kind of line
up so that the screw holes are in the
right spot
see those force oh yeah that's what's
going to actually hold the power supply
in place so it looks like they've
included some screws here
so as we're doing this sash yeah are you
realizing how much work this really is
yeah I'm realizing that I would never
actually have done this it's not for the
guidance of you so it's it's a lot of
work but it's not it's not overly high
like it's not hard it's not difficult
it's just that it's you gotta take your
time okay it is time-consuming
okay so those holes are lined up and
good to go four screws I don't know what
the top hole how come I don't see you no
idea what saying I'm just up here
assuming that it's going well all right
okay gee willikers do you get this going
oh maybe that's it okay you got it
no it's only four screws oh you know but
I can't okay you look at this and tell
me what you see all right
I see that you simply need to turn it
over I simply need to what turn it over
maybe no you know what it's only the
three of them line up okay there's only
three of them actually line up which is
fine and reasonably normal reasonably
normal yeah okay
now while Sasha's screwing that in last
week no note last week a couple weeks
ago when Jeff and I were looking at this
chassis I had mentioned that on the
inside there are there's a three and a
half inch bay and a five and a quarter
inch bay on the metal part of the
chassis but what's interesting is on the
other side of it is the LED panel so you
can't actually put an optical drive into
the vs. c22 from the thermal tape so
keep that in mind if you wanted to have
like a blu-ray drive so Sasha it's a
good thing that we opted out of that
we're not able to put it in this case on
the very other side of that what are you
doing can I get around to the other side
of the table I feel like I need to push
this guy in you can do anything you like
you want me to push like resistant ah
yes see it takes to make sure they go in
straight
I want to strip anything I'm trying
I'm the good backseat driver here so
tonight we've got the CPU installed
we've got the CPU cooling mounting plate
installed we've got the MDOT 2 installed
and we've got the power supply installed
right that's a good start it's a good
start I mean it's a one hour show so we
don't we're not gonna you know finish a
computer build all in one show I feel
like that one might be stripping okay so
we'll just never take this out
that's the answer now I told Sasha that
she was gonna do this if she's gonna do
this okay so Dave when you're watching
this I'm so sorry
they don't observe the bat the the
screws on the back it's going in already
yeah I think oh yeah oh yeah so if you
do have an issue with a screw that's not
going in straight I don't know if you
just ignore it no no here give me the
screwdriver screw so I just want to take
that out and and turn it
counterclockwise until you hear it click
and then turn it forward and that's
gonna give it a good grip and that's
because if it's if it's cross threaded
turning it the other way is going to
simply give it another chance to grip on
the right spot that looks great sash
okay thanks
yeah I'm just gonna tighten things up
looks real nice so we've got air flow at
the bottom you folks can see that we've
got the power supply at the back and
everything's ready to go sweet happy
with that so far yes okay this thing is
all going to light up when we power it
up to right now it kind of does yeah
beautiful all right we're gonna come
back to it in two weeks time on episode
number 524 Wow Zach and we're gonna
finish installing the motherboard we're
gonna learn how to get that in there
we've were basically well prepped yes
and then we've got to get once we've got
it up and running and booted then we've
got to get into software so get over to
cat5 dot TV slash
cpu 2017 great opportunity for you to
tell Sasha what software you think she
should run which flavor of Linux
that's right gonna be Linux right it is
going to be Lin it I think because it's
a gaming PC steam is a must so think
about that as you're recommending which
flavor of Linux we want to go with which
one's gonna run steam the best observe
the specifications of the build itself
and make your decisions there and post
in the forum cat5 dot TV / cpu 2017
[Music]
[Applause]
