I
welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w dot category 5 TV
or email us at live at category 5 DB and
now let's get here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to category 5
technology TV episode number 203 it's
let's see it's August what is it August
ninth I was gonna say the eighth time is
flying summer is going by real quick
it's good to have you here make sure you
join us in the chat room category five
dot TV nice to see those who are here
tonight great to see you Greg in Texas a
Jameson 5570 9 JV SCC evermind good to
see ya yeah hey everybody all right
tonight we are doing a by popular demand
I've got a lot of emails this week while
it was away and a couple of people have
been asking when can we do another
viewer question extravaganza sans the
cough that was unexpected so I said well
we're going to do it as soon as we
possibly can and here we are tonight
I've got so many questions your
questions have come in at live at
category 5 TV of course you can get your
questions in in the chat room as well
and I'm gonna have trouble seeing
tonight because don't have my glasses on
tonight so I'll be fumbling around
fortunately I know where the keys are
bear with me who's joining us for the
first time in the chat room we'd love to
say hello to you and I'm going to do my
absolute best to monitor the chat room
we have so much exciting stuff to talk
about tonight
as well we've got some great news
stories lots of stuff going on in the
news this week and here are the stories
that we're going to be covering in just
about a half hour there was a lightning
strike in dublin on sunday and that
lightning strike took out amazon and
Microsoft's cloud computing environments
stick around were going to be telling
you all about that also the British
government has admitted that the
copyright laws need to be updated
because they've gone too far the
existing the existence of antiprotons
that's a form of antimatter has been
proven you may have heard it is actually
available in the Earth's orbit are we
talking about that major discovery as
far as science coast and King Abdullah
of Jordan he has approved a project
worth 1.5 billion dollars and this
project is a Star Trek theme park we're
gonna be telling you about that in about
a half hour time so stick around
questions in the chat room hey everybody
hey Jameson 55 79 good to see ya old guy
Jim brand new tonight nice to have you
here love to hear where you're from and
how you heard of the show nice to have
you joining us tonight hey TCT rad
edgardo says me and I i expect that
means that you're new here so welcome
nice to see you let us know where you're
from speaking of where you are from get
onto our website category five dot TV on
that website you can go to about us and
the viewer location map and it just is
absolutely astounding to blow your mind
and you'll be able to find yourself on
that map if you look around it might
take a couple of moments to load and
that is because this map actually
demonstrates where the viewers that are
currently watching our show are from so
here goes their loads maxing out my
browser's cache no doubt
boom there you go you can actually zoom
in you can actually take a look around
the world and see where people are
actually watching from at this very
moment and I would challenge you to try
to find yourself on that on that map if
you think it's creepy that we can tell
where you're watching from don't worry
it's actually pin points to your ISP
your IP address on your computer tells
us what who your internet service
provider is so for example our isp here
is comp you solve and comp you solve is
based in Midland Ontario so that's about
a half hour drive from here but if I go
to the website if i watch the show it's
actually going to show me as being from
Midland so it can be it could be rather
close depending on where your nearest
hub is it can be rather far away but
it's not actually a point on the top of
your house per se I'm just watching here
oh hey everybody old guy Jim is in the
lower 48 the Tidewater Virginia area was
looking for video editing software and
found the show what a great find old guy
jim says thanks Jim I would encourage
you to fill in a part me a viewer
testimonial I you probably saw if you
were watching I chug back a juice just
before the show so i can make way for my
iced coffee and all of a sudden now I've
got this tickle in my throat that's from
the juice but Jim I would encourage you
to get on to our website category 5 TV
go to interact and viewer testimonials
you be able to tell us what you think of
the show what you've learned so far and
just give us your feedback oh and i just
realized we're still up on the screen
there we go iced coffee have you ever
tried it very good take a pot of coffee
this is what I've been doing you need a
brew a pot of coffee and it comes out
and you have a couple cups and what
happens to the rest of it usually it
gets dumped if you don't drink the whole
thing so you cool it down put a little
bit of raw sugar in there and stick it
in the fridge and when you're ready pour
a little bit of cream pour yourself a
cup of coffee it's delish good summer
drink
the more you know so I add some
excitement this week as you saw from the
front page of our website there tonight
I didn't want to show my face didn't
want to reveal my identity for ladies
and gentlemen oh this this was delivered
to me by a client this week because
we're doing a project we're on
developing an ipod and iphone and ipad
app for this customer but what it is
what is cool about it is it allows me to
see the category 5 TV app on a bigger
screen in such a way that you could
probably actually see that so i'm going
to give it a try tonight we're going to
pull up the new version of category 5
technology tv's mobile app just kind of
wet your noodle a little bit and you can
see what you think there we go category
five TV let's do this because it's
cooler that way should be a big enough
screen that you can actually see this is
the better version of the category 5 TV
mobile site there it is there's Jerry
and I from last week you can see I don't
know if you can make that out or not
because the broadcast is rather small
we've got more info where you can
actually go in and find out more info
about the episode as well as see how
much bitrate is going to use things like
that we've got an episode list where you
can actually see what episodes are
available and you can click on one and
it'll take you right to that episode
with a photo and everything and you can
hit play and once it loads there let's
see if it does it
there we go
and there you have it so from the ipod
or I the mobile app which is mobile
category 5 TV you can do all this and of
course it works on Android it works on
blackberry works on many many mobile
devices and I'd encourage you to check
it out mobile category five dot TV how
many people are actually using the
mobile site John says Apple is way too
slow referring to the load time that
would be my wife aye sir the iPad I've
noticed now because I do use an ipod
touch and here's here's something that's
rather ironic you remember the old the
old case and what I had said about the
ipod and Mac fanboys the old case had a
big old hole in the back of it so that
you could see the Mac logo I thought was
being clever went to the store and
looked around and been shopping for one
I found an ipod touch 4th gen case which
covers the Mac logo I did that for you
my friends as well as for myself and my
pride and then somebody shows up at the
door with this as if to say you know you
just can't get away from it and I think
that's what's happening I think that
we're getting to the point where they
you gotta admit that's a good good
device there are alternatives out there
and then there's a growing market place
of devices the that we're getting access
to but but they're pretty decent but as
I was saying the iPad this is a first
gen ipad 64 gig and it's substantially
faster as far as performance goes than
the ipod touch even though the ipod
touch i've always been rather impressed
with it as far as how well it works and
i love being able to surf the internet
from a tablet device especially you know
this is a very portable device great for
watching shows great for getting your
your RSS feeds and things like that if
you want to subscribe through itunes
cat5 TV / itunes but but the ipad kind
of takes it to the next level and turns
it into an actual computing experience
as far as you know bigger keyboard
more abilities and things like that much
more speed but that said yeah I think
Emile is hitting it on the head iPads
nice but a tablet with linux is
something that that he would really like
and I think definitely an Android tablet
would be something that i'd be
interested in our co ass has our archos
or however you want to say it they have
some fantastic devices and a growing
whole bunch of nice tablets that are
available for a good price Orion I am
NOT going to be wearing an apple shirt
but rye tell tell me this if if I showed
up at your door and I said here have an
ipod touch this is this is kind of what
happened because a viewer had said I
really appreciate what you do here at
the show that and they actually gave
this to me it was new in the box and
said that this was a thank-you gift for
basically for doing category five and
that was such a an incredibly nice
gesture and that was when the ipod touch
4 just came out too and then this week
so right if I showed up at your door and
I said here have an iPad thanks for all
you do you're you're telling me you're
gonna you're gonna nah you know what now
it's not it's not android i got i just
didn't being real and just saying it's
it it's pretty awesome it's really quite
awesome but if i was if i was shopping
if i had the money to shop for that kind
of device if i wasn't if they weren't
being handed to me left right and center
then I might I might shop around for
something that's based on Android that
being I would probably start with the
archos arc OS tablets what do you think
Tilson the chat rooms from an email live
at category five dot TV John would take
the ipad just so that nobody else would
have to suffer with it that's so kind
and selfless of you John I've always
been impressed with your selflessness
your willingness to take things that are
really cool
and valuable ever mind wants to know if
I code PHP on an iPad no I don't do
anything that useful on an iPad but it
sits as a meal says it's a cool toy it's
got some funky stuff it's got a lot of
games you're a gamer it's good pretty
good graphics for what it is hi i am
boris karloff says that i just bought a
current our quest tablet which i found a
bit disappointing surprising now what is
disappointing about the tablet and how
much did you did you pay be interested
to know i am boris karloff alright so
I've got a couple of viewer pictures
that came in this week Brian Murray
Brian Murray was visiting York in
England last May and found this guy who
was feeding squirrels at the park bench
every single day and just thought hey
here's a interesting picture that I'll
send him on there's a dove there or a
pigeon that is right up there too pretty
amazing how tame those animals are very
cool I have a picture of me when I was a
kid something similar with a chipmunk
but that's nice ah and he says he wants
to receive a couple of your points even
though it's not a picture of him
watching the show and because I like to
encourage viewer participation right I
will how about I'll give you fifty
viewer points all right I'm gonna write
it down 50 viewer points
hi Marie if you would like to receive
some viewer points all you have to do is
send me a picture preferably of you
watching category 5 TV like Emil who
watches category 5 TV on their laptop
and some crazy shows in the background
on their television set that is
multitasking Emil multitasking that will
get you 100 points on category 5 TV
thanks for the thanks for the email oh
and look at this I've got an email here
from xando who in fact owns a narco arc
how do you say it guys archos arc OS
I've always said arco ass but it how do
you say it anyways and 0 is using an
archos 5 internet tablet and watches
category 5 technology TV using that
tablet and believes them archos to be a
very innovative company it says that
they would like some viewer points so
this is zambo watching on the version 5
IT a gamoto phonetically says it our
costs I know that's not what you mean
but our house really is that way arc os5
ever mind says okay so that's the the
arco s5 internet tablet and i will
change the way I say it 50 times but
that's that yeah that's that's really
cool i like the mobility of devices such
as that i love that with and i'm only
using ipod and ipad as an example
because it's what I've got at my desk
and I don't have any fancy mobile
devices and these these tend to be the
most readily available here in Canada I
don't know how it is in the rest of the
world but there are other devices but
quite frankly Apple's got that market as
far as getting the product into the
hands of the consumer so that said it's
probably the most likely one that I'm
going to get if somebody is handing one
down
this is the first gen that's been handed
down it's used and and so you know gives
me a chance to try the device but yeah
so here's just from our app here's last
week's episode and you can see how great
that looks but I am surprised I'm a
little surprised that the screen see how
it's more before I don't know if it's
quite four by three but it's not
actually 16 / 9 i've got to actually
zoom in quite a bit but that's neither
here nor there what do you think is it
worth shopping around what is your
favorite tablet device or what is it
that that you would choose if you were
standing in the store and you have the
options in the same price range i mean
okay tonight's episode of category 5
technology TV is powered by eko alkaline
batteries and you will notice that this
battery pack is missing a couple of
batteries and that is because these
environmentally friendly batteries are
powering my microphone tonight and they
are fantastic they are earth friendly
landfill safe check out eco alkalines
calm and you'll find out more
information about them rhubarb is
wondering about my ability to program
for the ipad and in fact i'm not
programming in an object-oriented see i
am programming in PHP surprisingly
because it's amazing what you do with
server side stuff i am developing i
develop some pretty crazy stuff but what
I'm developing is an actual server
platform based on linux that is that
powers through Wi-Fi a network of
tablets so be it ipads or whatever and
those tablets will all connect into this
centralized server and the the actual
what is being presented on the screen is
being presented via ph PHP HTML just
like our app and I say app but when you
see that I bring up category 5 TV
this is actually PHP takes a moment on
the iPad it has a splash screen on the
ipod touch and other devices but this is
that this is all PHP so everything that
you see here is is done in PHP it looks
like like a standard app for the iPad
this has not been optimized for the ipad
yet because I haven't had this long
enough to to do any testing with so but
but that's all it is watching the chat
room here doing my best as I am flying
solo tonight pyrus rock I am on google
plus I'm not an active Google+ user but
I registered I'm there I'm using it but
being that you know pretty much got
registered and then went away for
vacation it hasn't really happened yet
but yeah you can find me on there DJ
ravi f @ gmail.com ok let's see lots and
lots of your questions let's pull them
up let's see what what you have for me
this week and if I miss your question
like I say there's there's a ton coming
in so i'll do my best but you let me
know if i if i miss you pop me a message
in the chat room or say hey and
certainly i'd encourage you to invite
your friends to watch category 5 TV as
well this is a free service we're
located at triple w category 5 TV all
you have to do is go to our website you
can sign up for the site if you like
it's free you don't have to in order to
participate in the show but you do get
the advantage that you're going to be
able to accumulate what's called
category 5 viewer points if you're
registered those points will build up as
you use the site and as you watch the
show and with with lots of points you're
going to be able to get some virtual
rewards such as badges and things on
your profile and then there are going to
be some options to to receive things
like coupons and and promos for various
products various services online that
will be coming
when people get into the higher you know
five ten thousand viewer points so so
there's lots to do on our website of
course lots of free information there
being that it's a one hour show and this
is episode 203 so there are two hundred
and three hours of video that are
currently available so you might want to
check that out I'd love you to check it
out and pop me an email or send me a
viewer testimonial into the questions I
don't want to take up too much time just
as a jabber walkin but I've got one here
from gym Franklin who says well first
let me thank you for your broadcast
cheers I found it while looking for
video editors I appreciate all that
you're doing and this on top of your day
jobs while not a novice I installed
slackware from diskettes many many years
ago I'm no expert i saw your episode
with open shot and checked out KD and
live or KDE and live I like sony vegas
movie studio but it is windows and very
expensive my question is what do you use
to capture DV I tried keno but it
appears to lock up after just a few
minutes of captured video also I'm
running it on a lenovo r61 I laptop
thanks from gym okay Jim you're real you
know the embodiment of your question is
what do I do so when I was using a DV
camera so you're talking about DV so SD
which is a typically firewire so you've
got an IEE 1394 port with that yes i was
using key no no i did not have any
trouble but i did have to i can't recall
if i if i had to run keno as it as root
i don't think i did but they're there
are some permission issues with firewire
and not running as root so you could try
that but that's what i did as i used
keynote for all my importing on linux
from DV those are tapes though so if I
was on Windows I use a program called
cyberlink power
rector and that's a great program i'll
post links for these applications in the
show notes for episode number 203 but
Jim cyberlink is basically a Windows
equivalent of open shot as far as what
what it does but it also has the capture
features and things like that and it's
got quite a few different encoders as
well it goes from capture to editing the
editing portion is very much like open
shot and then to publishing and
publishing allows you to send it right
to youtube or save it as files on your
disk that said what I do these days is
quite different because now we use
solely flash media based video cameras
so when we record video it records to an
SD card so we've got we've got a ton of
these guys laying around this one is a
video from last week and these cards
basically hold the videos it's transient
never leave your stuff on there if you
get a digital video camera never ever
ever fill it to capacity and just leave
it there I see what people tend to do
and not to get sidetracked here Jim but
I dread that they're not reliable media
SD cards are so magnetically sensitive
they'll drop data and suddenly stopped
working and there's no warning I would
so rather that if you're going to record
to flash media or anytime you're using
flash media thumb drives things like
that never store your only copy of stuff
on there as a transient media it's
fantastic for me to record to the on the
video camera to st and then import it
directly onto my raid array my unraid
array get it somewhere safe but that
said it provides extremely good quality
video we're recording at 1080p and that
video because it's on an SD card there
is no dubbing there is no having to run
the tape in real time anymore there's no
more having to use an application such
as keno in order to get the video off of
the camera you can either connect the
camera through USB and get access to it
as if it was an external hard drive or
you can do what I do and that's to use
SD cards and those SD cards that just
eject them and I plug it into the
I to my laptop which has a camera card
reader an SD card reader and import the
files there there MKV files or something
along those lines so AVCHD and there
they're big files but they transfer
perfectly so that's how I do it now cool
hope that hope that helps am I missing
any questions in the chat room there if
you have a question that's completely
relevant to what I'm talking about
please PM me because as I look at the
chat room see now I'm ready to move on
so if you're saying something that's
relevant to the question there the gym
master if it's something that I should
be mentioning on air or that is relevant
relevant to what we're talking about
please PM me that's / msg space Robbie F
and then space and then your message
there you go job ok as it is I'll hope
that that answers your question Jim I've
got one here from Dennis who says hey
Robbie is there a way to put my home
folder on my pogoplug I'd like to do
this instead of leaving it on a local
hard drive thanks from Dennis and Dennis
I yeah you can use pogoplug FS if you
want its fuse right like fuses would
allow you to set it up as an FS tab
entry would it work because your your
home folder I know I don't know if
you're I don't know if your home folder
needs to be activated before your
networking or not probably so I doubt it
would work but that said even
theoretically yeah we could probably get
a working but I wouldn't recommend it
pogoplug is a fantastic device for
multimedia storage and things like that
but what you're looking to do is is not
really feasible in that it just it
doesn't make any sense from a
performance perspective because pogoplug
is a is a streaming media and storage
server it's not an N distribution
mechanism so that you can access your
files from everywhere but that said
Dennis I don't believe that it would be
built for or reliable enough to put your
home folder on because if your internet
went down even momentarily which happens
right or if you reset your router
which happens all of a sudden you lose
access to your home folder because it's
through the internet basically it's
through the pogoplug so that could be
very problematic so yes it could be done
would I do it I would say no I would
rather if I was going to do something in
that set up I would have my unraid
machine with my home folder on it
because it's going to be up no matter
what it's on UPS power it's got Gigabit
Ethernet so it's extremely fast as far
as accessing my data still not as fast
as an internal hard drive but it's going
to do better than then going out through
the internet and back in if you're using
encryption so so Dennis I would stay
away from that particular configuration
but if that said you're thinking aw but
I still want to do it then let me know
but I would stay away from it I think
okay Dennis sorry not the answer you're
looking for I'm sure I know you want me
to walk you through it but it would be
too risky risky risky that's it hey you
could take your it depending on what
you're trying to do but you can backup
your home folder to your pogoplug yeah
our sink mount it to slash media /
pogoplug just throw it anywhere with
polka plug FS run your backup script and
get your home folder copied or are
synced onto your pogoplug then you've
got a backup as opposed to actually
trying to run it like mounted as your
home folder okay here's one oh you know
what we are actually out of time as far
as that goes it's just about time for
the news and tonight in honor of the
ipad hope there we go will bring up
Safari here which hosts our newsroom
website it's newsroom dot category 5 TV
always an adventure with me here all by
myself is not you think I'm unprepared
I'm not unprepared I am just operating a
lot of switches definitely Wirecast
makes it fantastic makes it relatively
easy for me to switch cameras which
tickers and even
to jump right into the news anything
that I need to do through wire cast is
done reasonably simply but on a night
like tonight where you're flying solo
it's still busy busy so from the
category 5 technology TV news room let's
see if I can do that there we go a
lightning strike oh this feels dirty
there a lightning strike in Dublin on
Sunday caused a power failure in data
centers belonging to Amazon and
Microsoft causing the company's cloud
services to go offline lightning struck
a transformer sparking an explosion and
fire which caused the power outage that
lasted for much of the day on Sunday
with services being slowly restored as
Amazon worked very hard to bring ec2 and
EBS back online under normal
circumstances of course backup
generators would seamlessly kick in but
in this particular case the explosion
also managed to knock out those
generators does the outage demonstrate
perhaps the weakness of this
infrastructure the cloud e-mail your
comments to live at category 5 TV and
we'll mention them on next week's show
the British government agrees that
copyright has gone too far and in a
surprise move last week they actually
pledged to enact significant changes to
copyright law including orphaned works
or orphan works reforms and also the
introduction of new copyright exceptions
this is starting to feel awkward can it
work like this yes it slips over as long
as the Apple is inverted I am happy the
tone of the comments was surprising the
government agrees that copyright
currently over regulates to the
detriment of the UK that is a quote they
say that CD and the author says perhaps
DVD ripping for personal use should
become legal at least and the are at
last and the government is even keen to
see the consumer rights granted by law
can't simply be taken away by contract
for example an end user License
Agreement sticker on a CD demanding that
ripping is not allowed would be
overruled by the government they the
report is also significant for what it
pledges not to do the government says
here in the well there in the UK that it
will not bring forward this the site
blocking provisions after that you'll
remember from last year's Digital
Economy Act this is evidently not
referring to the power of copyright
holders to compel individual ISPs for
example to block infringing sites after
a lawsuit but more that comprehensive
system whereby the government had the
ability or would have had the ability to
demand that ISPs and it would block
particular websites antimatter has
received a lot of research attention
here on the planet Earth let's satellite
data recently confirmed that antimatter
particles particularly antiprotons are
actually being held in orbit by the
Earth's magnetic field this is the first
time antiprotons have been discovered
trapped in the Earth's magnetic field
even more impressively though is that
this confirms past theoretical
predictions of their existence while
scientists have yet to clarify if there
are any practical applications for this
discovery of course we all know that it
is just what we need to power a fleet of
starfaring vessels and finally meet the
Vulcans there are lots of famous star
trek people in the world Star Trek fans
in particular but there are few who are
as rich as King Abdullah of Jordan the
Middle Eastern monarch who was actually
once an extra on an episode of Star Trek
Voyager has given the green light to a
1.5 billion dollar Star Trek inspired
theme park it's boldly going to take
Jordan where no Gulf State has ever gone
before while the theme park will not be
powered by dilithium crystals it will
utilize green technology in order to
lower its carbon footprint
the futuristic Star Trek theme park will
be situated in the Jordanian coastal
city of Aqaba acaba and will be spread
over a 74 hectare area it will consist
of 17 entertainment zones and a
four-star hotel among many other things
but no word about holodecks or
transporters in reality it looks like
the project is actually going to be
funded by investors from both the US and
the Gulf and the Star Trek attraction is
being creatively developed by paramount
recreation development is scheduled to
start sometime early next year and we
can look forward to its completion the
category 5 technology TV news room is
available at category five dot TV /
newsroom and it's research by roy w nash
with contributions this week by Rho
Gannett through Twitter if you have a
new story that you think is worthy of
on-air mentioned make sure you email me
newsroom at category five dot TV from
the category five dot TV news room I am
Robbie Ferguson that's what it says
right here on this iPad category five
technology TV newsroom tonight is
brought to you by pogoplug cat5 TV /
pogoplug and we talked a little bit
about it just a few minutes ago but we
have lots of those to give away later on
this month so make sure you're watching
every night every tuesday night at seven
o'clock again cat5 TV / pogoplug also
planet calypso it's a free online
massive multiplayer game I kind of mixed
up those words but it's a massive
multiplayer online game lots of fun and
you can meet people like myself like
John who is joining us in the chat room
and you can get in there and say hello
and that is available for free download
at cat five dot TV / Calypso so gang it
is it is busy in the chat room looks
like good to see everybody hey John my
unraid changes IP addresses when it
reboots so you do need to set that to a
static IP if you put the home folder in
it that's a good point the jaunt makes
there
that about setting your home folder of
course it needs to be a static IP thanks
for that John I may not have thought of
that certainly though I couldn't see a
purpose in having something like a nun
raid server without a static IP when you
think about it because it's a file
storage server you're gonna have your
Windows machines are going to have
mounted drives you're not going to be
calling a by machine name I don't think
you're probably going to be calling a by
IP address which is what I do so it's
always good to have your servers behind
us like on a static IP regardless thanks
for the comment all right gang I unless
you PM me I will definitely have trouble
following the the chat room tonight but
I'm doing my best k goosey wants to know
if I'm using the i7 processor at this
point not yet k goosey but we are
working towards that goal as you know
our original server got damaged in a
power surge thankfully you our viewers
have come through for us which is just
just absolutely awesome and we're so
appreciative of that we've also picked
up a couple of advertisers and we're
going we're going to be able to replace
that server with something that's that's
reasonably decent and it is looking like
we're going to go with an i7 2600 k
which is the Sandy Bridge so so we're
gonna at that point experience the
difference between a Q 6600 which was
our original server and jumping up to a
sandy bridge processor so looking
forward to that very much and in fact
parts have been priced out and we're
getting ready to order the motherboard
that we're ordering from a sous is on
backorder and so that's already under
process once that comes in them will be
able to order the rest and we'll see how
it goes i 7 now has ECC TCT rad is is
saying that's amazing so and with the
dual processor I sevens I could see them
really making their way into not
necessarily a business server
environment but certainly as a as a
small business server or as a home
business server
boy oh boy especially with ECC that's uh
that's wonderful hey jamison 55 79
pardon me I should do this before Andrew
before before i chat with you mm-hmm I
just realized as I look up there's me on
the website trying to hide my identity
which I don't know what you think but
looking at that picture I'm pretty sure
we have the same sunglasses and oh my
goodness the same outfit isn't that
ironic how does she get a hold of my
pajamas unbelievable hey Jamison will
the user setting up something like ldap
for their home folder similar to Active
Directory roaming profiles work for
having a remote home folder okay so not
following the question exactly there so
you've got at you if you're using ldap
Active Directory Roman profiles would it
work with a home folder I'm not sure
dude not not a setup that I would that I
would go with so cool any other
questions for me in the chat room please
PM me
Oh pires Rock says what is ECG or
whatever it is that you just said I 7
now has ECC is error checking error
correcting code memory so it's it's
basically what you would put in a server
versus the cheap consumer memory that
that you've typically put in a work a
home computer like a just a desktop
right ECC memory is it's constantly
checking itself and and I guess the wit
I'm not sure as far as how it exactly
works but it's a higher-end memory that
that is less prone to blue screens and
things like that then the the cheaper
counterpart
cool cool all right I'm going to jump
back to viewer questions here gang and
you can get your questions in at live at
category 5 TV or through the chat room
category five dot TV here's one from
Scorpio 55 who says if you'd like an
easy way to fix your grub bootloader
then this application seems to the job
do the job really fine from help ubuntu
com hey this is cool boot repair I
haven't used this it's a small graphical
tool to repair frequent boot problems
such as repair the boot when an OS does
not boot anymore after installing a boon
to repair the boot when access to grub
and another any other OS is lost allowed
the reinstallation of grub and allow to
restore the original boot sector that is
cool looks good so this is a freely
available i'll post the link in the in
the show notes for episode number 12 203
all right there are 32-bit and 64-bit
files those are let's see what they are
they're isos so you burn it to a CD boot
from the CD very cool thanks for the tip
all right what else have we got live at
category 5 TV for my inbox okay Robbie
and gang this is from Peter Lois Peter
says I bought myself a touchpad 11 which
uses the android operating system i also
was given along with it a 64-bit SD card
I found that I had a problem accessing
your past show videos and also watching
the current the current show this is
apparently because the touchpad 11 does
not support flash player is it possible
for you to include some way that you
could watch mp4 files that do not use
the flash player so that you can watch
them on my touchpad 11 yeah and that
could I can actually automate that for
you Peter I haven't I do my best to work
with with devices even though I don't
have them when I was setting up
compatibility for the ipad and what you
see there it was corey clacks and i
believe was it Corey was it you that
that came on with your iPad and through
the chat room you gave it a test and we
made it work for you Peter what I need
to know is what browser headers your
device is sending to the server and then
I can automatically have a transition to
different file formats so what I'll get
you to do first of all I'll encourage
you to try our mobile web site okay
mobile dot cat five dot TV that's what
you saw there I'd like you to try that
on your on your tablet tell me Peter if
that if that one works our main website
it may resort to flash the mobile site
will never use flash it does not have
any flash on it so that might be your
answer right there but if it's still
having trouble playing because those are
m4v files and that's not listed in the
compatible file formats that you give me
although MKV and mp4 are similar
containers so it's possible that they
may work so give it a try let me know
and we can set up to actually test your
headers
and see what your device is being
detected as and then we'll see if we can
get it working for you I'm sure we can
okay here's one from a meal who says I
was looking for category 5 TV on my XBMC
but I can't find it and I'm sure there
were tears involved hey where can I find
it or must I install something to watch
your show on it greetings from a meal as
far as installing something Emil it's
not really that it's not like installing
anything basically go to our website
category five dot TV okay go up to watch
the show up here I'm going to zoom in so
that you can kind of see a little bit
better here watch the show subscriptions
and RSS feeds when you're there you're
going to see something here and this is
what you want the recommended feed is
480 p h264 all right right click on that
copy link address that's what it shows
on my browser your Firefox will have
like copy link right just copy the link
alright so now when you're in your
clipboard if you look if you paste
that's what it gave me alright so what
we need to do is from that well I'll
bring up let's bring up some information
for you on XBMC from their help forum
wikidot BMC org ? title equals RSS feeds
okay this is going to tell you now what
to do with that link that we just copied
okay there's the address i'll post the
links in the show notes episode number
203 so basically get into the GUI and
when you're in there okay just follow
the prompt follow the instructions here
very you can see how easy it is it's not
long just start here okay to connect to
a specific RSS feed on web lava click on
go to add a new source under music
videos and pictures section of XBMC and
you'll see that what you want to do is
you want to paste the link in there now
you'll notice that this is RSS colon
okay that's what tells XBMC that it's
using an RSS feed so our RSS feed is in
fact HTTP so what you need to do is take
that URL that you've copied to your
clipboard and change it to RSS colon
copy that to your clipboard okay now
that's going to tell XBMC that this is
actually an RSS feed it's going to use
the RSS protocol and it's gonna grab
category 5 480p okay that should do it
for you please let me know and certainly
take a picture so that you can get 100
viewer points alright this is category 5
technology TV you'll find us online
triple w dot category five dot TV you
can flatter us a cat5 dot TV / flatter
and as i was mentioning before you can
get us on iTunes camp 5 TV / iTunes so
nice to see everybody TCT rad would like
everyone to submit their haikus maybe I
read it wrong that's how I read it
Cheers the meal saying that they're
gonna give that a try after the show all
right let's see what else you got for me
here I'm just going through the the
mailbag tonight here at category 5
technology TV you can submit your
questions to us and I will do my best to
give you accurate answers and certainly
our chat room and our community is a
fantastic resource I'm not the only
resource here I'm just kind of the
person that you see on the screen but
you can also chat with people in the
chat room they'll have answers for you
as well this one comes from Samson and
Samson says I want to install multiple
desktop environments in a boon to I
usually use gnome but like many of them
to users these days I'm looking for an
alternative and I want to have a
hands-on experience on KDE or xfce
without abandoning known completely I've
seen some distributions come with
multiple environments is there no is
there not a not so hectic method of
actually installing another desktop
environment without breaking the
existing one installing KDE base or
gnome base for example while running
either one of them seems to mess up the
environment and you end up with an ugly
hybrid and a bunch of cloned
applications thank you from Sampson
Abraham Samson I think I hear what
you're saying you install KDE and all of
a sudden you get a whole bunch of
applications that come with KDE mixed in
with your gnome applications there's
really generally no getting around that
every desktop environment is going to
come with some applications however you
can install just the desktop environment
package which is going to be cleaner
than installing for example you know
when you say que te like kubuntu desktop
you wouldn't want to do that because
then you get whole ton of stuff like
everything but you could you could do
that or what I would suggest if you have
the power on your machine and you're
just looking to try things out I would
install virtualbox and I would get a
couple of different distributions and
give them a try alternatively we are
working our way through now we're it's
on hold for the moment because of our
server situation and unfortunately our
systems are not capable of doing the
demonstrations at the moment but we are
working our way through basically
reviewing a whole bunch of different
linux distributions and we're looking at
all different desktop environments
so if you follow along with that series
which you'll see we've already reviewed
several different linux distros you'll
be able to see and kind of judge from
watching the show and bringing up makeup
full screen and see what it looks like
on your computer even though you're not
getting the interactive experience
you're able to see hey that's what Katie
he looks like hey that's what sore and
os looks like things like that so if you
have a particular desktop environment
that you're interested in send us an
email live at category 5 TV and we'll
see if we can pardon me if we can in
fact incorporate your suggestions into
our reviews as we look at which
distributions we would like to take a
look at but I would if you want to do it
yourself try virtualbox then you are
creating virtual machines that can be
you can have multiple different ones
installed and you can be trying them all
simultaneously or one at a time and you
never ever touch your ear main what's
called the host operating system that's
the way I would do it so give that a go
let me know what you think and if that
if that helps yet okay Samson and thank
you very much for your question moving
along in our inbox one here from gadwal
ah says yeah this must be the question
the question could Robbie show us and
pardon me good Robbie show us how to
make an actual drop-down menu in a
website I really like to see how Robbie
would code something like this on this
on a site I've viewed the source code
but I can't see how it all fits together
so this is an actual drop-down menu not
a pseudo drop-down menu I understand you
know what GAD will sometimes there are
points and I will create menus and I do
create lots of nice men use their time
consuming the CSS is time consuming
quite often if I'm building a website
and it's you know if it's appropriate if
it works within the within the mock-up
I'm going to use a Suckerfish son of
sucker fish as a base i'll post links
for you
do a google search i'll say a google
search son of sucker fish okay and the
reason that i go with that as a base is
because it's strictly UL zell eyes and
CSS there is no JavaScript to make your
site incompatible with different
browsers there's nothing like that
there's no plugins or jquery's or
anything other than here you know in
order to make it compatible with
internet explorer of course there is a
workaround as you can see that requires
JavaScript but all that said for all the
Firefox users it's strictly nice and
clean I would start with that here's how
I would do it I would go down to the
very bottom where it says examples and i
would say okay do I want a one-level
menu I click on that and I go up here
and I say okay that's what this is gonna
look like okay see that or go back do I
want a two-level menu this is gonna look
like this oh you know it goes out like
that now you see that the styling is
really crummy looks terrible but this is
a base see this is what I'm saying is
that this is a base for the creation of
your ideal menu you can color theme it
yourself with CSS you can you can change
it up mock it up change it so when I'm
happy with the particular demo that I'm
looking at right I'm going to just
control you view the source code and I
can see that wow this is really just a
style sheet so throw that in my style
that CSS this is a JavaScript in the
header in order to make it compatible
with internet explorer and that is
simply because internet explorer is hmm
this is a g-rated show I'm not allowed
to say UL there's all our menu items see
how those are here's the thing gadwal
these are texts guess what the search
engine see when they index your site
these are the menu items now this is you
know this could be home about us contact
us there there text they look like text
links as far as the source code goes and
you remember when we're talking about
websites and development we want our
links always to be
accessible to the search engines when
they index our site because that's what
gives us good search engine optimization
that's one of the big things is making
sure that our links are readable by the
search engine so that they can index
them so it's very important so that's
software if you will software it's a
very simple script but beautiful well
done and well laid out on their site
even though it you know it looks ugly
because you haven't styled it the way
that you want yet you can theme it with
the CSS make it look as beautiful as you
want some of sucker is Suckerfish i'll
post a link for you in the show notes
for episode number 203 give it a go and
if you like you just pop me an email and
say you know because this is this is
happening live on the show right now and
we've only got four minutes left the
show I can't really walk you through a
gat well but I'll point in that
direction you give it a go try it out
this week let me know how it goes and
where you get stumped and then if you
like let's take a look at it on a future
show let's even extend the web
development series by one episode thanks
God well gizmo at work a while ago
Robbie showed us a website to generate a
font from our own handwriting it worked
fantastically but I can't wait I can't
find the link anywhere could you help
from gizmo at work well gizmo at work I
won't tell that you're that you're
watching the show while you're supposed
to be working it's all good it's all
good here's what you do that episode was
episode number 102 that's back when in
and the kristi burton days yes I did say
Burton ah you know what go to youtube
Dave did us a fantastic service back in
those days by creating a service called
the meat in youtube com type in a search
for 10 to 10 that's episode 10 to meet
clip 10 so 10 to 10 and font okay and
when you type that you'll see here's the
episode 10 to 10 episode feature making
your own handwriting a ttf and I agree
it's a fantastic tool and it allows you
to actually literally take your
handwriting and make a ttf font which is
compatible
those linux mac and when you type it
looks like your hand wrote it it's
fantastic so check that out okay thank
you very much for the question and all
right let's see I've only got a couple
minutes left gang but I so bad
invincible mutant you're gonna push me
over here buddy he's got a question for
me here and you know I said this is
gonna be of your question extravaganza
so this is going to be I got a fit
invincible mutant in here my friend
synergy is a fantastic tool I love that
he's using the word fantastic now you
heard it here first I have a machine at
home and my office and a laptop that
follows me wherever I go what I wish I
could do is make my laptop always the
main keyboard at home and the office the
ideal case is that whenever I reach home
or the office I just on my laptop hook
up the network synergy is working
straight away without any extra settings
definitely it should allow me to login
to the other machines at home with my
laptop lock the screen log out whatever
when I leave either place without having
to set up synergy again and again do you
have a clue how to make this happen I
hope to hear from you tonight there you
go invincible VN well we're at a time so
we'll talk to you next week I am so
kidding okay your system it's got a log
in right because synergy has to be up so
on your Windows computers you've got to
have it set so that it auto logs in and
then set the screen saver to timeout
after one minute and set the password
gets energy installed as a service okay
and then have it auto start when you
turn on your computer that's all part of
the synergy console in Windows get the
newest version even the better because
it has some so good features for
auto-detection these days the older
versions are not going to have that on
your laptop have it also ought to start
but make sure your laptop has a static
IP which is the same for both your home
and your work network at it may not be
easy for you to change it at work but
you can change it at home change your
whole network to mimic the IP blocking
of your work network that way your
laptop is always the
so synergy you never have to reconfigure
it it's just running if it's linux is it
linux that your your laptop is I don't
know if you said I read that so quickly
but regardless your your laptop if it's
windows run as a service synergy so that
it's running in the background without
having to have the GUI running you can
have it automatically start when you
boot your computer same thing with with
Linux you can set it just to set an
automatic program to to run the synergy
s synergy s for synergy server alright I
hope that helps invincible mute and I
know that synergy can be a little bit
confusing in wet in some ways and every
you can never find a tutorial and I
can't ever give a tutorial that's
exactly right for everybody because
everybody is using it differently and
you know I have a windows computer to
Linux computers and one of them is a
laptop one of them is on Wi-Fi one of
them is on and and so my setup is
completely different than the guy who's
got a mac as the host and a windows
computer and a linux computer and and an
iPad so so it's tough but I hope that
you figure it out and there's there's
lots of support out there and will
certainly continue to support it and as
you know i use synergy like crazy so i'm
i'm here for you buddy alright thank you
everybody for four great time tonight
nice to see you it's great to have so
many people joining us in the chat room
really really quickly i'm ok pires rock
google+ my ID is DJ ravi f @ gmail.com
what is achi i think you mean ahci do i
need it in order to hotswap yes your
raid controller needs to be running an
HCI mode if you're using SATA because
SATA will crash your computer if it's
not running an SN ahci mode because it's
it won't be hot swappable okay you can't
unplug a drive when it's live HCI allows
you to hotswap SATA if you're using ESAT
a then that's perfect ok but it may
limit your ability to run as a rate or
something like that so you might need a
second controller hope that helps you
led zep because that's
really quick in the chat room okay gang
Oh have a fantastic week and I will talk
to you next Tuesday night i'm sure i'll
have a co-host next week I don't know
that i'll have a new server just yet but
we're working through it and and we'll
get there alright thanks everybody and i
had a lot of fun tonight I'm going to
drink my iced coffee and sit here for a
few minutes in the chat room as the
files prepare so you have a great week
I'll talk to you next Tuesday night same
time seven o'clock and look looking
forward to it
you
