welcome to new every day my name is Jen
and my co-host seem to keep dropping off
so on stage show we're going to talk
about how do you rest what does it mean
to rest and what does it mean to stop
and smell the roses so stay tuned
welcome back to new every day and we're
just finishing up the road trip it's
been quite an adventure today and as you
heard up quite a planner I totally enjoy
planning things and planning things out
cuz I want to get the most out of
whatever is going to happen I don't like
wasting time and so even this morning I
was saying to myself okay you need to
get up at you know six o'clock you need
to put your first load of laundry and
you need to have breakfast you need to
read your Bible and change your laundry
over pray you don't have a shower get
going and it was just really interesting
how that all shook down because even
today as I woke up and I had it all
planned out I I went in to put my
laundry in the dryer and there was a
load of laundry enough clean laundry and
I'm like okay Lord do you knew about
this so I'm going to fold the laundry
I'm going to pray and I found myself I
just started praying for those you know
the bodies that those clothes belong to
and praying the Lord's blessing upon
them and
and I just really felt at peace because
I'm like but Lord you knew this you knew
what my heart was my heart was to get up
and spend time with you before the day
went on because I find I need to I need
to get up and spend time with the Lord
and and I used to get really upset that
things wouldn't go the way I had planned
them to go and and so the Lord has
really been teaching me I know this I
know your heart I know what your desire
is so don't worry about it via peace and
and so I za nya standing there folding
the laundry i'm realizing i'm okay with
this i'm okay with this and I'm like
thank you God for doing such a work in
my heart that it's not always about
things going according to what I have
plans but am I willing to release them
to the Lord and and so over the past few
weeks you've met Shelly and you've met
James my good friends and and and how we
went on our venture together and it was
really quite interesting James way out
in front and as we've said you know he
he said the very beginning he's like I
don't normally talk my hike I enjoy the
hike i take it in I I
he spends time with the Lord and he
didn't talk a whole lot like he really
was aware of the surroundings taking and
everything and and yet when you sit down
and talk to him he's all very chatty and
has great things to say and it's one of
the reasons why we love hanging out with
him as he has good stories but also it's
really good to talk to and and yet on
the hike he was just very quite he was
taking it in and and Shelley was saying
how interesting it was she like it was a
really fast pace the hike was normally
she hikes at a much slower pace I'm like
really wow I thought we were actually
going quite slowly and I I know you're
thinking 10 is because you pack things
in and it's true I do have things in
they don't want to miss anything and and
she said you know normally she goes at a
much slower pace taking things in
enjoying the moment and I'm sitting
there going Wow I thought we were going
at a slower pace and she said but it's
good that you knew how much time we had
or else we would have been taking a lot
more time to actually do that do the
hike and we would have gotten anything
done because i'm actually heading to a
birthday party
and I said okay fair enough and it was
very interesting how the balance between
planning and being and laying those
plans in the Lord's hands and I've
learned that I have to plan as if it all
depends on me and I need to pray as if
it all depends on the Lord and when I
choose to put my hand in the hand of the
fathers because my mom always says you
know God gave us common sense like use
your head put the plan together is
basically what she's saying use your
mind and there's wisdom in that we
talked about that last week there's
wisdom and using your mind and making
the plan and seeking out wise counsel
but then the time comes when you take
those plans you take those thoughts and
put them in the hands of the Lord and
you let him do what he what he wants to
do with them because um and it's really
interesting because I've learned now
that I can come and my plans and feel
totally prepared I hand them over the
Lord and as James said about his camp
you know those totally his plans went
out the window but he was actually at
peace and he started praying because he
knew he knew that he had done the time
he knew that he had done planning and
that the Lord would work all things
together and and it's just really cool
so as we were hiking and Shelley was
saying you know I thought wow we were
hiking so much like hiking so fast and
and she said sometimes I just you know I
slow down and I'm so thankful when my
phone doesn't work and I'm like and in
my mind I'm thinking okay I was
responding to texts today and emails and
Facebook messages and she said because
when my phone is off when it's died and
literally set up thankful for when my
phone dies because I feel like I could
be fully present then I'm thinking
she's thankful for winter phone sighs so
she can spend more face-to-face time
with people so she can actually drink in
in the whole experience and so as we go
to commercial break I want you to think
about that I want you to think about
when was the last time you spend quality
face-to-face time
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
all right you're terrible actor what
does we're acting comes into play oh I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't fulfill the papers are just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dreamhost alright and
we're back on a new every day the end of
the road was dead summing up the last
few weeks and our thoughts on our
journey
Wilton it back and and the question I
asked was when was the last time that
you had really good face time with
someone like I confess that was this
week those were the last three days
where I spent time face-to-face with
people interacting with people listening
to people's conversations and normally
i'm quite an introvert when I have a day
off I just want to be by myself and
quiet and yet these last three days have
filled me with so much joy and peace and
goodness and I'm just like wow lord are
you ever you knew exactly what I needed
and that verse that comes to mind it
said is Psalm 23 and we have talked
about it before it's like
he will lead me beside still waters he
leads me in paths of
he leads me to rest right he makes me
rest in green pastures or lie down in
green pastures and
I'm
I find that my rest actually came in
people this week which is not normally
the case normally I feel rested and
rejuvenated away from people because I
work with people all the time
but I felt really good like at the end
of every day I said Lord this was not
how I planned today and then I would sit
down and I would write out you know item
after item after item after item like
I'm so thankful I went shopping but
these people i'm so thankful went to the
movie i'm so thankful I had suffered
their place i'm so thankful you know
their dog greeted me I'm so think like I
just go down that list I'm thinking
about the list today and and my heart is
so full
and I'm feeling quite challenged
actually about making like that passage
that we talked about probably neither
week one or week two of this journey
about how we can make the plans but it
is the Lord who gives the director makes
them happen and and I'm being challenged
because I'm like am I truly willing to
leave all of those things in the Lord's
hands am I willing not to check my phone
am I willing to trust that God will
really and truly work all things
together and it comes down to a trust
thing I was reading in a new devotional
that I started this week and it talked
about it's a book on on blessing and I
don't do things just so I can be blessed
I do things for the Lord because he
genuinely calls us to do things for him
because we love him and the book talked
about how he calls us to obey and when
we obey our our faith or trust in God
increases and when our faith or trust
increases there's a blessing and when we
trust and when we obey God I found it so
challenging that it is this circle of
obedience
faith blessing obedience faith blessing
but then as my faith increases and I
want to obey God born I want to obey God
more and it's not just because good
things happen but I just feel like I
love them more and so I want to obey him
more and and there's just a sweetness in
serving God and and I've learned that so
much this week that there is a sweetness
that's going to yeah i'll drive like
this but there's such a sweetness in
serving God and obedience and Trust in
blessing and obedience and trust and
blessing and obedience and trust and and
this has been an amazing week and I my
heart is so full my heart is so full i'm
so thankful for the adventures of this
week for the people that i shared time
with for the squat i did spend some
quiet time with the Lord finished up the
book of Revelation and started or
finished up Book of Psalms and started
into book of Proverbs finished listening
to the angels were silent and and that
book in itself really challenged me in
several areas of my walk with the Lord
in my faith journey and it's good to
take time
these last three days I could have said
no no I'm going to go to work and it's
so easy to get caught up and going to
work every day and just a you know never
stop step off i want to say the hamster
circle and yet i'm glad i did i'm so
glad that i took this time and spent it
with the Lord and I didn't really have a
plan but I kind of had a plan and and he
made it good and so I want to encourage
you this week that if you haven't taken
time to rest if you haven't I given your
schedule over to the Lord I encourage
you to do that this week and if you
struggle is doing that I want you to ask
the Lord why why am I struggling with
taking time why am I struggling with
taking a bit of vacation why am I
struggling with this and is it because
your identity is caught up in the things
that you do is it that you are afraid
that if you take time off nothing will
get done is it that you
are too controlling or maybe you just
simply don't know what you'll do with
yourself if you have time and so I
encourage you to examine your heart this
week examine your heart and and trust
the Lord to examine your heart trust in
the Lord and say okay god am I resting
am I taking time to rest am I taking
time for you and so let me pray with you
so if Heavenly Father I'm so thankful
for the good week that you've given to
me how my heart is full and Here I am
alone in the car people have come and
gone I've had wonderful conversations
and lord I know that we've just captured
a few snippets of that but Lord my heart
is so full and I pray for our viewers
today I asked that you would stir up in
them a desire to draw near to you
protect us from the enemy who says you
don't need that time or who causes us to
be afraid of giving that time too
because what are you going to do with it
and so father where we have control
issues convict us where we have fear
issues would you bring those two light
and lord where where where our identity
is caught up in what we do vs who you
called us to be would you love us would
you love us into that identity that we
are called fear we are your sons and
daughters or thank you so much for who
you are and how you love us pray this in
your name
men so that's it for on the road with
Jen and James and Shelly we hope that
you've enjoyed the last few weeks off as
you join us on the adventure we
encourage you to take time with the Lord
and take some risk and learn how to
prefer one another hang out with friends
be blessed this week see you later bye
bye
you
