for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
you
welcome to episode number 2 94 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the seventh of a Eric Kidd day 2013 Eric
Gibb day yay happy birthday happy
birthday to Eric Kidd I really hope that
he's having a great time tonight no
doubt not as good song happens yeah he's
probably just sitting at home watching
this shop corn i wish i was there is
what he's thinking yeah absolutely sorry
Eric my turn yeah I've been happy
birthday dear kid did you hear debian 7
came out stable this week really really
excited about that it's been a long time
coming we've been running squeeze for
quite some time so that's a big thing
huge other big thing huh coming up in
the newsroom what is it Warner Brothers
is being sued for using characters they
don't own in their game series
scribblenauts oh yes the US military has
approved android phones for their
soldiers super cool because i just got
one myself
not a soul a soldier named her phone
well then wow that's cool he's gonna be
so pleased and also also Anthony's a new
bill could see Dutch investigators
allowed to hack systems in the fight
against cybercrime huh also the world's
first 3d printing pen screened past its
30,000 kickstarter goal by raising 2.3
million dollars what million-dollar
could you imagine huh we need thirty
thousand dollars to start this thing
here half a million yeah here's to
almost two and a half mil more of a
sweet yeah it's so cool hmm more about
that stick around these stories are
coming up later in the show what's with
the shirt um okay this is my super
fabulous shirt tonight's show is brought
to you in part by ads ER com the next
generation of ad serving if you've got a
website why not monetize it adds erk
will help the world's fastest
asynchronous banner ad code a jicama
memorize absolutely javascript code is
it when it's asynchronous it's like
super screaming fast so you see the
advertisements on category 5 they're
non-intrusive they're instantly loading
very very zippy and there's no delay to
load the page that's what's important
when it comes to ad serving because if
you want to be serving up adds to your
website visitors you don't want them to
take any time because then they're never
gonna write see them or click on them
right so that's where answer comes in
and does a really really fantastic job
also make sure you check out our mobile
website m.com five dot TV scan that QR
code or visit the website on your mobile
device we have category 5 technology
radio added to the mobile site over the
past couple weeks and we're up and on
the air tonight people in the chat room
shot saying there's no sound it was
before the show started we didn't I
don't
work yeah the microphones weren't need
to be on plugged in starting up that's
kind of a necessary detail so are the
show but then as soon as the show
started they're like oh look radio
suddenly is working along with video oh
and now I have sound that's fantastic so
strange we're gonna get the the hang of
how that whole thing comes together at
seven o'clock every Tuesday night we're
going to get that so what but we do we
do throw people off because after the
show we shut off the microphones we shut
off the cameras and then we move over to
Google Hangouts we're there right now
you can go to count five TV / GPL us and
get into our hangout you can goof around
with other viewers during the show make
sound effects whatever you want to do
then after the show we're going to be
joining you and we can chat we can hang
out we can talk about whatever you want
to talk about after the show even talk
to us about some of the things that we
talked about on the show tonight so very
cool that's cool I think so google
hangout okay Oh category 5 sorry
category 5 is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the International Association of
Internet broadcasters excellent we love
some of the stuff that we're doing with
the tech podcast network and IA ib I
want to make mention as well we've got
lots of new viewers who are joining us
tonight maybe you can help me through
the list but lots of people registering
on our website i want to also bring up
our viewer location that maybe while
you're here for this ok so our new
registered viewers is xyron shadow hey
ya walks Gibble's very cool their fancy
lunchables Leroy hey Leroy ad den Norman
53 den Norman Danny Danon Norma and
Norman 53 3 and ol Fagin all right
beautiful good to have you all joining
us tonight and something that we're
really really excited about this week I
don't know if you've been watching our
viewer location map on the website well
this this is our viewership right now
but what what is really different
over the past couple of weeks is what's
happening over in India and really
really excited that the west coast of
India is becoming one of our heavy
viewership areas before you know India
we we saw you watching the show we know
that you know that people have been
tuning in from all over the world and
there's been no one or two maybe three
or four nodes that pop up once in a
while but keep you in mind yeah each one
of those pins on the map can represent
up to 500 people or so so when you keep
you know you consider even just looking
at that it's pretty amazing how much the
growth has has been hitting the coast in
India and all around it as well I see
Bangladesh and Pakistan of course we're
seeing a continued growth in China
nobody in Mongolia if you have friends
in Mongolia please call them yeah just
give them a call and just say hey
there's this really cool show from
Canada Moscow Russia Lithuania has a
couple that's good that's where my
parents are from oh yeah yeah very cool
yeah I see some by parents parents
lithuania yeah it's hard for me to say
it lithuania yeah and ukraine as well i
can't even see germany or UK very very
saturated with there we go netherlands
as well all the way across the Lots in
China to Europe yeah it's good so just a
shout out to all of our new viewers
absolutely and so thrilled to see the
growth across Europe across India and
and just everywhere in between and
that's not to not to leave out everybody
in North America either because North
America is pretty well saturated I think
at this point that's how things are
looking we love having you here as well
look at that Wow but yeah kind of
thrilling to see such a growth of the
show if you're watching and you haven't
yet registered on our website go to
category five dot TV and you can click
on the login register link up at the top
of the web's website and that gives us a
chance to know that you're watching and
where you're from and and to give a
greets and also to notify you before the
show each week just so you know that
it's
it's coming and after the show we can
send you an email with the links to be
able to download it if you want to be
able to watch it after the fact all that
stuff is available for you free of
charge so cool nice to see everybody it
is yeah yeah when you go I think that
I'm gonna say so he's gonna say
something inside my head I'm thinking
inside my head it's nice to see
everybody it really is alright so we've
got to take a really really quick break
tonight Sasha you and I we were talking
before the show and excited about the
continuing our series on the basics of
internet usage and this is a perfect
series for people who are just learning
how to use the internet is it you you're
just I am feeling very basic when I step
aside to be honest yeah that's okay it's
only because I am very much the very
much the UM take typical just know
Google just know well we're going to
actually be taking a real hard look at
Google tonight so stick around don't go
anyway we're gonna learn all about how
that's done if you've got grandparents
parents who are just you know fumbling
their way around the internet this is
really perfect for them don't tell them
I said that but just did stick around
and make sure that turn the volume up
loud yeah just a mom come in here come
check this out guys talking to you all
right we'll be right back after this
don't go anywhere at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here
eco alkalines of the world's first and
only certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm this is category 5 technology TV
great to have you here please join our
website category five dot TV get into
the chat room tonight its category five
on freenode or right on our website
you'll see all the information about how
to get into our chat room if you click
on the interactive nu you'll see it
there you'll be part of a lot of
interesting conversation about correctly
how to say netherlands are they making
fun of me the Netherlands the
Netherlands welcome to the Canada is it
the same thing not really to the great
white north yes it's very nice here
right now it really is it's not white at
all it is no I am I'm almost ready to
take my snow tires off you haven't done
oh I just want to be doing unaware i
know that this canada but i think we're
done with the snow for the year I just
after Ontario Eastern Ontario yeah
following all the flooding that we've
seen and all that flash freeze yeah the
only month it's like 35 degrees out
right now Celsius died 32 2 degrees was
weekend in the 400m no other is bringing
us bad news here in the studio I am NOT
wrong she's supporting me I'm keeping my
snow tires on to neutralize this weekend
it is 35 today yep you ever been on in
one of those roller coasters that's kind
of what it feels like yeah it's been a
little bit wacky that way but there's no
snow on the ground anyway that's
ridiculous yet come on now
yeah goodness me so get your get your
son and now get upstairs and outside the
really named attend guy I've been out of
the BBQ practically every single night
this weekend was fantastic just blue
skies and hot and gorgeous so we're out
in the backyard we got a dog so you know
the the Ferguson zoo is practically
complete with the birds and the fish and
the cat and the dog and the three kids
don't forget the three kids that's a lot
of beings in one building yeah oh yeah I
myself have myself that is all but yeah
we were out in the back with the dog
running around I'm just really really
nice and so good excellent good weather
yeah and next weekend snowball fight
fantastic not liking the sound of that
okay we're gonna move on because I'm
getting angry about this getting away
you know what I'm saying all right you
could google it and see what happens
let's talk about Google okay it's so
funny you should mention Google cuz
that's a perfect segue tonight we're
looking at how to use the internet as a
basic novice kind of internet user we've
perhaps you're just learning your way
around the computer maybe you've been
maybe you've had a computer for a long
time a lot of times I think these days
what happens is you get put at a
computer in your office and you learn to
use the computer for what you do in your
office and then you go home and you're
not sure where things are how to do it
because it's not the same as the
computer the office or the programs are
different or what you're doing is
completely different from what it is
that you do when you're at work so
tonight this is for you if that's you if
you are just learning your way around
the internet perhaps you you might be a
senior who is learning to use a computer
you know it's not part of your
generation is not something that you
grew up with and it's amazing the kids
coming up these days that just basically
seem to have a natural affinity for just
operating these machines so we're here
to help you to understand how how to
actually get the most out of it and
that's kind of what the show is here for
so tonight we're looking at Google in
particular and and just how Google
itself the search engine has really
become a go-to resource on the internet
I I can attest it answers all of my
questions anything anybody asks me
anything if I can't fake knowing it
already I just ask Google it's amazing
dear Google and my phone now I can just
talk into my phone and it just searches
google without me having to type
anything yeah so and Google as a search
engine I mean some people are against
the whole you know massive business and
and the fact that they you know they
practically know everything about
everybody but that's not really what
we're looking at tonight but the fact is
it's a really really solid service and
the things that they do are amazing and
the things that you're able to pull from
understanding how Google works is really
cool but we're really looking at the
basics tonight so in order to get there
we're gonna go to Google if you've never
done this before we're gonna lo welcome
to earth hmm well we yeah really up in
the in the top we remember this from the
last time just a quick refresher this is
called the address bar up here and no
matter where you are on the internet you
can always change that address right now
we're on ww category 5 TV let's change
that to google.com i'm going to go
google com and you'll notice it
automatically detects that i'm in canada
so it switches to dot CA to give me the
appropriate content for my country so
this is basically Google and you can see
it's really really simple it's not
cluttered like some of the other search
engines i'll use yahoo as an example it
just there's nothing here that is really
overwhelming although on particular
special occasions and special days and
holidays they will change the google
doodle yes and sometimes they're
interactive google has been packed man
before yeah just talking about the logo
some you know you cannot attend fun but
don't let that phase yet it's always as
far as the functionality goes hey it's
always the same you've got this area
down here in the middle this is called
the the search bar or the search field
so this is where you type in your search
queries and then you've got a small
little menu up at the top here where you
can go search images
maps play youtube etc we're going to
look at a few of those tonight just to
help you get started so one of the
things that we need to understand when
we're using the internet as new computer
users is what a link looks like and and
sometimes you know these links don't
actually have any kind of buttons or
look to being links but you'll see as I
mouse over they actually change color a
little bit they go a little bit more
white and although you can't see my
cursor if you actually do that if you go
to google com and hover over any of
those links you'll see that your your
arrow for your mouse in fact turns into
like a little hand that looks like it's
pointing and that's telling you that
okay now you're moving your mouse around
it's like little arrow but when you
point to a link it actually turns into a
hand and you see that hand pointing to
the link so that means you can click on
it and it's going to do something so in
this case if I click on images up at the
top for example it's actually going to
switch me to a Google Images search if
you look the logo has changed slightly
so it now says google images if I go
just standard search it just has google
canada in my case or two might say
google wherever you're located then at
their lives the netherlands good good
example really nice example there thank
you how's that fit and the logo see
that's the problem google netherlands
just fits a little bit better but i
understand that we want to get it right
okay so first thing that we need to
understand about about using google of
course now we understand how to click
links and move around we know that this
is the search field and we've all you
know we've probably all use the search
engine before but differentiating that
from the address bar up at the top so
when you have an address we've talked
about this before where you know if you
have ww category 5 TV we don't type that
in down there we we type that in up at
the address bar up at the top mm-hmm but
if we're doing a search on the other
hand that's when we put it into the
search field and you see how it actually
started moving around I'm going to do a
quick search for Patrick Stewart sir
patrick stewart i should say so we're
going to pretend that okay what we're
searching for one of our favorite actors
and he is a very famous actor and
my fellow he played Captain jean-luc
Picard in Star Trek The Next Generation
he plays Professor Xavier I think he
calls me is that right Savior Xavier
that's right havior in x-men thank you
for correcting me on that I was worried
about that I wouldn't get it right but
he's a famous actor anyways and and
somebody we can easily pull up on the
internet so I've done a quick search
just to show you what a search does and
you'll see that there are pictures over
on the right hand side of Google and
there's some other things over on the
left and let's say what we actually want
to do is we want to find a picture of
Patrick Stewart we're big fans we want
to we want to print it out we got a
photo printer we want to print it out
and hermes dad making a mousepad perfect
made of paper I don't know well just use
the fiction of a mouse pad okay so
you'll see that now that I've searched
for Patrick Stewart in Google I've got
things like Wikipedia and if I click on
it you know there's information about
him there is a picture of him and things
like that a little bit oh he is he's
getting on yeah he looks great for his
age though was it born July thirteenth
1940 1940 yeah so and you know there's
these are more results but what I want
is a picture so you'll notice the Google
up at the top has images so i can click
either here or up here notice that
they're both links okay so when you
click on the one at the top and you'll
see that now I've done a search in
images for Patrick Stewart so I've got
all these pictures of him so if we say
that we're going to pick this one here
with him holding his award there's a
couple things with the image you see at
the bottom now that I moused over it it
says 220 by 275 so that tells us that
it's a very very small picture it's not
going to print very well at all so what
we can do with google images is we can
click on that it gives us a slightly
larger version but now we can go into
more info you see it's 220 by 275 and
that's not sufficient for printing okay
so now you see just under the picture
now that we've clipped on more info it
says find other sizes of this in
so we want to get the large one because
we want to print it say so we click on
large and you'll see that this version
of the picture here is actually twenty
nine hundred pixels wide and just
understanding quality-wise the higher
that number is the better quality the
picture is going to print so now if I
bring that up it's actually a very high
quality photograph you can see that
that's really crystal clear and and high
enough resolution that if i print that
it's going to turn out really really
well so suddenly google images which is
that images link on google allows us to
search for actors or you know recipes
and things like that and and find
pictures and be able to actually print
those out or use them for personal use
you don't want to repost them or
anything because you don't have the
rights to use them legally but for just
to demonstrate the the actual ability to
find pictures just to clarify both of
those images links were the same they
would take you to the same place when
like the small one versus the big yes
know that what it actually does is
Google is able to look at a picture and
it does what basically a reverse image
search which is getting a little bit
technical and we don't need to
understand the terminology but it sees
that little two hundred pixel image and
I've said okay I like this picture I
want one that's bigger and it goes
through its database and says okay I've
got other versions of this same picture
it's really really smart so you can find
pictures and then you find the biggest
version that Google knows about so that
you can print it and blow it up and
things like that you're very welcome
Dave may do and we're just using Patrick
Stewart is the example this could be
anything I mean it could be a picture of
your favorite car if you're into classic
cars or it could be anything at all
sometimes what I'll do is if i'm looking
for a logo and i want to use it for
whatever you know it might be something
that we're sponsoring or something we
need a logo we only have a little tiny
one that they've sent us so we go into
google and we search for it and we do a
reverse image search for the larger
sized image and all of a sudden it is
available to us there's another really
neat way to do this and this is again
getting a little bit more complex but
i'm going to go back into google again
in a different tab
I'm going to go into google images and
you'll see now the other way I can do it
is i can actually hold in the image on
my other window and this image could be
from any website and i pointed to the
tab up at the top and then i can drag it
to where it says drop image here and it
will actually do a reverse image search
on my image and then again I'm presented
with the ability to go all sizes small
medium large etc and it tells me all
about the image and there we are back at
the same place that is awesome so
there's a bunch of different ways that
you can use images to to really and when
I say images google images to to find
what you're looking for for whatever
purpose okay so then you know we're
thinking about our favorite actor
patrick stewart and you'll see that
there's one of the options here is IMDb
but sometimes because it's an actor i
might do something like patrick stewart
IMDb enter and you'll see that the first
item that comes up is patrick stewart on
IMDb this is a neat way for you to
internet movie database okay and this
gives you all the information about the
actor what shows he's been in what
movies I brought this up a little bit
earlier from one of the most clicks all
the different things that he's done so
this is a really neat way to cross
reference so if you're not sure let's
say you knew oh he was in that movie
with the guy with the claws I can't
remember he's like wolf man I don't know
man or something I think he played like
Jean Valjean I can't really figure it
out who was that actor right right
here's what school so I've now found
Patrick Stewart on IMDb cuz i know who
patrick stewart is and i realized that
he's with Wolfman Jean Val Jean but I
can't remember the name of the movie so
I can go actually go through this list
and I say oh there's the Wolfman right
and I can see that oh there it is and I
click on the oh there it is ok so and
then I can go down into the movie and I
can see the list of the actors that are
in that movie and I can see Oh Hugh
Jackman or Hugh Jackman I guess see ya
jack man Jackman I'm still thinking
about you
and I say oh there he is as Jean Valjean
oh yes you know in layman's a top so now
all of a sudden we've got this
connection between Patrick Stewart x-men
Jean Val Jean and Hugh Jackson was in
lame is lame is it on so that then I can
say okay well now okay we know who he
played in lame as a job no I can go to
lame is a Tom and I can find out more
information about that and and now I've
got all the information that I ever
wanted about Hugh Jackman the actor who
played him all from a very simple search
for Patrick Stewart space I am DB right
similar so what I've done there is I've
said I want Patrick Stewart but I want
it to be from the internet movie
database that's the first result that I
want to see I might instead I might put
Wikipedia there and I might find some
information from Wikipedia which is
basically take that the old
encyclopedias and put them online and
that is basically what wikipedia becomes
it's like an electronic encyclopedia
Wikipedia and and what a Wikipedia is as
far as what's different about that
versus and encyclopedias encyclopedias
were printed so they had to be edited
and printed professionally and then made
available and by the time they were in
everyone's hands they might have become
obsolete or there some of the
information was incorrect with Wikipedia
people are constantly editing it because
it's online so you never have to worry
about you know well I mean y is that
within reason but information can never
stay obsolete for long right so you know
if something happens and and something
has changed you know World Trade Center
towers or something like you go into an
old Encyclopedia Britannica and the
information is going to be completely
incorrect versus apd a-- will explain
everything that went on following that
and everything that you know so every
it's it's a little bit more right to
date beware though that not all the
information on Wikipedia is in fact
correct it's the internet yes I saw it
on the internet it's gotta be true yeah
we gotta be wise about that yeah okay so
we know how to find our favorite actors
and things like that now we've got to be
a little bit more productive than
we're thinking okay well where we're at
home and I want to find a company a
local company okay this is where the
address bar and the search engine now
we've looked at the last time you were
when we talked about internet basics we
talked about the address bar and
understanding where do you put the WWE
goes in the address bar at the very top
now we're doing the opposite we're
saying okay well here's how we can find
the addresses we're going to use search
this time so there's a local company
don't tell me that roast their own
coffee here in berry and they make the
best coffee it's fantastic you can go
there you can get them to fresh grind it
for you you walk in and you're just waft
it with this amazing smell of fresh
roasted organic whole being fair trade
coffee it's awesome okay but I can't for
the life of me think of what the company
is maybe I just heard about it or maybe
i was told that there's this company
that roast their own coffee so what I'm
going to do I'm going to just simply go
into Google and I'm gonna say coffee
roasted in berry ok so here we go I'm
going to scroll down a little bit I know
that I've heard the name so I know it's
not coffee wholesalers on yellow pages
okay coffee roasting green beanery oh
there it is hambley tea and coffee co
okay so now I know the company but I see
that this is actually shop Barry calm
and that's fine but that's going to take
me to some other website it's not taking
me to hambley tea and coffee company's
website it's taking me to shop Barry
calm but see that that's good because
now what have I done I've learned oh
yeah the name of the company is called
hamleys right right so now i can use
that so i'm using i'm learning to use
keywords which is coffee roasting in
berry or coffee company there the rosca
what did I search for coffee roasted in
berry that's very simple as that but now
I know it's called hamleys or hamley ok
so now I'm going to go back up to my
search here haha now I know who they are
hamleys coffee berry first result
hamleys tea and coffee calm so I didn't
know they're calm but by utilizing
google and keywords and just being
clever with the way that i'm searching
i'm able to find it i've got their
address and here we go i can click on
their website and i can see wow there
they are at hamleys we give our
customers to look through our window
into the wonderful world of tea and
coffee that's what they look through
their window at that's it on my Nets
point that's very you know not really
welcome to bear but okay so then you see
the links at the left you see how things
change when you mouse over them and my
cursor does turn to the hand and go to
coffee and I can figure everything out
that way but I want to know things like
their hours of operation so we've
already learned how to click around on a
website by pointing and clicking and
clicking our mouse most like I'm going
to click on contact us and I see that
they're open today until six o'clock
p.m. so i miss them today but they're
open again tomorrow morning at 9am so i
can hop on over there and get myself a
beautiful fresh roasted cup of coffee
there's the roasting machine too if you
ever wondered there it is so that's
where that beautiful aroma comes from so
that's really quite incredible because
now I've been able to find exactly the
company that I was looking for without
really knowing who they were where
exactly they were located now I have all
that information with that I'm feeling
lucky you know when you're searching and
it says google search and then i'm
feeling like you would that bring up
what does I don't actually I've never
actually sure that's a real legit
question yeah let's give it a go so what
I'm feeling lucky means is that Google
is going to take a guess at what you're
probably searching for so here's where
I'm feeling lucky which is this button
down here is going to fall short is with
the search query for cough oh and it's
get me up here there we go coffee
roasted and berry now if I click on now
i'm on google live look at that so I
don't have an I'm feeling lucky but what
I'm feeling lucky will do is it will
actually take you to the first option so
it was
however because I know the name is now
Hanley's if I clicked on I'm feeling
lucky and it was available to me it
would take me with that search query to
the hamleys website because it is the
first result in google so that is
definitely what I'm looking for okay so
it just cuts down here it just brings
you to the Y if you know exactly what
you're looking for it takes you right to
the website ok I think category 5 TV and
click im feeling lucky and it will take
you right to our site if I without ever
having to go through the hoops yeah
super alright so the next kind of
awesome thing about Google and some of
the services that they offer is maps
google maps makes it so incredible and
easy to find local companies we're going
to use a couple of examples let's say
I'm looking for Canadian Tire a popular
company that you know I need to it's
more than just tires folks so it might
be you know I might need to get a bike
or bikes have tires so that's a bad
example coffee maker attent attent a
boat kayak or its kind of over some do
yeah what else can we get a Canadian
Tire about my vacuum cleaner there you
could buy a lawnmower there a lot more a
BBQ summer tires that's tires that
doesn't that goes against the grain of
their more than just tires we know they
have to have their own time they have
their own currency they do okay yeah so
if I'm looking for information about
Canadian Tire I want to find out where
they're located i can just simply go
into maps notice i've clicked on maps up
at the top of Google again okay we've
got search images maps up there I'm
going to simply type Canadian Tire berry
and hit enter and you'll see that what
happens on the map is that I get pins
for each of the Canadian Tire locations
so if I click on one of those pins i can
see oh there's one up on bayfield street
and it has a picture of that location
that has their phone number if I want to
call and get hours of operation anything
like that now I see that there is there
are also some other listings one of them
is simply a gas bar that carries the
canadian tire brand and then of course
we've got the south end canadian tire on
maple view as well so and it's the same
picture so I
is not actually a picture of that
particular location necessarily so again
gives you the phone number and then you
can give them a call and get information
about them so if you want driving
directions now you can click on
directions and over here I can put in my
address let's say I'm coming from
Orillia Ontario wherever you're coming
from you can get as precise as your
street address and it will give you step
by step driving directions head
northeast on mississauga street take the
1st left onto west street north not
always entirely accurate but it gives
you a good wit a good overview of how to
get to canadian tire on maple view and
berry from wherever you are and then it
actually puts a pin on the map where
your destination is going to to be so
that's one thing but where google map
search gets really exciting is when you
don't know what you're looking for sure
if i knew i was looking for hamleys
coffee co i know that i can go to their
website and i can search for
specifically their name but what if I
didn't know it's the same thing but here
we are doing it with map so where I had
said coffee roasted in berry right now
how can we use that Google's ability to
work with keywords to in fact work with
maps huh so let's give them a test great
question let's say we're here on maps
and we're looking for I'm really craving
pizza tonight so do i search for pizza
hut or pizza pizza or Dino's 241 what do
I do pie pie pizza pie just pie hi have
you been yeah yeah it's a great place
there's fully awesome local endorsements
tonight go to PI go to pi/2 knew it well
I haven't been to fight ooh yes second
location second location shots while
walking distance from my job Wow yeah
whoa I know nice delicious higher
wood-roasted so should we pretend that
it sounds to me like pie has mystically
become our destination so let's see if
it works let's see how well google works
I'm going to simply type in sir enter I
have typed in pizza now you notice i
didn't put pizza Barry I just put pizza
well how did it do that google has this
amazing thing called eerie abilities
eerie abilities curry geolocation they
stock they know is essentially
approximately where you're located who
you are they're not putting a pin right
you know when we do our viewer location
map the pin is not on everyone's rooftop
it's based on the IP address of your
computer everybody connects to the
internet through their internet service
provider and the Internet service
provider says oh they're in Barry this
is it's almost as generic as that so now
Google takes that information says oh
they're looking for pizza they're
probably looking for pizza in Barry if
you do that search wherever you're
located you're going to find that pizza
places for your town come up so now you
see a whole bunch of dots and a whole
bunch of things over there I can
actually scroll through the list I know
that I'm looking for a specific place
and I can go through there's four pages
of it or I can in fact use my scroll
wheel on the mouse that's the let's see
if I can show you here this little thing
here this rolling thing allows you to
actually zoom in and out on on the on
the actual map so i can zoom in and if i
click on 1 i'll see the name of the
company i can see more information about
the company possibly a picture right and
as i click around i can see all about
these different pizza places so let's
see here let's go to the south end of
Barry click on F there and you'll see
there is pie wood-fired pizza joint so
delicious so if you'd like you can again
pick up the phone give them a call order
your pizza or go to their website by
clicking on the link and that will
actually you know that will bring up
their website and you can also again get
directions things like that there's
their website loading in the background
here their site seems a little bit slow
tonight it's probably because all so
busy all of a sudden I wanna eat India
now is everybody it's basically going
there and saying what is this pie
wood-fired pizza joint in there
so that's essentially I mean that's it
you can actually use keywords on a map
in order to find stuff so gone are the
days where you had to pull out this big
old piece of paper and hope to find
something or drive around town trying to
find a laundromat or you know whatever
else you need a chiropractor you need
whatever it doesn't matter you can just
type it in as a search in Google and lo
and behold you're going to find your way
where you're going so i actually did not
know that so no super happy I'm here for
this chef once you one last cool thing
yeah one other thing whenever I've
discovered a new place so you know and
we did this when we moved in September
into our new house is well where do we
go for pizza now where do we go for
chinese food because all of the places
are different because we've moved so one
of the things i like to be able to do is
to put myself in the position of okay
well I I can't really get an idea from
this topographical map what this looks
like right so i can actually so i can
click on pie would pizza and you'll see
this little link underneath the picture
that says street view if i click that
here's something that's really
interesting i can actually see pi would
pizza again I'm using the scroll wheel
on my mouse there is the actual
restaurant and I can use my mouse to
look around I can see the street oh yeah
I've been on this street I know exactly
where I am and I can in fact follow the
cars and I can use these arrows down at
the bottom to move myself through the
street and I can actually see the
approach and and how I'm going to make
this trip and I've used this there's the
sign so I know that I need to watch for
that sign as I'm coming up on pi woods
if you're one of those visual people
that aren't good with directions you can
yeah or you don't want to or you know
what i've done is i've printed the map
but I visually do this in order to know
what I'm looking for so I know I
recently did a service call at a clients
and they were quite far out of town I
was like an hour's drive
I've never been there before to the to
their town and so all I did is I printed
a map and then I I did the street view
thing so I viewed street view and I
moved you know a couple blocks down and
I did the view of what it will look like
as I'm approaching so then I saw oh
there's a sports complex on the left
there's this great big dome for a sports
dome or whatever and then immediately
after that there's a street and then
there's the company that I just turn in
so as I was approaching then because I'd
already seen it on the screen I knew
exactly where I was going I didn't feel
lost at all it was it was right there so
really cool stuff that's awesome all
provided by Google and it's all provided
free of charge so sweet if you have any
questions for us about basic internet
usage we'd love to hear from you live at
category 5 TV if there's something you'd
like to learn that we haven't covered
here tonight make sure you email that
into us as well we'd love to cover it
for you excellent if it's basic I will
be on that show got this all right so
the news here are the top stories from
the category 5 thought TV news room
Warner Brothers is being sued for the
alleged unauthorized use of two cats
that have been that have achieved
internet fame
clips of nyan cat and keyboard cat have
each spurred tens of millions of views
since appearing online in two thousand
and eleven and two thousand and seven
respectively the complaint alleged that
the cats were used without permission in
Scribblenauts a series of games on the
Nintendo DS and other platforms fun game
really yes neither neither warner
brothers or fifth sell the games
developer have commented court documents
allege that Warner Brothers and 5th cell
knowingly and intentionally infringe
both claimants ownership rights
compounding their infringement the court
papers said defendants have used nyan
cat and keyboard cat and even
identifying them by name to promote and
market their games all without play
Tiff's permission and without any
compensation to the plaintiffs that kind
of stuff blows my mind like when a phone
manufacturer will take other phone
manufacturers patented things and just
use them knowingly lie figure they
figure sorry but truth be told I mean
really honestly how much are they gonna
have to pay like they're gonna make all
of this money off of these two cats
that's it and then they're just gonna
get a tiny little bit isn't it worth the
risk if I'm gonna make millions and
millions and examines of dollars and
somebody wants to sue me for a hundred
thousand dollars yeah you kinda whatever
it's hard to say i mean i'm not i'm not
i get that our routing I'm not endorsing
stealing other people's cats but no
don't do it don't do it but I'm just
saying I mean obviously his we're seeing
more and more of this is the patent
trolls and the people that and it too
hard to know really I mean what if you
actually well no in this case keyboard
cat is probably pretty obvious but but
what if you thought you came up with
something as well right this case is a
different style thinking well president
no this is not an accident
samsung phones running secure version of
Android have been approved for use by
the US Department of Defense the
approval is the start of a process that
will see many different types of mobile
devices used by US soldiers approval for
other Android devices as well as Apple
phones and tablets is expected in late
May before now phone maker blackberry
was the only firm whose products were
approved by the US service personnel wow
so that's gotta hurt I got her
blackberry yeah she's Canadian Canadian
i love the fact they're canadian i don't
like their devices personally well um i
literally just got an android phone so
from what what were you switching from
an iphone so you had an iphone yes and
then you switched to an android phone
yes awesome he is saluting you i really
i quite like it yeah I do can you soon
it was totally different so what's
better about it than the iphone there
must be something that stands out to you
as being more intuitive or awesomer
awesome are the awesomest part is
probably the apps that you can download
and the widgets you can use and that
it's the widget you don't you don't have
the ability to move things around like
on iphone as you do with android and you
have like five home pages so you can be
a little bit chaotic like me and have
one organized one and then a lot of
that's the one that you show chaos look
i got an android phone that's so
organized better completely off the wall
and the other ones i really like edge
right and i totally approved that the
you the US soldiers they got this going
going on i think what it opens up is
that there's going to be not that
monopoly right and so i hope that that
means that mobile phone manufacturers
are going to be putting a heavier
emphasis on security yeah it wasn't that
one of the reasons why blackberry was
used because yes really absolutely
because of the the enterprise level
security that it had and the
fact that it was military grade but now
with Samsung bringing out a really
secure robust version of Android mm-hmm
and actually getting approval now all of
a sudden okay well iOS 6 is next and who
else is going to enter that kind of you
know it's going to become very
competitive mm-hmm I think so it opens
up a whole new market for a lot of those
companies yeah they must up they must
obviously think that they're quite
secure so very nice let's be kills
blackberry not like they haven't had
problems with the house little while
yeah all right so speaking of cybercrime
mm-hmm the Dutch government has
announced plans to give police far
greater powers to fight cybercrime under
a new bail investigators would be able
to hack into computers install spyware
read emails and destroy files 8 they
could also break into servers located
abroad if they were being used to block
services critics say that the proposed
measures are unnecessary and could set a
dangerous precedent for people living
under oppressive governments I think so
I agree wholeheartedly the government
stresses that use of the powers would be
subject to the approval of a judge the
bill would also make it a crime for a
suspect to refuse to decipher encrypted
files during a police investigation is
expected that the draft legislation will
be put into Parliament by the end of the
year frightened I yeah it's a little big
brother for me I I think that where it
can get sold across the line is when
like who okay a judge makes the choice
but who really is in control now mm-hmm
I there something that's just icky about
that it's like you don't realize what
rights have been taken away until
they're gone well if they can hack you
that means that they're doing it without
your knowledge and they can as long as I
judge approves it yes so you could be
being somebody could be accessing your
files legally mm-hmm legally with a
judge order I don't like this one little
bit mm-hmm
okay on to some better news awesome
after being on Kickstarter for only one
day the 3doodler 3d printing pen smashed
through its funding goal of thirty
thousand dollars on closing their
Kickstarter campaign a couple of weeks
ago on closing their Kickstarter
campaign a couple of weeks ago they had
raised over 2.3 million dollars Wow what
likely attracted the attention of over
26,000 backers is the affordability of
the 3d printing technology it's not
going to let you print out a house or a
case for your phone but it also won't
run you thousands of dollars like a
traditional 3d printer but backers were
able to get a 3doodler pen and two bags
of mixed color plastic for a pledge of
only $75 Wow not bad instead of drawing
with ink the three doodle 3doodler uses
abs plastic the same material used in
many other 3d printers it extrudes the
heated plastic and quickly cools and it
quickly cools solidifying and keeping
the shape that you drew in the three
dimensional space once you've finished
you've got a 3d plastic model that
you've just drew out of thin air or into
thin air we were we were looking at some
videos of this actually in use before
the show and it's kind of like an artsy
like I could see somebody who's really
good at doing you know art but would
think this is pretty neat somebody who
does sculptures or something mm-hmm but
really kind of looks like it's a part of
that for me it's yeah it needs to be
sharper so it's not too it's super cool
not to create a super awesome cool it is
but it's almost like the plastic needs
to be thicker something so the lines
aren't so right yeah see that in the in
the screen down there it's a little bit
abstract and it's a more substantial or
something but when when they would work
enough to say that it isn't so fat it's
only a so tight I feel like that parent
that's like ninety-eight percent what
happened to the last two percent this is
great you just took me back
great and you but what would you do with
a 3doodler I mean it kind of reminds me
of like a glue gun type interface for
melted plastic wonder if you get a
little bit dizzy from the fumes good
point what is ABS plastic anyhow is it
is like super non-toxic or is it smelly
gross you melt that stuff and but I'm
sure they take that into account its got
like a massive cooling fan type thing on
the back of it I don't know again cool
idea that very cool idea I think it
could use this is new it just look it's
good to be off fast eat it's good
thousand dollars to take the prototype
and make it go they have 2.3 million
dollars Ruth fully do you think they
might say hmmm maybe we'll refine things
a little bit make it a little bit better
maybe we'll work on the fact that it
kind of drips a little bit at a little
cutting mechanism oh sorry they have 2.3
million dollars to expect achieve
perfection evidently I am I I love it I
love it get the full stories I had a
great copy Eiffel Tower made out of 3d
ABS pleasure get the full stories at
category five dot TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w nash and heather bailey brown with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story that
you think is worthy of on-air mention
email newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha drew
Matus thanks Sasha tonight show is
brought to you in part by net flix cat5
TV / netflix for your free one month
trial you'll get all the shows that you
can watch and of course then you can
sign up for just eight bucks a month
don't miss out cat5 TV / Netflix also
net talk now with unlimited text
messaging you can eliminate the need for
a wireless text plan from your cell
phone provider they can get expensive
but you can upgrade your nettalk duo
account with the net talk text plan and
for the cost of a couple cups of coffee
a month you're going to receive
unlimited texting throughout US and
canada check out cat5 TV / phone and you
can start saving money today this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show you can find our website at triple
w category five dot TV good to have you
here all right do we if x person yeah
let's uh what do you got for me i have a
question literally only have 70 i will
talk at all right okay we'll get one in
all right sure okay so she started my
long one it looks at the the longest one
but pretty much because it's dear to my
heart okay okay I've got a question from
steve i just found you guys watched show
222 oldie but a goodie yes okay and he
says hey Robbie I thought about back
pain assuming yours is still a problem I
was a college likely is not a problem
any longer we will get into that I've
been working out as a welder and
sculptor and having to desktop linux
boxes in the office as well as a laptop
I used to try out new distros on USB I
suffer from back hand and arm issues due
to daily activities see that's what I
had I had owner nerve entrapment and the
issues with my hand my arm and my back
not so much a problem anymore funny
story how did we meet yes i am a
chiropractic assistant i work at a very
fabulous and busy chiropractic clinic
and Barry and Robbie came in to see us
help me actually works folks yeah
absolutely one hundred percent if you
have any questions at all feel free to
ask aspirin i repressed asha at category
5 TV that is correct ok now what Steve
did is great and so I would let you know
his office solution for back issues
might be impractical because of the
nature of your injury but he went into
his shop and he built a desktop desk he
stands instead of sets which is great
because sitting is one of the worst
things you can possibly do for your back
you see this posture though mine is
really bad when I'm sitting there's no
such thing it is really bad surprising
like the logo and the logo guy it holds
the monitors keyboards and mice about 14
inches above the usual desktop so
keeping his arms that's fantastic man if
I have the ability to build that yeah so
so that's a great solution other than
chiropractic but great preventatives yes
that's it you've got the restorative
yeah and then you've got the preventive
exactly make sure that your desk and
computer or organ ama CLE sound so that
you can yes my workstation at my office
now here in the studio we're not overly
ergonomic I mean our keyboards are just
on the desk because we're here literally
like 23 hours a week working here my
actual work I've got a split keyboard
like the ergonomic style we have the
same they've did we actually have same
keyboard so that's a sign yeah and my
monitors are around me I've got two or
three monitors and and I use a trackball
I do not use a mouse at work oh so and
that's a track man wireless from
Logitech and it are really hard to get
these days but yeah so I do all that but
i can't stand up at work cuz i stand up
at work i also work for a chiropractor
we have a point of sale system at the
front and i actually installed the
ability for me to remote into my
computer so it's on the same desk but
it's up high so sometimes i really am
feeling it in my back I'll stand up at
the point of sale I'll remote into my
computer i'll continue working standing
at the desk so similar kind of solution
very very cool thank you thank you the
email and thanks for watching I'm glad
that you found pi tile on episode 2 22
very cool um wait time for another one
sure okay just go man just get okay Ravi
I loaded a point linux as suggested but
cannot get handbrake dvdrip loaded any
suggestions quickly oh yeah what may be
used okay handbrake yes administration
synaptic package manager enter your
password okay here we are in point linux
an amazing linux distribution love love
love it
and you can see it on the past episode
of category 5 TV all right hand brake
doing a quick search and we find not
available so we're going to go into our
terminal do we want to use terminal with
the little time we have let's go into
repositories settings repositories and
what we need to do is we need to
actually add multimedia repository so I
don't have that so obviously I'm not
going to have access to hand brake or
any of the other items that are a part
of that repository so apt line when we
add a new repository Deb HTTP colon
slash slash WWF multimedia org and then
the version of Linux that you're using
which in my case is weezy because this
particular version of pc linux arab army
of point linux is based on Weezy version
7 of Debian so I'm going to type in
wheezy and main okay so that's the line
that we need dev HTTP colon slash slash
WWF multimedia org space wheezy space
main i'm going to add that source and
then i'm going to close that and then
i'm going to go reload here we go now
what it's doing is it's actually
checking those repositories that I've
just added you'll notice that I get a
gpg key error because that is assigned
repository but I have not downloaded the
key so I'm going to show you how to do
that as well you notice my search is
still handbrake it's rebuilding the
search index as soon as that's done
rebuilding we can do another search
there we go okay handbrake there it is
okay so now we have handbrake available
to us we want handbrake gtk which is
going to install everything that we need
because it's a meta package okay see how
it installs a bunch of other stuff so we
can mark for installation now I told you
I would fix the gpg error so what we're
going to actually do a search for is Deb
dash multimedia
a dash keyring ok that's the pack in
order to fix the keyring issue so also
install that at the same time and then
from now on when you do an apt get
update you're not going to receive that
error message so then apply your
settings and you'll be good to go
handbrake will be installed it'll be
working no need for an alternative work
real well for you Wow shoe all the time
we have thanks everybody get your
questions in live at category 5 TV if I
had to cut off the questions tonight I
see that you're in I apologize for that
we will address those for you next week
5 TV yes I will stick around for the
Hangout she's sticking around for the
Hangout folks so get on to cat five
double / + spell p lus and from there
with your webcam you can actually
interact with us and talk to us about
show talk to us about life for back pain
whatever you want we're here for you so
stick around after the show for that if
you are on Google+ right everybody have
a fantastic week Sasha good to see you
nice to see you all well this is see you
and yeah everybody there
take care have a good weekend
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show drives in their area at category 5
dog TV and find out when you can watch
live and interact in the community chat
where category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time case the tuning yet
