welcome to category five technology tve
we let them back in here folks yeah we
let them back in here you I know is this
fantastic it's excellent
yeah I have much to say you should
listen well so if you want to listen
you're gonna want to stick around we
have another Linux distribution to look
at but we've got a twist tonight because
we've got it on a rock
64 single board computer we're going to
talk about that we're going to show you
kind of our first impressions about this
young but kind of awesome board don't go
anywhere
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 dot TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to the show
everybody so nice to have you here
sash is here I'm here anybody and you
are here we let you out the door that's
right this week I know because sash has
got her mic pack and and and so now here
you are but I don't let you in out of
the rain
it's very appreciated how you been the
past couple weeks yeah we're busy yeah
like non-stop work has just gone crazy
and unfortunately that's why I couldn't
be here tried just didn't happen Oh see
you let them in on the secret that that
it was all a ruse that's true yeah yeah
it's true but in fact we did need this
pack so now so if you remember a few
weeks back Sasha would move on the set
and there would be some crackling noise
so that is now presumably resolved I
mean we'll watch the chat room today the
device that her microphone connects to I
mean the the woes of a studio engineer
slash host the device that it connected
to how to loose connection I tried to
solder it for you right I tried very
very hard it was it was broken and after
I was done with it it was more broken
any question I would ever work again I
resolved that is absolutely good that's
something so what I've done is just
anakin trolled experiment as I put this
on my pants behind my back under my
shirt the same way I wore it when it was
crackling at its worst
right and no crackle so fir good no
crackle different shirt oh that might
have been it yes that's right it was
actually yeah I do try very hard to wear
a different shirt each it was it was the
mail that you were wearing those Mexico
rubbing up against the microphone the
magnetic field of the changing seasons
so technology-wise have either of you
been up to anything that's exciting or
interesting well I can tell you a little
thing that happened to me at work this
week oh dear I know where this is going
on Monday I got to work after a
blissfully awesome weekend and glad to
hear it
turned on my computer's only to find
windows did a forest update I crashed my
system awesome thank you windows so
guess what I did
you must have freaked out and had
nowhere to turn you know what I did I
calmly said to the only one other person
in the whole clinic cuz I get there
super early and so does one random super
awesome patient who just comes in when
the lights are off and waits for me to
turn everything on
not even another team member I was like
oh don't worry I know what when's your
appointment Thursday I know what to do
so I immediately get you know a get on
my phone and I message Robbie who's
asleep I'm sure at that point
no maybe dozing so I messaged you my
Facebook and then I'm like I wait 14
seconds and I'm and then I went into
full panic mode what time do you get to
the to the office I get to the office 10
past 6 and get off it the clinic opens
at 7 that's about to keel ously ungodly
hour right I know right like who is up
and so that was exactly my response
you know I texted her back this is a
ridiculously ungodly hour why are you
texting me I'm like you're the only
person I would never say why are you
texting just complain remoted in yeah oh
it was it was heart-wrenching to pull
you out of your warm and comfortable bed
I'm sure was that tough like when you
were in the clinic and you know the the
hours of operation are fast approaching
and you're supposed to be ready to go
and things aren't working ok
how was it how was it in the clinic I
was I was comfortably in my chair with a
laptop on my lap it was less comfortable
for me I did throw windows under the bus
every single what's wrong with your
computer yeah I'm like eight runs on
Windows that's it so let's explain kind
of what happened so first of all we'll
mention names
okay names would have prevented the
entire catastrophic issue nice plug it's
absolutely true can I realize through
this process through this happenstance
that it's really hard to plug my own
software right because I want to say oh
you should have had nuns but you don't
then it's like so shameless
self-promotion I feel like well that's
why you don't know you should have no
shame about the promotion of gnomes I
know right it's Jeff you are Jeff need
to promote it and say you need this
Sasha you need NEMS
yes yeah I do what's names tune into
back episodes so names being a proactive
monitor that would have warned us of a
pending issue like this so what happened
is Windows updated itself it forced an
update on your entire network okay while
you're at home on a weekend enjoying my
weekend not knowing what Monday would
bring and the server so the server that
runs everything yes has all the profiles
and the and the software for all of
these systems and and and the software
that you use so if an update happens
that takes up an astronomical amount of
space and there's no pre-planning for
that right there's no space set aside
for the Hat right then it runs out of
space so the server hit a hard limit
because it's a virtual platform so it's
a virtualization system wait okay I just
need you to explain what that means okay
so you've got a hypervisor okay right
yeah I got that are you doing
big breaks actually picturing the thing
that comes down when you're driving from
the windshield to very blind you from
the Sun what a hypervisor is in computer
terms is a computer that is like mega
powerful okay like mega powerful how
much can i dumb this down like mega
powerful and that computer is a server
and that server has multiple other
servers running on it in what's called
virtualization a virtual machine so they
just happen to that one so ty they're
all running on that so instead of having
one server for every operation you have
one server that houses multiple servers
so that you are not having to have ten
different servers to do ten different
things you have one physical server and
ten different virtual servers so when
one of those virtual servers which is
running all those profiles suddenly runs
out of space because there's no name
server monitoring and warning you that
hey it's going to run out of space
proactively then all of a sudden runs
out of space and what does the virtual
machine hypervisor do it suspends the
virtual machine to prevent data loss
okay capacity it's it there's no more
room to write anything to it so it
suspends it but you can't boot it
because there's no space on the drive
right on the virtual drive you can't do
anything with it because there's no
space on the virtual drive so it took
some fan dangling to get it up and going
and then restore from the previous day's
backup because you have a good backup
set that runs every single day which is
yeah is that the error scanning that I
do is that what that man knows oh no
that's your software's error scan oh for
its database that database gets backed
up to an external unit oh every single
day okay so so that's what I was able to
revert to thank you yeah yeah so all
that to say with something like NEMS
Linux
NEMS Linux is a proactive monitoring
system we've talked about it on the show
it would have told you when it hit 80%
kept
cassadee by default right tells you when
it's at 80% capacity so that might have
been two weeks ago right
then when he up so so the update just
took it from like so close to they might
have been at 96% it tapped it over the
edge yeah okay in my mind I was like
well if it was just updating itself in
the middle of the night I would have
thought like it's like residual temp
files that get left over from previous
updates and things like that right so it
can be a bit it's kind of like when
you've had too much Thanksgiving meal oh
and you want to have that extra piece of
pie but your brains not telling you you
had to see where this is going because
it's a virtual machine you can unbutton
the belt a little bit right yeah now so
we wanted to clarify this wall like the
server issue for you and he says a
better explanation would be a virtual
server in a simulated system to simulate
a real system we're just backing up what
the thing in your car the brand's the
Sun why you driving Linux calm that's
our that's our accidental plug so that's
what you went that was your tech story
for the week my tech story is sasha woke
me up at 6:10 in the morning on Monday
and had a server outage and had she had
MEMS Linux it never would have happened
Jeff what have you been up to uh well to
tech things first was I've created my
phone got a samsung a 8 is this because
dropped it in the toilet or what did he
do so I dropped my s7 edge and it's my
credibly expensive to replace that
screen Nova so I just forked over the
money to pay at the contract but and I
know the big one is the last show I was
in I asked you how I could get a
computer system that only has 2 ports
for monitor to be able to run a third
monitor that was a slave off one of them
and you told me to get in HDMI splitter
was that on the show or was that after
the stick was after the scenes okay yeah
I was talking about an active pardon me
an active distribution app for this DVI
so and got one and it was absolutely
perfect for what I needed and the really
thing you mentioned to me that was very
key is you said make sure that the
monitors have the slave monitor has the
same aspect ratio as the other one same
resolution yes so needless to say made
that happen
beautiful perfect so this was a scenario
where Jeff needed to have two monitors
displaying the same thing but the
graphics card was already maxed out in
the computer yep
so was it HDMI or was it was HD okay so
HDMI out to a power distribution
amplifier the reason that we go with
powered is because then you're not going
to have signal degradation between the
two screens and which is especially
important because the other monitors 45
feet away yeah you need an active cable
for that Jeff it's perfect okay
fantastic
so by having them both the same
resolution there's no conflict there's
no problem and they just work yep Ashley
you've encountered this where you have
you had to 1080p TVs connected to a
splitter about HDMI splitter and one of
them and and then a third screen that
was installed was a 720p screen and what
happened to the 720p it wouldn't work it
kept saying because by another TV and it
has to match the same resolution as the
other two and you did that and what
happened it's working swimmingly ever
there's not a problem at all it it's not
glitching in any way everything turns on
and throw these rights again nine times
out of a hundred splitting a signal like
that is great because a lot of times you
need a mirrored display but then you're
not tapping into the resources of the
video card you're not using CPU power
they're not using GPU power it's just
one signal coming out of that card and
then being split with an active splitter
and I have one under the desk here that
does three outputs
yes source does three four yeah
fantastic so you can plug another two
monitors into it another two computers
music
a TV as long as it's the same resolution
capable of the same resolution so
actually in theory Jeff when you ask
that question to Robby you could have
asked me and I could have told you are
you saying that I could have gone to you
for tech advice one thing for this one
thing because I actually you have
graduated from kindergarten to grade 1
on tech enos yes I have to disagree she
thought a hypervisor was the thing in
your car that blocks the Sun if you've
been put back just hold you back another
year yeah I just want to clarify though
the Foose in the chat room saying $400
solution to an HDMI not $400 it was more
like with the cable $28 fantastic see
that was the score and I bought it with
partner links hey that was a plug for
you go to category 5 dot TV our website
go to support us and you'll find our
partner affiliate program links you can
go to Amazon you can go to ebay you can
go to all these sites that you already
shop on Sammie dress Halloween is coming
oh you need your costume get onto Amazon
get it on Prime and you'll get it like
immediately unless you're here in Canada
and they're gonna go on strike here in
Canada that's that you might want to
order it with like alternative don't
think whenever I order through Amazon
it's not Canada Post it drops it off
yeah and I actually take slightly more
seriously because it's not happening at
holiday season which means they really
mean it it's happening just before
Halloween I hope my costume arrives in
time it's already on order but get yours
through our partner links a category-5
dot TV we've got to take a really quick
break when we come back we are looking
at yet another Linux distro but this
time there's a twist we're doing it on a
single board computers around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV Network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV and tonight
we are looking at a single board
computer with Linux on it I'm gonna tell
you all about that in just a moment now
if you are already a supporter of
category 5 TV on patreon thank you very
very much we've really appreciated your
support over the past little while if
you're not sure what that is or if you
haven't done it yet all it takes is a
buck a month I'm talking a buck a month
not a buck a day not a buck a week a
buck a month and you just head on over
to cap 5 dot TV slash patreon and it's a
way to support us and there's power in
numbers I always say that when there's a
lot of viewers who come together and say
yeah I can give a buck a month
all of a sudden bills are paid expenses
are paid things are upgraded and the
show can be as good as possible we need
a new UPS we discovered tonight
yes it's a little dimmer in here tonight
because I had to actually turn off our
softbox because our UPS is overloaded so
maybe you've got a very raid we need a
second that's it yeah so they're they're
milking the glare from my forehead yeah
that's kind of illuminating the we just
have one single light directly above my
head and it's diffused through my
forehead but a second UPS is going to
help us to be able to plug in more
peripherals without having to nitpick
what's on what's not on right
we're like we're at the capacity of that
great big UPS which was also donated so
things like that are things that your
patronage is able to help us with head
on over to cat five dot TV slash patreon
to support that today one of the things
I talked a lot about on our patreon vlog
and certainly with NEMS Linux is single
board computers I am so excited about
the way computers have gone
we started with like big XT computers
that you know you had to pull out and
and they were massive they were heavy
they had big CRT monitors on them and
now we're into laptops and tablets and
very small form factor computers and
they're quite powerful our phones are
quite a bit more powerful than the
computers that we had 10-15 years ago
right yeah so now taking that technology
so think about a phone and how small it
is in holy cow how can it do 3d games
how can it do such sophisticated
graphics and and really responsively and
then take that technology and try and
transfer it to what's called a single
board computer and tonight I'm looking
at the rock 64 which I've installed an
operating system on I'm gonna show you
what this looks like let's see if I can
there we go so the rock 64 you saw it
unboxed here on category-five TV this is
super tiny now I want to give you an
impression as to how small this is I'm
just gonna reach out and touch this just
like that there it is folks I mean this
helps
here's cell phone here's your smartphone
yeah thanks Jeff so this is what type of
phone is this a8 alright so there you go
so it's super super tiny you see the
circuit board here and what I've got
connected to it is a full-sized HDMI now
the rock 64 supports 4k at up to 60
frames per second how beautiful is that
look at the form factor so we've also
got Gigabit Ethernet
we've got USB 3 and I've actually got a
dedicated USB 3 bus here and I've got
two dedicated USB 2
so when I say that it's dedicated that
means that it's not sharing the the the
bus with say Ethernet okay one of the
downfalls of the Raspberry Pi
microcomputer the single board computer
is that it shares with the USB to its
Ethernet so even the gigabit model the
the Raspberry Pi 3 even though it's
technically gigabit they branded as
Gigabit Ethernet
it only gets like 300 megabits a second
because it's shared with the USB 2
rights this has completely dedicated
lanes and it is gigabit true Gigabit
Ethernet then we've got a barrel
connector for the 5 volt power and what
I'm running on tonight there are two
hard drive options out of the box
there's emmc which is what I'm running
on I've got a 16 gigabyte emmc card and
under that you can install instead a
micro SD card micro SD is a little
slower for sure and certainly less
reliable emmc is more like an SSD for
single board computers a couple of key
points for those of you who are makers
or want to be makers this has raspberry
pi 2 GPIO s as a matter of fact so we've
got the Raspberry Pi Phi p5 plus and
we've got the the 2 GPIO built into the
rock 64 a couple of other specs for ya
64-bit quad-core CPU it's the a 53 so
it's Adam it has it comes in three
different models so the Raspberry Pi is
like it's limited to land and if you're
a Raspberry Pi fan like me don't
misinterpret what I'm saying I'm not
saying Raspberry Pi is not good I'm just
saying let's let's use something that is
very familiar to us and compare so the
gap applies better not a chance
sorry Raspberry Pi comes and is one
gigabyte of memory now the rock 64 has
one gigabyte two gigabytes or four
gigabytes so there are three different
models that you can buy ok so the 4
gigabyte model that I'm using today is
four times the RAM of a Raspberry Pi 3 B
plus it has true Gigabit Ethernet and
four times the RAM plus it has emmc
which is faster and more reliable than
microSD and the Raspberry Pi only has
microSD so there is a big comparison
here a big contrast in what you're
getting right so when you look at the
bottom dollar and you say ok well the
rock 64 is a little bit more money than
the Raspberry Pi 3 B+
it's a little bit apples to oranges or
pies to rock 64 because acorns
raspberries - to rocks yeah because
you're you're getting something
completely more powerful with the with
the rock 64 now for somebody who's used
to only Raspberry Pi or Odroid can this
fall in the middle because it's 4 gig
well it's 4 gigs of ram so it has two
gigs more than the Odroid xu4 right
the Odroid xu4 have 58 course or what it
has 8 course yes exactly so how would
this compare to the Odroid if somebody's
think kind of going we'd have to
benchmark them side-by-side and maybe
that's some pause and we'll hook
everything up no I would like to do that
absolutely not really the nature of what
we're doing tonight because tonight I'd
like to kind of take a different spin
right because the benchmarks are out
there and you can see like 4 necks for
example give some fantastic benchmarks
that users have benchmarked these boards
against one another ok and you can see
those the xu4 is blazing fast yes the
rock 64 is pretty darn good and amazing
for the money now the rock pro 64 which
is is available now I have not got mine
yet but I will be showing it on the show
here is unbelievable are you ready can I
just tell you
ten cores what yeah I know right on a
single board computer now that's not
this one we're looking at the rock 64 so
this is this is step down from that but
it's a fantastic board but what we're
looking at I want to take the approach
of can this be used as a computer sure I
don't really care about numbers I just
want to know like can i fire this up
it's a really really cheap computer
right brutally cheap go over to cat five
dot TV slash pine 64 to check out the
pricing in your region and the reason
that I don't say the price is because we
have viewers all around the world and if
you're watching in California well the
price is completely different than what
it is up here in Canada
unfortunately we pay through the teeth
yeah so let's look at it from a user
standpoint okay I I think you know
that's really the core of what I wanted
to tell you about the peripherals in the
end what it is the only other thing I
want to mention is first of all it's got
an infrared port here so that if you
want to use software that allows you to
use a remote control you can it also has
a power button a reset button and a
recovery button the recovery button
allows you to restore from a emmc card
power button of course you know they're
just little details like that it's just
a momentary switch but it allows you to
power off safely it'll do an ACPI
shutdown on that board Raspberry Pi
doesn't have that that's sure so that's
something to consider
now the Oldroyd xu4 does that's right
mmm-hmm all right so let's get into the
software and the things I want to
actually bring that up on my screen so
what I've installed is the IU fan build
of Ubuntu 18 point o4 with LXDE and
right out of the box that's kind of what
it looks like now I added a desktop
wallpaper that I got off pixels comm it
comes with Firefox why thank you why
thank you and let's let's just bring up
Firefox and see how things look and I
realize that things are very very tiny
I'm gonna I'm gonna make things a little
bigger for you as I can so a couple of
things that I experienced right out of
the box just to be upfront straight with
you these certificates
right and I think that you might
encounter this
I brought up Firefox and Google wouldn't
come up oh yeah wouldn't come up nothing
would come up and it would say that the
certificates were invalid okay what on
earth so I thought okay well I'll
generate snake-oil certificates so I
created snake-oil certificates still the
same problem huh yeah you're like we
haven't this is all totally different
this is DejaVu okay right
obviously this faked a certificate
number right that didn't fix it no weird
yeah I know right so I got looking at it
I was like okay what could this be and
then I realized the I'm not even sure
does the rock 64 have an RTC real time
clock
hmm I think it does but I don't have a
battery plugged into it right so
regardless I got into the terminal and I
decided to check so now you see it's
fixed so obviously I did find the
problem let's bring up system tools LX
terminal and thanks to our viewers for
sharing with me and I'm gonna absolutely
memorize this ctrl shift plus plus
allows me to zoom in thank you my
community and I gotta go sudo su and my
password is simply rock 64 on this board
and let's see so I'm gonna type date and
I see now that the date is correct but
what I saw was that it was set to July
3rd 1979 or something I don't know
something crazy so on my computer my
laptop I brought up my blog because my
blog has some pretty interesting things
on it I gotta say now I've got I've got
the browser working here now so I can do
this
but let's head on over to bald nerd calm
that's me lots of shameless plugs
tonight
lot good all right so on my site there's
a search up at the top right and what I
want you to do is type Linux date let's
see if that comes up for me and I did
this on my laptop
it doesn't so I'll just give you the URL
let's see here we've got nems
we've got who's the bald nerd regardless
its bald nerd calm slash nerdgasm z--
okay so on my blog and I will what I'll
do is I'm going to post a link below
because that's gonna make things a
little easier for you to find alright so
here I've got set your Linux date and
time and the reason that I want to show
you this is because what this script
does that I wrote is it automatically
gives you the command that you need to
run in order to set your date and time
based on the current date and time in
your region so it actually supports
multiple different time zones so Sasha
will be thrilled about that
so all I did was I ran that command
because what was happening there Sasha
is my certificate right was issued it's
even though it's a self-signed
certificate it was issued for a future
date right because the date on my SBC
was in the past so if you encounter that
it's a little bit of an idiosyncrasy
it's like you could tear your hair out
if I have any and and and that's all it
was the date was incorrect on the board
in the Box yeah it's almost like a
dumbed down version of the y2k just one
of those funny things right so having
set the date all of a sudden everything
started working so I was able to browse
the web and I'm able to get online and
so on and so forth so so everything
seems to work pretty good now right up
front and just so you understand a
little bit about you like rock 64 and
they and this whole kind of and I
started playing with I wanted to check
out if I could do mining for example
okay and I wasn't able to get that to
compile and I had some trouble you'll
see in my history here I I tried to apt
install GAMP and then I used flat flat
pack to install GIMP and I actually had
to use flat pack in order to get it
installed okay why is that good question
and this is this is what I want to do
Ferengi 8 and I want folks to understand
a lot of times we can get into these
bleeding edge kind of pieces of hardware
we get a rock 64 or a rock Pro 64 one of
those new single board computers and
that's the same thing happened to the
asou stinker board it got a really bad
rep because the software just wasn't
there okay okay so understand there's a
there's a bit of a process with this
type of thing it's a very open platform
so what happens is the manufacturer in
this case Pyne 64 develops an incredible
board mm-hmm they release it and then
it's up to the development community to
create software for it okay so it takes
time right so right now our fan is
working hard on this but also working on
the rock pro 64 and so this one's kind
of fallen by the wayside and some things
are falling through the cracks and when
you do an app up update you need to
approve the fact that I you fan has
moved the repository with a yes so
there's some things there are some
things in the software so don't judge
the hardware based on the software
instead learn along with it looks a bit
of a process and it's really exciting to
be here at that kind of entry level and
like while it's bleeding edge while it's
still being developed right and so with
GIMP for example I couldn't use apt to
install it but I was able to use flat
pack and the instructions are directly
on gimp.org when you go to download it
says here's how you install it with flat
pack and it actually took me through
installing flat pack first which I did
through apt and then installing the GNU
image manipulation program when I say
GIMP that's what I'm talking about it's
like basically like Photoshop but it's
free and it's available on Linux
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial up audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching so let's give
it a go I haven't even haven't even
launched this yet but let's see okay so
I'm gonna open and I only have that one
picture here Jeff I'm gonna go over to
rock 64 pictures there we are the
mountains that I that I got from from
Texas calm and I have to say okay so
this image is like 30 like 3000 by 16
it's really hard but it's like it's
really fast yeah
it's responsive it feels like it feels a
little bit like a desktop computer and I
hesitate to say that because you know
you may you may mileage may vary right
it depends on what you're doing so while
I have that GIMP image open let's let's
try a couple of other things let's get
back over to Firefox and let's do
something I haven't done on here yet and
let's bring up YouTube and and see what
happens and so I'm connected through
Ethernet on on my network here so speed
maybe because we're broadcasting let's
try category 5 TV
and it does feel a little sluggish so I
can feel that okay I can feel that yeah
so a little leg yeah so I do feel the
the kind of hesitation when I type
something but that's okay because I know
what I'm expecting out of a single-board
computer at this price well exactly yeah
and where does this kind of thing fall
in I mean behind your TV if it plays
video well if it actually works then
then hey we're golden it does have that
Gigabit Ethernet which i think is a huge
advantage when it comes to a set-top box
for example but as the software evolves
and as things grow with the rock 64
community the development community
we're gonna start to see things really
work even better and and things work
really really well
Oh Sasha look oh it's me it's you that
try it buy it it is oh it was a great
show that one episode the pilot mm-hmm I
realized that it was really just gonna
be expensive I was gonna try everything
and buy everything I know is the problem
this is exactly how it would have went
down now what I want to know once we get
through the add-on on YouTube okay is it
gonna let me skip it ah Thank You
YouTube so what I want to know is you
know what's the performance so video
looks like it performs very well yeah it
does I'm just gonna mute that just in
case I'm not sure if you guys can hear
that or not so performance looks great -
I'm gonna make a full-screen framerate
still looks pretty pretty good mm-hmm
it's a little laggy yeah but it's
absolutely absolutely usable that's cool
hey that takes you back done that yeah
so I mean things now remember I've also
got this massive image in the background
here yeah that's sure and let's see what
happens if I run a quick effect here so
let's let's simply do a rotation
so we'll rotate at 90 degrees that is
unbelievable I mean that's really really
good mm-hmm
pretty simple tests here but this is
really you know I want the user
experience I want to know kind of how
this works
what about like if you adjust the colors
like the saturation or something you
want to give it a go yeah just because
that's like a real-time adjustment sure
and just see how it affects so let's a
so you want to know about saturation so
and again this looks really really tiny
on my screen because it's got that
sliding scale right yeah so how quick is
it Therese
yeah that's pretty good
let's try something like like curves or
levels even levels would be a good test
in real-time oh that's true yeah let's
darken the photo I can grab that little
oh okay see Wow so it's not it's not
terrible it's not like my 24 core dual
CPU system no but if you're doing some
minor graphic editing it's totally fine
and if you're doing something like
accessing the internet and you just want
a really cheap kind of system connected
but what else is this good for I
mentioned the GPIO s
yep so it has two of them if you want to
tinker if you want a little more power
than what you're used to with a single
board computer if you want to create
some things if you even want to install
names on it I mean MEMS is supported if
you wonder was it as a server right
right you can do that and if it is more
powerful than the than the Raspberry Pi
3 so definitely check it out cap 5 dot
TV slash pine 64 is a link that will
take you to to all the various pine 64
products that we have reviewed here on
the show and Antonia and as well we've
got the unboxing video and so on and I'm
really I have to admit I'm impressed
with the build quality and the and the
overall quality of the pine 64 boards
and the software again is not quite
there yet right I know it's coming and
I'm excited about it a little heads up
you can install Android on it so you
can't do that with some other s pcs but
with this one you can and and so there
are a whole lot of other programs
install this is a boon to 18 point oh
four you can install other applications
head on over to their website to find
out more about what's available check
out the rock 64 you can get a cat5 dot
TV slash pine 64 we're gonna head over
to Sasha's news room oh right are you
ready I certainly a.m. well that's
take it away here are the stories were
covering this week in the category fire
TV newsroom Bristol Airport has blamed
the cyberattack for causing flight delay
screens to fail for two days it could
soon prove expensive for media makers to
chase online pirates in Canada the
country's Supreme Court has unanimously
ruled that internet providers are
entitled to reasonable compensation when
asked to link pirates IP addresses to
customer details a few lines of CSS is
all it takes to bring Apple devices to
their knees and the father of Linux
Linus Torvalds would like to apologize
for years of being a jerk and is taking
time off to learn empathy these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap v dot TV slash
dream host to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman in here the
top stories were following this week
Bristol Airport has blamed the
cyberattack for causing flight delays
flight display screens to fail for two
days an airport spokesman is said that
the information screens were taken
offline early on Friday in order to
contain an attack similar to so-called
ransomware the spokesman said no ransom
had been paid to get the systems working
again ransomware is a form of what
malware which computer viruses
threatened to delete files unless a
ransom is paid spokesman James Gore said
we believe there was an online attempt
to target part of our administrative
systems and required us to take a number
of applications offline as a
precautionary measure including the one
that provides our data for flight
information screens that was done to
contain the problem and to avoid any
further impact on more critical systems
mr. Gore said that flights were
unaffected but contingency measures and
manual processes including whiteboards
and marker pens had to be used in place
of display screens at no point where any
safety or security systems impacted or
put at risk he said that it had taken
longer than people might have expected
to rectify due to a cautious approach
given the number of safety and security
critical systems operating at an airport
we wanted to make sure that the issue
with the flight information application
that experienced the problem was
absolutely resolved before it was put
back online no flights are understood to
have been disrupted as a result may have
that's the world we live in right that's
that's right and to be honest with you
I'm not super surprised something like
this might happen my question is I guess
more about like it happens here as well
in in like our towns and stuff is what
they did enough like if you if you
notice it is and you just shut down one
part is that enough well it didn't
really go into details as to how the
infiltration was taking place and and to
say that
okay we're shutting down systems to to
stop it from spreading I mean it makes
sense because the way ransomware infects
networks is it looks for other systems
on the network finds the files that are
shared on those systems and encrypts
them right and then holds them ransom
right
it's usually not a targeted attack
though it's something that just comes in
through somebody opened a bad email or a
website address they didn't have proper
protection or here's a scary scenario
for you Sasha
somebody had Remote Desktop or something
installed in their computer and active
so that they can access their computer
from home right so they can work from
home and those protocols RDP for example
Remote Desktop Protocol you can't tell
when someone's brute-forcing your login
okay so they find so these scripts bots
if you will they find computers on the
web that are open to remote desktop at
the example and once they find that
computer
it starts guessing at the password and
it keeps going keeps going until it gets
in and once it gets in it then
infiltrates the network and just goes
you can spread yeah yeah so how it got
in I'm not really clear on this one
right but it could have been somebody
opening about email a file that was
ransomware that could spread in the news
they're calling it a virus so it makes
me think maybe it is a bit of a Trojan
horse or something like that something
that somebody opened and it you know
here's your invoice open the invoice
scary it's scary just to think that it's
the airport so Airport security is
paramount and here's a computer system I
mean mind you it's just the flight
information but that's a system inside
the airport so now they can get in there
they could have gone anywhere so I
understand but the end of the day it's
flight information arrival times and
departures which would be linked with
air traffic control within the airport
you think because it's monitoring the
signals on the planes what I love about
the story is that they go beyond the
talking about the you know the issue to
say but we use white boards and
can erase markers reminds me of my
recent work experience for my use I use
my boogie board and and as patients were
coming in I was signing them in so that
I knew the order of arrival and I could
tell them where to go but that's exactly
what happened are you sure that this was
ransom routes just two windows update
that's all it was shut this thing down
before Microsoft updates all our
computers and destroys our network yeah
it could soon prove expensive for media
makers to chase online pirates in Canada
the country's Supreme Court has
unanimously ruled that internet
providers are entitled to reasonable
compensation when asked to link pirates
IP addresses to customer details voltage
pictures the production firm behind The
Hurt Locker intended to sue roughly
55,000 customers of telecom giant Rogers
for allegedly bootlegging movies but
when but balked when Rogers wanted it to
charge $100 per hour to comply with the
requests for information Rodgers won the
initial photo recalled federal court
case but had to defend itself at the
Supreme Court when voltage appealed the
case voltage had insisted that these
kinds of fees would make it too costly
to pursue pirates good Justice Russell
Brown rejected this notion however and
suggested that media producers could
wind up imposing stiff costs on ISPs he
noted that costs may well be small right
now
but that it would be wrong to assume
that they would always be
inconsequential inconsequential not
surprisingly Rogers characterized the
decision is a victory for customers
claiming that millions of people face
open season on their personal data if
ISPs had to provide info no matter what
the cost this doesn't mean that Canadian
ISPs could ask for blank checks brown
indicated that Rogers should go back to
a lower court to prove its costs even so
it adds a barrier to Hollywood studios
and music labels expecting to track down
pirates they can't just assume ISPs will
work pro bono on their behalf come
I love this in no way am i say you know
go pirates but I that's not it at all
no I love that it's not just a steamroll
process right like yeah when it oddly
enough with voltage pictures this is the
second time that they've come into a
high-profile case over The Hurt Locker
the first time was years ago when they
took on tech-savvy because they wanted
to get access to who the people were
that were downloading it but tech savvy
took them to court and I don't remember
all the details but basically tech savvy
one to a certain degree to say you can't
just have our data right and now they've
so voltage pictures has continued their
onslaught over The Hurt Locker who even
watches The Hurt Locker anymore like
this is an issue that's like movies what
eight years old ten years old like who
cares now but you know now it's like hey
we want all your people oh you gotta pay
for it and quite frankly I think they
should mm-hmm and the Foo in in our chat
room says exactly what comes to mind is
that 100 bucks an hour I mean consider
this as well the Foo this is Canadian
dollars Rogers is a Canadian company
hundred bucks an hour's cheap that's
true I charge 150 yeah I mean I'm just
saying I assume that there's information
all over the place like I'm assuming
that you're tracked all along the way so
are they just looking for a legal way to
get the information from you they're
trying to get like like as if it's
public record like if Rogers is obliged
to provide this information because it's
illegal what these people are doing so
you must give us this information well
then pay yeah and I Rodgers is a huge
company so there's there's you know
there's two sides of this where it's
like I don't want to sound like I'm
defending Rogers because that's not the
case what the case is is that nobody
should make that assumption that they
could just go and and assume that well I
can just get this information no charge
yeah because because the customer is
breaking the law mm-hmm
Rogers has every right to charge twice
what they're asking I totally agree yeah
there be every right they're being
really reserved in this absolutely yeah
not only that depending on what the data
is that's been requested I mean we're
talking fifty five thousand clients I
think it said in the story yeah I mean
Rogers would have to make sure that the
information they're sharing in no way
goes beyond what's been requested and so
that means going through the fifty five
thousand files and oh my god to say you
know we want to make sure that we're not
just you know maybe it's the addresses
and the names we're not giving you
billing information we're not giving you
credit information like so I mean that's
gonna take a lot of time right they need
to be careful because if Rogers screwed
up you know that anybody who gets sued
is going to go after Rogers to say you
gave information that you shouldn't have
it impacted the case blah blah blah but
it's a Hurt Locker for crying out loud
I don't care what it is it has to do
with like companies rights yeah I mean
it's the fact that one movie they're
still pushing it's like there's other
movies that people are pirating okay so
speaking of other movies I went to the
Toronto International Film Festival for
the first time ever and I was sitting in
the it was incredible I'll tell you but
it was sitting in the audience and all
of these warnings come up about you know
don't bring your recording devices yeah
I know bootlegging what's great about it
is all of these warnings come up and
then everybody goes are in the hole I
mean it's pirating is wrong it's true is
stealing but so many facets to the story
giving information for free to somebody
who just requests it is more wrong so
yeah I love it that's it a few lines of
CSS is all it takes to bring Apple
devices to their knees Apple's iPhones
iPads and Mac computers at that stray
onto websites with malicious CSS code
while using Safari can crash or fail
over do or fall over due to a flaw in
the web
wowser the WebKit rendering engine
vulnerability can be triggered by just a
few lines of code in a CSS file on iOS
devices at least it all starts to go
wrong when the browser tries to parse a
processor-intensive CSS feature called
backdrop filter on nested page elements
the so called Safari Reaper attack
developed by a Berlin based security
researcher and uploaded to github this
week effectively crashes iOS devices
from iPads iPhones running iOS 7 to 12
and even Apple smartwatches the CSS
causes the rendering engine to exhaust
the system's resources and force the
gadgets to reboot to recover Mac can be
similarily frozen by the same exploit
forcing them to restart so don't try
this at home other browsers that make
use of WebKit are likely also vulnerable
on systems that don't crash the HTML
renders a picture of a triggered Thomas
Tank Engine the same trick crashes tabs
on ie and edge the researcher came
across the vulnerability while
researching browser caching crashing
attacks more generally last week story
though is this story because Apple just
doesn't like this Apple crash often is
this why it's a story no well no I mean
my wife has a Mac I know nobody yell at
me I don't think it's ever crashed yeah
it's but I mean a lot of the world runs
on Mac because of all the graphics and
all that kind of stuff so a lot of
people use it so that makes it a
newsworthy topic but I mean like I look
at that and go okay sure great wonderful
you crash you know there's other issues
bigger than this it's like however so
maybe it's not a huge issue but maybe
the simpleness of the capability of an
attacker to crash system like we can
inject a CSS code into an existing site
let's say we work it into a wordpress
plugin yeah
right that is widely distributed and so
then everyone gets their updates on
their WordPress blog or website and now
tens of thousands of websites are
infected with this undetectable because
it's not malware it's just a piece of
CSS code yeah that now everyone with a
Mac goes to that site and their computer
reboots and it's right across the board
like it's AI devices and thus my gosh
your phone too that's it that's correct
the vulnerability that is incredible
that soar for a system that like never
crashes that there's something so simple
that's it's its Achilles tendon like it
it blows my mind it's it's ultra small
now here's a conspiracy theory for you
okay now that it's Microsoft that owns
github right yes yes put that code in
all the CS that's exactly how Microsoft
rolls - yeah just injects it yeah that's
bad anyways the father of Linux Linus
Torvalds would like to apologize for
years of being a jerk and is taking time
off to learn empathy Linux creator Linus
Torvalds has apologized for years of
rants swearing and general hostility
directed at other Linux developers
saying that he's going to take a
temporary break from his role as
maintainer of the open-source kernel to
learn how to behave better for more for
many years Torvalds has been infamous
for his explicit expletive filled
aggressive outburst on the Linux kernel
mailing list chewing out developers who
submit pasture patches that he believes
aren't up to the standards necessary for
the kernel he's defended this behavior
in the face of pushback from other
developers insisting that people being
nice to one another was an American
ideology but that many that may be
coming to an end in a lengthy email
posted to the mailing list
Sunday night's Torvalds explain
pressed a change of heart taken to task
over attacks that he recognizes were
unprofessional and uncalled for he says
now he recognizes that his behavior was
not okay and that he is truly sorry he's
going to step back from kernel
development for a while something he's
done before while developing the git
source control system so that he can get
help on how to behave differently at the
same time the Linux project now has a
code of conduct previously the project's
had a code of conflict a code of
conflict a short document that asserts
that the code quality is the only thing
that matters and implores developers to
be excellent to each other the new code
of conduct is more extensive and sets
explicit standards for behavior
requiring it to be positive professional
welcoming and inclusive thank you for
listening to me what I mean I feel like
Linus literally just watch this show
some day very good to want to know
exactly right people should be nice to
each other it smarts
to care empathy is something I should
build compassion is important I this is
what happened and I thank you
- I actually really I want to be your
friend we have such a such a mentality
here of community and and caring for one
another and supporting one another
between our community the hosts what's
this about why he's like this has legal
proceedings written all you think so
yeah 100% 100% there's somebody within
the company who within the quali within
the development community yes whose own
but I think probably even more so within
the company that filed a complaint that
became a legal matter and that's why
these kind of statements are issued
that's why on on his departure you see a
change in the code of conduct all that
kind of stuff this says settlement all
over it ah okay so I watched the Steve
Jobs movie on Netflix like the last two
days I watched a little bit of it each
night before I fell asleep
it was that good and I fell asleep
and I watched it the next all right in
this movie and I don't know how true it
is Steve Jobs is a big old jerk - oh
yeah like really yeah this is this is
where I was going is that I have mad
respect for leanness thorvald's yeah
like he is a brilliant man and he admits
his flaws and he is flawed and we're all
good and and backing up like we have
such a community mindset here and we
care but I have bad days right right and
I have stressful days and he is like the
head of this thing right when you have
that like flame of genius in your mind
you really need to protect it and I
really do think like he's a genius and
Steve Jobs was a genius oh come on now
but I think that that's I like how that
went
that's our t-shirt for the week folks
sometimes you get so consumed by feeding
that because you know that like it
becomes your worth that you forget about
how you look to everybody yeah I jerked
about it before our show tonight about
how incredibly particular I am about
certain things right behind the scenes
like just making sure that things work
and things are the way they have to be
set up the way that they should be right
but it's super respectable like I
respect the fact that you have I have
figured it out you've plotted it out in
the future you know what may go wrong
and you you want to check it before it
happens right I'm I'm more like throw
caution to the way and I walk around
with reckless abandon I need people like
you but when I could so imagine so if
like I'm small fries but leanness you
know he is that guy for Linux and so if
somebody steps in and and offers a
commit that is not up to his standard
that is not in line with the things and
he's admittedly brusque with people and
and you know very pointed with people
and he says it's you know he's just not
a people person he just he likes to sit
in front of a computer and that's his
comfortable place
that's where he's comfortable and and
and he doesn't deal nicely with people
and he admits that and and so if
somebody is offering a commit he may
appreciate the commit but if he has to
go back and recoat it to make it work
the way that he wants it to look and
work and function and he yeah expects
people to instead follow that code of
conflict if you will the the here's how
the code should be do it that way that's
how we've laid it out I want you to when
you submit it I want it to be that way
so I I understand I admire and I respect
his position right as a delicately
emotion person right I am I need very
maybe I'm a millennial I don't know like
I need I just need a lot of positive
reinforcement if I put effort into
something so okay I say I go ahead and I
send him a kernel I don't know what I do
but I great I don't want to be told I'm
a bad person
right it's a bad yeah thing no absolute
right but again he had he he knows his
flaws we know his flaws is his community
right and it takes people skills and a
willingness to be that people person to
like I as a father for example and I
incur I do my best to encourage my
children and you've been through it as
well like sometimes sometimes the kids
won't do things the way that I want them
to do it or maybe you know the first
time is always a disaster but I still
want I don't want to blast them for
doing it wrong no I want to encourage
you to be better and and to learn but
that's part of me as a father
yes feedback sandwiches I learned this
in therapy where you must have things
that make constructive criticism and
then another positive thing here what we
need to do to improve but that's not him
right and that's he's not our Father
he's not he doesn't love me he doesn't
love his community the way that I love
my children and so
don't expect that of him so but I think
you may be right I think I'm 100 percent
right I don't know what do you think
watch this show and he was like Sasha's
got it people should be nice to each
other I should start with me let's grow
my empathy lawsuit I like it I like it
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson yeah now
Jeff Weston it has been a pleasure
having you here with us this week you
see how did I was so nice so friendly
you've been good yeah you know and
that's how we can do it around here so
thank you thank you for being a part of
this community we appreciate you there
we go
don't forget to visit our website
category 5 TV if you're watching on
youtube don't forget to like this video
and also subscribe hit the bell and
you'll get the notifications every time
we bring out a new video or when we are
live how cool is that check us out there
have a great week everybody will see you
same time same place next week
goodnight
