what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 166
of category 5 technology TV i am your
host Robbie Ferguson Eric how are you
buddy I am well and you sir good hey
folks hey nice to have you here it's
Tuesday November 23rd yeah well I'm
third 2010 sorry folks but we're looking
at one month and due dates till
Christmas they're threatening snow in
Barrie Ontario today just threatening
just throw we haven't had too much but
it was like 13 degrees today see yeah
it's kind of nice that gotta look that's
the weather for tonight and moving along
tonight we are going to be at we're
gonna be talking about dd-wrt from
selecting our router to actually
installing it setting up and using the
free firmware that lets you buy a
cheaper router and add features that are
that of a more expensive road suite also
we're going to be learning how to mount
a pogoplug to our windows and linux
device you remember last week we had a
question there I left the question in
your inbox so we can go back over it
again at some point tonight but we
didn't actually get to refer back to the
original question because that was a
two-parter so will will attend to that
tonight we will do definitely
that was uh rock you up north that's
right yeah a rock up north so like that
we'll be dealing with that tonight so
check it out ah yeah we've got that
brother printer to give away we've got
Hillary who's joining us tonight he'll
how are you tonight hey everybody i am
doing fabulous i'm excited for category
5 as always good to see you looking
quite a bit higher frame rate tonight
looking better thank you yes got it
together over here things are good on
this live location just filth in 10 what
is coming up in the news this evening
Hillary if you could well certainly
coming up in the newsroom people we've
got a lot of exciting things going on
Google Maps bike directions are coming
to Canada and yesterday's iOS 4.2
release brings new features to current
Apple device especially the ipad google
chrome os-based netbooks will not be
ready in time for Christmas give the
gift of digital literature this holiday
season and if you can believe it
microsoft windows operating system
celebrated 25 years on saturday stick
around for the latest news from the
category 5 TV news room thanks Hilary so
yeah we've got lots going on tonight did
you sell a brute windows one sutter yeah
yeah threw a little party I didn't get
invited okay that would be ironic
wouldn't it yeah anyway vital or I
actually commented on the news article
on the newsroom website category 5 TV /
newsroom I posted a comment just saying
that like where Windows has come from
and my first experiences with Windows
and when I actually got into Linux so
you can check that out in the category 5
news room category five dot TV /
newsroom and there is a chance for you
to comment on any of the news stories
they're all right how's your week been
it's been just dandy soap now good good
seems you're always playing hockey well
that's later tonight yeah yeah so get my
gear in the car good good
and I see even tweeting like a madman
once oh oh wait a minute I knew there
was I think the last time you tweeted
was traumatized by yeah for the second
last week really sent oh yes all right
welcome to category 5 you can find us in
the chat room at triple w category five
dot TV we'd love to have you there you
can get your questions in live you can
email me live at category 5 TV if you're
watching this after the fact but
certainly if you're watching live we'd
love to hear from you in the chat room
at category 5 TV or on freenode in the
room category 5 sure there oh no they're
all right well should we maybe go back
to some questions we were looking at
yeah anything oh well he's still asking
permission after all this time you still
ask him permission yeah but you know I'm
the new kid yeah maybe I'll just drink
Hillary usually what I was like right
you remember was like me can I please
read this new wow she's just got there
she's got the confidence now though hi
Jerry that's yeah keep going air doing a
great job don't worry sure it sure is
okay well should we go into the avid
sure your mom okay well I'm here to
answer the questions easier to ask we're
not sure if this is real Claire but this
is rock up north I think we're gonna
we're gonna go with that hey yeah
alright so after watching a few shows
where you talked about the pogoplug you
met and purchase one really it's very
happy with the device the problem I'm
having is I can't install the drive into
my ubuntu 10.2 netbook i downloaded the
tgz file and that's as far as I went how
could you go through this set up with
the terminal program I would love to
okay I love to show you how that's done
and certainly a good opportunity for
people who are on the fence about the
pogoplug especially with Christmas
coming great little stocking stuffer so
to speak stocking stuffer Oh be a really
good investment as far as Christmas
gifts go so check this out we'll we'll
take a look the pogoplug is a device
that lets you hook up your extra
hard drive in such a way that you can
access it from anywhere in the world
through your high-speed internet
connection so you've got a USB hard
drive you plug it in or multiple hard
drives and have the ability to mount
those to your computer from anywhere
through an encrypted secure connection
so as far as for off-site backups and
storing your stuff redundantly across
multiple hard drives or Pogo plugs or
just for the fact that you can have
access to your files from anywhere just
for that simple convenience just so that
you can print from your iPad or from
another device that you know like an
android phone or something where you can
actually send it to a printer that's
connected your Pogoplug or just have
access to those files it's a truly
brilliant device it's got so much
functionality but it's really it's it's
only limited by what you can creatively
do with it because it is really just a
mass storage connection for your
hardware so that said my Windows
computers can access the hard drive
through the pogoplug as if it was
connected directly into USB reallys
right so that can that hard drive could
physically be anywhere in the world as
long as it's got a high-speed internet
connection plugged into the pogoplug I
can actually access it through a mount
point on my Windows computer so my p
drive basically with my linux computer i
can create a mount point and do the same
thing i can access it just like it's a
hard drive on my computer so i use that
for off-site backups quite a bit you can
put 1 at a family member's house and
they can put one at your house and you
can exchange the ability to have
off-site backups even synchronize the
two devices together with activesync so
very cool features I know a lot of
people who are joining us in the chat
room have already taken the plunge and
gone out and purchased a pogoplug there
they're extremely affordable there's no
service fees and no ongoing costs or
anything you just buy the hardware and
you've got the whole feature set and I
think one of the impressive things about
pogoplug you hear about all the new
versions that they're bringing out but
it's always backward compatible so as
they bring out a new hardware device
sure the new hardware comes with new
features like the new Pogoplug pro has
Wi-Fi built in but the old pogoplug you
can get the Wi-Fi dongle in it and it
works just the same so the software is
all compatible
and even the first gen polka plug I've
got one of those just a little brick a
little white brick all of the features
that they've added to all the second and
third and fourth-generation pogo plugs
are also through firmware updates that
automatically occur those features have
been added to my old pogoplug as well so
you're never locked in you never have to
feel like oh I need to upgrade to the
latest pogoplug because you're always
getting the latest downloads from the
pogoplug server it automatically updates
itself gets the newest version it's very
cool in Canada you can buy them through
pogoplug com led zep is just asking in
the chat room Cal hydro mentioning that
that they love their pogoplug I have to
agree seriously do seriously do so
looking at the pogoplug wit on a window
system you install the application which
you're going to you're going to be able
to download just by logging into your
pogoplug so i'm going to i can actually
go there i'm going to go to my pogoplug
calm the sealed you'll note is a secure
server okay and I'll just log into that
pogoplug device
so once I've logged into my polka plug
I've got access to the drive pardon me
and you'll see up at the top there's a
button that says downloads when I click
on that it's going to give me access to
poke a plug drive for Windows Mac and
Linux as well as part of me as I was
saying there are apps for your mobile
devices as well from blackberry to palm
and of course the iphone and android
devices as well so there there are no
limitations as far as device
compatibility it's they really worked
hard to make it work with everything so
that's pretty fantastic now looking at
this what I would want to do on my
windows system is simply download the
executive 0 for my computer that's going
to give me the exe or the msi it's a
mess I yeah but it detects that I'm on a
64-bit platform and so in this case
that's what it's going to give me so so
now i'm on linux on the demo system
there but i have actually installed this
on my windows computer and you'll see
that once its installed i can simply log
into the service this is a program that
now launches when i boot up my Windows 7
computer once I login you'll see that I
can set it up to support multiple drive
mode and instantly I've got this P drive
and you'll see the the device called no
name there that's actually just my flash
card that I plugged in just for the sake
of demonstration it's a one gig that's
showing us 810 Meg's you'll see there in
the in the properties it's just like an
810 mag drive and remember this is
mounted on my pee so my pee drive in
windows 7 so i can access this just by
going to that that drive association and
this can be done if i was on a laptop i
could be anywhere in the world sitting
at an internet cafe and my p dr would
still connect me to this drive so i'm
going to create a folder here called
test and remember this is creating it on
my pogoplug on that flash drive and i'll
throw a little text document in here and
this text document is actually being
written to that external hard drive or
my flash drive in this case
but to me it's just being created on the
pogoplug so I've just added that hello
testing pogoplug to this text file and
that's all there is to it there's no it
works just like a hard drive now going
to log back into that my pogoplug com
using the same credentials and you'll
notice that instantly I'm going to
actually have access to the the very
folder and file that i just created not
only that but you also notice at the top
that pogoplug is actually it's rendering
the media that pink bar up at the top
and here's my test folder and there's my
text dot txt or tests on txt and you'll
notice pogoplug automatically renders
the preview and there is the actual file
which I can then download or whatever I
want to do I've got instant access to
that is brilliant brilliant oh so that's
how it works on a window system it's
fantastical mm-hmm right and like I say
if you've got that laptop computer you
take that laptop anywhere you can be
sitting on the beach in Florida ah under
these lights I'm feeling it I'm feeling
it you could be sitting on the beach as
long as you've got a high-speed internet
connection it could be like a Wi-Fi
stick from from your your cell phone
provider and you'd have access to that
pogoplug drive somebody could steal your
laptop then and all of your data is safe
because it's actually stored at home
here in Canada so that see what I mean
like there's just so many different cool
things about the pogoplug you have a
netbook as long as you've got Wi-Fi
access to it it could have a little 32
gigabyte solid-state drive and you can
use the pogoplug to give it much more
space terabytes of storage space right
as long as you
as long as you've got that high-speed
internet connection so then you drop
that that netbook you don't want to but
if it happens you don't lose any data
it's on your pogoplug safely in your
movement or whatever normal termination
like that or you know problem because
the device itself is physically
connected the pogoplug okay not to the
the computer whatever file your work
knowing you may well theoretically right
if you in any case if you stop data
transmission in the middle of a save of
a terabyte file we're gigabyte file
right but but that's you know that's not
really gonna have this but a guy reboot
well yeah well you know what I mean your
biggie goodness me vision so imagine
you're on holidays or something you and
you've got your your laptop computer and
you pop in the camera card from your
digital camera and you copy everything
over to the p drive your pogoplug so now
you've got a backup of all your photos
that you just took on your vacation
before you've even headed home and it's
stored on your pogoplug safely at home
so even right then and then you can
share it with your friends and family
from your vacation nothing to it so
there's just there's like I could go on
and on about how feature-rich the
pogoplug is and what you can do with it
but now we want to learn about getting
this to work on linux here i am in
ubuntu linux all right and this is going
to look older for world it's a whole
different experience of chippy goodness
here we go pogoplug drive for linux okay
it's a game detected my operating system
version of 64 bit i'm going to go so
it's given me the tgz or the targa file
the this is a compressed tar and gzip
format so just basically that's like the
equivalent of a zip file in windows okay
so i'm going to open that file and
you'll see that now I've got just a file
with pogoplug FS so I'm going to I'm
going to do this as if this was
something that you were actually doing
on your Windows computer so you've got
your Pogo plot or your linux computer i
should say you've got your pogoplug
setup you've got your drive connected
you want to be able to access that as if
it was physically connected to your hard
drive just like
with the windows box just just a moment
ago so there's the file okay what I want
to do is I want to right click on
pogoplug FS and go extract just going to
ask me hey where do you want to save it
what I would normally do is I create a
folder called scripts because I'm
organized that way so I've created a
folder called scripts by clicking on
create folder and you'll notice that
this is in the Robbie folder or it will
be in your home folder ok so now i'm
going to extract it we're going to use
scripts as my example and if i go show
the files you'll see there is my
pogoplug FS file I'm going to do this
all through terminal because lately
you've noticed that i've been using
terminal a little bit more consumable i
want you to get a little bit more
comfortable with terminal we could right
click on that file and go properties and
set the permissions to be executive oh
that's fine what I'm going to do though
is I'm going to actually bring up my
terminal applications accessories
terminal ok and we know that that is in
a folder called scripts in my home
folder so i'm going to type CD scripts
CD for change directory and its case
sensitive so if i put a capital S on
there I have to use a capital S when I
go CD in this case it's all lowercase so
now I go LS and that's like the dose dir
command it's going to show me the files
that are in here and you'll notice if I
go dot slash pogoplug FS and hit enter
it says oh it's actually executive all
already it would if it wasn't executive
all it would give me an error but just
in case what i would do is i would go
chmod plus x just for the sake of the
demonstration I'm going to go chmod plus
x4 executive all pogoplug FS so now we
know that its executive all in my case
it actually was already executive all so
now what we want to do with any bash
command any Linux program there's
usually the ability to go dash dash help
so see what i typed there i typed
pogoplug FS that's the name of the file
i just downloaded dash dash help with a
space between them and now it's telling
me all the things that it can do or all
the command line arguments that i can
throw in there the main ones that i'm
going to need our user
password mount point okay so what I want
to do I want to first create a mount
point so let's we learned this last week
sudo so that we can be a super user make
der / media / let's call it pogoplug
okay so i'm going to create a mount
point in my media folder called pogoplug
asking me for my password for the sudo
command and there we go so now if I do
an LS which again is like a directory
listing so that we can see what files
are in there if I go LS / media you'll
see that I have one called pogoplug and
I still got my fake DVD from the last
week when we did that demonstration so
but with pogoplug there now we have a
mount point that we can mount our
pogoplug to so i'm going to type dot
slash because i want to run a command in
the current folder pogoplug i'm just
going to type p 0 g and hit my tab
button and that's going to fill in the
rest dash dash user and this is where
you enter your email address that is
associated with your pogoplug account
test at category 5 TV dash dash password
and this is plain text i'm going to
enter my password as test 123 is what
i've entered there so this is actually
the password that I've got on my
pogoplug account and now I want to set
the mount point dash dash mount point /
media / pogoplug remember its case
sensitive so I need to have a capital p
I hit enter on that and you'll see that
it's going through a bunch of stuff not
sure yeah i'm not sure if it took or not
but i'm going to now back it at nautilus
i'm going to go back into my media
folder go into pogoplug and it didn't
take just yet so let's see if it
requires see if there's any error
message that tells me what happened
there but just first thing I'm going to
check is whether it requires sudo
application gracefully exiting it
gracefully exit to that it's so let's
make sure
you can read you know read what it's
telling us here let's see error with
certificate depth 3 there I'm just
double-checking my settings and I'll
just make sure a game that I've entered
the right command here so dot slash
pogoplug a fast dash dash help how we
get that help
so I'm using user password and mount
point so that should be correct
password well and see now I've found the
error in my ways here so this will I
entered test I'm actually demo you'll
remember when I logged into pogoplug my
email addresses demo at category 5 TV
set this up very quickly just for the
sake of the demonstration so now if i
hit enter it's not going to exit out
with an error message it's actually
going to go through a bunch of stuff and
last summer on let's double check well
get there i'm typing amount just to see
if it's already mounted at some other
location
and here will be my problem
logged in
okay what I did differently this time as
I entered pseudo because remember i
created the mountain point in / media so
i have to have superuser access in order
to access that as a mount point so that
said now I've got pogoplug listed on my
desktop but I don't actually have read
access to that because it's a super user
only mount point so I'm going to hit
ctrl-c to abort the pogoplug and I'm
going to go sudo chmod actually first
I'm going to go pseudo you mount just to
be safe I want to unmount that media /
pogoplug okay and it says it's not
mounted but we're doing that just to be
safe just to make sure that it's not
mounted and then I'm going to go sudo
chmod 777 / media pogoplug or we could
use CH own if we don't want everyone on
our computer to access it but just to
quickly go over what that means I'm
using super user and I'm saying I want
to change the permissions of media /
pogoplug so that anyone on my computer
can access that anyone through my
network can access that etc ok so now
i'm going to do that command again with
sudo before at this time ok if all goes
well this is live TV baby it's mounted
it seems
if you if you have a case like I'm
having their where I'm having security
issues getting the mount point to allow
me personally access you can go through
setting up the permissions on that mount
point or alternatively just for the sake
of this what I'll do is I'll create a
mount point within your actual home
folder and then that way you know that
you're going to have access to that look
up commands like CH own if you want to
put it into your into your media folder
let's go make dirt no pseudo necessary
now dot slash pogoplug okay so now I've
created a folder called pogoplug or a
mountain pointe called pogoplug in my
home folder so it's going to look like
that okay so now let's change our mount
point let's get rid of pseudo at the
beginning there because I don't need it
this time change our mount point to home
Robbie pogoplug
ok
and now you'll see because I've got a
now I've created a mount point in a
folder where I have full permission
because it's my user you'll see that i
have exactly the same folder structures
I did on my Windows computer as i did
when i logged into my pogoplug if i go
into no name which is my drive if you
have more than one hard drive connected
to this it will be listed by the name of
the drive and now if i go in there's the
test folder there's my test txt what do
I want to do I want to display it and
you'll see layers my text file hello
ain't ready testing pogoplug I was in a
hurry nice fine and that's my that's my
way out when I when I mess up a little
bit i can say blog because i was just in
a hurry because i doing a demo like TV
that's what it was that's what happened
with his tweet people so anyway so there
you go so that gives you a kind of a
base of how that works and how you can
get that to work for you and seriously
now that's on my linux laptop i can take
that with me i can have access to that
do keep in mind that the password is
plain text on pogoplug FS so you want to
change that password of your pogoplug by
logging into my pogoplug com should your
devices ever get stolen or something
along those lines so do be mindful of
that that's kind of the one downfall I'm
sure that we'll see some but that's only
locally exposed right so only somebody
who has physical access to your computer
could ever see that and that said of
course the question would come up how
can I set it up to Mount automatically
and you can do that just by adding it as
a start-up application on your the next
computer so just like you would with any
startup application you can add that but
do keep in mind again that the password
is going to be plain text if you've got
an encrypted home folder and you've got
a password-protected login then it's no
problem because of the fact that you
have to actually know your login in
order to get into the computer which
exposes the password and so typically
somebody's not going to have that
maryo should you run to the GUI method
for our friends out there no way no okay
what did somebody ask yeah really yeah
what's ha ha Tom you kid hey Tom good to
see you there you go so you give him Tom
a rough time though totally totally how
come come on you're so it's probably
still thinking it easy I'm over here
working so but hope you had a good
thanksgiving all right was it that was
ah it was this weekend wasn't it cheers
yeah sure was um quickie unless somebody
in the chat room is cutting for me this
doesn't look quick alright well we'll
come back to it then let's leave though
this is category 5 technology TV you'll
find us online at triple w category 5 TV
we're just a couple of moments away from
the news so I don't want to get into
anything too too heavy before that point
but if you have a question for us live
at category five dot TV or of course in
the chat room category five TV or
freenode in the room category five we'd
love to hear from you especially if this
is your first time here you can also
submit a viewer testimonial on our
website category 5 TV and click on
interact and submit a testimonial and
that's a great opportunity for you to
tell us what you think of the show lots
of exciting stuff going on over the next
little while with that our new website I
see you've actually got an email from
tom well I was going you know like the
overall correcting each other here he
has a I think there's a picture there
but he says behold the beacon mushroom
and asparagus frittata oh-ho check that
it he's relaxing and he's eaten well
well baby it's a Canadian bacon though
look but that looks delicious Oh anyways
thanks for making us all salivate there
tom
oh my goodness well Hillary my dear
hello hello everyone I'm ready for the
news ready for the news hoots it me I
think we are ready take it away ahh from
the category 5 TV newsroom with the
growing popularity of the ebike will no
doubt see more Canadians making blog or
trips by bayi come spring and Google
wants to help them get to their
destination safely and on the best roads
as possible hey and cyclists should note
that Google's bike directions are coming
to most of Canada's major cities
starting with Ottawa Google Maps
announced yesterday that their bike
directions service launched in the US
and March is launching in a Canadian
cities this feature color codes roads
according to their suitability for
biking helping cyclists find safer more
enjoyable routes for their two-wheeled
journey google has yet to announce a
schedule but with another Canadian
winter on the horizon they've got
several months to work out the bugs
Apple said yesterday that a plan to
release the promise update iOS 4.2 for
ipad iphone and ipod touch the update
brings a number of long-awaited iOS four
features to the ipad and adds the new
airplay and airprint features for all
iOS devices in somewhat of a surprise
owners of the latest iOS devices can now
use the Find My iPhone feature for free
allow you to track down a missing device
via core location and even remotely wipe
the data features that iphone and ipod
touch users have been enjoying since
Tunes release of the iOS four point oh
will now be available to iPod users this
includes the iOS version of multitasking
and fast app switching the ability to
organize apps into folders a unified
inbox and threaded messaging for mail
and access to a game center for keeping
track of game achievements scores and
challenges iOS 4.2 is compatible with
all ipads iphone 3g iphone 3gs iphone 4
and second third and current generation
ipod touches
Apple notes though that some features
aren't compatible with every device to
get the upgrade plug your device in
launched on itunes and click update
software button in the device setting
bad news if you've been hoping for a
chrome base note or netbook this
Christmas unfortunately they won't be
ready in time Google's Chrome operating
system launch has been delayed and the
platform won't be available to launch on
netbooks for at least the next few
months google CEO eric schmidt revealed
the news reporters in a Q&amp;A session at
the web 2.0 summit last monday adding
that the platform continues to be
targeted toward devices with the
keyboard really no tablets but keeping
hope hopes high for the netbook market
with google while google has announced
last december that netbooks from big
names such as acer asus HP lenovo and
toshiba would launch google chrome's OS
and time for christmas of this year
Schmidt debunk the rumors without giving
reason for the delay in time for the
holidays amazon has made it possible for
people to give Kindle books to anyone
with an email address the Kindle reader
is the most popular of the e-book
readers and has an estimated seven
hundred and twenty-five thousand books
available for sale in its market a
Kindle isn't required to enjoy a kindle
book on the kindle apps for PC Mac and
iOS Windows Phone 7 Blackberry Android
are available they're not for Linux and
if you prefer something else kindle
books can be exchanged for amazon gift
cards why should you give an e-book this
holiday season while 41 books are often
cheaper sending an e-book takes much
less effort than sending a real book
gratification is instant and shipping is
free so give the gift digital literature
this holiday season microsoft windows
operating systems celebrated 25 years on
saturday on november twentieth nineteen
eighty five windows one point oh was
released birthing an empire and
introducing GUI base computing and
rudimentary multitasking to msg OS users
since the release of windows 1.0
Microsoft has released a whopping 33
major versions of its Windows operating
system for known versions haven't
during this time including windows
Neptune which was merged with Windows
Odyssey and developed into what we all
know as Windows XP while looking back
over the 25 years is really quite
amazing windows didn't take off really
until windows 3-pointer was released in
nineteen ninety five years later after
the first reliefs of the Windows
platform what was the first version of
Windows you used get the full stories at
category 5 TV / newsroom the category 5
TV news room is researched by Roy w Nash
with contributions from gadget wisdom
guru back up Ferguson and our community
of viewers if you have a new story you
think's worthy of on-air mention send us
an email at newsroom at category 5 TV
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary rumble category 5 TV is brought
to you in part by planet calypso this
massive multiplayer online game is
available as a free download from cat
five dot TV / Calypso now once you've
got it downloaded and installed on your
Windows computer make sure you say hi
and there's something for everyone here
on planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat5 TV / calypso i'll see you
on planet calypso
find us online at triple w category five
dot TV the this thing just I mean it
brings back so much memories but check
out the logo dudes and do this
absolutely one the inclusive here does
that is it just me or does this remind
me of well I don't know something that
may have it may of or may not have
attacked lieutenant Barclay well within
the transporter stream well I don't know
it just that's that's just you it just
kind of seems reminiscent of these
videos getting space invaders vibe from
it yeah realm of fear the episode of TNG
oh that's what that logo reminds me up
how deliciously random yes yeah yeah G
watching to catch up on you certainly do
sir but you certainly do thanks so much
Hillary for pitching with the news
tonight Hillary's I gotta take off but
nice to have her here as always it sure
is brilliant alright we've got so much
to cover tonight I want to take a look
at DD wrt I know you've got a couple of
questions we have a few of us there yeah
could we take a look at colas email
there if if we should just so that we
can address that nice to have you here
new viewer who's that joining us I guess
has been watching the show well that you
kind of philipson buys my way of the
email Scola and this came to us via
email I'll just start reading I
registered yesterday as a new viewer on
category five I have viewed several past
episodes of the program to catch up with
what I have missed in the past and to
continue watching live as from next
Tuesday episode 111 caught my attention
for some reason and I started to watch
to my greatest surprise the guy that was
interviewed on the geoip stuff could
only give Nigeria as his example of the
location of a guy trying to commit the
credit card fraud oh yes I know it was
just an example and I know a lot of guys
from Nigeria have committed and are
committing crimes like this on the
Internet I just want him to know that he
must watch how he picks his random names
for examples his example makes me think
that he thinks Nigerians are fraudsters
if this is true then I shouldn't bother
to introduce other African IT guys like
me to my newfound category 5 maybe I was
sounding a bit defensive for a mere
example a guy used to illustrate the
point he was trying to make but you must
know that the population of my beloved
country is a hundred and sixty million
and the few bad ones have really messed
up the image of the rest of us but this
doesn't mean that the first name should
come to someone's mind when they think
of credit card frauds is Nigeria I know
how you will take this but I think my
membership in this forum is still young
and it's not a happy thing for me to
hear a thing like this in less than 24
hours of my registration indeed that
Cola we freeze all poloru well we
appreciate your candor we appreciate
your message there and certainly things
like that can occur where something said
and i think that the intention behind
what was said is nothing like the end
and you'll excuse this but i don't think
that it was intended to offend in any
way i know the example that that ed Lynn
from Max mind had provided who was
interviewed in that show certainly he
was somebody who came on the show as as
an opportunity for him to promote his
product and and we allow that to occur
of course in that case I think he was
just kind of draw names out of the Hat
it's kind of like if I if I were to say
in his example he was saying that if
somebody made a purchase in
one location and the credit card was in
fact from another location or vice versa
then that would be a red flag for them
that it would be possibly fraud I don't
think he was making I don't want you to
take the impression that he was saying
that if the credit card transaction came
from Nigeria that it's probably fraud I
don't think that was the point that he
was making there I think what he was
rather saying is more for example if if
I see a transaction that's going through
my server for a purchase and the user
says that they're from Alberta but then
the credit card actually turns out to be
from Ontario then it's just a red flag
for me I just know that something here
doesn't match up and I think that's that
was the mindset of the example and I
must apologize on behalf of EDD and on
behalf of category five for the way that
that was taken and and I hope that
you'll see past that as far as I don't
believe that it was intended as a as a
racial or a slur towards towards your
country and so I just apologize that was
taken that way so I hope that you'll
stick around yes did you get a lot from
the show and certainly you know things
like that can happen we allow people on
the show sometimes I say I'm sure the
type sets and things that I would go
back and say oh my goodness I can't
believe I said that or it came out the
wrong way or I said I meant to say it
like this but then something about the
way that it came out just kind of
sounded wrong and and so you know when
that happens I'm very sorry but we
certainly do our best to try to keep
things neutral and certainly we have we
have every respect for for everyone in
the world and very nice to have you here
it's truly cosmopolitan it really is it
certainly is and it goes for every
country in the world that's watching the
show I'm constantly amazed at viewership
from all over the world and we can look
at our viewership right now kollam we've
got a huge amount of our viewers are
from the united states we've got viewers
in China there are second country like
that to me that's hard to believe yeah
but that's that's the way it is I've got
United Kingdom viewing the show
regularly the Netherlands Canada is the
fifth one down the list that's where
we're from you
you know Germany it's nice to have
everybody viewing from Germany we've got
the Russian Federation the Ukraine Japan
and Israel those are our top 10
countries right now this month and it
blows my mind and I appreciate every
viewer and I appreciate you being here
and I and I do hope that that you will
refer your friends and and have them
tune in to the show and have your people
represented here on category 5 would be
nice to have you in the chat room at
some point if that if ever I know time
zones are I guess we're about six hours
probably off i'm not i'm not positive
but I never actually looked no we could
do that we could but I think that's but
it's nice to have you here alright just
wanted to touch on that because I know
that'sthat's I know that that was a
heartfelt email and and that so I wanted
to make sure that got a dress thank you
actually I don't think he was too hard i
don't know he wasn't you weren't hard i
mean he was honest yes absolutely right
in yeah go to respect it absolutely do
it's time for a couple other question
absolutely oh yes sir we got mo 18-hole
minutes alright i'm a pablo hey Pablo
maybe Pablo but if they have Pablo Pablo
yes um like a parent he writes you said
hey Vernon a yep I've done everything
hmm let's get back here dear Robbie's
okay now we're down to 14 minutes your
Robbie thanks for you should I put this
topic I found in telestream form okay so
so start to add hey Vern and a yep I've
done everything logical to resolve this
within Wirecast I've toggled basically
all settings from the quality of my
video to the resolution to the respect
aspect ratio to whatever else is in
there turning off respect aspect ratio
simply stretches the tooth Fitz screen
so now you still have only two fifths
the screen but it fills the Wirecast
window sure hope I can get this working
soon tough to hit snags like this one
you broadcast every week thanks for your
help okay
the problem is that i had the same
problem and Wirecast is only showing top
half of the input in the BTW DM driver
were you able to solve this I'm
attaching an image showing the shot that
has the problem thanks really so much
regards Pablo Cheers Pablo I'm going to
I'm gonna check the email maybe you can
bring up the image but believe you see
what that is and you read that with such
passion i preciate that but I I believe
what is happening here is Pablo is
saying that referring to a thread that I
posted to like two or three years ago I
i believe and just asking for advice due
to the problem that they're experiencing
I see yes let's see yeah and let's see
if I can find this here I may not be
able to bring them up the image for
people unfortunately here we go just
bear with me one moment and I appreciate
that I'm just going to try to get that
email up on the screen here just so that
the viewers at home can see what it is
that you're talking about here Pablo
alright
so here's a screenshot that Pablo is
provided good i connect sent card and
it's showing basically in the middle
looks like it's supposed to look like
that but it's actually looking like that
it's kind of squishing down in the
middle when I have that problem with
Wirecast Wirecast is broadcasting tool
that we use to create the show live it
allows us to do the camera switching all
the fantastic effects and everything
that you see here on the show such as
that it's all live when I have that kind
of problem it it ended up being the
driver for my device itself was not
compatible with wire cast so I encourage
you to try some different drivers and
see if you can get to find one that
that's a third-party driver that's going
to assist you with that and certainly
you can also turn off respect aspect
ratio in wire cast which I find also
helps if the camera itself is reporting
the wrong aspect ratio you can also
check the the driver settings for your
camera itself so I guess you would call
it the properties of the camera which
you'll find in wire cast and Wirecast
under asset manager you'll be able to
configure those and under configure
devices you should be able to do some
other things but under asset manager
certainly you'll be able to change to 4
over 3 looks like you're it looks like
you're doing for over three there so
you'll want to change that device to 4
over 3 and manipulate your your settings
for respect aspect ratio kind of a tough
one though and not having direct access
to to your setup is kind of tough i
think it's going to be different for
everyone but for me when that happened
when cameras were showing squished or in
the wrong flipped around for example it
ended up being a driver for the
particular capture card that i was using
which was a hauppauge just a low-end
hapag card that i got for sixty dollars
that was the card that was causing me
the grief replaced the driver with an
open source driver I don't remember
which one it was but I looked around I
found some drivers that were compatible
with my card that were open source and
that were developed by an open source
community and it gave me acts
the card and let me use it and it worked
really well so good luck i'm sorry i
don't have a definitive answer for you
but hopefully that will at least assist
you with with achieving what it is you
need to do with Wirecast but certainly
also a good idea to always stay on top
of the latest version of wire cast i do
find even our microsoft lifecam we have
had problems with from day one and I
used to have to do the same thing where
I had to use a third-party driver in
order to get it to work and that
particular third-party driver was
finicky if I accidentally closed it it
would crash the camera and then you
couldn't access the camera without a
reboot so it was really finicky with
Wirecast the latest update that I have
that problem is resolved I no longer
have to use that driver at all I just
use the direct microsoft lifecam burnamy
driver so you may find that also an
update of your software would be a good
idea all right good luck I'd like to
talk about dd-wrt tonight we're running
low on alignment so now I have the
privilege of having our router fry
itself last week remember a couple of
weeks ago if you were watching the show
live you may remember that we had a
night where the the feed kept on cutting
out and you know we're wondering if it
was justin.tv we weren't sure what was
going on yes and and I contacted my ISP
and the ISP said actually your internet
connection is dropping out at a regular
interval it's just cutting off and then
reconnecting so turned out that was a
big part of the cause obviously looking
into it further last week we did the
show everything worked just fine and
then started having some more trouble
and determined that our router was
actually about to kick the bucket so
preemptive strike went out and started
doing some shopping for a new router and
how did I pick my router well how did
you pick your Rover all right I got a I
got a netgear this is the wnr 3500 l I
don't even know the model off by hurt
yet there it is you can take a look at
I'm very interested in the dd-wrt
firmware what that is is it's a firmware
from DD wrt com that takes your
out-of-the-box router and allows you to
add features that are so far beyond what
the out-of-the-box router contains
because the manufacturers want you to
buy the one step up they want you to buy
the better model the more expensive
model obviously of course but did you
know that the hardware generally is all
the same across the board it's the
software that's installed on the
firmware so by using dd-wrt you're able
to take an old router and you're able to
turn it into something beautiful that's
what I've done in the past and that's
that's what I have been running for the
longest time I had an old motorola
device that was completely dead with the
stock firmware gave it a shot installed
dd-wrt we've got a couple of years out
of it before the hardware finally kicked
the bucket so that's been great gave me
a lot of new features so the things that
you want to look for is you buy a router
is what features do you want out of
dd-wrt and the way to determine that is
if you go to their website I'm going to
post some links in the show notes for
episode number 166 but basically there's
a supported devices list and this list
gives you a lot of information about all
different devices and this is extensive
I mean it's a huge huge table my little
linksys whatever model it is you may
even have it in there yeah certainly
you've got an old router you may try
checking if it's already in there so you
may not have to go out like I didn't buy
a new one though in my case my hardware
was dying and so I needed to get new
hardware so in that case I'm taking the
first step of deciding okay I've got to
buy one anyway let's pick one that's
going to work really really well for
what I want to do so there's a link that
says which version may I flash and that
tells you a little bit about the
different versions of dd-wrt and you'll
notice do not flash the mega build on
devices with four megabytes of flash
memory that's like my old one mega
requires eight megabytes or more flash
so then you have to ask yourself okay
well what is this mega
what does this mean and what what what
do what version do I want we want to
determine okay well can I get away with
the four megabyte router which is
basically every router that's on the
shelf or do I need to go a step further
and find one that is going to give me
access to bigger features from this mega
so what I want to do and what I did
let's see if I can find the list here
what's that let's go da big this one
does i went with the eight Meg's I'll
show you why let's see if I can find the
page here just for the sake of speed i'm
going to use google dd-wrt version
comparison
let's see what we can find
what version should i download that's
what I'm looking for here
they've got a really a really well
detailed site but I do find it's a
little bit convoluted as to finding the
actual information so that's why I'm
going to put some links in the show
notes of episode number 166 for you to
make things a little bit easier to to
find let's see here we go so with this
file you'll see that it compares Micro
Micro plus micro + ssh mini mini hot
spot yes you can create your own hot
spot with these with this firmware mini
USB USB generic and all these different
versions all the way up to big and mega
so you start going down this list of
features that you can add to your router
even asterisk being able to turn your
your router into its own PBX dynamic dns
ext3 support ipv6 which normally you'd
have to pay for a higher-end router to
get that kind of feature here's one of
the kickers for me proftpd being able to
deprecate the fact that i have a big old
dell server sitting in in there with ftp
installed and it's just giving people
access to my ftp server that's using a
lot of hydro imagine if i could
deprecated that completely and just put
this on a little solid-state device with
no moving parts very little heat
generated very little power consumption
all of a sudden dd-wrt start saving me
money because i can install features
like that so that i can create an ftp
server on my solid-state device
continuing down the list more features
that you that you get is QoS quality of
service and it's quite an advanced one
and you see that ok this is available in
mini and micro microplus mini and even
see with the dot that that's available
in ever in everyone but then proftpd
you'll see it's available in USB generic
mini USB ftp big and mega okay where the
dots are so that tells me that if i want
to be able to use this i have to find a
piece of hardware that's compatible with
one of those versions of dd-wrt
so with the router database when you go
to their website you'll see the
supported devices let us telling you
that on the box or usually they don't in
this case they did this one that brags
that they're open source compatible and
that's great i like that but in a normal
case it's not going to say that but what
you can do is you can hit ctrl f and
you're you're going to find the name of
your router so wnr 3500 l is the router
that i purchased and you'll see here's
what i'm looking for it's got 64 megs of
ram 8 megabytes of flash and you'll
remember that we already learned that
with eight Meg's or more of flash I can
go with the mega do lid yes you can see
what other features it has so I looked
at it's got for land 11 and it's a
gigabit switch so that tells me that ok
not only am I going to be getting all
the advantages of dd-wrt with the mega
install or in this case the big install
but also i'm able to i'm able to upgrade
my network to gigabit because it's got
that built in it's not going to cost me
anymore so the installation procedure
once you determine the version of dd-wrt
that you would like it has to be
compatible be very careful that you get
a version that is compatible with the
router and we can help you with that but
certainly dd-wrt site has all the
information that you need once you have
that information you can log into the
router here i am logging into the router
as i was about to update the firmware so
this is right out of the box brought it
home plugged it in and get into my
netgear router and all I had to do after
of course I had downloaded the the
firmware but I go through the step of
basically going through a retro upgrade
so just like I would if I was just
updating to a regular firmware I'm doing
that with my router here so instead of
browsing for a firmware from netgear I'm
in fact going to browse for the dd-wrt
file in my case I had to use an interim
file in order to be able to convert the
the Red Rover so it starts with mini and
then you upgrade from there to the to
the big install which gives me the pro
ftp and all that
and it's really that simple I'm going to
speed it up just a little bit here so
that you can see the installation
procedure but it won't take too long
it's just prompting that you're
installing a different version of the
firmware there so this is how it works
on netgear it's pretty much the same
with any any router at all and again as
long as you've got the the proper
version which you've downloaded from the
dd-wrt website absolutely free of charge
it's going to install on your on your
router there we go nice and fast well
didn't really go that fast didn't take
long though it took a couple minutes you
see there the countdown 1.5 minutes so
now as it up it says it's updating
settings and then boom all of a sudden
dd-wrt is installed on my router so then
i zoom in on that frame because I got
put into a frame and there we go it's in
the mini version so then I would go
through the installation step there go
into administration and go through the
firmware update to the big version of
dd-wrt so I downloaded two files in this
case so that gives me access to some
fantastic features you saw the the chart
there but now if I access my router it's
going to enter my password here to get
in you'll see that right off the bat you
get the status of your your router
you've got your wireless network you've
got your services services is fantastic
you've got so much stuff that you can do
with a dd-wrt router from VPN to static
IP addresses based on mac address
something that certainly you would need
a higher-end router for you've got your
USB which everything's kind of Ajax
based here so if i go core USB support
and able do i want USB 1.1 yeah you know
if I want storage support I can enable
that and I can go through all the steps
you know from there once I've enabled
that do I want Linux file system support
ya do I want file allocation table
windows that dos file system support etc
automatic drive mounting even the
ability with with this version I can
actually use cifs or so
and automatically mount my unraid server
to a mount point on my firewall because
it's linux right dd-wrt is powered by
linux i can ssh into it i can telnet
into it I can like I say mount my unraid
server to it I could mount my pogoplug
to it so then all of a sudden it becomes
a server where I can access or share or
give ftp access to files to users
through a solid-state device cutting
down on the hydro that I have to use and
given myself a whole lot of professional
features in what was a reasonably
inexpensive modem I did a comparison
between multiple different types of
modems I picked the ones that would be
would do what I need to do and you'll
see here that i did a pros and cons of
each one so good to go this modem cost
this router cost me a 119 dollars and is
doing a fantastic job for us and works
really well test yeah so very happy with
that check it out d D dash W rt.com
don't forget to check out our website
this week category five dot TV and make
sure you get your name in for the draw
for the brand new mfc j 615 W printer
from Brother Canada and category 5 TV
you'll find that at the bottom of the
interact menu I'm a fantastic week it's
been nice having here drop me an email
live at category five dot TV this week
and get your questions in will try to
catch up with those questions that I
miss this week absolutely all right take
care of a good week see you Tuesday
