so Robbie created giggles okay okay
my daughter giggles a lot so I don't
know if you fully created it but now you
want I wrote the code okay so you take
the amount of money that the single
board computer costs yes and then you
take the performance of it separated in
the really serious yes exactly
yeah so you want to make sure that your
single board computer has the lowest
giggle because you want to have it so
that you get the most performance for
the least amount of money so you're
aiming for a low giggle count right
absolutely
Zac makes very clear sense to me and as
you're describing I'm picturing myself
walking through the grocery store where
you see like oh you buy this at a
kilogram and this set of nouns exactly
well how much is it per hundred gram
exactly that's what I'm then you break
it down you go oh that's a better deal
exact so that's what we're doing here so
we're essentially doing that kind of
breakdown right for single board
computers I use the scenario and the the
like a fake scenario where okay Jeff
I've got a single board computer for ten
dollars and it gives me two thousand as
events per second right that's the
performance of it and it cost me ten
dollars okay now I've got another board
that gets four thousand events per
second but it cost me twenty dollars so
if if I didn't know the giggle score of
these systems I might look at that ten
dollar system and think oh it's cheaper
than the twenty dollars right so by the
twenty dollar so no because it's cheaper
yes but what I don't realize and I'm
using very very simple numbers so that
the math is really really easy to follow
the ten dollar one is two thousand
events per second the twenty dollar one
which costs exactly twice as much is
exactly twice the speed to four thousand
events per second so giggle wise giggle
score wise these two boards are exactly
the same giggle score right McNichol
cost they're exactly the same value for
the money so what we've done is we've
said okay well with a Raspberry Pi at
$35 and a rock 64 at 45 and a rock
Pro 64 at 80 how do you factor which one
is the best value right well and I
remember when the Odroid came out and we
had that episode of a being yeah hi
killer that was the big thing we're like
oh it's for core but it's like eight
coins
hey course that's right eight core space
and also much better right so same deal
exactly because the Odroid xu4 runs 59
dollars that's this guy right right so
when you've got a $59 SBC versus a $35
SBC well how do they measure up right
make sense
so the giggle score will tell us now
last week we got the giggle score of the
Raspberry Pi 3 model B+ in the giggle
score is 350 point 9 okay the giggle
cost I should say okay so tonight we're
gonna be looking at the Odroid xu4 as
well as the nano PI m4 when we started
looking at the Odroid xu4 this was like
bleeding edge breakthrough we called it
the Raspberry Pi kills why because this
was one of the first ones that we found
that had true Gigabit Ethernet it had it
has the GPIO it's got a power switch
it's got USB 3 it's got twice as much
RAM as the best Raspberry Pi on the
market right now and same thing a year
ago still hasn't changed right a
Raspberry Pi still hasn't changed their
brand-new Raspberry Pi microcomputer has
half as much RAM as the one that we
looked at a year ago right so so this
one's looked to us to be hey this is
really really good value because it's so
much more powerful hmm the giggle score
will show us what the value really is
right and so we haven't done that yet so
we got to figure that out tonight yeah
and I say that that this was like a year
ago to say that the nano PI M for this
is the evolution of single board
computers the rock 64 is the evolution
of where single board computers are
going right we're so close to single
board computers these little micro
computers being a toss-up between this
and a desktop or a laptop computer right
when you can see this and say I can get
just as much power in this as I can for
a two thousand dollar desktop say then
you start to say well why wouldn't I
this is the way to go yes but certainly
we're at that point where these are hey
set-top boxes buy that $300 computer
which is pretty fair for a set-top box
basic computer that I'm gonna connect to
my TV through HDMI and give me access to
things like Netflix and YouTube and a
little bit of gaming for the kids and
whatever else or I can do this the Nano
PI m4 for 65 bucks right which makes
sense which has six cores which is it's
got four USB 3
it's got up to 10 Gigabit Ethernet
it's got integrated gigabit ethernet but
it's also got the GPIO that you can
connect 10 gig it's got all kinds of
other stuff let's get right to it so we
understand the giggle score yes
so vp9 the lower the giggle score the
better the value for the money so so far
where we are compared to last week who's
so far got the best value from so far
it's the rock 64 the rock 64 is the best
value for the money as of episode number
583 of category 5 technology TV this one
has a giggle score of 50 1.37 next up
was the rock pro 64 which is the larger
model which I actually expected to
perform better than the rock 64 but it
wasn't but it it did in some ways but it
this one this see this is where you
really got to watch the numbers that you
get from your giggle score comparison
because this is a free tool that I've
written get it through github.com slash
cap 5 TV slash camp 5 TV - SBC test what
you do find with this one Jeff and what
we found last week is the CPU benchmarks
about twice as fast as the ROK 64 okay
so if CPU is what you're looking for
then that's the way to go then this is
the one to go with even though giggle
score says this one is more expensive
for what you're getting right does that
make sense so even though the giggle
score of this one is is lower which
means it's the best value for the money
this one is still more powerful right
okay okay so don't want a steak don't
mistake giggle score for benchmarks
we've always had benchmark
there are tons of benchmarks of single
board computers all across the web you
can find them everywhere what we have
never had is a comparison that shows us
the value for the money that is what
giggle scores are I love it giggle
scores are Linux only correct are they
okay I don't know an SBC that I would
really care to put Windows oh yeah so
these are so and along that vein
yes I've I've opted for Debian stretch
on all of these boards as I'm testing so
I wanted the comparison to be very fair
I'm using SBC test version 1.0 from my
github page so all of the tests are
using the same version and so the
comparison is very accurate I'm also
I've even gone so far as buying several
of the same Kingston microSD cards okay
that io wise everything is exactly the
same right make sense all right so we've
got the X u4q this is from Odroid this
one goes for $59 okay we've got these we
love them they're powerful they're
awesome
and then we've got the Nano pie m4 the
Nano pie m4 let's get in on these so you
guys can get a little bit of a closer
look I want to show you now I know you
can't see the board here because I've
got this in a case but I do love it the
X u4q it's got Gigabit Ethernet it's got
USB 2 there but on the other side here
we've got 2 USB 3 s it's got a giant
heatsink sticking out the top at least I
thought it was giant until I saw the m4
it does have a power button which you
don't get on a Raspberry Pi I do like
that other side here let's see what we
got it has the MMC as well which is kind
of cool on my case it's covered but
there's a switch here that changes on
this side here this changes whether
you're booting from sd or EMM see we've
got an SD port here and that's where
that goes a full size HDMI and that's
pretty cool so that's the xp for now
let's look at the nano PI m4 so that's
what it looks like we've done an
unboxing on the show if you want to
learn more about it it's a little bit
interesting in that first of all the
emmc is a different kind of interface so
this is the MMC port but you have to
have this
special kind of card in order to operate
that it's not going to take my standard
emmc power for this one is not a barrel
connector like it is for the xu4 it
comes in on an OTG or USBC cable and
this is what's interesting here too so
when we're looking at price we also have
to factor in things like okay well you
true you're gonna need a case for stuff
this one I'm just got it on the heatsink
but this one you're gonna need the
heatsink yes another seven dollars
you're gonna need a power cord but
what's crazy about this one is it needs
four amps that's right yeah so 5 volt 4
amps good luck finding a power supply
what I did Jeff is I took a 600 watt ATX
power supply okay I adapted that to USB
5 volt 120 amp okay 20 amps plugged in
USB C cable ran that to the the USB C
input port on the nano PI m4 and a
hundred and hundred and some-odd 120
amps was more than enough to power this
bad boy I'm gonna say that most people
aren't gonna go that route no I also had
the thought today that you could get
like a laptop power adapter right 19
volts probably about 90 watts which is
18 amps and down step that get a down
step converter to take that down to 5
volts then you've got an 18 amp 5 volt
power adapter right and then you just
have to adapt it to USB see right
example like I've done here or of course
you can just PI a USB where there's that
4 amp yes
but it's they're hard to find I couldn't
believe maybe was it did it not come
with one though no I mean a single board
computer you're buying this this circuit
board you're buying the board and then
all of the accessories that you want
initially I can't get it as a kit like
Raspberry Pi like canna kit
they are already yeah of me too and they
so they have put together a kit and
they're selling that kit right but it's
that's them doing it it's not it's not
Raspberry Pi doing that necessarily it's
it's Kanaka doing that so so do keep
that in mind so this one I mentioned the
heatsink this m4 has a honkin huge
heatsink look at that
yeah and we found out that this is
actually quarter inch threaded so you
can put that on a tripod Jeff I guess
though you could create some kind of
mounting apparatus to do a really cool
kind of rig interesting that is kind of
neat but huge honkin heatsink so let's
fire these bad boys up I want to see how
these perform now the reason we're
putting these two head-to-head is
because we understand these two boards
to be really really high performance
these are not raspberry PI's these are
like the performing boards these are the
ones that we really expect to do well
yes xu4 with eight cores two gigs of ram
the nano PI m4 with four gigs of ram
four gigs of ram and and six cores right
okay
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
okay so on your left we've got the
Odroid xe4 on the right we've got the
nano PI m4 head-to-head let's go
alright the value is $59 on the Odroid
Xu for the m4 is 65 so the test is going
to tell us the value there Wow CPU is
already done for the CPU benchmark on
the nano PI m4 and that score is not too
shabby 3063 events per second that's
higher than our top runner the ROK pro
64 had twenty eight hundred ninety seven
last week and it's already done we
haven't even finished the CPU benchmark
on the Odroid xe4 that's surprising okay
so let's look at the nano PI m4 which
has an incredible giggle score can you
guys see that 50.6 50.6 puts the nano PI
m4 into the first place spot and the
nano PI m4 is now rated as our top
performing board but also the best
giggle value so the best value for the
money on the left hand side back to the
old roid xu4 which was screaming about a
year ago four hundred and eighty one
point one giggles I'm gonna give you the
breakdown so that puts the Odroid xu
forward a very poor spot as far as
giggle value right what that tells us is
that dollar for dollar the value of the
xu 4 is actually kind of bad that's at
$59 okay so let's look at the
specifications I mentioned the nano PI M
for the CPU result is incredible I mean
just awesome twice that of the rock 64
which was last week's winner okay moving
along to RAM results here at $65 we have
a result of 847 thousand three hundred
and sixty eight events per second which
has a fantastic giggle score the mutex
value 19 point eight three events per
second and again the giggle cost is only
fifty point six
if that is great keep in mind the rock
64 which really impressed us last week
right was 50 1.37 right pretty close
pretty close so we can look at this so
the value for the dollar between these
two boards is almost identical right
these are our top two right now so does
one have something that the other
doesn't yes
oh good that's why comparing the giggle
score to the the actual benchmarks that
is provided by the software is very
important so let's look at that they're
almost identical as far as their value
for the money the giggle score right
fifty point 650 one point three seven
both very good value this one right here
the rock 64 can perform 1422 events per
second on the CPU based on last week's
test this one just now this is the Nano
PI M for three thousand sixty three
events per second three times twice as
two almost three times incredible pretty
significant yeah so same value for the
money yeah this one is significantly
more powerful that said price wise so
now let's go back to comparing this
one's $45 this one's $65 right right
right so we look at that we say oh well
this one seems like more value but we
know from the giggle score that they're
actually about the same value but this
one is significantly faster so you're
paying an extra $20 and you are actually
getting more perform perfect value for
the Nano PI m4 at $65 absolutely perfect
value for that extra power at $20 extra
oh gosh does the the pine 64 rock 64
both fantastic boards this one
unbelievable absolutely it was quick yes
the Oldroyd xu4 on the other hand didn't
do too well only 260 1.179 events per
second on the CPU significantly lower
than any of the other boards that we
looked at except for the Raspberry Pi
model three or the the three model B
plus C I would have thought the Audrey
would have been
Greymon a year ago when all we had was
the Raspberry Pi 3 now keep in mind good
I tested I tested the Raspberry Pi 3
model b+ this wasn't out when we got the
xu 4 right when we got the xu 4 it was
against the model the the model B
correct you know it probably performs
even less than the plus ok I would love
to see the giggle sore for like the PI 0
we just don't have to ain't nobody got
time now take weeks so keep that in mind
that was so this is not the newest board
in the universe ok right but it did
still perform a hundred and some-odd 140
events per second more than the
Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ right on the cpu
ram wise 360 three thousand five hundred
and seventy-seven events per second so
pretty poor compared to the Raspberry Pi
the RAM is in fact slower hmm that's
good good to know and the mutex result
at just thirteen point two three seven
events per second so again the giggle
score on this one is four hundred and
eighty one point one so that tells us
that this one is the worst value for the
money
right now yeah Oh address Oh droid have
anything coming out that might be better
yeah yeah we'll get there okay we're not
going there today okay but it's coming
stay tuned it's coming yes absolutely so
very interesting to see that in reality
like that's the reality of it folks so
our top boards right now the Nano PI m4
is in first place the rock 64 in second
place with a very close giggle value so
the value for both of these boards are
exceptional the rock 64 is $20 cheaper
so you're going to save some money but
the value of both of those boards are
pretty much identical the rock 64 are
the rock pro 64 is our third and we're
just going to talk about the top three
from this point forward and eliminate
the rest so there you go
get the giggle score of your single
board computer
by going to github.com slash cat5 TV
slash cap 5 TV - SBC test you'll be able
to get that free software for linux and
do test it against this the same
software basis us which is Debian
stretch that will give you the best most
accurate results
io doesn't matter it doesn't test
against the IO so you're not gonna
affect things if you have a slow SD card
or a fast emmc doesn't matter that won't
affect your giggle score let us know
your thoughts
has this been surprising for you this is
really just kind of the start of this
because as new single board computers
come out we're gonna be testing them
with their giggle value and we've got a
graph there that is available through
that github page as well and you can see
the results that have been submitted so
far as as we add those unbelievable
that's crazy you know I had high hopes
that Odroid was gonna cream everything
simply because expected it to beat the
Raspberry Pi as far as value goes
because it is yeah it is a lot more
powerful than the Raspberry Pi yes
absolutely value wise it's less value
for the money yeah but it is shocked to
me it is still more powerful hmm
so do keep that in mind but now the m4
in the rock 64 blast even the xu4 out of
the water like using how many things
Chandon 2018 when we're doing this yes
exactly and we're gonna see over the
next year now we're getting really
really excited as pine 64 is working
really really hard to bring out new
devices that are really really exciting
can't talk too much about it we've got
two other vendors Odroid yes they are
bringing out another board they've got
another board available right now and
more devices coming out from all
different vendors nano pi is getting me
excited right now there's a lot of great
competition out there that is they're
pushing the envelope
[Applause]
