here the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom based on a
new proposal drone pilot from the EU now
has to register for all drones over nine
ounces another use for 3d printers at
home as a university student prints his
way to a better smile binaural 3d sound
will make the new Doctor Who episode
terrifying an amazing step in Bionic
hands has been announced and a new
camera developed in Sweden is faster
than any photography gear on the planet
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category 5 dot TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cap 5 dot TV
slash gearbest it's an online store for
the geek streak in here or beloved ones
well of course I mean especially your
loved ones right because cap 5 DV /
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices
- that cellphones you bet you cap 5 TV
slash gear vest has a wide assortment of
unlocked Android cell phones and tablets
global compute consumer electronics
those like a great gift absolutely from
high tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 dot TV / gearbest have you covered
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
it's true it's just a bunch of random
electronic except me
[Music]
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kind of like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping at camp five dot TV slash
gear best yeah all right you kind of got
me there
Wow any other questions for me Jack now
that the winter is past flying seasons
do they have any good deals on say drone
copters oh my goodness well check this
out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest so
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right
happy shopping I'm Sasha through made it
in here the top series for the week of
May 10th 2017 the European Aviation
Safety Agency is proposing rules on the
use of small drones that would include
requirements for operators of all but
the smallest devices to register with
authorities the European Union Civil
Aviation agency said Friday that its
proposal would allow members member
countries the flexibility to define
areas where drones are prohibited or
where some requirements are relaxed
operators of drones accepts those
lighter than 250 grams would be obliged
to register with the authorities the
proposal also sets out technical and
operational requirements for the
unmanned aircraft eas√° says it plans to
some
a final plan to the EU executive
Commission at the end of this year after
receiving feedback on its proposal Wow
so that would mean 250 grams that's just
that sounds small if only we had a
repository of many types of drones that
we could see how much is 250 grams oh
look at the scale a random scale Hollyer
it happened to be there okay here I'm
curious because 250 grams does sound
like a small drone like how heavy is
Buzz he my phantom 3 it's technically
like 2 pounds so it's like 1,000 I don't
know I don't know matrix material 9 out
of SIA 250 grams to pounds no countess
it is good thing that we have Google in
our world okay so I'm going to start
with a teeny drone okay okay so I have
set the tare mass it shows zero grams
right now let's actually actually show
it yeah okay so yeah here we go
go teeny drone is 13 grams
okay so teeny drones we do not have to
license they're safe thankfully your
nanos own and I wrote a to imagine F oh
my a lot of paperwork
that's next let's jump a step up we've
got a navigator this is awesome this is
a hexacopter oh it's a bit it's a baby
hexacopter oh look at how adorable that
is
oh you want to see okay I'll get it for
you this like the CX star has the case
in the controller that's an it has the
hex okay I'm going to put it on there so
that I can take a video of it for you
that's what it looks like ooh
don't shy nice it's pretty and it is 13
grams beautiful okay we do not have to
register our navigator ok source a
hundred grams is that 150 okay yeah 13
so we are golden oak sofa not gonna look
so far yeah 31 this is pretty teeny
teeny teeny things
the name so many drones yeah okay I'm
just going to set that aside
hello what do we got now I have you next
that's an 8 101 from flurry on it still
feels light oh but throw it on the rocks
let's throw it on the box and see that's
only 200 grams in the box ok so you say
we know we know that that one's good
what's next okay we've got the what I
call the spider it looks like a tranche
alot money it really does this thing is
sweet to fly Henry just like a cloud
controlling a clever than L penny oh oh
it's definitely teeny tiny it's not
going to it's not going to weigh a ton
let's hope not
yeah ton yeah that one is 53 grams now
I'm pushing down with the cable I
sideways oh my gosh not pre-planned okay
so that one we know we're good okay how
big do you need to be to have to license
these things what about it not only says
it's mad wait so batteries do you think
this one physics this one here that's
pretty heavy
that's the micro drone 3.0 oh yeah it's
got the separate batteries there yeah I
remember this guy he's a good flyer yeah
Jynx so little self is pretty light so
of course when it's in the air it's
going to have a battery as well do we
have batteries in here oh I hope so we
don't so the weight is only that weight
roller well would the weight have to be
with or without the battery probably
battery listen my hair flies without a
battery okay she's only 50 grams with
without the battery and I can't see a
battery being 200 grams know that er is
related grown and kind of our probably
our biggest toy flyer I don't even know
what this is
ei Xin Yi 30
ok let's get it out there
woo she's black that's all she fancy
it's like a really really small phantom
3 Pro button like a black plastic and
you know about Asian haha I know might
be a green plastic it does have a very
small battery in there okay little
slightly larger quad right so let's
throw that on there and we are still
safe folks so it looks like twice
johnny-boy drones are going to be safe
player onto me looks like you're okay
yeah 103 grams so that one's a little
bit heavier but we're still golden so
hey if you're flying these guys I think
you're going to be okay right
once you get into the larger more
professional drones you'll need a
license you're going to need to license
that under the new rules so now really
the motivation will be for drone
manufacturers to find a really good a
lightweight material I see a lot of
crazy awesome drones coming out at 205
grams well you like injected with like I
don't know like helium inside the drone
itself
helium drone helium gel looks weird with
the balloon on top high once I once
bought a tank of helium and it was super
light when I bought it and then I felt a
bunch of balloons and I was going to
move tank and the tank was so heavy
really the helium and yeah it was such a
mind trip oh man alright an
undergraduate at New Jersey Institute of
Technology made his own plastic braces
using a 3d printer $60 of materials and
a healthy dose of ingenuity and they
actually worked a most ugly had braces
in middle school but he didn't wear a
retainer like he was supposed to so as
he slowly shifted back he didn't want to
shell out thousands of dollars for a
whole new round of braces so the digital
design major decided to make his own on
his blog Dudley wrote that he was an
unlikely combination of two things he
was broke and he had access to a high
quality 3d print
thrus University he took full advantage
of this the process wasn't exactly easy
he had to research orthodontic
procedures and plot the route of his
successive braces so his teeth would
move in the right way but once that was
done all it took was fabricating a
series of models out of relatively
inexpensive plastic and then following
through on wearing them and it was worth
it for Dudley whose smile turned out
looking remarkable now we have a good
old before and after of yeah yeah dr.
Greene so you folks saw that yeah but
here's the before yeah and now I can see
that he's got the retainer on the top
teeth hey it really reminds me of
Invisalign I'm not sure if it's a
patented technology so I don't know if
we're going to see his you know
invention or idea go to you know the
mass market because it doesn't visit
line have a patent on that I'm not sure
I don't know invisible braces but that
is shiny I don't look right so that's
the before okay all right and there's
the after oh no way
look at that that is awesome you bye I
hope that he made that a project like I
hope that that oh yeah thank you he got
his doctorate and not just like master's
thesis I can do this now God and look at
him how amazing $60 worth of materials I
know and they are so expensive I mean
you try to correct a smile right it is
very expensive
Wow that is great okay with this week's
episode of Doctor Who you're going to
need headphones to take in the full
spectacle knock knock season henceforth
episode will be a brief slide into the
horror genre helped along by binaural 3d
sound technology as Radio Times reported
this week's episode of Doctor Who knock
knock will feature the show's first ever
3d experience sound experienced with the
help of binaural recordings and the BBC
iplayer bino binaural recording is a
method of audio recording using two
microphones instead of one which gives
the listener the sensation of actually
being in the room with the characters
it's similar to the technology used in
IMAX theaters and at home 3d stereo
systems so the first knock
on screen might sound like it's to your
left well the other well the one right
after might switch to sounding like it's
behind you
it's a technique guaranteed to send
shivers up your spine when used in the
horror genre and that's exactly what the
fourth episode seems to be aiming for
the binaural Edition won't air on
television but it seems likely that it
will be available for purchase on iTunes
at a later date that is awesome you know
what I love about this is binaural audio
does not require surround sound it does
not require speakers all around you it
simply requires that you have a nice
pair of headphones right now you have
made binaural recording yeah I do
binaural nature sounds and in fact if
you go to our website category five dot
TV you can look at episode number one of
the show show where I demonstrate how to
in fact build your own binaural
recording rig that's Oakley comes
complete with audio samples so put on
your headphones go to our website
category 5 TV do a quick search for DIY
3d microphone and you'll be able to hear
that on your headphones and it's neat
because it's true you actually like
think about this for a second I talked
about this on that on that episode is so
not to be redundant I know you're going
to go watch it right after the show but
if I go like this where am I clicking
right it's so wild to me that our ears
even though there are only two of them
we can say you're except attention how
does it how does that work it really
changes your actual like xuer experience
I mean your listening experience I
suppose in this case because I know in
my apartment we have it as stereo system
setup where you have two speakers all
around you we have speakers all around
us and when we're watching something
well when Dave's playing a video game
we're like there's a bonfire legendary
souls and he walks around it you can
really hear the crackling everywhere
right like that isn't here's the
difference of that surround sound yeah
binaural takes advantage the fact we
only have two ears anyways Frey we don't
need seven speakers around us right we
only have two ears so they put two
speaker
one on each year your headphones and
record it in such a way that it emulates
the fact you don't do it like this and
you hear where that's coming from around
you and it's amazing and so binaural
audio takes advantage of that that's so
awesome so that everybody can have the
experience of having that but here well
your own yeah yeah amazing from you yeah
have it on your smartphone well you
aren't going to wake up the whole house
now when you're playing like Call of
Duty and there's an illusion or
something just put your headphones on
you're all set
do check out the show show episode one
do a and you'll learn all about binaural
audio I get to hear it a bionic hand
that sees objects and instantly decides
what kind of grip to adopt has been
developed by scientists a computer uses
a camera to assess an object's shape and
size and then to trigger the correct
movement to pick it up the technology
was developed at at Newcastle University
and has been trialed by a small number
of amputees dr. Knut Naza for a senior
lecturer in biomedical engineering at
the University says that the by a
mechanic and can respond automatically
the device could spark a new generation
of prosthetic limbs giving the wearer
the ability to grip objects without the
use of their brain researchers say dr.
Nassif or said prosthetic limbs have
changed very little in the past 100
years responsiveness has been one of the
main barriers to artificial limbs the
hand to the hand too reacts within
milliseconds and performs four different
grasps suitable for picking up a cup
holding a TV controller and gripping
objects with a thumb and two fingers or
a pinched thumb and first finger that's
actually super incredible personally
because I my mom she was born with only
one arm right so she actually doesn't
wear the prosthetic limb because it
doesn't make any sense to her because it
doesn't it's not really super fun to a
whole lot with it right and and because
she was born that way she's not an
amputee so it's not like there's a lot
of like I guess this would work in the
situation because she wouldn't need the
nerve connections or any sort of you
weird it's almost as if the hand Wow has
its own mind and no not was kind of what
it can do yeah if you reach out you know
I can subconsciously reach out and pick
up my mug and you know it just happens
and it just happens so to have a hand
that has the technology to be able to do
that same thing without me having to
think about right so you get close to it
and then it does know the appropriate
thing thank you fell it doesn't do that
yeah yeah Marvin I promise I didn't do
that I might work hearing oh my boy okay
I'm new camera haha let's take a breath
and the news I never developed in Sweden
is faster than any photography gear on
the planet researchers at Sweden's lund
university built a crazy fast camera
that can capture a staggering five
trillion frames per second or 1 by 5
trillion ok or events as short as 0.2
trillions of one second at that speed it
is able to capture video of light in
flight Wow I know that is like
mind-boggling to me with the new high
speed film camera the researchers plan
to film rapid processes in chemistry
biology and physics that are otherwise
impossible to capture in photos or
videos the folks responsible for the
developments are currently shooting
video and will be releasing several
samples this fall neat I can only
imagine how cool it's going to be to see
that in you know just even nature films
right how long would you have to wait
for one second of time to pass with to
long hours and hours here just to see
what normally happens in a flash but
that's interesting that they would use
it for biology and processes that
normally happen so quickly that you
can't see them cells closing implosions
I love science very
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom i'm
sasha dorita
[Applause]
