hey everyone welcome to new every day
I'm Lawrence Cruz and on Jeff Weston we
have an exciting show for you today
it's talkback show for new every day and
stay tuned we've got some great
questions that you're gonna want to hear
the answers to
this is you every day with Jeff Weston
and nine screws
[Music]
I'm Jeff Weston and I'm Lauren screws
and it's a talk show
I like these talkback shows they're good
because it gives you the opportunity to
connect with us with the questions that
have kind of been burning in your back
pocket and you just want to know the
answer maybe it's not gonna be the
answer you want to hear based on some of
the questions that have come in
maybe it's the answer you're looking for
you need to reaffirm something that
you've known in the past or maybe you
just don't have a sweet clue and you're
going hey somebody enlighten me but the
thing we want to mention is that we are
not the experts on this these are our
opinions we have gone to Scripture we've
gone to some authorities on these topics
and we're relying our thoughts on it but
as always we want you to test this to
Scripture so whatever answers we give we
kind of put it back on you to say you've
asked a question we've given you an
answer now you need to go back to the
Bible and say does that line up for her
and or Jeff and Lauren it's kind of
stringing me a line or is this legit I
like to think that we're legit Oh
too legit to quit so we've got these
questions they came in from you from
Facebook's from YouTube from email even
some conversations people who have
watched the show locally that are like
hey I got a question for ya how about
that yeah so now an and it may just be
that you'd like to add something to the
answers that you hear send those and see
we'd be delighted to give you credit
yeah and say oh my goodness this was an
amazing answer or what can you believe
with this no no send a minute okay okay
we're gonna hop right into it we got a
question coming in from sue actually
it's more of a comment from sue from
Kingston Ontario and sue didn't ask
anything there was no question attached
to is more so a comment but I think the
question
become silence of is this a correct
statement I would add on to the end so
she says okay if I keep messing up and
God always forgives me I don't have
anything to worry about and I have heard
that similar statement many times if
God's about grace and forgiveness then I
could do whatever I want because I'm
forgiven anyway oh okay and I think
that's kind of the the statement that's
being made and so the unspoken question
is is that correct yeah so sue we're
gonna try and answer your your comment
and the short answer from my opinion
would be no that's not correct you do
have something to worry about
and a while ago several weeks ago we did
an episode on everything is permissible
not everything is beneficial I believe
its first Corinthians 12 or 6 or 6 verse
12 I think
first Corinthians 6:12 612 yeah
everything is permissible for me but not
everything is beneficial everything is
permissible for me but I will not be
mastered by anything and I think that
verse is the key to addressing your
comment because at the end of the day
yeah you can live your life as you
choose but is that in line with the way
that God has asked you to live is it in
line with Scripture could you go out and
be a druggie on weekends sure it's your
life but is that what's beneficial is
that going to bring you closer to God is
that going to enhance your relationship
and I would argue no mmm it doesn't hmmm
that's interesting Jeff I love it I keep
messing up and God always forgives me I
don't have anything to worry about I'm
just reading it going well thank you for
that I love a great comment appreciate
it next I think it makes me wonder is it
just a statement of you know there's
another way to take it like I think I
love how you interpret it I'm going hey
great you keep messing up well well
thanks for your confession and guess
what you're in good company cuz Jeff
here I mean
no listen we're we're experts at messin
up and and if this is you saying and God
always forgives me and you've got a
handle on his grace that he loves you
ah and it's not there's nothing you can
do that's going what well said I'm with
you Alec right like that's the two sides
of the state of announcer to go
I'm just the negative causative well hey
but I love it and you know what Jeff the
reason why I'm there was a long time
where I didn't get that I needed to know
about the incredible grace of God cuz
you know I think God well now I know he
was more forgiving of me than I was of
myself yes and even this year I've had
someone say to me Lawrence don't be so
hard on yourself
thanks for your confession by the way we
all do mess up I'm pretty good at doing
it all the time yeah yes but yeah right
I have to you know and but the great
news is is I am forgiven by God and His
grace has got me covered and I thank God
for that and there's nothing that I have
to worry about and I mean there's other
portions of the Bible that says hey
Lawrence like in my translation it has
my name radio here's that no it doesn't
but you get it I don't worry about
anything but in everything by prayer and
asking petition right present your
requests to God and the peace of God
that passes all of your understanding
Lawrence will guard your hearts and
minds in Christ Jesus in other words
don't worry be happy
mmm-hmm because His grace covers it well
if that's what you were getting at if it
was a statement su that you're then
praise the Lord I agree with you totally
of course the bible does talk about
those who abuse the grace of god and use
it as a license to sin right and i think
that's where my thought from well for
sure sure yeah well equally valid
because and it makes me more like i mean
who knows sue I can't possibly know
where you were coming from on there but
we would do our best to address both
sides yeah and I think we did at the end
of that
but I guess the the thought at the end
of the day is why chance it yeah you
always want to be living your life to
the best you can with in the way that
God has asked you to live in scripture
well and this is it it's like it's like
my marriage if my wife asks me to do
something or to not do something if I
wilfully just go well she's gonna love
me anyway so who cares what she says
come on let's go and then I just you
know on purpose ignore what she wants
like that that just that gets old real
fast right right yeah that's not loving
no and that's gonna put you in the
docket yeah that's right
she's gracious but she's not God feeling
scared right now
we should change okay all right so this
one a caught out when it came in I kind
of went who I I don't know so that's the
preface to this question and it is from
know me in Toronto Ontario and the
question is very topical based on
candidate because recently Canada
legalized recreational marijuana what
yes so so the question is Canada just
made marijuana after you have an extra
roach no you're horrible
Canada just made marijuana legal does
that mean it's okay for a Christian to
use it recreationally or medicinally
mm-hmm and when that came in I went do I
want to touch this one should we touch
this one but it's a very topical
question and in Canada it affects the
entire country and I know in a bunch of
the states some states in the US have
legal marijuana some do not well it
affects the states because apparently
well there was that talk and but if you
have anything to do with it in Canada
you can't grow a cross that's right yes
I know that got really out of control
but it's definitely not legal in the
states and so right yeah it affects
crossing border like dependent yeah
there's gonna be a lot of Canadians who
are sent back that's right right yeah
because they didn't get it but the
question on this one is is it okay for
mm-hmm and so when I when this question
first came in my initial thought was
okay at the end of the day the way that
they've kind of legalized marijuana
within Canada is it's a controlled
substance no different than alcohol
right so it's the same argument from an
alcohol standpoint can I drink can I not
drink what should I do
mm-hmm and so I want to preface that by
saying not an authority we've already
told you that but the yeah I think it
kind of relates to the same scriptures
the last one everything is permissible
but not everything is beneficial we they
are under the grace of God and he
understands when we mess up but is this
something the use of it is it covering
up is it a crutch is it being used as a
a way to escape something else what is
your motivation behind it is it just
simply a curiosity thing is it a is it a
medical need I mean yeah if you're if
you got a headache you take aspirin
maybe the medicinal marijuana addresses
your specific medical condition better
than any other medicine and so it's like
how do you weigh that yeah the fact that
the government has changed the law for
me you know if it's like speeding if
they if they raised the speed limit from
you know 60 miles an hour to 80 miles an
hour are you saying well is it now legal
for me to go 80 well yeah it is mm-hmm
so you know is it now legal for me as a
Christian yeah it's legal for you
according to the laws of the land to do
that and again it again it's 6/6 was it
612 what verse I'm at Corinthians first
Corinthians 6 verse 12 6:12 you know but
the question again so that gets to me
yeah yeah it is legal for you as a
Christian like it has this has nothing
to do necessarily I think with being
Christian or not Christian your citizen
of the land and they've said now it's
okay mm-hmm but to me the issue is
there's not now something that I say I
want to do as a Christian well that's
the same as smoking just regular
cigarettes
I mean it's legal
but I don't do it because I just don't
think that's a very smart thing for me
to do medically health-wise and I think
it's the exact same for for marijuana in
that regard but then if you add the
whole thing about it's a mind altering a
mood altering substance well that's a
whole new issue that has nothing to do
really with the loss or in my opinion
and and if you want to have a look and
see what the effects of marijuana have
with regards to schizophrenia that might
be something where you would actually
consider I think I want to stay away
from that for sure medicinally hey knock
yourself out if it can do use that part
of the drug where it actually helps you
I have one man said the best thing he's
ever had is medical marijuana to me
that's no different than someone even
having a shot of morphine in the
controlled setting of the hospital in
order to you know to take care of your
pain I mean to me that's a very humane
thing to do that's kind but that's 100%
different in my opinion than smoking it
and on purpose to try and you know have
an effect of a mood altering substance
now Christ is my peace he's the one you
know that I want to look to for all my
health my strength my joy and I don't
feel I need to go to a drug to do that
yeah I I agree yeah so I mean I think
the short answer is you know where's
your heart at on it yeah you know really
what it comes down to and I think you
know if my kids were asked that's the
same question because they're now
growing up in a world where it's legal
for them that would be you know my
answer for them is where's your heart at
and does it bring you closer to God sure
you know and we'll just kind of leave
that one right there
yeah that's a good answer yeah all right
we're gonna take a quick break we got a
great question coming up afterwards you
don't want this
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts we're back
it is I've talked back episode where you
get to ask us the questions and we will
hobble along try to answer them as fast
as we can we had a couple of good ones
before the break this one is are good
answers what they were a great question
we'll leave that up to the people that
we answered them floor maybe they won't
like the answers but I don't so this
next question I can tell you I struggle
with it in my teen years and I it got to
the point I just said I don't know I'm
just walking away from this question
because I can't wrap my head around it
nice so it was kind of neat to see this
one come back like you know we're gonna
take care of 20 all your questions
that's you're gonna answer it tonight
okay so this one actually came in from
I'm a gamer I play games online this one
came in from somebody that a game with
his tag is no man's fool I assume it's a
he anyway so the question came in from
no man's fool and it was how do I put
heaven and hell into context where I can
wrap my mind around forever will I be
bored in heaven will people who get will
they get used to the fires of hell so it
doesn't hurt so much and so my first
thought when I read this is it's
contextualized within the within the
confines of physical attributes of time
and pain and well know like it's the
question is coming from the physical
perspective
whereas we know that we're getting a
whole new body when we die
and so it's gonna be a whole different
perspective and so this I struggled with
this question in my teen years did you
yeah I really did and I remember talking
about youth pastor bad and he's like I
know the answer for you I I don't know
what do you mean about the flames of
hell know about like explain forever for
me he's like uh I can't put that into
context because our our minds cannot
wrap around the idea and forever we can
go off forever is like it's a long time
no forever is forever but it's not
ending and so what I got when I try to
picture myself in heaven forever it's
like well what am I gonna like in a
million years what am i got million what
about trillion years like I'm still
there but heaven is not based on years
it's whatever so great question yes is
no man's fool we're gonna try and answer
for you and I don't even know where to
start well it's okay thanks I'll tell
you what I'm just reading the question
here with you but you stirred me that
these these are great insights I've
never I've never even considered asking
this question okay and the reason why I
say that is I'm glad that you did and to
hear that you relate to it is awesome
and now I'm right in the thick of it
with ya and so they again I'm loving
these questions no man's fool thank you
I'll tell you what I'll dive in and tell
you this will people get used to the
fires of hell
nope no they won't okay like and
certainly as it says so that it doesn't
hurt as much no no the Bible is clear
and it tells us that the the angst that
the pain the suffering and in particular
would you hear this the definition of
hell
you could you could say this is the
separation from God that's what hell is
it's like what like even now the Bible
says that we are now living in an on an
earth where the restraining influence is
keeping the powers of Hell from well
here's the phrase from all hell breaking
loose why isn't that happening because
God Himself is not allowing that to
happen it's called the restraining
influence it doesn't actually say what
it is but I believe it's the Holy Spirit
who basically saying hang on a second
here it's not time there's a day coming
when the Holy Spirit we read is going to
remove his restraint and literally this
all hell's gonna break loose and we read
about it where there's gonna be mayhem
on the earth and pain and suffering and
longing and people crying and there's
gnashing of teeth is is the way that we
can't we can't again I like how you said
because we're confined to our finite
minds now and even the question for all
of eternity means that it we will spend
it in it in a different at least the
people of God will be changed in a
glorified body that's another thing but
to wrap our minds around Hell and
gnashing of teeth the Bible is very
clear and says that will never ever
subside no it's easier for me to wrap my
mind around it certainly like we won't
get used to it because separation from
God is so profound it's something that
we cannot ever possibly do without and
yet that's that's what hell is
right the eternal damnation
the Bible says oh that's evii as you're
talking kind of what's running through
my head is you know how to me the best
way I can conceptualize it is the
absence of God and God is everything
that is good that's exactly right
so you remove all that is good and that
is hell so the idea that relief from
pain is good that's not going to happen
in hell that's correct so you think
about all those things that are good
where you're like oh just that momentary
release I mean there's the the the story
in the Bible where the the guy goes you
know one goes that heaven one goes to
hell you sees Abraham he's like just get
a tip a drip of water on my tongue it's
like no sorry not gonna happen
there's no relief for you there is no
goodness and that is help but then you
get the flipside if God is good he's
everything good that's heaven how can
you get bored with everything that is
good boredom in and of itself is the
absence of being excited so therefore
you're never going to get bored when I
think about it that way well okay okay
this is so cool too in
now you're talking I like it took me
there we've been translated if you will
the Bible says in Thessalonians that in
the twinkling of an eye like what is
that you know and this is like this is
like lickety-split real fast right it
says our bodies are going to be changed
and so Jeff what is it what percentage
of the brain does a person use I don't
heard it's up to ten percent but I think
that's like maybe extreamly okay so even
just cut let's just say for the sake of
a point being made which is accurate
single-digit percentage we use of our
brains well when we are changed in an
instant by God those of us who have
called on his name those of us who know
Christ as our Savior our sins are
forgiven we are his kids the Bible says
that one day he's gonna snatch us up and
to be with him forever but are these
bodies aren't gonna spend eternity in
heaven we are going to be changed and
we're going to have brand new bodies
renewed like oh my goodness pristine
what that includes the renewal of our
brain imagine from going from you call
it ten percent to 100 percent use of our
brain oh my goodness chol brain well
yeah that's the physical exactly so yeah
that we will recognize each other yeah
there won't be marriage in heaven it
says because we'll be married to God if
you will like right his bride he's the
bridegroom and forever and ever will be
worshiping him Jennifer there's one
passage of Scripture also in Revelation
and it says oh and they went it when the
the the elders would see God and they
would ah they would bow down and worship
the Lord and Seraphim and angels they
would catch a glimpse of who he was and
they would bow down over and over and
over and they would cry holy holy holy
is the Lord God Almighty who was and is
and is to come and they would holy holy
holy and and I remember reading years
ago one author saying one of the reasons
why they do that is because every time
they see God again or catch a glimpse or
you know interact with who he is there's
a brand
ooh part of his being that causes them
just to worship and adore him and a
brand new facet because he's beyond our
searching out so oh my goodness this is
eternity this is what God calls us to as
friends his family welcome welcoming to
your reward those of you who trusted in
me as your Lord and Savior that's good
you know it's funny I'm listening all
this I'm like yeah I'm good to go
we still haven't answered the question
of how do you wrap your mind around
forever quite frankly I don't think we
can't yeah I don't think we can but I
think we've kind of hit the crux of the
issue is the polarizing nature of heaven
and hell and I think you know you know
we're running out of time we got it we
got to land the plane and bring this
home but I think the most important
thing to say is make sure you're not
going to hell yeah and so before we
leave you know no man's fool thank you
for your question I don't know if we've
been able to answer in a way that
satisfies you but I think the question
for us back to you is where are you
going
and you don't want to leave that to
question because at the end of the day
literally you may not be here or maybe
you'll be here in another 10 years you
don't know when your life is going to
expire my brother's wife she just passed
away oh did she unexpectedly yeah and so
Jeff that's me just agreeing we don't
know that if my wife is a nurse and
she's dealing with people who pass away
some expect you know unexpectedly some
you know to where we know because
there's an illness it's just a matter of
time but nobody knows the day or the
hour that's right and you don't want to
leave that to chance so if you're
watching maybe you didn't ask a question
but I think the question we want to ask
you is are you saved are you going to
heaven is that where your eternity lies
and if it you don't know the answer or
maybe you do and you're saying yeah the
answer's no you have the opportunity
right now to make a decision and I say
Christ I I want to be with you god I
want to be in half
and it's a simple change it's a simple
acceptance of who Christ is so I mean if
you're okay with it if we can just take
30 seconds Oh quick what's they call the
sinner's prayer it's just simply saying
God I surrender to you
and so how only father we thank you
today we thank you for these questions
we've received from all across the North
America Lord would you take these
questions would you change lives as a
result of them and Lord would you be the
answer to the questions that people have
and for those who are watching Lord
would you touch their hearts and if
you're watching and you want to accept
Christ it's a simple mmm lord I give you
my life I surrender to you I want you to
be the authority of everything that I am
and do and I want to be with you in
heaven let us know if you just prayed
that prayer let us know if you've given
your life to Christ and congratulations
you're in welcome to the family if
that's the case and if you're still
thinking about it
don't take too much we don't have
everything figured out it's okay in fact
we can bring God our questions as well
and let us know what he says to you as
you search it all what if what a
fascinating day this is mm-hmm that's
good well we're out of time so we got to
take off we will see you next week catch
a new episode of you every day every
Friday morning at new every day TV we're
so on roku cody planks youtube google
play music podcasts and news book or if
you're in Southern California tune in
every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb TV
channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
