welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 555 welcome to the
show in my hand is a microbe controller
and when I say micro it is truly micro
it's tiny and I can take a risk tonight
because I'm pretty new to things like
you being a maker soldering and creating
little micro circuitry's and things like
that but we're gonna learn together
we're gonna play with this device which
is powered by an 80 tiny 85 micro
controller it's called the digi spark
stick around we're gonna show you how
you can build a compact controller do
some really cool things for just about
three or four dollars stick around
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times that visit category 5
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB what a week we are here
yes we're ready to do a show and ready
to hang out with you I hope that you are
here for the full hour this is going to
be a lot of fun how you been I've been
great yeah yeah yeah I'm Robbie I'm
Sasha
yeah it's been an adventure we had some
technical difficulties before the show
Hey and even though you're probably
watching this on demand or on cable TV
fact is we also broadcast live so there
are just a bunch of yous watching live
hey to you thanks for being here tonight
and it's gonna be a lot of fun I'm
looking forward to it
me too mm-hmm anything new anything new
for me yeah
right out the gate well this is your
chance to shine that's right I live my
life in VR now yeah that's that's really
it's really been the way that than
spending your time completely why now
that the weather is nice so what does
dave do because like that could be
really antisocial if your husband was
sitting there waiting for his turn
here's the thing and I feel a little bit
bad about Dave because I used to I used
to be just the watcher okay but now all
of a sudden right mersive it's a no I've
gotta wear the headset no I want to be
part of it right so he used to always
even with the new rig anyplace like any
console games or anything like he would
play and I would watch and I would just
be the backseat driver now I want to
play but the difference between the
games I want to play in the games he
wants to play is that I'm still
interested in his capes he's less so
interested in mine but we are
difference well I like games that are
they're not storyline based as much
right like I do I do like that effect I
do like that if I fear but I don't play
it as much as I play like audio shield
or like hollow dance or knock out hollow
dance hollow dance so you're in like a
hologram dance studio like a hologram I
was picturing like an empty vessel right
or hollow dancing which is what I would
be on the dance floor right so hollow
point is archery and you're shooting
these targets and then the shrapnel from
the targets shoot back at you nice so
it's really active and you were saying
that this is really a workout it's a
she's like we fit on steroids it's
insane like I okay so I don't know if
you've ever played knockout knockout
lead I think it's called so you're
you're a boxer and you've got the
headset on she's like Mike Tyson's
punch-out right yes very similar
actually okay except it it's insane
right when you get hit in the face all
this in your vision goes blurry right
because it's a headset right so it
doesn't okay so it actually gives you
the perception that your character
without exactly and there's haptic
feedback in my and my stuff right so
when I feel it oh so the head right
there's enough no I think so unless it's
just my head that's actually Dave be
like hey it's my turn feedback okay so
here's what happened I okay so there's
there's different opponents that are
levels obviously but in my mind they're
just opponents okay and you can beat
them eventually yeah but oh right that's
no but it's boxing right so you can only
really go only for so long before you
die so I'm standing there in VR like
Bach songs in real time what is to keep
you from like putting a fist through
your 60-inch TV that you set you need to
come over you set a digital wall in deal
right all right guys that's the end of
the show have a great night see you
later
right yeah that's true
so I'm trying to fight this new opponent
her name is the Crimson Tide she's a
beast she actually is a beast but like
she wears it anyway literally she's a
beast
so I really want to beat her really bad
so Monday night I was like I'm gonna go
home I'm gonna fight the Crimson Tide
I'm gonna win so your day at work was
pretty rough I'm so gonna beat up the
Crimson Tide I firstly did not win okay
secondly I tried three times and thirdly
not only was my headset so fogged up on
the inside from my Africa and I was like
sweat dripping off me this is a great
story Sasha
I couldn't move the next day oh no way
right so that's how good we are that's
what's new me that's how good VR is so
you need to step back to some games that
the Dave can participate in right
because like he's just wet sitting there
just watching you right fine an
invisible opponent right so it's less
fun for him to watch me than it is for
me to watch him because his our
storyline games right so okay
his are like he's playing Fallout 4 VR
right like there's a there's a
progression and there's characters and
there is cinematics and it's fun for
everybody and I'm not punching orbs that
are floating through the air to the beat
of music really in yeah sounds cool or
killing the Crimson Tide I mentioned
Mike's Mike Tyson's punch-out and I
think that if you if you realize what
that is and if you played that as a kid
right then you really have a bit of an
inkling better than the kids these days
of where games have come from right
really because that was exciting for me
when I would fire up Mike Tyson's on the
Nintendo Entertainment System and it was
like go google it look at the graphics
terrible right and but if that's how far
it's come
that was fun so I can't yeah I know so
speaking of all games
yes do you remember on the show I don't
know if it was like 17 years ago or
something like that we were talking
about your retro favorites
we were retrofitted all over this trying
to figure out what game this was never
got no clicked yes how did it click okay
so last week I what what's the what's
the system it's on well it is on the
Commodore 6 ok so this is what happened
I found out there is an Atari 2600
version maybe that ok so no but it was
the Commodore cuz here's what happened
it was in like my Google News Feed or
something and there was something no the
Commodore 64 there was a news story
about the Commodore 64 how well does
Facebook know you listening obviously
they're like here's the game are people
the viewers couldn't figure it out but
here you go so it was just a picture and
it was something about like how far
games have come it was probably about VR
knowing my search history and I was like
that looks really familiar
hmm I thought maybe I've had one of
these in the past
clearly I live in the moment and don't
have any recall I had a Commodore 64 so
that I googled games for the Commodore
64 and you start looking through looking
through it
she found smoky smoky I know I really
badly want to find a ROM for this and
get it on your retro pie get y'all say I
want that too okay so yeah look that up
because now and now go back to what
episode was it like 7000 years ago I
can't remember when we talked about it
you need to play the game and also
listen to me describe it because I'm
pretty sure that they're not exactly the
same and when you google should we bring
it up yeah should we see what snow key
looks like I want to call it Snooki but
I feel like that's because I feel like
you may have been mispronouncing it all
your life
and look Google Wow Wow Nicole Polizzi
hello Nicole I'm gonna see if I can
bring up my screen here for you
Snooki no we don't want Snooki we want
smokey there it is
c64 long-play okay let's like take a
little are you ready for this yes okay
this is it obviously 64 business take
you back oh yeah this is it this is it
yeah here we go
no way this is the game of my childhood
this is where it began from fun soft
look at that there's no way it was this
good on the the Atari maybe okay oh my
goodness yeah has a very Atari like
ground I described exactly this right
hills and valleys and you're like a
little bird thing I thought you were
yellow but and you just you jump over
things
Wow Sascha that is incredible so you
look at that and this is what you were
so excited to find oh yeah now look at
your gaming experience with the with the
vive in VR that's true that's how far
we've come in your short life that's how
far technology has come right well when
you think about it the guy who invented
pong the guys invented pong is still
alive today Wow right and that's like
that's a little square moving around and
bouncing off of little rectangles yeah
oh my goodness makes me move right back
Wow hey category 5 TV shirts are still
available I think we're just gonna keep
this thing going because people are
still purchasing some and and we're
starting to get photos from viewers you
can go to cap 5 dot TV slash shirts to
pick up yours right do it and then email
a picture of yourself wearing it ooh
somebody did this week oh yeah Marsh man
here's Marsh man from the mid-hudson
Valley New York
and marsh man says could you do your
best Marsh man impression
well I'm no Marsh man but I do have a
cold so I might be a little bit there
you go so her so her voice is maybe
Marsh man will also have a coughing fit
at some point loved watching the show on
either the website YouTube or Roku wish
we had a larger stuffed cat for my
shoulder can't have a real cat since all
of us are allergic you will see less of
me in the coming months as I am on a
diet but to lose 50 pounds by
Thanksgiving Day us which is later he's
giving us off a longer time you know
what that's a really good idea to start
to set your goal and the deadline is
Thanksgiving right right am i right
people yeah my goal let's eat great yeah
well you know what you're gonna have to
do Marsh man is you're gonna have to
pick up another shirt about two sizes
down what happened yeah that's at least
two sizes we are rootin for you my man
we are absolutely rootin for you
and it looks great in this shirt I know
and I love that he just described the
cat because I was like what is that on
his shoulder I understand cat allergies
I understand allergies all together
right now I'm having pollen ones just
the season around here so did he email
the contest he emailed it but he said
what he doesn't have a gaming rig so
we're gonna have to build him a gaming
rig let's do it let's that's our next
show folks okay wouldn't that be nice if
category-five had that budget buying our
shirts maybe one day we can build Mar
span for you if you do have a gaming rig
and you want to buy we're the kids hey
right any kids in your life have a
gaming rig a VR headset want to play a
little bit of PR I want to escape
reality for virtual reality
you know folks exactly dead of fact VR
that effect to VR to me it's just that
effect the air because I've never
actually played one she's like she went
straight from snow key to dead effect
pretty much any way you can win it and
then you can be my friend and then we
can play together because I'm not doing
very well against the crazy zombies and
I need some help Dave can't help me
because we only have one headset so it's
up to you please win and be my friend
second headset is a requirement yes okay
back to you and how you can win the game
email us contest at category 5 TV tell
us who you are that's important where
you're what who where you're watching
fryer how you're watching and also buy a
cat5 shirt where it send a picture hey
you know what it doesn't hurt your
chances to win yeah because we will
actually honor that as if you just
automatically won
it's like a random draw of you I think
we literally have only like three copies
left we've been giving this thing away
like every couple of weeks we've been
given this away right and and now we're
almost done we're running low they're
like whoa we are making no money on that
effect - because you guys are giving it
all the way right that's what they're
saying yeah I think like no more food
yeah I need some friend requests on my
Steam account there we go
category 5 also is now on google play
music podcasts and you know you can
bring up google play music and you can
do a search for category 5 and you can
you can find us that way or you can just
head on over to our website category 5
TV / subscribe and you will see the
google play music icon which will take
you directly to our profile eautiful
so that's for listening not to watching
that's right yeah podcasts as in audio
so if you're driving it's the perfect
solution if you're sitting on the train
you don't want to use up a bunch of
bandwidth you can sync it to your Google
Play and
there you go also incidentally and new
every day is now on Google Play Music
podcasts that's a really dumb name for a
program by the way Google Play Music
podcasts they will change that yeah
maybe they need to come up with a
fancier name or something like that but
we are on there and our repertoire is
growing speaking of new every day
yeah new everything is new this week new
hosts new set new music new intro new
graphics new everything for season four
can you believe four seasons not believe
four seasons have passed every day start
three seasons have passed we're about to
launch season four awesome
and if you're a patron of category five
TV network then you are going to be the
first to know all about our new house
that is embargoed at this point and if
you are anyone else or a patron indeed
you can also tune in on Friday morning
and if you are watching on kpgb TV
television for the high desert on
channel 33 you can also tune in Sunday
morning at 6:30 a.m. we've got to take a
quick break all right when we come back
we are you see that I've got a little
bit of a mess around here this is solder
that's my soldering iron I got a USB
thing I've got some buttons I've got a
little Arduino micro processor we're
gonna be taking a look at that we're
gonna be learning to be makers right
after this
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and if sasha Rickman over
here on my left your right looks
antisocial tonight she's actually being
very very social because as I mentioned
off the top of the show we do broadcast
the show live so if you're watching this
any other way
hey know that you can actually tune in
to the live broadcast and interact with
us through Sasha's smart phone here it
is that's what she's doing
Hey look at what I got here my Maker kit
oh you can't see it because it's out of
the frame there it is oh I love this
stuff I've been learning to be a maker I
want to learn to create and craft and
create circuitry like I'm I'm making
little little guys like this like this
is this is kind of you know so I'm doing
boards again microcontrollers and but
it's a lot of work I and I'm getting
there yes and so I really feel like you
know we're at the point where here on
the show it's time to take our maker
activities to the next level where we're
actually creating circuitry we're
creating things that work things that
make things go yes and like it gets me
excited but I'm still very much a novice
and so me is the host of the show I'm so
hesitant to bring this stuff out because
I know that I'm really opening up an
opportunity to to have a show where
something goes terribly wrong things do
not work the way that they're meant to
right because I'm new to this yes so I
feel like this is a chance for us to
learn together and I hope that you're
willing I am willing to learn because
we're gonna learn together this is this
is us yes it down to learn and what I
have here tonight is an eighty tiny
eighty five circuit board this is a
microcontroller it's called the digi
spark
and this was a successful Kickstarter
campaign to build this Arduino
controller and I absolutely loved some
of the things that I can do with this
now you think about a Raspberry Pi it's
a it's a micro computer and you can you
can use the GPIO headers and you can
build things you can allow it to control
things and do whatever you code it to do
right but a Raspberry Pi when it's all
said and done really I mean they say 25
bucks but really when you've got the
case and the power supply and everything
else it's gonna cost you nearly a
hundred bucks for that board this is
about three dollars okay so this is just
the microcontroller it's not a computer
it is something that I'm going to
program to do things that are repetitive
tasks so that can be a program that
controls lighting or a program that
responds to keystrokes or button presses
yeah and one of the things here at
studio D that we've had an issue with is
controlling our camera switcher so we
use Telestream Wirecast on our on our
system here and it looks a little like
that and this software I can control
with my touchscreen but you notice when
we do interviews and things like that I
have to sit over there and everybody
else is at the table because we don't
have a way to switch because I've got to
be able to physically interact with the
touchscreen right difficult it does
sometimes make it difficult and I'm like
over there what if I could turn this and
a bunch of these arcade buttons in the
top of our desk right into camera
switching buttons so perfect that's what
we hope to do that's what we will do
that is we will do
Lord willing that is going to happen and
I'm not gonna blow up the studio right
these buttons are literally just arcade
buttons that you can build your own
arcade rig and the the idea is that
we're gonna have a bunch of them in
front of us drilled in the desk when we
hit a button you can push your button
try it and now your camera is gonna turn
on oh and I can hit my cache oh yeah I
know right I'm just gonna have to hold
mine in
right right right right so what's gonna
happen is that's gonna send a signal to
our little microcontroller right the
digi spark right did I mention this is
like three four dollars this is like
yeah and so we're gonna be able to
control that now the digi spark only has
it now it's got five headers on it and
and I wonder if you can see this I know
it's on that overhead camera can you
turn the mic off thank you very much
you're very well thank you for letting
us know about that issue
so let's do that here's my overhead
camera and boom is live TV my friends
yeah yeah so I'll tell you this food who
figured out what it was oh yeah yeah
let's make sure I got it have I got
regular sound you can hear me just fine
oh no no oh oh oh you guys want to see
how I do this yeah oh okay so here we go
this is top stream Wirecast for those of
you who are interesting broadcasting so
this is our mean
your phone this is our headset and
you're hearing a bit of an attack of how
that haven't passed over the shot and go
to the camera and then go here now I'm
gonna turn off the microphone built into
the camera and lo and behold now it
should sound absolutely fantastic now
there you go our mics are okay now our
mics are beautiful okay yeah does that
sound good does that sound good folks
part of the fun of doing a live
broadcast like this and whether you're
watching live or on demand I love the
interaction with our chat room it's like
you are our director producers yes yeah
all right let's fire up our microscope
you've seen this on the show if you
haven't already make sure you go to our
website category 5 TV do a quick search
for microscope and let's super-awesome
oh yeah ok let's get our little micro
controller in here and you know what
other show can do this folks so that we
can get this and boom so this is the
circuit board that we are looking at all
right so we've got USB which is your
power as well as for programming so it's
dual purpose it does not have to be
connected to a computer in order to
operate it but it does in order to
program and we're going to start that
tonight now we've got some some chips
and some resistors and following the
circuits up here we've got there's the
80 tiny 85 chip okay and that is the
actual microcontroller just an
absolutely brilliant chip and you'll see
that this thing came pre soldered pre
assembled but it's very very basic it's
so tiny so tiny like so that looks huge
on your screen but this is this is it I
can't even order so okay so pin wise
we've got a 5 volt a ground and a VIN
then we've got actually six pins because
it starts at p0 naught P 1 and that's P
0 through 5 so the thing about this
particular module so the the controller
the the digi spark is that it only can
it can only have
three of these pins used to control a
device out of the box
oh okay so if we want to turn on lights
or if we want to change cameras right
it's a problem because we could then
only hook up three buttons right so if I
want to have 15 different camera
switching taking place it's not going to
work so that's where I'm going to be
introducing a shift register which is
going to take one pin and turn it into
eight pins and allow us digitally to
control okay I guess seven one devices
seven camera angles from one okay from
one pin on the so you wouldn't need to
buy another one of those chips or
anything just said no yep you could I
mean at three or four dollars per
controller you could just make a bunch
of them but then you're using up USB
ports in your computer to control it
right because this is gonna be a hard
wired device that allows us to control
our cameras right that's the inevitable
goal now that's not what we're doing
tonight
we're just gonna have some fun do you
have a question you may not may or may
not know the answer to so you know how
you have the p1 through yes through so
obviously only three of those pins work
right well p0 and one actually control
this is let's see if I can get in here
with a pencil so that you can see that
is a pencil let just so you know how
small this is that is a mechanical
pencil that is an LED okay and that's p
0 or P that one would be p1 okay and
that looks like another LED there okay
zero so these trigger p0 and p1 actually
trigger LEDs that are built into the
circuit board got it so what we want to
do is we want to use for example p4 and
I believe we can actually use p0 and p1
I'm still learning the programmatic you
know how the circuit works right but I
know that we can definitely use p4 in
order to as a header that we can use to
control like in our case tonight we're
gonna try to control an LED okay okay
all right let's do this
so and inevitably we know that that's
going to be something much more exciting
so let's bring out my maker kit okay
because one of the things we need to do
now it's got all these holes in it right
we need to have we need to use headers
so
we can plug things into Christ of Pais
look at how huge it looks on the screen
okay and I've got a power header here as
well these things are great like a maker
kit like this you pick them up through
our shop on our website but just having
all these kinds of little trinkets handy
now these headers come with your your
digi spark but we're gonna need to
actually solder those on to our board so
I've got lead-free solder and I've got
my wireless soldering iron and and I
bought this but I think I'd rather have
a soldering station yeah I'm not really
pleased with having a wireless soldering
iron it's really really it doesn't stay
hot long enough right that kind of has
limitations right yeah so I'm just gonna
I'm just gonna prompt those up like that
you could use your helping hands if
you'd like let's get some heat here on
our soldering iron and for the magic of
TV it's cool that you can actually see
that up close and personal like that I
actually never seen soldering happen oh
yeah in my entire life see it poorly
done well it'll be the best I've ever
seen
wonderful so let's see that see how I
played that folks all right so let's get
a little bit of solder on our tip there
let's see if we're getting any heat I
don't like how long this takes to heat
up or smokin yeah I'm gonna get a little
bit of heat going on the pin there as
well
alright let's get in there alright
boom look at how much my soldering has
improved folks just because I can work
at the microscopic level now get some
heat I could never do this with the
amount of coffee I drink look at look at
how much coffee I drink come on be real
here Wow
have you so shaky when you say that it's
interesting though having purchased this
this microscope I and I am a little bit
shaky you can see it's late in the day
and I have had several pots of coffee
but I'm doing an okay job there this
looks cool it looks nice right so but
working at the microscopic with this
device I find I'm actually like your
brain switches to microscopic mode and
suddenly I'm actually doing it right now
I'm putting the pins on the reverse side
here which is fine you can put it on the
front or the back now I'm putting them
on the reverse because I'd like to have
the USB exposed on the on the outside so
that when I put this in a case it's
gonna be a little bit nicer just so you
know why I'm doing it that okay okay so
now we're gonna do a quick job on these
guys here let's get that in the shot
there we go okay so this what I'm what
I'm gonna do here I'm gonna back up just
a little bit for you get into focus here
and I'm actually going to get some
solder on my soldering iron and hold
these so I'm holding these pins in place
with my finger and then we're gonna get
that solder right on there so that the
solder is actually going to hold this
into place so solder is glue like like
glue not it's all looking that all yeah
it is getting really hot they're burning
my finger you may want to use something
a little better than your fingers here
folks
alright let's get some solder around
there here we go I'm just getting that
right there yeah what is it made out of
it's magic and dreams okay that's good
looks looks like dreams
working at the microscopic is so neat
what happened to my good soldering it's
conductive glue thank you this is why I
love the chatroom so much I'm gonna do
this I'm gonna take a different approach
okay okay so what I'm actually going to
do I'm going to set this up flat see and
I love learning I love figuring things
out okay can you guys see I'd say would
be helpful if I held it but it's like so
super tiny it is really telling me at
all what I'm gonna do I'm gonna put it
down like that and I just I just want to
get one pin on there because once one
pin is is nice and solid yeah it will
hold them all together so that I can I
can do the rest right and I'm not using
helping hands which is a device that
will help me by the naval oh yeah I
understood yeah so you could do a better
job than I'm doing right now and that's
you know part of you know I I want
people to know that it's okay to learn
right because I am very much new wow
it's so weird what what is happening to
it hi I really don't like these
soldering irons it's basically you know
it's not it doesn't get hot enough
can you just drip that stuff on it in
fact well no I want to actually get and
I'll tell you why sash I want to get it
hot I want to get the pin hot enough
okay that it's going to adhere to it
basically I'm wicking the pin and
getting the pin hot and then letting the
solder adhere to the board
oh and boom a little bit crooked but
it'll hold
okay so you know let's grab the other
end
hmm all right so I'm gonna finish up all
six of these pins I can do a little
better job than what you're seeing here
cuz I'm focusing kind of on video wow
you can see it's not melting right
that's the soldering iron I really don't
like these I want to get a soldering
station so this is not a winning
endorsement of this soldering I know it
really isn't and and I think you know I
thought hey let's get a wireless
soldering iron it's battery-powered and
it really does a lousy job it doesn't
get hot enough it doesn't stay hot
enough so I'm gonna finish this up we're
gonna come right back after a quick
break when we're back this is all gonna
be beautifully soldered folks yeah and
then we're gonna plug it in we're gonna
turn it on and we're gonna see what we
can come up with as we start programming
our Arduino device stick around
[Applause]
whether you shop on think geek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching
technology TV now I said it I really
don't like this soldering iron
it's so cool it doesn't get hot enough
it's not doing the job Amy I want to get
so that's one of the things I want to
add to my kit isn't want to get a good
soldering station that is hard plugged
into the wall that heats up real fast
and you can set the temperature so watch
out when you're buying these that you
can actually adjust the temperature not
the voltage but the temperature that's
important that's gonna make a world of
difference
now I did a pretty miserable job here
with this but we've got Sasha don't be a
jerk tonight alright so back to the
demonstration where you know Robbie is
showing you how to do things can we move
on yes
so what I want to do now is I want to
program this so now we've got these
headers so I can plug things into it
okay it may not be a perfect soldering
job that's okay I'm learning we're
learning again these are brutally cheap
right so I can buy one and I can mess
around with it and I've done that I
burnt out one and I've got another one
that I'm putting on a board and and I
can do all these things and have fun
with it and not be afraid to try exactly
that's part of what's so exciting about
the Arduino okay so I'm gonna get an LED
right light light emitting diode it's
just an itty-bitty thing there you go
all right so we've got a red LED I'm
just gonna set that down right there you
can't even there it is right there okay
what else do we need I'm gonna get my
breadboard and do you know what a
breadboard is well probably not thinking
the same thing the same thing is this so
what this does is it allows me to plug
things in and prototype
and let's get this piece of junk out of
the way it's gonna it's gonna avoid
having to solder and let me plug things
in to set them up so now I can take this
LED and just plug it right into this
board okay got it
great okay next up we're gonna need some
wires got them positive and negative and
anything else I'm gonna power it from my
computer I've got a Raspberry Pi power
adapter you can need a couple of wires
I've got those they're great to have one
of these kits folks cat5 dot TV slash
maker if you want to pick one up okay so
let's get in there and let's get started
on setting up our Arduino device so this
is the digi spark so with this circuit
board now we know we've got pin four so
I'm gonna grab pin four here and just
simply plug in my lead I'm gonna use
black for pin four and then we want the
ground as well because what we're gonna
do is we're gonna program this to say
hey pin four is going to be five volts
and then it's gonna be ground and then
it's gonna be five volts and it's gonna
be ground so we're gonna be able to
basically flash this LED right that's
just a test so that one we know that the
board works and two we know that it's
able to communicate with our computer
we're able to set it up and program it
and it's going to prepare us for that
moment when we can set up all these
buttons and do something a little more
sophisticated so with my breadboard now
I'm just going to plug in these leads so
I'm gonna have positive is going to be
my pin four and negative is going to be
my ground okay so now I'm gonna have to
tell this let's get my coffee mug out of
the way here so that you guys can see
that just a little bit better so I'm
going to tell this now where to run
those lines to so I'm just gonna grab a
couple of quick little wires here so
I've got the positive is going to go -
I'm just gonna plug it in - yeah line 21
that's fine and my negative is going to
go to line
let's plug it into 17 how about so
that's how your breadboard works so now
I can take this so my positive is the is
21 so I can take the LED the long end is
my positive I can plug that into 21 and
then take the other end the negative and
plug it into 17 which is a bit of a
stretch why did I choose those degrees
there we go no there we go so that's
what the breadboard allows me to do it
allows me to set something up like that
basic circuit and now that's can that's
plugged into my Arduino controller Thank
You spark so now I can plug this into a
computer and start programming it I
don't have to have this plugged into the
breadboard right now but I'm interested
to see what's gonna happen if I if I do
okay okay so you need a really good USB
cable make sure it covers it carries
data and not just not just charge or
cable right I was plugging in my charger
cable for my phone not realizing oh it's
not actually transferring data so it
wasn't working and then turns out lo and
behold it was actually bad cable head on
over to digi stump comm for more
information like they've got their wiki
there did you spark duck digi stump comm
slash wiki is where you want to head
over to and that's where we're gonna get
information about you know setting up
let's bring up my screen here connecting
and programming your digi spark we can
go through the steps there and that's
essentially what we're what you know
we've already got to connect it but
we're gonna learn to program it really
really quickly so I'm not gonna plug it
in just now what I want to do is I want
to bring up my IDE which I've already
installed follow the instructions there
on digi stump dot-com and with my
Arduino IDE let's create a really quick
application so you can grab some kind of
ideas from here we're just going to
create something that is going to turn
on and off pin 4 so you see the
demonstration here is pin 0 and 1 the
built-in LEDs we're gonna go pin mode
for output and then we're gonna go down
to loop so that was our setup so we've
told it the DUT is an output port we're
gonna set a loop to we're gonna use
their example digital write zero it high
so that is pin zero but we're gonna go
digital write four comma high high
semicolon and then we're gonna delay for
one second which is 1000 milliseconds
and then we're gonna copy that line now
what do you think high means versus low
which is what I'm gonna put here just a
guess I'm on or off yes so basically
five volts is high right low is ground
so see we're gonna be switching it on
five volts waiting for one second
switching it off perfect and then thank
you for asking me a question that I knew
the answer to fantastic okay so now I'm
gonna save that and verify my my program
so it's gonna compile it make sure that
everything is good and it says done
compiling and that is about the most
basic program so if you've got a typo it
will tell you now upload so when I click
upload it's going to recompile and then
it says plug-in device now and this is
going to be your moment of truth so
let's take this device I'm gonna
disconnect my pins from the breadboard
right now because I just want to plug it
in and allow it to communicate with the
Arduino IDE now I heard the device
connect and it says micronucleus done
thank you done uploading down at the
bottom left I know it's hard for you to
see so now that that's done I can simply
unplug it that's all there was to it
sash that is crazy
so I've uploaded my program now it's in
there and now I'm gonna plug in my
arduino device black is to pin for
and white is to my ground okay so that's
what my circuit now looks like and I'm
going to simply plug this in to USB
power so I'm not plugging them to the
computer I want to actually power this
device and see if it runs my program and
if it does we should see this light
flash there we go that is every one
second so we actually created the
circuit fairly quickly and created the
program to now tell this light what to
do and we told it just very simply turn
on and off again did you try turning it
off and on again you are awesome so this
is just it I'm just learning this is fun
that is great and that is the most basic
example in the entire multiverse but it
allows you to tinker and allows you to
get started and my boys are eating this
stuff up right and now we're creating
circuits that move the lights and
animate them and you can create light
boards and you can do all that kind of
stuff in in our case here on the show
we're gonna be creating a controller for
Telestream wire cast using the digi
spark that's going to allow us to
control it using these push buttons so
it needs it's so cool so pick yours up
go to cap five dot TV slash digi spark
and you can get started on being a maker
and just doing simple you know we're
just getting started
love it the most simple code in the
multiverse you ready to head over to the
newsroom yeah oh boy are you controlling
tonight I don't think so you don't think
so no I'm gonna give it over to me yeah
it's better trust me well I get all the
guy who like does things wrong well it's
better because I do things wrong too but
at least when you are controlling this I
can blame you okay did you queue it and
I'd know did you know oh okay
so yes okay I'm doing it if you if you
what do you want to know what the most
basic code is and I don't even want to
say too much but I will a little bit I'm
learning coding from a little app on my
phone
that's cool and it's so super big its
wave-wave a sec and I love it because I
get it yes and this is like JavaScript
or C or something like that I would love
to demonstrate I will demonstrate it I
will tell you
okay the app called grasshopper let me
just see the coding app for beginners
that's me cool but I let me know when
you're ready
oh yeah that's ready what's the one that
you and Jeff were talking and you said
it looks like brunch that's what it is
yes thanks no problem it's like that on
your phone
yes that's neat I made a flag so far
cool well it's hard to Excel show you
okay I'll show you show us on an
upcoming show all of you great awesome
super computer coders are gonna be like
wow Sasha this is where you're at
everybody who is ever soldered in their
life is laughing at my soldering iron
and is laughing at the soldering job I
did you even laughed at my soldering job
which really motivates me you did a
great demo it worked and I make it go in
the end I was very much blown away by
the flashing light there you go it's
like she didn't know I was actually just
pushing a button under the desk if you
program that by here at the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom Twitter's at three hundred and
thirty million users are being urged to
change their passwords
some were exposed on its internal
network in plaintext ford is developing
a new smart car window to enable blind
passengers to experience the passing
landscape imagine the frustration of
playing a game where the difficulty
level constantly changes that's what an
experiment in AI technology is doing to
some retro classics Equifax has
published yet more details on the
personal records and sensitive
information stolen by miscreants after
they hacked its database last year these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Westen gentlemen
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here are the top stories we're following
this week
Twitter's three hundred and thirty
million users are being urged to change
their passwords after some were exposed
on its internal network in plain text an
error in the way passwords were handled
meant that some were stored in an easily
readable form said Twitter the passwords
should have been put through a procedure
called hashing making them very
difficult to read but the bug caused the
passwords to be stored on an internal
computer before the hashing process was
completed in a blog the social network
said once the mistake was uncovered it
carried out an internal investigation
which found no indication passwords were
stolen or misused by insiders however it
still urged all users to consider
changing their passwords out of an
abundance of caution twitter did not say
how many passwords were affected but it
is understood that the number was
substantial and that they were exposed
for several months try hunt who runs the
have I been owned website which keeps a
log of breaches said the error was not
something that would worry him because
there was no indication that the login
passwords were seen outside the company
still here just users to act on
Twitter's advice and change their
passwords independent security expert
Graham clearly reminds us that enabling
two-factor authentication adds another
ID check the login attempts which would
help harden accounts mm-hmm so ok
two-factor authentication new to it but
I've been part of the show for long
enough to understand that it's really
important for security so I now have two
factor authentication right now only on
my Steam account ok it's annoying it can
be but it's every time I do it every
single time I'm trying to log in on
Steam and then I'm like thinking oh
there's my code being texted to my phone
and I get up and I go to my phone and I
come back like I feel a little bit
better right like I feel ok not just
anybody could just try and figure out my
password sure yeah I love it
should we just start embracing
two-factor authentication just across
the board I feel like I think it's
definitely a good security mechanism I
mean it's it is what it is it's not
perfect but it's something it's
something additional so what that means
two-factor authentication instead of
just entering my Twitter password when I
do it will send me a text and then I
have to then enter the text code right
so two-factor authentication makes sure
that I am who I say I am because I'm
using the phone that is associated with
my account which is great I find out
with Twitter when you be on your phone
though with Twitter yeah but usually you
get a notification and you can see it
and it's like five four three two one
so five four three two one and you're
done I like it I I mean I realize it's
it is not fun like it's it's not easy
but it makes me feel safer that it's
cheesy I think though that better than
anything out there is just do not use
the same password on multiple sites on
multiple services because if the Twitter
employees were malicious and took those
passwords which were stored in an
internal log in plain text format yeah
they they could and if they did and they
realized oh well sash's password is also
the one that she uses on her online
banking and does not have two-factor
authentication on that process I can now
access your banking so it's important to
have different passwords on everything
right which is something I don't do but
the reason for it is the same reason
that so many people don't do it because
it's impossible to remember a password
sure now I do have like a program like
it used to be past a program I'm
searching for the word it used to be
password box and it was bought by
somebody else I have that one true key
yeah yeah but and it I I can only save
so many passwords on it because it's
right so because of that I don't have a
lot of time I use LastPass now since
since password box was bought out I
didn't want to switch to Intel because
it was McAfee owned
so I should have been here for that
episode did you say that probably oh I
don't know isn't it public knowledge
that we don't want to deal with the cat
well it is but it was just like the
simple transition because they're like
we're just changing all your stuff oh
yeah yeah should not have done that
evidently I like easy except when it
comes to two-factor authentication I
want to actually have to get up off my
couch walk to my phone get it and be
like okay yes indeed this is me so that
nobody hacks into my Steam account
something yes okay thank you Twitter for
not releasing everybody's passwords and
if you are a Twitter user it's important
that you do change your password and if
you use that same password on other
services you need to change it there as
well like your online banking or
something that's a good example but
anything it's that's the that's the
scenario Ford is developing a new smart
car window that will enable blind
landscape a prototype called field of
view uses high contrast photos to
reproduce scenery using LED lights
passengers can touch the display to feel
different shades of grey vibrate at
different intensities the Royal National
Institute of blind people said the
charity wholeheartedly supports the
companies effort Robbins Fink's
innovation manager at RnB says the
technology could contribute to breaking
down barriers and making travel more
enjoyable and inclusive for people
living with sight loss Ford's team in
Italy and GTB Roma designed the
prototype with a Deo a local startup
that creates devices for people with
visual impairments in addition to the
window displays the smart car also
features a voice assistant that uses
artificial intelligence to describe the
scenery outside the window meat this is
really cool and like really leads me to
think okay so if they can do this can
they do it with art right so then right
or could be a family thing really they
really don't like people touching the
Mona Lisa right yeah but if they if they
could do like if they could do a
representation of the Mona Lisa where
you touch it and you can feel the
different colors by the
pewter screens rising similar technology
I love this and it makes me wonder is
there a way and I know you won't have
the answer to this I don't I probably
will okay when you have a part of your
say your brain blind right so it's your
brain that does it it's not your eyes
that are buying those brain blind can
you rewire so that you can like your
visual kind of indicators or like you
feel something but you can kind of see
it in your mind I think you were right
the first time that I wouldn't know that
right could you actually like who knows
people are driving by and doing the
scenery they're blind and they're
feeling what's going on yeah perhaps
finally they're reigniting parts of
their brain visually maybe right you
know you don't know I wonder what that
sensation would be like though for for
somebody who is unable to see but is
able to now feel the mountainscape
that's going by on the outside and can I
can I take it to one step further yes we
talked about Tesla and their autonomous
vehicles and how it's really unsafe for
people to just stop paying attention to
the road right now well some of us think
and in fact last week you mentioned
somebody got arrested for switching over
to the passenger seat and allowing the
car to drive by themselves right but
isn't it true that companies like Tesla
and Ford and and other automobile
manufacturers are working toward a fully
autonomous vehicle right so if that's
what they're working toward could this
be maybe this is prophetic but could
Ford be working on in secret a car for
blind people I would love that think
about it I would love it the car does
the driving for you yes you can feel the
sensor to see what's going on around you
and to see what is outside your windows
you know could that be the next step
could that be something that they are
actually
I would love that if I disappear and
there's no show next week you'll know
I'm right right there's gonna be
henchmen are already after me for this
the Ford henchmen don't worry they'll
break down on their way here now hey hey
I love it wouldn't that be neat yes what
do you think Robbie right well I'm not
arguing against it so you're right I
think that's what they're doing that's
what they're doing don't it makes no
sense for them to be making a window
that you can touch that is like Braille
that makes no sense they want your ass
unless blind people ten years from now
we'll be able to drive a car and they
want it to be a Ford that's my theory
yes I imagine that this is true cool
stinking cool imagine the frustration of
playing a game with the difficulty level
can constantly changed that's what an
some retro classics AI researchers do
love their games and two papers have
shown that they can use in general
adversarial networks or gans
to make old favorites a lot more
interesting in two separate papers AI
researchers built general adversarial
networks to construct new video games
for retro classics Super Mario Brothers
and doom Dan's were first introduced in
2014 the system is made up of two
networks a generator and a discriminator
the generator creates fake samples of
training data and the discriminator
tries to determine if the samples are
real or fake both networks spar with one
another and over time the generator
learns to forge more realistic samples
to trick the discriminator by applying
them to entertainment this researchers
hope that they will be used to help
humans design better video games in the
future the doom of paper details a level
design is usually how usually heavily
relies on domain expertise good
practices and in
extensive playtesting though to deal
with these issues several game
researchers are spending considerable
effort on studying and designing
procedural content generation systems
that exploiting machine learning and
search algorithms can model the level
design process and assists human
designers Adam Smith co-author of the
paper and an assistant professor at the
University of California said Mary o
Gann creates new levels of very quickly
but occasionally make structural
mistakes such as in completely
assembling pipe tiles it's a similar
process for doom a thousand doom levels
are processed into a set of training
images that include the game's most
important features the walkable area
walls floor height objects and room
segmentation but if you're itching to
have a go at those AI generated games
you'll have to wait a while both
projects are still prototypes and can't
be played quite yet although the code
for the Super Mario game can be found on
github sebastian Ricci who co-authored
the paper said it's a problem that the
teams are working on he says in the next
version we want to create a level that
continually adapts its difficulty to the
player haha
no way love it could you Matt this is
the future of games here this is not
just the future of games in my opinion I
actually think that this is the future
the future is our world of learning ok
so if you follow me here ok so say
hypothetically you have a VR headset and
you're playing in a VR game and it's a
simulation game and say it's something
small at first right it's something
where you have to move an object right
and it gets harder and harder where
eventually you all of a sudden have like
a mechanical expertise because it's it's
evolving with you sure you become a
neurosurgeon right yeah right I'm saying
it's teaching you thinking about the
games we talked with Richard poor telly
way back episode number 512 I just
wanted to quickly search our website
category 5 TV for this
exit chords or composure do you remember
that interview we were talking about how
they they had developed an artificial
intelligence to automatically adapt the
music of a game to suit the mood of
where you are in the game
right so if you're in a forest all of a
sudden it's kind of like a little bit of
a pad kind of sounding and Beyond and
then you get into a really racy kind of
adventure set and all of a sudden it's
really diligent and it's all automatic
right through AI now what if we took orb
composer and integrate it into this AI
system that creates the levels and
you're playing this game in virtual
reality with your vibe on right and it
is always always always different that
is awesome
virtual reality becomes reality right
this this would grow like just the mind
of like the cognition of people so much
you get stagnated you're in a game that
you you love so you play it a lot it but
it's good yeah you get really good at
the level this is gonna fire your bros I
can just a right level one world one
well now there's a new shelf or now
there's a new right like something's
happening where you would usually jump
you can't jump there anymore and it
happens fast and you have to react
quickly real and it makes you better at
life because now you're good right
you're using the training now that you
you're you're training your brain and
you're training your responses and
you're training your reflexes in a
position where you're relaxed but now
you're taking that into the real world
right and you're a better driver because
of it or what if you are autistic or
what if you have like a PTSD or
something like this and they're able to
cope with that through a reality
scenario so now game development becomes
not level creation but more scenario
development right so here's the scenario
here are the specifications we know that
the PTSD that this person is dealing
with has to do with this so let's create
a scenario around that idea and allow
the AI to adapt to them well yeah even
like I
think about like team safety training
there are scenarios for say emergency
responders that they wouldn't even think
could possibly happen right you couldn't
you cannot imagine the thing somebody
can fall between two walls that you
never even thought would happen but the
AI could probably come up with a
scenario right there yeah right so all
of a sudden you're in a realistic
feeling scenario so that when a call
does come in and something bad has
happened you already have the composure
emotionally okay I know how to do this
then you go there done that through my
phone oh man there's so much potential
in this I know I know they're nowhere
near that yet it's still super mario
bros levels and they haven't got them to
create the pipes correctly but thinking
in the future like 10 years ago 15 years
ago we were looking at games that had
terrible graphics compared to what we've
got now right so it could happen this is
this is happening we are going to become
such a better species because of this
like weird yes we're gonna just be a far
more aware I see it as a real
opportunity for entertainment think
about that scenario idea creating a
scenario for a TV show and then allowing
the AI to create the characters and have
them interact with one another right and
then have orb Composer create the music
for you I just I just know from my
personal experience that I'm becoming a
better boxer there you go right because
you were just as mediocre boxer previous
before I never I never done a boxing
match and now that I've been playing
boxing video games it feels real I feel
and I would never be in a boxing ring
are you kidding me five feet tall but
but I feel like these sorts of games are
actually what will train people okay
police and fire departments and oh yeah
I like a very cool you know what I don't
like it's next story
Equifax has published yet more details
on the personal records and sensitive
they hacked its databases last year the
cyber break-in occurred because Equifax
ran an unpatched and therefore insecure
version of Apache struts something it
blamed on a single employee that said
just three months ago at the RSA
Conference in San Francisco Derek weeks
of Sona type claimed thousands of
companies they'll continue to download
vulnerable versions of struts the good
news the company their the number of
individuals affected by Equifax network
intrusion has not increased from the one
one-hundred and forty six point six
million the Equifax previously announced
but extra types of records accessed by
the hackers however have turned up in
men and mandaeans outgoing audit of the
security breach on Monday Equifax
submitted a letter to the SEC corporate
America's financial watchdog brace
yourself
here's a summary of the numbers as well
as the one hundred and forty six point
six million names one hundred and forty
six point six million dates of birth one
hundred forty five point five million
social security numbers at ninety nine
million street addresses and 209,000
payment cards including the number and
expiry date the company has now said
that there were also 38 thousand
American drivers license and three
thousand two hundred passports stolen as
well the extra data elements the company
said didn't involve any individuals not
already known to be part of the super
hack so no additional consumer
notifications are required this is just
like heebie-jeebie stuff like do you
have advice on how to prevent that you
can't prevent it
this is Equifax yeah like you you trust
them with your data because there were
facts there Equifax like there
what can you even do you can't do
anything like can you start life over
because they have the power to make or
break people based on their credit
scores right and now look I just think
the stuff that's been stolen it's the
way to create an entire identity really
like okay now I know your name
I know your birthday I know your address
I know your credit card number and
expiry date I know your passport number
I know your driver's license am I
missing anything am I missing anything
where I could just walk in somewhere and
say okay listen I forgot my ID but here
are some things you need to know about
me do you believe I am I'm Sacha Rickman
and here's my driver's license here's I
worked at a bank I worked at a bank and
I was not hacked that's not that's wrong
I was somebody stole from me phishing
scam or something somebody walked in and
this is yeah and end day to the trick
you see with their words okay so I'm
sensitive to this because it happened to
me and I no longer work at a bank but
but the thing is if somebody has enough
information that they can have a
conversation with you and sound
confident in it people are gonna believe
that you are who you say you are are and
maybe that's it and there's a flip side
to that Sasha in that if somebody has
enough information about you personally
yeah you will believe that they are who
they say they are right on the entire
flip side of someone pretending to be
you there is someone calling you up and
pretending to be someone they're not
yeah and presenting themselves with
information that convinces you that they
are that yeah for example oh yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah who's this oh this is
this is Dave Jenkins from
from RBC Royal Bank of Canada and we see
that you have an account with us and
your account number is such-and-such and
here's your you know we've got your date
of birth for example so that we we can
now confirm to you that we are who we
say we are so you know I'm on the bank
and and I'm calling because there's been
an exploit of the bank and we need you
to immediately sign in to our web portal
in order to add two-factor
authentication to your account so that
your account cannot be compromised in
your money stolen so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to send you a link to
this to this portal this going to allow
you to add the two-factor authentication
so I'll send that over to now I already
have your email address don't worry here
it is
you receive that okay yeah click there
okay now push that button yeah now log
into your online banking perfect have a
nice day I've transferred all your money
away just an example it's just just I
don't even it's unspeakably scary how
bad this would be I mean I guess Equifax
has notified the people who are victim
to this but how do you know if it's not
Equifax how do you know that this hasn't
already happened to you you you can't
necessarily no you really have to walk
with caution the part that scares me the
part that really scares me in this whole
thing and I'm still on me trying to
prove Who I am in this situation if I
did indeed lose all of my stuff and now
there's this increased level of
skepticism who's going to believe I am
Who I am sure because now they're just
gonna assume everybody stolen everybody
else's data and how do you prove how do
you prove you're you're you and how do
you prove any like I have had it happen
before this breach where somebody had
somehow put a debt on my Equifax record
that did not exist right like it was
something like 11.6 million dollars and
it was ridiculous so I had to fight it
to get them to get it removed from my
credit record because I couldn't buy a
house I couldn't do anything because
this was on my credit record somebody
had been able to compromise my my record
like that so then when a bank would
check my account through Equifax to see
if I can get a house what you're already
owe you you owe eleven point six million
dollars which I do not write thankfully
yeah yeah thankfully I was able to prove
otherwise but what about a case where
they have access to all of your
information and can now damage your
credit rating and everything else is
this a scary situation so what can you
do really just keep a close eye on your
bank accounts keep a close eye on things
make sure your passwords are up to date
make sure you are very cautious of
phishing scams like that phone
conversation that RBC just have this
Asha recommend but it can also happen in
person 10 which is scary just you have
to be out extra cautious right across
the board trust no one that breaks my
heart
I know it's such a world and such a
world there's more good out there than
bad it's true let's keep it that way
okay all right big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of yours for submitting
story sauce this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson thank
you for joining us this week that's all
the time that we have that's right
unreal time flies folks when we're
having fun I hope that you enjoyed
yourself if you've been a blast oh thank
you good well I can't wait to see you
next week don't forget to tune into new
every day this weekend as we introduce
our new hosts a new show that's gonna be
a lot of fun and I will see you next
next Wednesday and other times too we're
all over the time
that's curious I'll be here Wednesday I
will see you saturday I'll see you
Sunday see you Thursday it depends on
where you're watching photos yeah take
care
