I had welcome back to another episode of
new every day my name is Carrie and my
name is Jen and on today's show we're
going to talk about what's so good about
Good Friday stay tuned
welcome back to you every day we are so
glad that you've tube in this Good
Friday and we were filming this in
advance but we're thinking ahead to this
day as we celebrate and remember good
friday and all that it means uh
interesting story Jen I was at a
friend's house tonight and she's got a
new baby and we were looking at a
children's Bible that someone had given
this this baby it's wonderful yeah so
great so there's all these pictures and
stories it goes from Genesis so there's
Adam and Eve and the pictures a minute
you know Abraham you know all the people
David Daniel and the New Testament shows
Jesus doing all these miracles and then
I turned to the one page and on one side
it has at Jesus opening the eyes of
linemen and then the next it's him going
up to heaven and underneath it says one
day jesus said to his disciples I need
to go up to heaven and he went up to
heaven and told them to go and do good
things in love and I'm like I'm checking
checking the pages I'm trying to open
the book to see what else is missing the
whole the whole crucifixion and
resurrection was gone it was the
Ascension that was talked about because
it just showed a picture of Jesus
talking to his disciples and then him in
the clouds they miss her like shape like
what the heck on what was so good about
Good Friday I'm serious yeah this really
happened tonight we need to get her new
Bible yeah but it was really surprised
to find that and so often when people
think about Good Friday they think blood
gore death violence and it's all of
those things I can only watch The
Passion of the Christ one time once a
year maybe because I just feel so it's
repulsive yes terrible it's awful and no
wonder they wanted to edit it out of a
children's book yeah
skiff death like violent death is so
awful yes but sin is so awful yes and
when we the reason why we feel that way
is because we know it's wrong to harm
someone else we know murders wrong we
know all these things are wrong which is
why that's that should be repulsive yeah
and yet we talked today about the
importance of the blood it says the life
is in the blood and it says without the
shedding of blood there's no remission
of sins and so Jesus had to die and so
the fact that it isn't in that
children's Bible it's like it misses the
whole point like Jesus actually came to
this earth to die on the cross for our
sins so that his blood his life because
it says the life is in the blood would
cover us so that we could be made green
made new with God and sort of cut it out
of the Bible I'm like that's that is the
central point of history yes it is the
turning point of history yes if Jesus
didn't die then we would have to
continually go to a priest and with an
animal and have our sins removed by the
shedding of the sacrificial lamb well
because that's so much of what the new
the Old Testament is about right Jenna
about the Israelites and how God
established sacrificial system and how
they had to bring this lamb this
unblemished lamb or some other animal
presented to the priests and then that
the priests would put his hands on the
on the Lambs head and essentially
essentially saying the sins of the
person who brought this is transferred
over the to this manner I'm going to
kill the lamb and the shedding of blood
would make that person right before God
yes and so with Jesus in the New
Testament he is the lamb he is because
all those lambs even though they were
unblemished they could not completely
take care of the person sin that's why
they had to do it on a yearly basis
right but Jesus came once and for all he
was the final yeah accra Feiss
and and that is why you know it sounds
weird but that's why good Friday is so
good that you know that's why we
celebrate good friday we we mourn for
his pain because it says for the joy yet
for the join we talked about the city
the other night yeah joy set before him
he endured he endured the cross so we we
grieve with Jesus and what he actually
went through to take on our sin yeah and
so in that sense we do grief there is a
sense of mourning and loss and
unbelievable Wow and I think that's why
we do have to read those passages at
least once a year that's why we do have
to have some of those visual images as a
reminder of like oh I can't believe he
did that for me like it makes it real
yeah did you find a verse that you
wanted well I was just looking in in
Hebrews and how it's interesting what
before this when John the Baptist saw
Jesus he said to his disciples behold
the lamb of God who takes away the sin
of the world and as their ears that
wouldn't be weird I mean we're also
hearing it because like we've gone to
church and have spent a couple Easter's
there so we've heard that terminology
about Jesus being the Lamb of God you
take away the sin of the world but in
their in their ears they were very
familiar with the sacrificial system yes
yes oh they be like oh okay like there's
the scapegoat yeah there's the one who's
going to die for you yeah there's the
one coming in your place yeah and that
whole theme goes and I just read it this
morning in Revelation where it says
who's worthy to undo the scroll and it
says it is the lamb the lamb so even
after he's resurrected he still called
the land yeah which is interesting that
because he's the only one worthy to open
it he was the only one worthy to die in
the cross he was the only one who could
die on the cross because he was he was
perfect yeah yeah something interesting
when someone asked the other day well
well Jesus was a man up until he rose
again and then he became god I was like
but Jesus does claim to be God in his
lifetime like while he was here on earth
he said he was called the Son of Man but
it was also the son of god and he made
several claims to be that before abraham
was born I am he's like I am from
outside of time I am God essentially and
he was perfect because he was and is God
yes and it would if God just said okay
you human you are going to take on the
sins of the world that seems unjust it's
an it's not it's not a right sacrifice
because how do you choose a human how do
you choose a fallible sinful human to
turn on the rest of the sense of the
whole wide world you know like who would
be worthy of that but right it's because
he himself came as God in the person of
Jesus Christ take on since that's what
made him worthy to do it and that is
where we're going to pause Marshall ring
there's been an incredible con that's a
code in the culture evolution and
millions of years is the greatest myth
ever forced on the minds of men Big Bang
evolution millions fears people just
believe it blindly how can you not
believe that somebody designed all of
this
because of creation
it's not just faith we have science it's
really on our side
welcome back to new every day we were
just talking about why good Friday is
actually good yeah and you brought up
the fact that only Jesus is worthy yeah
Jesus is worthy to take away our sins
because he was God and he made those
claims to be God throughout the book of
John he makes these I am statements and
that harkens back nice word harkens back
to when Moses says well you know what do
I say sent me and he says tell them I am
sent you I am Who I was God speaking to
the burning bush to Moses yeah having
that name to him yes and so when Jesus
says I am the bread of life I am the
life and resurrection I am the way the
truth and the life that got people's
Eyres up like that you're making claims
that your god and jesus never denies it
yeah and so you're right like because he
is God he is the only one that is worthy
to take away our sins and that actually
takes us back to you know where we
started this series like three weeks ago
when we talked about the fact that you
know well why wouldn't we believe like
what is it that's going to make us
believe it says you know very rarely
would someone died for a good man you
know if someone's going to die for
someone like it would have to be a
really good man nobody would ever die
for a criminal nobody would ever die for
someone who wasn't a good person yeah
true and yet Jesus died for everyone
while we were yet sinners Christ died
for us yes and so when we ask the
question what is it that will te no
cause you to believe the fact that Jesus
Christ was willing God Himself was
willing to take on the form of a man and
died for us because it says in
Philippians 2 at what point I had it all
memorized and then you could probably do
the action age it says your attitude
should be the same of that
that of christ jesus so this is
Philippians 25 who being in very nature
God did not consider equality with God
something to be grasped but made himself
nothing taking the very nature of a
servant being made in human likeness and
being found in appearance as a man he
humbled himself and became obedient to
death even death on a cross like that
alone is like is that not a reason to
believe yeah being humbled himself and
yet was was God yeah and it's
interesting before Jesus goes into the
garden where he is he's with his
disciples before being betrayed by Judas
so this is this is the Good Friday
setting right where he's betrayed and
then goes to the cross before that he
washes his disciples feet in chapter 13
and it's so interesting that he says in
John 13 verse 3 Jesus knowing that the
father had given all things into his
hands and then he had come from God and
was going to God rose from supper and
laid aside his garments took a towel and
girded himself after that he poured
water into a basin and began to wash the
disciples feet and to wipe them with the
towel with which he was girded it's like
Jesus understood yes I am God yes I've
come to save them and even though he
understood his divinity he washed their
feet yeah that blows my mind yeah the
the coalescence of of these these two
nature's like like Jesus is so all
powerful and yet so humble because he
never says hey Peter my feet done my
feet like yeah true I've been walking
all day come on yeah but he never does
his food he he stands up like you just
read he stands up he never points his
finger he's the one that takes on that
role of servant yeah and you know the
first thing that comes into my mind is
like why wouldn't we serve a god like
this who's actually willing to come down
and and do life with us and that's the
cool thing about what Jesus does is that
when we choose to follow him
he then sends his Holy Spirit to lead us
and guide us and be with us like he
doesn't leave us by by ourselves and you
know we talked about what is it that
helps us to continue to believe yeah
because the holy spirit is with us
encouraging us empowering us changing us
yeah and so you know that's just one
more reason to believe that's what makes
good friday so good you're forgiven is
that we are forgiven and we are given
new life in Christ and he chose like he
actually does love us as we are the
first time I and I think maybe I shared
this before on this show and if you
heard it forgive me but it's just so
meaningful to me the first time I heard
about Jesus washing the disciples feet I
I was in my teens and I had like crazy
warts on my feet like crazy like they
were so big like so many words and I had
them taken care of and anyways I felt
Holy Spirit saying is I was reading that
I felt God say I would wash your feet
like I would touch those feet and wash
them because I love and I care for you I
died for you I was like what like I
don't even want to touch my old feet
they're so nasty I felt him saying that
like and he died for you he loves you
yes you there's no one so dirty there is
no one so sinful there is no one who's
done so many wrong things that he
wouldn't kneel down and wash your feet
and he says go and do likewise we have
this joy and privilege to be able to go
and serve and live a life that's worthy
of him as God transforms us into the
likeness of Christ yeah and that's all
made possible because of good friday
yeah so we encourage you today it's
you're probably watching the show at
eight o'clock morning that's when they
only get aired we encourage you to go to
a good friday service and if if you're
watching this later youtube something
watch The Passion of the Christ or watch
some some clips that will take you
through those that
final week of Christ's life here on
earth so that you can be reminded of
what Jesus has done for you and as Kerry
said and he's willing he was he's
willing to wash our feet it doesn't
matter who we are he's willing he loves
us john three sixteen says for God so
loved the world it's all inclusive he
loves us he's willing to serve us which
sounds so strange that that God of all
creation is willing to serve us and then
he invites us into relationship so we
encourage you today that if you've never
chosen to put your faith in Jesus Christ
today is the day and if you have been
struggling with your faith then today's
the day to say you know what I'm gonna
I'm gonna do it like yeah I'm not going
to cover up my faith in every anymore
that's what we talked about last week
the whole secret friend you know yeah
he's not gonna be my secret friend
anymore I'm going to be public about it
and so that today good fry will really
be a good friday for you as well so
thanks so much for tuning in and we hope
that you will tune in again next week we
hope you have a wonderful easter
celebration mm-hmm and today's good
friday remember cross when we look
forward to Easter Sunday amen when he
was resurrected from the dead amen
because up from the grave eros you have
a great week have a great movie press
