I'm Sasha drew Madison here are the top
stories for the week of May 3rd 2017
British inventor Richard browning lifted
off from the shore of Vancouver harbour
on Thursday in a personal slight suit
that inspired references to Ironman
using thrusters attached to his arms and
back
browning flew in a circle and hovered a
short distance from the ground
captivating attendees at a prestigious
TED conference the personal flight suit
is capable for pelling wearers much
higher and faster according to its
creators the extreme athlete and
engineer said the hypothesis was that
the human mind and body if properly
augmented could achieve some pretty cool
stuff
browning told of experimenting with
various numbers and arrays of
essentially miniature jet engines on his
limbs along the way he said there were
more than a few crashes to the ground
browning said the whole journey was
about trying and failing and learning
from that the first reasonably stable
six-second flight with the gear inspired
his team to press on his startup gravity
formally debuted about a month ago
browning said he is already getting
interest from investors and some in the
British military who told him that they
had given up on the flight feature of an
Iron Man suit until seeing his human
propulsion gear I will say he's been
testing this in Canada where there's
free health care you're going to fly and
fall you might as well be here he's
laughing that is so crazy cool ok Mark
Zuckerberg
announced today that his company
Facebook will hire 3,000 additional
employees over the next year in an
effort to respond to reports of
inappropriate materials on the social
media network and speed up the removal
of videos showing murder suicide and
other violent acts the hiring spree is
an acknowledgement by Facebook that at
least for now it needs more than
automated software to improve the
monitoring of posts Facebook live a
service that allows any user broadcast
live has been marred since its launch
last year by instances of people
streaming violence
Zuckerberg the company's co-founder said
in a Facebook post the workers will be
in addition to the 4,500 people who
already review posts that may violate
its Terms of Service Zuckerberg said
we're working to make these videos
easier to report so that we can take the
right action sooner whether that's
responding quickly when someone needs
help or taking a post down the 3,000
workers will be new positions and will
monitor all facebook content not just
live videos we've yet to learn where the
jobs will be located that's um that's
going to be a tough work because you
really want live to be live right like
you want live to be live if you're going
to call it live but now you have to I
don't think that that's the intent
behind live broadcast that's the sad
thing the sad thing about this whole
world that we live in is like this kind
of crap shouldn't happen sad no ok
Microsoft launched it launched its
latest version of Windows 10 yesterday
Windows 10s it's designed for education
and to take on Chromebooks and Chrome OS
the biggest change to Windows 10 s is
that it's locked to only work with
Windows Store apps that means you'll
need to find the apps in the stores
download and install them and many
desktop apps like Photoshop and Chrome
simply aren't in the store yet microsoft
claims that security and performance
will both be improved with Windows 10 s
since apps won't be able to run unless
they're packaged and available in the
Windows Store that should help prevent
malware and unnecessary apps from
running a boot up while you will be able
to install a different browser on
Windows 10 s users won't be able to
alter their default browser that means
if you click on a links from within an
app you'll be forced into Microsoft edge
browser I've never even heard of that
Microsoft is also locking down Microsoft
edge to only work with its Bing search
engine you'll be able to use the Google
Website of course but if you type your
query into the address bar its Bing all
the way this new OS will likely lead to
some confusion for users who pick up a
cheap laptop and want to start running
desktop apps that they can can't find
them in the store that was a major
hurdle for Windows RT and Microsoft will
have to manage the inevitable consumer
confusion better this time around
so you've never heard of edge no it's
pretty edgy what it's it's what let's
just say you've got a friend who anytime
they encounter your computer the very
first thing that happens yeah Chrome ok
right yeah Thank You Robby I've asked
your welcome you saved me I think from a
lot never even seen edge that's how good
of a friend I am good job or I don't
even know what it is I don't know back
awesome
it would seem Amazon wants you to have
meaningful conversations with Alexa
Amazon recently released new tools to
app developer developers that allow
Alexa to whisper show emotion and pause
naturally like we humans by the
dollhouse
what if that actually happens though
like subliminal messaging it's like you
know I'll be really nice have you had
this dollhouse you know what about if
you talk in your sleep right unless
you're running you talking you're really
whispering to you or you start winning
are you lullabies
I don't know about come on something out
of a horror movie now it's getting
really great meaningful conversations
but you know what this could help this
is like that girlfriend in a box
situation that's remember that's news to
you I actually am buying from Japan I
know it real interesting and out friends
you like a really in anime and they're
like yeah I'm all for this I'm like I
don't know I feel kind of weird about
that but now your girlfriend in a box
wants to have deep meaningful
conversations with you so you don't need
a real girlfriend Alexa I just became
very needy Wow I don't know Raymond is
coming hey that wasn't written in the
new story oh yeah okay she's digress
she's embellishing the news I'm judging
Alexa but you know what do what you
think is right and that's just the start
says review Prasad Amazon
head scientist for Alexa who's who is
playing a key role in the retailer's
efforts in artificial intelligence for
Alexa using computers to converse with
us prasad says i truly believe that for
AI to be useful in our lives it has to
be something you can connect with
conversation is the next step to be more
human-like Alexa competes with other
personal digital assistants like Apple
Siri Microsoft Cortana and the Google
assistant and has emerged as one of the
leaders in voice computing the echo
product is one of Amazon's most popular
and many head-to-head reviews site Alexa
as the most effective I I don't know a
lot about Alexa I like the idea I just
don't like the I just don't want it to
be too human I just we're excited to try
a robot yeah I want I want her to be a
clear line between human a robot right
this is like me to make that lasagne
just like your grandma uh I just went on
far more robotic or I like what if
you're having an argument with your
spouse and Alexa's like I don't like the
way that she's talking to you just let
it go it gets too deep Thank You
batteries no that's when Alexa gets
thrown across the room no no like okay
Ubisoft really wants you to like the
division so go play it for free whether
you're on a PlayStation 4 Xbox one or
Windows Fifi you'll be able to download
and install an unlimited copy of the
game from tomorrow until Sunday
that's May fourth to seventh 2017 for
those of you catching this in 2028 any
progress you make during the free
weekend will of course carry over should
you decide to buy the game the division
of Ubisoft answered to the increasingly
popular brand of live games like destiny
which draw inspiration from the social
emphasis and event-driven gameplay of
MMORPGs in this one
players are deposited into a
post-apocalyptic version of midtown
Manhattan widespread illness led many to
flee the city before it was quarantined
and those who are left have kind of lost
it you step into a role of a government
operate
of in the division a network of trained
sleeper agents that don't activate until
things get really bad along with the
free weekend Ubisoft will also be
running a sale on the division you'll be
able to pick up the standard version of
the game on ps4 and Xbox one for $19.99
until May 15th the PC version is also on
sale for $5 more until May 7th I feel
like I'll probably get Dave to play this
thank you thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Dasha Durr made us
[Music]
[Applause]
you
