hi and welcome to new every day on the
road my name is Jen I'm Shelly nice to
meet you and today we're going to talk
about taking risks so stay tuned
to welcome back to you every day as you
can tell were on the road and the last
two weeks you've met our friend James we
went hiking with along the Niagara
Escarpment and today the Shelley and I
are heading back home and just thinking
about our adventure and actually we do
this quite a bit we talk shelly is one
of my very good friends and we talk
about our days and and how Jesus fits
into our days and how it makes us think
and and we got talking about you know
different aspects of our hike and and
what they taught us and as we were going
along i'm watching shelley and James
both like literally hot from place to
place to place to place I'm like but but
how do they know they can put the foot
there how do they know that they it's
safe there how did it how do they know
they're not gonna twist an ankle and
that came to mind I'm like oh what
happens if I twist my ankle like are
they gonna carry me oh we were really
far into and it was really rocky but I
don't know these are the thoughts that
she's having so it was for me I I'm not
really sure why I'm so fearless
in that sense but I just thought if I
fall I fall if I twist my ankle I twist
my ankle I I'm treading light is what I
was doing but there was a lot of stuff
that yeah we could have heard her sounds
pretty bad if there was one slip because
we were down AG or we were in the middle
of a gorge yeah so it was literally like
this and we're like propelling backwards
down this hill and yeah some of us were
all over hashas the nether is cautious
all I could think about was how do they
know there's not ice underneath there
how did they know that there's enough
mud and I'm literally like and now yeah
shell is like are you normal like that
cautious and all I could think about was
is that safe to put my foot is and yet
i'm watching her taking leaps and bounds
and she's like so far ahead of me and I
pardon me wanna say oh but that's
because she's younger
yeah her body doesn't ache the same way
that my body aches it's only I'm not
sure my mind was blank and I was just
focusing on what I needed to do and so I
I have no idea why I was like that or
James like James has done this before so
I could see that he was used to going
through the certain pass or knowing if
something is going to slippery or icy or
knowing that oh yes under here they're
slippery rocks or there's mud or you
know something that's going to make you
slip so I can understand his view but my
view of it was it was totally than me
not thinking what I'm doing a head which
is really bad in a sense but I mean I
have an older sister and she is very
cautious just like you and I always
thought that she's not having fun you
know like we're doing up we're doing so
many different things and you know why
she's so safe and cautious and but you
know what there always needs to be
someone to drive you to the ambulance oh
I think that's a good thing I think
that's a great thing to have you know oh
I did lots of
what if I did hurt myself we are a far
away away from a building or anything
and you guys would have to lift me up
but I feel like that came and went you
know right so but yeah you are a bit
more cautious but that's completely fine
and we do things very differently which
is which was it was so good cuz you
inspired me several times like Jen like
at one point she ran down the hill ran
back up again I was like oh she's doing
that like for momentum so she doesn't
have to like grown her way up the hill I
thought okay you can do that you can do
Jen you're not so old that your body is
broken down like come on stop being an
old lady at one point is what I said to
myself well being lonely come on and so
as she went first and she raced down the
hill and raced back up and I'm gonna do
it and I did it and I was like oh I
wasn't as bad as I thought it would be
and in a couple of them other spots
James would say k be careful here it's
slippery or be careful here it's icy or
just watch for the rocks that one spot
where we're going down where it moss
colored rocks lost covered rocks and
they're all very loose but I didn't I
couldn't tell that and I would have just
went you know and the first few steps
I'm like oh what is he talking about and
then as we went further in I was like oh
like this actually is quite dangerous
and I think you said that at one time
like okay you need to be careful here so
it was really interesting is like this
knowing of when to take risks and when
to be careful and went to listen
like James only told us to be careful
when you needed to be careful which was
really interesting any other point like
he was just going ahead leading the way
and then he would turn around at one
point say okay you need to be careful
here yeah or like it's slippery here and
I was like you know isn't that
interesting how some like that's often
but we can feel like God's not listening
or God's not paying attention and yet he
always intervenes exactly when when he
needs to and it's like okay he will let
us just figure out our path a little bit
like our eyes are focused on him but at
some point I actually wanted to be like
James how come you're not walking back
here is Shelly and I yeah and like he
was just Gary's way about way up ahead
and scoping things out and and he
actually said sometimes I don't talk
very much when I'm hiking and as you can
tell in our previous show he's very
chatty
and I think Jesus is like that a lot
sometimes is like on the journey we are
expecting him the Chat Chat Chat Chat
Chat Chat Chat Chat Chat another time
and that is like that is so true and
he's like there is nothing to say at
this point in time late and I think we
can think Jesus always has something to
say but I think sometimes I want to say
we fill up the spiritual airwaves oh
yeah totally but several times okay so
since we're talking about fear and James
would go ahead and tell us when to be
afraid but sometimes there would be like
in-your-face opportunities to overcome
fear yeah and so at one point will show
you some photos of going back and forth
across the river would you call it a
river like a stream the stream down from
a waterfall a waterfall gorgeous river
stream wonderful but lots of rocks and
very different terrains yes fast-moving
shall we say so at one point Shelly and
James are like well let's just go across
this log and I'm like you've got to be
joking and like James just one dude ran
right I just ran right across and then
Shelly she sort of I don't know what I
did I don't know what I was expecting I
didn't know if it was going to be
slippery that I could just walk across
but I'd seen this lady go across
one of those what
log one of those logs before I her fours
so I was like if she can do it I could
do it but I'd never done this before so
I kind of just ran with that and I
didn't look at you could tell them that
there's a video of what happened
actually the first time i made it over
quite fine the second time I went back
and I lost my i want to say footing but
i was on my knees I lost my knee a so
sure and I fell right on it ha so I had
that everybody had that solid moment no
one said anything for like a good two
seconds because I was hanging on sheikra
fellow yeah I was a hollow log and there
was like gushing water beneath me but I
when I my legs fell I just stood right
up so in a sense I thought I'd hurt
myself but you know when you out of that
little panic mode you kind of just
realized oh I'm fine
and then there's started asking you okay
yeah I'm just standing in knee-deep
water no big deal it was freezing and
the thing is I was video taping the cool
but I no service to me uh-oh just like
oh this is really good footage but I'm
not really sure what to do right now
she's not broken okay it's not broken
this is a good thing she's not broken
okay um and I'm like are you okay and
can't I think I might have said
something like candy come out or
whatever but she came out and and she
was wet but was able to keep going and
we actually talked about it was like a
child when they fall yeah and how so
often when they fall we're like oh you
know there's two responses first
responses who are you okay okay and then
they immediately start crying and world
is coming to an end and the second time
or the second option is waiting and not
necessarily even engaging them
face-to-face but letting them actually
take stock
okay I'm okay and let them think about
it themselves first before the parent or
the caregiver jumps in and and that I
think goes along with that whole idea
that we always want Jesus to step in
step in like come on save me save me
save me and he's saying well take stock
first like how are things actually going
like how are you feeling right now like
this just happened how are you feeling
take stock what have you learned what
would you do differently how are you
going to get out and that's something I
know I've thought about a lot and
sometimes we feel so helpless as well
because yeah the passage i just read to
you about just wanting to pray your way
i would have something or just through
it as quickly as you can because
sometimes it is painful or sometimes it
is a slow process but yeah he really
wants as a stop in that moment and kind
of like assess what's going on are you
but you physically hurt maybe not or are
you emotionally hurt maybe not you're
just overreacting so i think times like
that or different times when we just
need to stop and take stock of what's
actually going on around us
yeah i'm not i'm not sure how to wrap
that one up but it's but maybe what
actually is taking more risks if we
actually took responsibility in the
midst of those situations to say you
know what I'm not going to get broken I
haven't died and like and she didn't die
she simply got what and yet you know
every part of me was like and it's like
well I wouldn't do that because I don't
want to walk her at well what about what
experience are you missing out on
because you're too afraid not so we're
going to pause right there break
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category 5 TV network by shopping
gearbest that's the right Jeff cap five
dot TV / gearbest it's an online store
for the geek streak in you or the loved
ones well of course I mean especially
your loved ones right because cat5 TV /
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock bottom prices to their
cell phones you betcha cat5 TV /
gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked android cell phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those make a great gift absolutely from
high-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 TV / gearbest has you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a super store right
from the comfort of your own chair at
your computer through the interweb yeah
I there's no way they have it all it's
true that's just a bunch of a random
electronic Sesame
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than thirty
dollars plus free shipping at camp five
dot TV / gearbest yeah all right you
kinda got me there Wow any other
questions for me Jeff ah now that the
winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals and say drone
copters oh my goodness well check this
out dude they have everything check out
over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available mark down by
about thirty two up to sixty three
percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're gonna
find gearbest on our partners pages for
any of your favorite category five TV
shows like new every day category five
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit cat
five dot TV / gearbest so that's easy
cat five dot TV / your best that's right
happy shopping so welcome back to you
every day we're just talking about you
know what are you missing out on because
you're choosing not to take the risk
before you started recording this
afternoon Shelley shares me a devotional
and like every other line i was like huh
oh oh those it was like like swords
going and piercing and separating and so
I've asked her if she would share the
devotional which is on risk so share
that with us it says am I taking risks
Goliath held the Israelites in bondage
for 40 days I'm sure they prayed for God
to remove the giant but it wasn't until
David took a risk walk into the valley
and cut the lies head off that people
were set free prayer is a good thing but
every leader will face a point when we
have to put our prayers into action on
august 10 1999 i was having lunch at red
lobster with a mentor and discussing
with him what i really felt God was
stirring me to do something oh I read
that wrong he looked at me as i was
eating cheese biscuits sandwich and
asked me what would you be willing to
attempt for God if you knew you could
not fail which is a really big question
sell without hesitating I answered I
would start a church he replied you are
a coward if you don't that one minute
dialogue ruined my lunch seriously I
couldn't eat any more cheese biscuits I
knew he was right I knew God had told me
1996 that I would start a church one day
but I kept making excuses
the first being that I was too young and
the second being that I was praying
about it anyone can see a problem it
takes a leader to examine why the
problem is there and decide what to do
about it leaders deal with problems they
don't run from them
most of the time we want to be like
David but we act like Saul God puts us
in positions of leadership to lead when
it comes to leadership denial leads to
disaster leadership means racing every
situation that God sends our way even
uncomfortable ones the Lord does not put
problems in front of us just so we can
pray them away yes we have to pray but
we must participate with the Lord as
well by becoming the leader he has
called us to be what's next what risk is
God calling you to take is there a
problem you know you need to deal with
but you keep putting it off
three big questions about risk-taking
that I think we've all kind of wrestled
with
day to day or you know month to month
whatever it may be
ya see what I mean like reading as she
was reading that and I this is the
second time I've heard it I'm just like
aah and so you know that question the
first question he asked was you know
what risk would you take for God if
there was no fear something if you were
afraid yeah if you could not fail and
I mean that is a
open-ended question almost because it's
like what will you do it you know you
could fail kind of thing
so have you thought about that what you
would do
in a sense but it sounds so cliche
because it's not well formed or thought
out so
you know
gosh what would you do if i knew i
couldn't fail
oh i don't know like sometimes it's like
okay well i would stop or heated church
and i would work in a parachurch
ministry because then I wouldn't have to
worry about money right but i also know
God is my provider yeah
sometimes the other part would be I
think conversations yeah I I think a lot
of it has to do with conversations and
and friendships and and talking to
people i think i would have more
friendships i would have more
conversations with people like because
you would have more time well no I know
I I genuinely sometimes I'm afraid of
talking to people oh okay and so I'm
afraid to take the risk of talking
afraid of them rejecting me or real
afraid of them you know thinking who is
she and why is she talking to us like I
genuinely think I would have more
conversations with people more like I
would have more adventures I'm so like
I'm so afraid sometimes of it was I was
okay i just finished listening to and
the angels were silent by max lucado
great book but one of the things he says
sometimes we can get so caught up and
being practical because it's better to
be practical because generosity costs
too much and said sometimes sometimes it
costs more to be practical than it does
to be generous and I was like oh but it
costs more to be generous it costs more
to be practical than it does to because
you're losing out on the relationship
you're losing on the adventure you're
losing out on what has got caught like
you're losing out because you're so
concerned about being practical not
wasting anything but you're actually
wasting the opportunity yeah and I was
like oh like this has been a week of
swarming like squirming where those
little arrows come in you're like ah and
so as a result I've actually started
adventuring more good like going on the
road because i used to say well I don't
have twenty dollars that's a waste to
put twenty dollars in my tank right my
gas tank just to go on the road for an
adventure and listen to God and take in
what it is but yet
I've started doing it and the joy that I
come back with is like I can't I can't
pay for the joy you know yeah that's
true and so in a sense being practical
was costing me more in my heart my mind
yeah then it was money and practically
yeah because the practical side of me
says
you don't have you can spend that twenty
dollars on something else yeah something
more while by time yeah and so you know
what is it that I would risk more i
think i would be more risky with my time
because we talked about that a few shows
ago how I tend to be just a planner I
plan plan plan plan plan plan they don't
want to waste my time I think I would
take more risks with my time
and and as a result I think I would have
more adventures because I think that I'm
where I'm at as far as my job goes i
think i am fairy i feel like i am where
god wants me to be right so i think i
think so everything's kind of fit into
place right and I think he's actually
provided to me now platform where I can
take more risks yeah crazy to think to
it I know and so you know that thought
david knew who God was right he says in
that passage you know you come against
me with stored in the spear but I come
against you in the name of the Lord God
and it's like yeah and so at the end of
our adventure in Hamilton we had to get
back over to these stairs to go back up
the gorge and I specifically said it are
the stairs on this side of the lake are
on the side of the stream and they're
both like yeah and I'm like okay then
we'll just keep going the stairs were
not on the side of okay she wanted to
know practically where we needed to go
so we can get there we love side turns
and getting off the highway and
unexpected exit
going through tunnels or going by rocks
and hopping on things and journeying
through different aspects of where we
were and she just wanted to get where
she needed to go but so that's the whole
you know the toss up so
it was funny because we're very
different people but the same time
we do have to get to someplace we have
to get to the ending we have to get to
the ending on so I needed to know where
the ending was so I could prepare my
child so we come around literally I lost
sight of both her and James I go up over
the hill and there they are stating me
homicide what a foot foot like this it's
really hard to not driving with my knee
and I said is this the only cross and i
will show you a picture of it too and
they're like well unless you want to go
all the way back around where we can't
work I like the look on her face was was
that' may have disappointed gen we were
disappointments in that moment and she
was it was like now this can't be the
only way and we're like this is the only
way so we had to face another fear of
yours Jeff oh boy and so will show you
the picture
I had to shimmy across this log and the
log was the 10-meter not know
six meters long like this one yeah about
foot and a half two feet wide which I
was ok with that the first log that
Shelley went across I'm like no way man
i'm not going on that that's pretty thin
it's pretty thin this one was I'm like
okay and before i got on I'm like dear
Lord Jesus she said a prayer before she
went across a log oh yeah because the
water underneath this log was roll and
like rolling rolling we're all a was it
was right so this is the waterfall and
then this is the wool stream and then
the longest right here so was gushing
kind of water and it would take you away
oh yeah and that's literally what James
said he's like we were picking up
further downstream I'm like thanks so
much James so I got it I got in the log
and I just kept my I got kept my eye
focus on the log volson long like and I
got about three curves right across I
was so tired and changed like come on
I'm like I'm really tired right now and
then I got up and I'm like I did it she
did it I feel really good about
done that having accomplished that and
my question was to her was that fearful
or was it more nervous because I think
sometimes those who could be right
associated together or apart because
when I thought about going across the
log I thought I just need to get across
so that was my kind of whole mentality
and there was no fear it's just I needed
to do it and it's just the doing of it
that I needed to get done which sounds
so tongue twister II but her fear was I
may fall in she's outline genuine fear
of I may fall in and get swept
downstream and someone's gonna have to
come get me I'm gonna be all right not
just up to my knees yeah it would have
taken her away but she did it I did it
and I feel like so like accomplished
because I did it he did it so are you
taking risks are you taking risks and
what kind of risk would you take if you
know that you couldn't fail what is the
Lord asking to do what kind of risk is
got
to do so as we end off here we just want
to encourage you to be strong courageous
do not be terrified to not be
discouraged from the Lord your God is
with you wherever you go with us he is
with us so thanks for tuning in today
take a look at our website new everyday
TV go to our partners page check that
out if you need to buy that book and the
angels were silenced Max Lucado go to
Amazon through our website click on the
link and purchase it you can get
inaudible download as well but we
encourage you this week to take a risk
to take a risk and if you're afraid of
taking the risk say dear Jesus help me
to take the risk of today so not know
we're going to sign off it's more fun
it's more fun take the risk catch you
later bye
you
