we're going to jump into GNU image
manipulation program is a free
application that you download for
Windows Mac or Linux go to gimp.org to
get yours today and it's basically like
a Photoshop clone you're going to see it
in just a moment this is number 16 of
our 20 weeks of GIMP tips and tonight
we're actually going back in time Krista
is going to be joining us from episode
number 333 as we look at how to actually
create a mock-up of a space scene using
the GNU image manipulation program and
first thing we're going to do is create
a new canvas so that's file new and
let's say we're going to create this
what screen resolution do you work in
typically christos as far as your
computer go I believe it's 1024 by I
don't know it's a fairly small screen
you are crying too much for me Sasha dot
exe oh stop working ok don't impose
myself I'm more for me so 333 ok yeah
it's a lot let's go with a leg let's go
with say it's 1080p so this is just the
resolution it doesn't really matter but
you want it to be big enough that it's
usable so I'm going to go 1920 x 1080
just so it's a nice big canvas alright
so there's my canvas to start working on
that's what we're going to draw on so
you look at that kind of a picture of
course you're going to think this is
going to be a lot of work to sit there
and July all the stars put all those
stars everywhere draw a beautiful planet
and do these solar flares when things
like that once you get this routine down
you're going to be able to do this the
free software mind in your sleep not
even in five minutes and you'll be able
to rock out one of these for
and you saw how realistic colella so so
let's actually do it let's see if this
can actually be done we're on live TV
tonight I've created my blank white
canvas I'm going to right-click on my
canvas and go filters and what we want
to do is we want to add our stars so
first thing we're going to do is we're
going to add our basically like noise
but I think what I'd actually want to do
first rather than getting into
complicated inversion and stuff I'm
going to actually fill my canvas with
black that makes sense the spacing
there's a black foreground color so what
i've done this i just filled with
foreground black okay let's make a new
layer so that we can manipulate that
background layer later and on that layer
let's right-click and go filters noise
and we're going to go hurl and you may
think as you click on hurl I'm just
going to use the default setting fifty
percent randomization and repeat one
random seed is 10 I'm just going to hit
I'm going to turn on randomized actually
instead of a random seed there and hit
ok too so that just adds a whole bunch
of noise basically it's like white noise
but you see that that actually starts
close it kind of looks like stars but
they're colorized so what we need to do
is we need to decolorize that or what's
the word that we would use is desaturate
so it's one of our filters and we go
with a luminosity desaturation but in
fact before I do that I find I don't
know about you Christopher that's a
really star heavy every neighbors right
that's a just our way there's too many
stars okay so in order to get rid of
those while it's still a color I haven't
be saturated yet while it's still
colored noise I'm going to go into my
colors filters and do levels which
you're familiar with from Photoshop is
use Photoshop and grab the the shadow
one which is on the far left here the
triangle there that I'm dragging and
drag closer to the right and you'll see
what starts to happen is some of those
stars or the noise starts to disappear
there we go so when I found a spot that
seems pretty good to me
then i can hit okay you'll notice too
that I've press the one key on my
keyboard so I'm not zoomed out to the
full canvas because then it just looks
black I actually want to be zoomed into
ones that i can see that yeah there are
quite a few stars there so going to now
right click and go color desaturate and
change to luminosity and you'll see that
what's happened is just simply change my
stars to white dots in the sky but
because they were all different colors
previously they actually have different
shades of white grey silver that kind of
thing so I'm starting to get a bit of a
star-filled looking thing going on here
but there's something missing we don't
really have any kind of flares or
anything like that coming off we don't
have any kind of sparkle is what the
GIMP calls it so I'm going to right
click and go filters light and shadow
and sparkle and what Sparkle does is it
just adds a little bit of a shimmer two
points of light and things like that
because these are simple dots throughout
our canvas it's pretty easy to work with
luminosity threshold you'd probably want
it really really low not quite 20 but
I've got it at the very lowest setting
0.001 and my Slayer intensity let's
start at say 0.08 the rest of them I'm
just going to leave as default 2415 1
point 0 and n 0 the rest of the way
natural colors everything else hit OK
and we'll just see how that looks
okay so that didn't make enough of a
difference for me so what we'll do just
kind of tweak our settings I'm going to
zoom back out to one and let's run
another filter here notice what I did is
I hit ctrl Z to undo the last effect add
Sparkle again and let's change our
settings here just a little tiny bit
bring up the flare intensity to say
point for 14 and bring up my luminosity
threshold to 0 point 0 0 3 did you see
that yeah they just kind of popped out a
little bit i'm going to control Z to
undo and then control y to redo and you
see what's happened is some of them just
kind of brightened up a little bit i'm
going to show you what it's actually
done i'm going to zoom in a little bit
and here's one of the stars here and you
can see that it's actually added a bit
of a glow to that a bit of a glow yeah
it's a good word for it and so we're
really starting to get a star-filled
kind of look I want to i'm going to ctrl
z and i'm going to add i'm going to make
it a little bit heavier just for you at
home so you can see what this does i'm
going to increase my luminosity to 0.004
and my flare intensity to 0.18 well i
still have my selection there let's try
that again filters repeat sparkle there
we go so that's a much more extreme
example that's not quite what i would do
but i wanted to show you so that it can
be really clearly seen on your screen
what we're actually doing we're adding
this kind of shimmer kind of sparkle to
those to those stars so i'm going to go
back into that I've undone it and I'm
going to find the threshold that works
for me and a lot of it and Krista you
know this from graphic design but a lot
of it is just kind of playing with the
settings I'll undoing and redoing and
going back and forth until you find that
perfect threshold it's going to it's
going to change based on the size of
your canvas how many stars there are how
bright they are the sparkle you know the
settings will be different based
those various things so let's turn down
our luminosity to 0.2 and slayer
intensely let's try and that was 0.002
sorry and flare intensity to 0.15 and
there are the rest of the settings as
well and we'll hit OK and we'll see how
that looks that looks pretty good to me
you like that crystal yeah let's make
some glittery yeah nice and glittery she
says ok so next step is we need to now
we've got a beautiful star field and you
can use that if you like star fields and
you want to just go with that and said
that as your desktop background it's
pretty perfect looks really nice but we
want to add more we want to go all out
let's add a planet so what's involved in
creating something as unique as a planet
well let's get over to we're gonna use
the google search engine today and i'm
going to go into image search and here's
what we're going to do we're going to
try rock texture for example now you see
that there are a ton of different
textures here from Earth rocks what we
want to do because you may be using this
you may be distributing this you may be
sharing this you may be putting it
online in our case we're broadcasting it
on the air we want to make sure that we
have the rights to use the photos that
we're going to use so let's go into
search tools usage rights labeled for
commercial reuse and modification so now
we're only looking at photographs of
rocks that we are allowed to use
royalty-free and we're not going to have
any kind of lawsuits or anything like
that so so we're safe good tip so we
don't want cobblestones that's not going
to work for our planet surface but you
want to look into think think okay well
what would look like a nice surface from
space for a planet if we wanted to go
with something like a Mars looking thing
maybe that would work really well what
else could we go with if one stands out
to you Christo just say the word I don't
know there's so many that Cooper Jenna
different applications of it so I
probably I'd stay away from maybe the
silverish kind of stone go with
something with a bit more color
cuz it's more interesting as far as
against the night sky cool stuff though
I so let's go back up to the top I'm
just going to grab one here let's pick
what we're doing here is we're picking
the texture for our planet what it's
going to look like on the surface I
would say either something like that or
perhaps if we want to go something a
little bit more scourged by space dust
yeah i got you wanna go with that yeah
like Oh subtle okay so let's grab that
image where you a copy image location go
back to the game can go file open
location paste in the URL and open it up
so now we need to make sure that our
canvas is uniform square so we're going
to go image canvas size grab the
smallest number and paste it into the
largest number and then hit resize so
now we've got a perfect square canvas
and you see that the actual image
extends out past the campus so we need
to right click again and go layer layer
to image size and how we've got that so
next up we need to turn this into a
planet we're going to right-click
filters distorts and apply lens real
simple what we want to do with this is
we want to adjust the lens refraction
index to give that good round appearance
to our planet notice that there are you
know you see the edges there but you do
see a round circle earth sphere hello in
there ed yeah more the more you refract
it the more rounded you know the more
it's going to look like it's popped out
so we're going to find something that
looks realistic I'm finding with this
canvas which is about 2,500 pixels
square about a 11.8 to 1.9 is is good
I'd say 1.8 so now we're going to do
that and there we go now if this happens
I'm glad that this happened because this
is this is something that may drive you
not to fear not sure okay well why did
it all of a sudden give you this green
stuff at the bottom what happens there
is that the color indexing of this
particular file is off
there's something wrong with the file
the source image or it just doesn't
manipulate very well out of the box so
what you can do in that case watch this
I'm so glad that happen can't really
explain those kinds of things okay so
control a to select all control C is to
copy in your clipboard and now paste as
new image so now it's created a new
image with that image but now if all
goes well and I repeat the apply lens
I'm not going to have that weird issue
with the green at the bottom there we go
okay so we've just solved that problem I
can close the original image which I'm
no longer need now you can see that
you've got this nice sphere there but it
has the outer edge so we're going to
grab the circular marquee up at the top
there the ellipse grab the top left
corner drag down to the bottom right
corner hold in your left shift key to
make it so that it's a perfect circle
and then just let go and drag that
marquee just to the right spot and copy
it to your clipboard okay now back at
our space scene we're just going to
simply paste that in you'll see that it
is huge compared to our canvas so that's
not going to work let's paste into a new
image and now we're going to scale that
that's what it looks like now looking
pretty good let's scale it let's go
image scale image and we want it to be
about 600 pixels based on the canvas
size so now copy and paste that no
that's way too big still oh wait no I'm
zoomed in sorry there we go that's not
so bad this a little bit like Death Star
right now okay so now we're going to
just position that anywhere on our
canvas without letting a crop out to the
edges but now with the that layer
selected I want to right click and go
alpha to selection so you see what I've
done is I've created a marquee that is
specifically around that planet by right
clicking on the layer name and going
alpha to selection all right click and
go select and we're going to grow that
by we said it was 600 pixels so we want
to do about fifty percent of that so
let's make it
fifty percent of that is 300 pixels
we're going to grow that selection by
that much then we're going to feather
the selection and what that means is of
course we are at the den softening up
those edges i think is to see that's
going outside of the canvas I don't want
to make it that big again we would kind
of play that with that a little bit grow
that let's make it a little bit less
let's try 150 that looks pretty good ok
so now feather the selection to soften
the edge we're working with 1280 no 1920
x 1280 canvas so my feather should be
about three hundred and fifty pixels to
soften that edge and now if I create a
new layer and fill it in black watch
what happens not the layer but the my
marquee now my planet has kind of
disappeared as if it's it's kind of
there as if it's covered by an eclipse
so now deselect and drag that layer and
see what we're doing is we are actually
creating a shadow on our planet and we
now have a planet that looks now that's
probably well ok so real quick now let's
link those two layers together the
shadow and our planet so that we can
move it anywhere on the screen that we
like move it on our canvas to say over
here and you'll notice that my stars are
being covered by the shadow and that's
not the case because they are actually
in the distance so again let's right
click on our planet and alpha-2
selection then right click on our shadow
and we're going to add a layer mask and
that is based on the selection and now
you'll see that the stars now shine
through
now where's that light coming from
krista so much the thing let's make a
new air it's coming from the top left
area just like my demonstration image
but we want to create that light so
let's right click create a new empty
layer filters notice this is something
that I love about the GIMP Christa you
probably I don't know if you recognize
this as I'm doing it but one of the
things that I do love about the GIMP vs
Photoshop is that I'm working with blank
empty layers I don't have to have a
canvas that has material on it to
manipulate if I want to add a lens flare
for example I don't have to have have
something on the canvas in order to
flare it I can work with a completely
empty layer noting love so that's what I
and I say that because that's exactly
what I'm about to do which i think is
kind of a downfall of Photoshop and an
advantage to the GIMP which is free
filters light and shadow supernova and
we're going to position that where we
think this is a representation of our
canvas so let's position it where we
think the light point should probably be
color it white and let's start off with
very few spokes you don't want it to
look too fake you want it to look like
an ambiance kind of burst of light get
the radius up a little bit so that it's
quite bright and then hit ok and there
we go so now we've got a son we've got
the shadow in approximately the right
place which we can unlink the shadow and
we can move that shadow if we want to
improve the position of it and then we
can change the mask so let's remove that
delete the layer mask create a new mask
from here there we go so then we end up
with a more accurate representation
where the light would be falling and
there you have it so another under five
minutes flat pretty much and create that
kind of an image we did it in about 20
minutes tonight because we're kind of
walking your pee attaboy step by step
yeah but I thought that's as simple as
it is or well there you have it that is
our GIMP tip for this week make sure you
tune into more GIMP tips if you want to
learn how to use the free photoshop
alternative GNU image manipulation
program go to linux tech show calm and
look for linux look for the gimp tips
there
you
[Music]
