okay so I had an idea an idea I know and
I actually should have run this by you
danger everybody buckle in okay so at my
work we all have to like update
spreadsheets and everything and if a
spreadsheet is up and open on somebody's
computer and somebody else opens said
spreadsheet and makes changes then they
don't get saved because it's up right
you know I'm saying like if somebody
else saves and then they say and then
you save your overwriting the
spreadsheet exactly exactly
okay so you're picking up what I'm
laying down okay so I was just laying in
bed thinking about work like I should
never do but always do and I thought I
have Google Drive yeah you do yeah and
you can make changes you can collaborate
on things sure if that's safe and secure
and everything like like is that
possible I mean you're using the
spreadsheet example so let's let's
create a new spreadsheet for your genius
idea right so okay I'm gonna call this
our shared spreadsheet okay so I can
just put in some text write text and
then let's let's share this so share
write and who can I share this with
could I is it possible to share this
with everyone in the entire world anyone
anyone anyone more so normally you would
be a little more secure about this you'd
share it with people in your in your
company you share it with specific
people that you want to work with you on
this spreadsheet let's see what we can
do anyone on the internet can find
access no sign-in is required okay
anyone with the link let's try that and
then let's change it to can edit now
that's pretty insecure because I'm
saying anyone with the link can edit
this spreadsheet but let's let's say
let's try that I'm just going to pop
that over into discord and those of you
who are on Google Docs such as yourself
sacha right
could you bring up that link on your
Chromebook and let
see what happens okay if you were
actually to open that and anyone else in
the universe who's watching category
five during the live broadcast right so
you're bringing that up on your if I
just have just clicked the link to the
spread that's here yeah I'm new and then
open your browser which is down at the
bottom there she's on a Chromebook so
it's a little bit of a different a
different layout is that working hold on
try copying though maybe try copy that
link okay open link oh there's my option
sure I'll just copy link and just go
over to Chrome I do see some folks
already working you can see people
moving around in the spreadsheet you can
go okay so you're already in so now ash
is here and there are folks here yeah
and and so with this with Google Drive
and this is Google sheets we're actually
able to share and collaboratively work
together so I can say hello like I'm
pretending you're like as if it's a chat
but each of boxes are different people
see this so I can see that that's
anonymous Fox over here is anonymous
crow and then we've got crackin and duck
and sheep and bat all of these folks are
in the spreadsheet right now
collaboratively working together on this
spreadsheet in Google Drive and Google
Drive is a free service but you can
actually subscribe to make it better and
bigger and give you more features
basically more storage I mean I like to
I pay five dollars a month and I get my
email I get some extra storage so that I
can put things like videos and things
like that but it's a fantastic way to do
it Sascha
and you say well okay this is great it's
collaborative we can work together and
you don't have to worry about
overwriting each other's changes but
then what do you do when you need to
move it over to excel and you're like oh
but now it's on the internet in this
cloud service and so what we do sashes
we say file and then we can go download
as Microsoft Excel so now that we've
collaborated
gather right we can then download the
collaborated ready finished spreadsheet
and boom you've got that fully edited
and ready to go we've worked together
it's great for if you're in school and
you're working with a team or if you're
working it at work in your scenario
yeah it's a fantastic product and
tonight we're actually going to be
looking at also Microsoft is is giving
away their Microsoft Office oh I'm the
cloud for free Oh
which is a little bit of a competitor to
kind of the Google Drive Google Docs
Google sheets and all that stuff but it
really you know it's nice to know what's
available to us right so I'm super new
to Google right not super new but like
super new to Google as a I guess like
I'm not used to doing spreadsheets yeah
you're on slides and now I'm on a
Chromebook so now I'm like this is my
new home right and I love it but I don't
know all of the things yet right so it's
a whole new world and some people are a
little bit hesitant about the cloud and
I can understand that you you want to
keep your data close to your heart
you're right right that makes sense yeah
so with Google Drive you can install the
basically the software on your computer
to be able to back it up locally so that
you've got a local backup just like you
normally would but still have that
collaborative aspect right which is
ideal for business so I use it here at
category-five so that you and Jeff and
and Henry can see what's coming up on
the show I don't know if you even check
on it learn and you're learning but I
but I'd have that and and so we have an
actual folder for category-five and it's
all set up and I see people are still
working hard right so I can make it look
like I'm working hard here because folks
are putting up loads of pricing tables
and everything it's fantastic this is
absolutely fantastic nice from Germany
from Montreal sorry I'm this is yes so
if you're hesitant about the cloud
is kind of an option it just goes to
show how instantly I was able to create
based on your question
we didn't pre-plan know a spreadsheet
and have many different people that I
assigned access to remember I gave them
access right and now they're able to
collaborate with me so could they like
help with my homework then they could
right absolutely they I would never I
never ever cheat like that absolutely
not
[Music]
[Applause]
