hello and welcome back to new every day
my name is Carrie and my name is Jen and
on today's show we feel a song coming on
we're going to take a look at some of
the key Psalms that you've probably
heard a hundred times but I'm delve and
a little bit deeper and say do they have
to say to us tune in activation
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
welcome back to you every day so by that
you tuned in Jen we've already passed
Christmas we've passed new years and
passed paying off of our bills and we're
ready for whatever is next that's right
so so glad that you've tuned in wherever
you're at wherever you are in the world
we're always amazed with all the viewers
that we see from Brazil we saw someone
in Brazil France where else was there
Jen all over the USA it's all over the
US so thank you so much thank you to the
people who are generously supporting us
through your gifts if you go to our
website new everyday TV and click our
partners page you can go to patreon and
from there you can donate a quarter each
episode 25 cents or maybe a dollar each
episode and that's really going to help
us out and help Robbie Ferguson and the
team from category 5 TV keep new
everyday strong so thanks so much mm-hmm
so Jen on today's show we are going to
look at some one Psalm in particular but
the Book of Psalms is actually like a
songbook o is the song book in the Old
Testament and it's comprised by a lot of
people King David wrote a majority of
the Psalms King Solomon the sons of
Korah Moses which is very interesting
wrote one of the Psalms and i do not
know that I know that's cool eh you're
not something on your big day every day
I know new everyday look we can just
turn to Psalm 90 and and it says a
prayer of Moses the man of God so this
is the psalm I believe that is he wrote
coming up out of the Red Sea okay yes so
as I flip back so it's very interesting
we often think that all of the songs
that are in the Old Testaments are only
in the book of Song
but there's a song of Miriam right and
this is the song of Moses and then song
of David and in Samuel yes and then
Deborah has a psalm a song in the book
of Judges really yes so it is very
interesting as you read through the Old
Testament that you find these different
Psalms and so I'm going to trust that
Robbie is going to do his magic because
I'm i cannot currently find where it is
that's okay so Robbie
Oh
but basically the Psalms are have been
collected and arranged over time and it
was the handbook that the Jewish people
would use as part of their worship hmm
and so particularly what we're going to
pick out there's so many good ones and
there's so many songs that we sing that
come from the Psalms and so we thought
that we would just pick out a few that
have been personally meaningful to us
and what we're going to do we're just
going to read through them and we want
you the viewer either to close your eyes
or to read along on the screen and one
of those words that sort of jump out to
you and that's um it was very
interesting I had a conversation with a
young man who's interested in becoming
an Anglican priest and he was talking to
me about why they read the way they do
it's all in monotone voice have you ever
noticed that like Catholic and Anglican
priest read in this monotone voice like
that surface it's on purpose so that the
spirit speaks through the words and puts
the emphasis on the words that need to
be emphasized rather than the pastor the
priest picking the words that need to be
emphasized so that way it's all said in
the exact same way every time so then it
leaves it in the hand of the spirit to
do the work rather than the pastor
that's a very interesting way of going
about it actually I thought so too
because so often you know I read it the
same way every time than a you know I
you know you'll read it at somebody else
will read it's like okay because you
want to hear the different voice and
what are the words they're focusing on I
think there's something tremendously
powerful listening to the Word of God
like reading it is one way of taking it
in but there's something so different
about hearing the story about hearing
the song yes and hearing the words of
Christ who another reader i find it
tremendously powerful and sometimes a
lot easier to remember yes yes i agree
you know what's so wonderful about the
bible jen is that there's something for
everyone it's a historical book it's a
romance
it's a drama yes it's a comedy and
there's something for have the people
who love literature love poetry who love
music yes and actually one of the band
members in the band I am they if you
want to check them out you can get their
CD actually if you go to our partners
page and go to Amazon mm-hmm you can
find their CD there but I just really
appreciated this guy's story and
basically he had gone through a hard
time in his life and decided he played
guitar and decided one day that you know
what he couldn't deal anymore with his
life he was in high school and that he
was going to commit suicide oh my yeah
and he was thinking about doing it and
then a girl he met at school came up to
him and said oh hey like you play guitar
that's kind of cool so do I and so they
started talking and she said well why
don't you why don't we get together and
play after school tomorrow he said yeah
sure so they went went to school the
next day and then he brought his guitar
and then she didn't show up and so he
locked his guitar in the classroom and
he was going to go home and commit
suicide and this girl came running up to
him later and said no no don't leave
don't leave I'm here and he said oh I
left my guitar she said you can use my
guitar and then she started to share the
songs that she sings and it's based on
she says did you know that there's
actually song book in the Bible Wow and
then that's how she used the Bible to
start telling him about Christ and then
he got saved in God has given him new
life essentially because he was going to
take his life yeah I'll amazing well
it's so cool because this is actually
it's called the serendipity student
bible did you come upon it
serendipitously ah yes actually lady in
my church she was our small group leader
and she took us to a course and so this
is specifically geared for students so
there's all sorts of of helps all the
way through it for students to
understand the Bible better write those
moments when you read something you're
like what does that mean yeah and so
there's little things in it so I love
the beginning of the Psalms yeah it
right says the moods of the various
Psalms embraced the whole range of human
experience from exuberant praise to
despair from intense anger and doubt
about God's care to hope for a future
based precisely upon God's care they can
help us express emotions that otherwise
you might not have words for or feel
right about the Psalms catch the reality
of our up-and-down relationship with God
but they also move a set of the along
the path of not enough knowing God hmm
and that's what the Psalms are about and
that's I think one of the reasons why we
we picked them was like I said to carry
what what are some of the Psalms that
sort of stand out to you and you know
you immediately said you know certain
ones and and then I was like yeah those
ones are cool because they elicit
something as we've read them we've
connected it's where whether or not we
were feeling angry or sad or upset or
doubting God because so many of these
David is even saying are you even
listening to me where are you where are
you or he's like you're gonna smite my
enemies and you're like yeah and then I
should have been feeling this I should I
be feeling nice and you're like well if
David felt this way you know so well
then why don't we start read will read
Psalm 1 and it goes like this this is uh
NIV 1984 version blessed is the man who
does not walk in the counsel of the
wicked or stand in the way of sinners or
sit in the seat of mockers but his
delight is in the law of the Lord and on
his law he meditates day and night he is
like a tree planted by streams of water
which yields its fruit in season and
whose leaf does not wither whether he
did whatever he does prospers not so the
wicked they are like chaff like the wind
like the wind blows away therefore the
wicked will not stand in the judgment
nor sinners in the Assembly of the
righteous for the Lord watches over the
way of the righteous but the way of the
wicked will perish hmm so Jen you said
immediately that this is one of your
favorites so why is that every time I
read this Psalm I
get a picture okay of a tree beside a
river and its roots are just drinking so
full in that river that nothing is ever
going to knock it over and it says
wonderful big like below no like just
this leafy big wonderfully shaped maple
tree you know with the perfectly round
the thick trunk and those wonderful like
roots that are going down and you're
like the kind of tree that you want to
lean up against and you're like yeah
this tree isn't going anywhere solid
shade it's solid like your whole thing
is solid and and you want and like harry
said it's solid shade like you're
sitting there and you're like yeah and
then the fact that you know it says and
who's lee it says which yields is fruit
in season and whose leaf does not wither
whatever he does prospers like it
reminds me that if I delight in the law
of the Lord that means the Torah or you
know the entire Scripture or and for
David in particular it was the Torah he
was given the Torah and all kings were
we're told write out your own copy of
the Torah get it inside of yourself so
that you worship me that you know what
the Torah says yeah which i think is one
of the reasons why when i do my
devotions i write out the verse there
was something about reading it and
writing it and then making sure I'm
writing it correctly hey because then it
comes it comes in it becomes part of who
I am and so David is saying you know his
like a tree planet like so to be that
that tree that steadfast tree it comes
from meditating on the Word of God like
if we want to be rock solid we need to
delight in the law we need to meditate
on it and it also goes on like before
that says it does not walk in the
counsel of the wicked or stand in the
way of
sinners so he's saying what the what
what that man does in verse 2 about what
he doesn't do yes is also important yes
yes so it's like he gets his counsel not
from wicked people so he's actually
mindful of who he listens to I think
sometimes we forget about that who are
we surrounding ourselves with who's on
that inner circle I'm reminded about
what Paul says about not being yoked
with unbelievers and we often think well
that's business partners or that's your
husband yeah but we don't those people
who are on the inner circle who pour
into our lives do they know Jesus are
they walking with the Lord and if they
aren't walking with the Lord how much do
we allow them to speak into us and I
think that can be hard especially if you
don't come from a Christian family or
maybe you're the only christian in your
home but i think that's where the beauty
of the church body comes into play yes
and we just had a meeting tonight at
church and I was so thankful for the
older women who have really encouraged
me over over my life so if you're not
part of a church family i encourage you
to step out find a bible-believing
church that preaches the gospel and
preaches Jesus according to the Bible
and get connected there with other
people who can really encourage you yeah
mm-hmm and so where it says you know he
doesn't walk the things he doesn't do
doesn't walk in the counsel of wicked
doesn't stand in the way of sinners or
sit in the seat of mockers but he does
delight in the Lord and as a result I
always liked the if-then statements he
have if you do this then this will
happen yeah and there are so many of
those things in Scripture excuse me I
think we forget about that if we if we
meditate on the law if we are careful
about who's pouring into our lives and
who are hanging out with then we really
be will be like that tree planted by
streams of waters who leaves don't
wither who brings forth fruit in season
whatever he does prospers now that does
not a good deal is a good deal you would
think it is a good deal and you know and
prospers means does well it doesn't mean
you're making a million dollars every
day but it means whatever you put your
hand to ya prosper like Joseph yeah
there will be blessing in it yeah and
then I love the fact that it goes on to
say not so the wicked they're like chaff
they are like chaff that the wind blows
away and they will not stand in the
judgment nor in the righteous in the set
Assembly of the righteous like because
they are choosing not to follow God they
will not receive heaven and it's very
clear like the righteous to be righteous
means to be right with God it doesn't
mean that you you know you do all the
right things because lots of people
think that they're good and there are
lots of good people but they're not
right with God and that is the only way
to heaven is to be right with God in the
only way that we can ever be right with
God is through the work that Jesus did
on the cross I think as believers
sometimes we can get caught up in the
good things that we do and we are called
to do good things but that's not all
were saved by yeah and you know I got to
admit that recently you know I've been
really busy doing things doing lots of
things you know helping whatever but I
was neglecting spending as much time in
the Word of God yeah and when I look at
what it says but his delight is in the
law of the Lord and in his law he
meditates day and night I realized that
a lot of what i was listening to was not
actually the word I never listened to a
lot of music I listen to a lot of
podcasts sometimes teaching about like
philosophy and medicine and all that
stuff which is good but it's not the
Word of God which is transformative yes
and so I decided for a week to not
listen to those things and to only
listen to an audio Bible hmm and I
thought maybe I wasn't taking in a lot
of it but I noticed that my disposition
has changed the way I my first thoughts
are not the same they're more geared
towards thinking about
God or to pray about someone else yeah
so you know that's an easy way to be
meditating on the Word of God is just
kind of replacing something else you're
listening to with with the word kind of
so cool yeah but that's that's an
example of how you can get the Word of
God in is by fasting from something like
fasting from you know watching a half
hour of TV or netflix and say you know
what I'm going to take that half an hour
and I'm going to spend it with the Lord
it because so often people are likely I
don't have time to read my Bible and we
want to encourage you as we're beginning
this new year or whenever you happen to
listen you know it's always a new start
then just make a new start don't say
well I'll just wait till next week or
I'll wait till neck make the new starts
a day his mercy is new every day and
verse 6 says for the Lord watches over
the way of the righteous but the way of
the wicked will perish like don't put it
off don't put it off if you're feeling
convicted now like okay I need and then
just push pause on the video right now
oh and go open it up and just go open it
up turn to someone and let God speak to
you yeah but it's interesting every time
and I love the fact that this is at the
very beginning of the Psalms because it
draws me in I want to read more because
I want to be right before God but i also
want to produce fruit but that comes
from that relationship with god it's
like I love Jesus and because I love
Jesus then I want to do I want to do the
right things i do want to produce fruit
but then that comes from wheat reading
his word which causes me to love him
even more which it's this cycle that we
need to get in and it starts by reading
the word and that comes you want to bear
fruits of righteousness and the New
Testament talks about the fruit of
righteousness right and we're righteous
by faith in Christ so we can't actually
bear fruit that's right just unless we
are first in Christ realizing what he's
done for us yeah and then reading his
word yeah right so as we finish off this
episode there's a couple things we want
you to think about specifically who is
pouring into your life who is in your
inner inner circle who are you listening
to are you allowing
people who don't know Jesus to be the
main the lattice wise they need to be in
your life no we're not saying not to
have them in your life but what we are
saying is who's the loudest voice so
making sure that you take stock of who
actually speaking into your into your
life and secondly are you delighting in
the law of the lord are you spending
time in his word so that actually that
becomes most loudest voice at all of all
so that when people say things or stuff
happens then you go to the word you're
like okay well this is what the Bible
says yeah so we encourage you to do to
do those two things to take stock of
who's the loudest voice and secondly are
you meditating on the on the Word of God
and then are you producing fruit are you
producing righteous fruit as Kerry says
and I realize that it's always in cycles
and some days we produce way more fruit
and sometimes it feels like it's a
drought but the Lord has a seasons right
it's there are seasons to fruit
production and so we encourage you to
spend some time with Lord reading over
some one and and ask him to speak to you
about those three things all right well
why don't we just pray all right thank
you Father for your word mm-hmm I pray
that you'd write it on our heart and
mind it has us to delight in it and that
you use your were your truth together I
pray that you would help us and our
viewers to hunger and thirst for
righteousness and to be reading your
word regularly thank you so much thank
you so much for them thank you so much
for Jen and Robbie and just the whole
team that makes this happen it's in
Jesus name we pray amen amen well we
look forward to seeing you next
same time same website new everyday TV
and I'll put your tune in for another
self I feel a song coming on right on
next week
you
