welcome to category five technology TV
great to see you this week we've got a
fun show for you we are reviewing some
products we're gonna actually learn how
to turn a guitar pedal essentially into
a controller for your computer in our
case we're gonna learn how to turn it
into a controller for camera switching
with Telestream Wirecast that's gonna be
a lot of fun also we've got a really
cool lamp here it's got a couple of
surprises that you don't see every day
in an LED lamp stick around we're going
to show you that one as well
nice here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom Microsoft has
ended production of Kinect its motion
tracking games controller it may sound
like an April Fool's prank but no Amazon
really does want you to give their
delivery drivers a key to your house a
Google company chose Toronto Ontario as
the building site for its futuristic new
city a Microsoft rep had to switch to
Chrome during a presentation because
edge kept crashing and remember the
robot that said it would destroy humans
well it just became the first robots in
the world to gain citizenship stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
it's nice to see you I'm Robby I'm Sasha
and I hope you've been having a very
nice week just a heads up right out the
gate now if your clocks did not change
this past weekend hours here at the
studio in Barrie Ontario are going to
change this coming weekend so that's
right that means if your clock changed
this past weekend everything's
hunky-dory and timing is going to be
back to normal now if your clocks did
not change however that means that the
show is going to be an hour early for
you next week only in a case that you're
watching live so keep in mind if you're
watching this on cable TV or on demand
if you're on YouTube or Roku or Cody or
plex or any of those platforms you don't
have to worry about it because those are
pre-recorded vs. live it's only if
you're catching the show live welcome to
our new viewers by the way those of you
who are watching on channel 33 in the
high desert it's nice to have you
joining us if you're new here if you're
catching us on YouTube or wherever
you're watching please get on over to
our website category 5 dot TV check out
all the things that we do and let us
know what you think about what we're
doing I was talking about now obviously
this past week was was Halloween yes and
I was talking to back at the night
before so Monday night I said you know
are we all said everything is good
because I knew I was gonna be getting up
that morning Halloween morning going to
work and then meeting the family
elsewhere we're not gonna have time to
do anything because that leads right
from work to trick-or-treating right
said you know is there anything that we
well I couldn't find any candles for the
pumpkins
I you know this is the night before
Halloween folks I went to two different
stores
everybody's cleared right out of tea
light candles of course
never fear baby your maker husband to
the rescue but all I had was a couple of
LED bulbs that are basically well you
know fifty bulbs per lightbulb Oh Oh
which is fine it's all I had so you know
being the maker that I try to be I
decided to get out some old cat5 cable
and I cut off the rj45 from the end
basically turn an ethernet cable a
internet cable into a power cable no way
cut the end off of a 12-volt power
supply plugged it all in got everything
working in a parallel circuit and fired
up those pumpkins and it was like
staring into the heart of a supernova no
way super oh yeah stop laughing when I
saw this the picture and the fact that
my phone actually lens flared when I
tried to get a picture of it that's
hilarious
it worked anyways but that's the the
would be maker trying to help out right
did work had you known that that was
yeah how'd you know that was the case
really you could do those pumpkin
carvings wear you don't carve all the
way through you just like scrape a
little bit and so next year like don't
destroy this idea in any way next you're
just like carve with a spoon or however
you do it to like to make it thinner you
say that because actually like a thick
pumpkin yeah my daughter's pumpkin there
on the left was translucent that's how
bright this light was oh so but it's LED
doesn't generate any heat so I thought
well you could probably you know put it
in you know put it in a mason jar and
paint the outside of the mason jar or
something - you know dim the light you
could do all kinds of things how much I
saved the day anyway I saved Halloween
hopefully you had a fun and safe
Halloween I want to say thanks to orange
man who was thoughtful and sent us a
handful of SAS drives SAS drives I don't
have a SAS controller but I want to keep
an eye out for for an economical
solution so that we can plug these
things in
boot them up and and then do a
demonstration on Derek's Putin nuke
which I think would be really cool
because when you pull drives out of a
system you want to wipe them completely
so that any confidential data that's on
those drives is gone right there's your
search term as Derek's boot and nuke or
also called D ban DB a.m. okay what it
does is you boot up from a USB flash
drive or us a CD if you burn it to a CD
and it will basically wipe every sector
of any hard drive that's connected to
the computer oh that's cool
don't run it on your normal computer no
but you can use this for things like
this where orange man sent us some
drives and we don't know what
confidential data is on there so we want
to wipe them out in order to protect the
confidentiality of that information so
that might make a really cool little
demonstration be a helpful demonstration
so that everybody who say wants to give
their computer or use computer donate
right so just know how to wipe your own
dress well the fact is is when you
delete files off your hard drive can you
believe that they're actually still
there we've talked about data recovery
services in the past where you format a
drive and accident you know and
accidentally delete all your files and
then take them to a data recovery lab or
use something like photorec and be able
to get those files back because they're
not actually deleted mm-hm
so yeah if you give away your computer
or sell it or something you want to make
sure that everything is absolutely gone
but really you know I'm a real firm
believer in recycling and you know
reusing things that can still be used
until they're no good anymore right so
the whole idea of smashing the hard
drive to protect your data that's fine
it protects your data but that drive may
have another five years life in it it
really is wasteful right would help us
with that so I guess that kind of leads
me to say hey if anyone has a SAS
controller PCIe send it over to the
studio and that will give us a chance to
try out these drives Orangemen sent us
315 K drives and two 10k drives okay so
what be pretty cool quickly what a SAS
driver is the SAS Drive is a hard drive
but okay it's not SATA it's not MDOT -
it's a different interface ok SATA
versus yes
your computer builds yes so this is it
just a different one okay
you're a different protocol as a matter
of fact to be completely accurate but I
don't have any computers that use it so
right you need that card again in order
to give us the ability to use those
drives plus cables I guess I would need
as well so oh that'll be a fun show that
would be that will definitely be and
speaking of now we I mentioned your
gaming rig series now we did a 10 part
series where sasha Rickman built a
computer from nothing to a fully running
gaming computer it's right at your house
right hooked up to what you've got a 60
some-odd inch yes 4k TV it runs awesome
great yes it's perfect I will say I need
to find a different Mouse your mouse has
a little bit of interference right now
wireless mouse so the keyboard works
well yes which they came as a kit as a
set they were pretty cheap like they
weren't they I mean they got overly
expensive so so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna try out a couple of the
different mice that we have at the
studio and that I use myself personally
and plug them into that computer see
which one gives you the best response
and Sasha was asking why would that be
why would it work in some cases and not
at home and you know you think about a
mouse it's a wireless piece of
technology you might have a portable
phone in your house that's using a
similar frequency and interfere they
have elect other electronic components
that are interfering with that wireless
connection it could be your your
wireless router could be right same
frequency 2.4 gigahertz and frequencies
you know channel 10 somewhere its
channel 7 you know whatever it happens
to be so that may be the cause right you
try a different mouse that's a different
frequency that's you know when we were
kids we with our remote controls you
remember the remote control cars I had
to have a 49 megahertz one and my
brother had to have a 37 megahertz 100
they might be controlling it in both
cars would be going right to different
frequencies interfering with one another
very simple example that really brings
it home and makes it understandable
anyways you know something else that was
very interesting about my Dave's
super awesome new computer well when we
were setting it up and looking at it on
the screen
we noticed that all of the fonts and
everything because it's 4k and we sit
far away was so super small right so
luckily we have a great friend named
Ravi who said what exactly did you do it
was like a little like the little icons
that it can click I created to bash
scripts one called 1080p and one called
4k and within those bash scripts these
are Linux batch files if you will
very very simple programming I used an X
R &amp; R command in order to change the
frequency and the resolution of the
display so basically what I did is the X
R and R and then told it to scale HDMI 0
which was the first HDMI output which is
plugged into your TV right to 1920 by
1080 at 60 Hertz ok and so when you
double-click on that and run it it
changes it to that frequency because
that's the only command in the file
then you click on the 4k one and it
switches it to 4k which is 3840 by
perfect so we are using that like so
often you would not oh yeah imagine web
on a 62 inch or 60 whatever inch TV huge
TV right and when your font is this big
because of such high resolution at 4k
exactly so yeah we're searching
everything we're searching you know 4k
videos so that we can wow our friends
and then we switch pop it back in and
play this one surround sound come on
over HDMI which linux detected just fine
and yes we definitely have to get a new
mouse when we get have to get some games
loaded on there it turns out dave steam
account was under an old email address
and he couldn't find his password so
there's a lot of the and they're helping
him they're going through yes but he
made over his account so he gets the old
games back exactly but it's a little bit
of a time-consuming venture but what can
you do worth every second and speaking
of time-consuming if you want to spend
five hours watching that series I know
the entire rig from the beginning to the
end you can watch all five hours if
you're a patron get on to our patreon
page
you'll see it there if you are not a
patron you can get over to Linux Tech
show comm click on videos and you'll be
able to watch all five hours of the
build I'm excited I saw that in my email
today because I because I'm a patron
contributor oh yeah so I can grab my
popcorn and watch myself build a
computer perfect we've got to take a
really quick break now when we come back
we're going to be taking a look at how
we can use the air turn stomp 6 in order
to control our computer
stick around whether you shop on think
geek gear best B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or
Amazon or even if you want a free trial
of audible you'll find the best deals
and support the shows we produce by
simply visiting the shopping sites you
already frequent by using the links on
our website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV and tonight we
are taking a look at a really cool
device from air turn it's called the
stomp 6 cool just the box I've actually
got the pedal as well
so essentially you may want something
like this as a controller for your
guitar effects or something like that
right kind of recognize that do you guys
see that that's kind of the heart this
device you can stomp sticks from air
turn and what it is is in fact a
bluetooth keyboard with 6 keys oh ok so
we're gonna talk a little bit about what
that means for us but essentially I mean
if you're a musician this is fantastic
you've got an iPad or an Android tablet
you put your sheet music up on the
screen and then you can flip the pages
with your foot right so you've you're
jammin and you've got the sheet music on
the screen for a beautiful also you can
pick up like a quarter inch input for
your phone plug your guitar into your
phone
and then out into an app or pair of
headphones and then use a stomp six as
the controller because it's bluetooth
right where your phone so now it becomes
a guitar effects pedal on the cheap like
they're not expensive Hey that is cool
but because it's a bluetooth keyboard
what else can we do we can connect it to
a computer and then there is no limit to
what we can do we can program if we want
to do some makin we connect this to a
Raspberry Pi and make it do all sorts of
cool stuff right
basically it is a fully wireless
Bluetooth controller that we can tell
the software what we want it to do
because it's just six different keys on
a keyboard okay first of all the first
thing that we need to do is we just need
to fire it up just holding the power
button you're gonna see a little light
flash and then over here on my windows
system now I've got Windows 10 in our
broadcast computer so this is going to
be really interesting tonight Sasha
because we're actually going to bring up
our screen which is going to cause a
rift in the space-time continuum because
we're broadcasting live I'm gonna bring
up our screen on your screen so that you
can see the configuration steps that I
take so there's us Oh thumbnails there
I'm way below okay so one second delay
on thumbnails so let's get a look at
what Windows says to us so I've got this
thing powered on let's go Bluetooth and
other settings there we go so you see
the air turn there is connected
brilliant so it's really easy I mean
it's just a Bluetooth device but it
connects just like that so now if I
bring up something like notepad and all
I'm gonna do let's see if can you see me
and the thumbnail there I'm just gonna
hold up the keyboard and just push the
first key basically the first pedal and
what that's done is its output the
number three so this first pedal is
basically just the number three on a
keyboard right now Telestream Wirecast
is the software that you saw there on
your screen and that's what it looks
like to us here in the studio other than
we've got some crazy stuff happening in
the preview window because we're kind of
a bit of a loop but that is broadcast
software it's perfect for web casters
like ourselves television shows sports
casting it's got everything for sports
casters including the ability to put
scores up on the screen in real time
it's got I mean it's perfect for
churches that want to broadcast their
services every Sunday great businesses
or town halls city halls that want to
broadcast meetings it's a great piece of
software to turn a computer into a
broadcast suite but it's sometimes tough
Sasha to have somebody always operating
that did you see all the buttons and
stuff that I have now I've watched
screen controller here as well
so when I touch things that's it's
moving around that way but you don't
always have someone to do that so having
a foot switch like the stomp 6 from air
turn is gonna make things a lot simpler
but the question becomes how do I now
turn this Bluetooth Keyboard if you will
this Bluetooth foot switch which is
powered by a single 9-volt battery right
how do I make it work with Telestream
Wirecast that's what I going to show you
tonight folks let's see so let's head
back over to notepad and you'll see that
3 is the first button when I press the
button so that means that I'm actually
in mode 2 and I know this from the
manual so if I press the second button
it's a semicolon if I press the third
button it's a P the fourth button is a
capital R and then a space and then the
last one is actually control Z so this
tells me that mode 2 now I've chosen
mode 2 as the best option for this
particular use case you can change the
mode there are four different modes and
it changes what the keys output okay you
can set it mode one where this is page
up page down and so on so there are
different things that you can do with it
with the four different modes
I think mode 2 works really well for
Telestream Wirecast because of the fact
that we have all standard keys from a
keyboard but then number 6 which we use
as our programming key is a control key
so unfortunately that key is not
compatible with Telestream Wirecast
that's because it's the undo key so now
what we end up with is 1 2 3 4 5
controlling Telestream Wirecast and then
control Z which is undo so it's a quick
foot flip to undo whatever it is that
you have done right typing and you need
to undo it real quick there you go
so jumping back here let's get a look so
we've got this thing connected in mode 2
and really really simple to change folks
you've got the manual if you pick one of
these up you get one a cap 5 dot TV /
air turn but all you do is you just hold
in button number 6 with your foot or
your finger and then it starts flashing
in the flashes you count them one two
three four boom you're in mode 4 if you
let going right 1 2 let go now you're in
mode 2 could not get easier oh it's so
simple alright and the manual shows you
what the key sequences are for each of
those and we know it from bringing up
notepad as well so let's get a look at
Telestream Wirecast so first of all I
need to tell Telestream Wirecast
hey how do I communicate with this
particular device it's really simple
because as I mentioned Telestream
Wirecast works with keyboard hotkeys so
in this case I can click on add and I
can call this stomp 6 button 1 and then
over here in the right hand side now all
I do can you see me on the thumbnail I'm
just going to push button 1 done and it
entered a 3 ok now I'm going to set that
to global so that it doesn't have to
have Telestream Wirecast as the
foreground application in order to
switch ok
that's handy you may want to turn that
off if you are commonly switching over
to Facebook and things like that well
broadcasting because as soon as you hit
3 boom your shot changes now I'm going
to add another button and I'm gonna call
this one
stomp 6 button 2 and then I push button
2 on my stomp 6 and it put a semicolon
make it global then I add the next one
stomp 6 button 3 you're getting the idea
right oh yeah three there we go it's a
capital P now all I do is I exit out of
that and I now I've only done the first
three buttons because we are just doing
a demonstration you get the idea you can
have multiple devices set to different
modes and then you can have one two
three four five as some
witches then you can have another stop
six set it to a different mode I have
one two three four five six or whatever
you want to do and program them
independently of one another so that
you've got multiple devices controlling
different camera shots okay
so over here at Telestream Wirecast now
that it knows how to communicate with
this device I'm gonna simply right-click
on my shot and go keyboard shortcut and
assign it to any one of the keys that I
set so but number three hey is now going
to be this shot our main shot now if I
look at you there on the green screen
and I right click and go let's make you
button number two now watch what happens
so button number three we're already on
that shot now if I push button number
two guess what happens push number three
again see super button to button three
I'm just putting it off my finger but
here's the idea here is with a stop six
you put that on the floor it's out of
the vision of your viewers and it's
something really really easy in order to
switch between shots I like to use like
a P touch labeling system to also put
you know Sasha shot main shot in shot
that kind of stuff put it right on there
and of course it's reusable for from
task to task right now that I've set it
up with Telestream Wirecast it's not
just a Telestream Wirecast controller I
can now take it to my jam and start
using my phone as a guitar effects pedal
as well very slowly makes it seem like
there's a whole crew it really does
right super super easy to set up and
there you have it that's how you do it
on Telestream Wirecast and that again is
a suite of software that turns a
computer into a broadcast system and it
is available at cat5 dot TV slash
Wirecast check them out it's a great
suite of software it's what we use here
at category-five TV but I love
absolutely love adding the air turn
devices to the mix because it gives me a
way to switch shots really easily really
seamlessly and usually you probably
don't even know that it's happening
because I can just flip a switch with my
foot right
cool as that check them out a game cat
five dot TV slash air turn well Sasha
we've got to take another really really
quick break when we come back we've got
something from JB's I want to show you
another great tool for broadcasting but
it'll go really nice in on your on your
office desk as well right
stick around you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat five dot TV slash Linda learned
software technology creative and
business skills you can use today to
help you achieve your professional goals
join today and start learning will give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat five
dot TV slash Linda welcome back this is
category five technology TV nice to see
you sash is here with me yes I am you
talk more well hey everybody here's
something that's pretty cool though that
would go oh were you going to say
something no I'm excited about this next
product that we're showing too because
it's almost Christmas because Dave now
isn't like banned from watching this I
will tell you I you want this so listen
up
this is this is actually really cool now
you remember Joe bees do bees make
fantastic products they make the the
bluetooth headphones that actually work
as hearing aids as well right so you
know they make some really innovative
stuff but what they've done here is an
affordable desk lamp and I know we're
thinking Oh desk lamp right I understand
that but this one is really really cool
I want to tell you a couple of key
points about the jeebies lifestyle lamp
first of all I mentioned just before the
break that this might be good and
kind of like a home studio environment
if you're right shooting some pictures
or some video this would be good you
want to know why why I do want to know
why when we're working in a studio we've
got these great big soft boxes all
around us they are key to our production
because they are daylight balanced they
have a special kind of light bulb that
is like the Sun okay super super super
bright but it's the frequency the color
that they generate so it gives a much
better cleaner picture right now this
light has multiple different frequencies
that you can tune into so by simply
pushing a button and I'm not sure how
well you're going to see the change on
your screen but I can actually select
between twenty eight hundred thirty four
hundred forty five hundred and even 5600
Kelvin I can change the color frequency
so that makes it multipurpose if you're
reading at night you want something
really low frequency so that it's kind
of like an orange e hue right like a
warmer light right and then during the
day or when you if you want to use it as
something like a broadcast lamp which i
think is a really great idea especially
considering the form factor you can set
it to like 5600 Kelvin which is daylight
beautiful light you can also adjust the
brightness so I can actually turn it up
and again I don't know how well this
translates on a camera but it does make
a difference to us I also like here at
the studio I can set a timer of one hour
or two hours and it'll automatically
shut off so if you want to turn it on
and then have it turn off for you
automatically right it's just a single
touch and these are all touch sensitive
buttons not even buttons you just touch
them like you know those touch lamp yeah
it's just like that very neat now what
does this have to do with tech Robby
okay great I'll give it that you can
change the frequencies of light without
having to change the lightbulbs usually
you have to do that to get different
frequencies right what makes it so cool
from a tech perspective any idea well I
feel like I have an idea I've ever heard
of Qi yes I have
so sash has got a particular little
phone here that that she brought in and
sat down next to this lamp and suddenly
it started charging the phone because it
has Qi compatible charging there goes
it's charging it's at 81% and your
screen has just come alive so let's get
a look at actually in the box and I know
that there are some instructions here
that tell us a little bit more about it
so nice you know nice design right folds
down and is you know I don't even need
to really get into the box because of
the fact that I've got one already set
up here but we can articulate it we can
do all kinds of things it does not
swivel left and right but it goes up and
down and can be kind of tilted in such a
way that you can get it out of your eyes
or tilt it up and kind of illuminate the
room a little bit so but the Qi
technology is really from a technology
standpoint this is something that we
want to start seeing in our devices so
as far as that goes what it means is if
you've got a phone that has Qi
compatibility if you've got a SmartWatch
if you've got any device that has the Qi
logo on it it will charge it by just
simply putting it on top of this lamp
which is perfect so we're talking
Samsung Galaxy s6 s6 edge s7 s7 edge
Nexus 7's Nexus 4 is five sixes nokia
lumia x' motorola droid maxx droid mini
moto 360 smartwatches the list goes on
HTC has it LG has it and so much more it
says oh I just saw g3 it's not
compatible with my g3 oh wow grade two
something newer I hear what you're
saying to be use however things like the
iPhone 6 even down to the floor you can
buy special cases that have Qi and will
automatically charge as well same thing
with the pen pen tax and BlackBerry's if
you have a Z 30 or something like that
so this will charge your phone just by
simply setting it down no cables but oh
my lg g3 doesn't have support for it so
what do I do it also has a USB port in
order to plug in my phone for
standard charging well that's not so bad
pretty brilliant so all in this nice
little form factor you can get it at cat
five dot TV slash lamp slash lamp ya can
get it for Sasha for Christmas days is
coming and you know we it's November
first it's like the day after Halloween
while we're shooting this right yeah and
here we are already talking about
Christmas gifts wow it's almost ha got
to be considered gotta be I love lamp
that's cool hop into the newsroom I
certainly do awesome alright here are
the stories recovering this week in the
really does want you to want to give you
that their delivery drivers a key to
your house a Google company chose
Toronto Ontario as the building site for
its new futuristic city a Microsoft rep
had to switch to Chrome during a
presentation because edge kept crashing
and remember the robot that said it
would destroy humans well it just became
the first robot to gain in the world to
gain citizenship these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
are you come on you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay are you building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost this
the category-five TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman in
here the top stories were following this
week
Microsoft has ended production of Kinect
its motion tracking games controller
Microsoft has confirmed that the gadget
originally sold as an add-on for the
Xbox 360 console and later bundled with
Xbox one will no longer be manufactured
this will bring an end to a player
sensing platform that was sometimes
finicky Microsoft was careful to note
however that support for the device as
well as development of new software for
the hardware by third parties will not
see in abrupt end the news hardly comes
as as as a surprise though given
Microsoft's push in recent years for
augmented and virtual reality
Microsoft is aggressively pushing games
developers towards its more powerful and
immersive not to mention lucrative
Windows mixed reality VR headsets for
their new titles while the few business
use cases there were for the Kinect are
being moved over to the hololens
Microsoft has already distanced the
Kinect from the Xbox with new consoles
no longer being bundled with the sensor
bar so what business use cases was there
for Kinect yeah picture it like gaming
like dance dance dance revelution right
stuff I think really what it boils down
to is like you think about an immersive
environment where an engineer for
example can work with blueprints and it
like think a Minority Report oh where
you can you know use hand gestures to
move things around and be able to move
them around but being off of the screen
and into hololens now you can actually
maneuver holographic looking also is
that what hololens is hololens just is
holographic like actual essentially like
from the wearer's perspective hololens
is a VR headset Oh
Microsoft's brand but what's different
about it unlike oculus rift or HTC's
units and things like that
it is not
virtual reality in that it's not like
you can't see anything else
typical virtual reality oculus and so on
our screen in front of your eyes right
hololens what's different about it is
that they are clear lenses in front of
your eyes so you're seeing the region
and then it's augmenting that world with
virtual holograms
so you see around you all these other
things right they're not actually there
so it's a different environment
altogether right you can see that
hololens could work really really well
in an engineering kind of scenario think
about architecture things like that I
would be fantastic and there's no limit
to what could be you know the creativity
of the programmers and what they could
do with hololens right starting naming I
have I have a big problem though with
the fact that if everything is VR
headsets or even holo lenses right then
with gaming how do you share your gaming
experience with other people in the room
obviously everyone brings their own raft
that would be awesome
no typically what would be done and
you've you've built your gaming computer
you've got four 4k video outputs on that
card plus a DVI output and you can do
mirroring so for example if you plugged
in an oculus rift and did video gaming
right sample and the wearer is
interacting in a virtual space but the
people in the room could be watching it
simultaneously on the 60-inch TV okay
that's important for me because I'm a
I'm a game connoisseur in the watching
fashion but I love watching the kids and
I love the excitement behind it exactly
but yeah it would be a little bit bland
if I was just was just watching somebody
with a VR headset on just moving around
and what do you see what do you see
what you just do yeah okay so it all is
not lost
no it should be actually either way this
is crazy
yeah
it may sound like an April Fool's prank
actually but Amazon really does want to
give their delivery drivers a key to
your house the new Amazon key system
allows delivery personnel to drop off
packages inside Prime members homes
providing secure home access when the
homeowner is not available
Amazon key works in two parts choosing
in-home delivery while checking out on
Amazon and providing access to your home
through Amazon's new key and home kit
which includes a smart lock and a
special version of the company's new
cloud camp security camera the
old-school method of leaving a key
underneath your doormat is inconvenient
and often anxiety inducing as well so
Amazon believes its new lock in camera
system will make accessing your home
when you're not around more secure
Amazon delivery employees aren't given a
passcode to enter the home rather they
request access into the home and
Amazon's records verify that the
employee is at the right address at the
right time
Amazon key will launch on November 8th
and 37 cities around the u.s. and works
with same day one day to day and
standard shipping orders you know what
which one of you watching at home or
yourself has ever put a key under a rock
under the you know in the front garden
and told Amazon to put your things in
the house never ever never ever ever
have you know yeah
goodness me I don't want Amazon walking
into my house no I will tell my
neighbors sometimes if there's something
big that's coming says I'm not here
leave it with Joe next door exactly but
Amazon in my house like how how is it
that the employee requests access to the
house even well it's a smart lock they
would have some way of you know they're
tracked by GPS by Amazon and Amazon you
know call center is in control of your
lock so when the delivery person arrives
then all of a sudden your cloud cam
turns on and so you can see on your app
that hey the delivery person is there
you can actually see them entering
house and Amazon will actually unlock
the door for remotely remotely right
yeah in a very secure situation they
don't literally have a key or a key code
right they walk up to the door GPS says
to Amazon headquarters hey they're here
with the delivery and they punch in
whatever in their their mobile device
and then Amazon opens the door there is
no way that that's not hackable it
really does seem like an app like a
April Fool's joke like it was not
November I remember in the old days it
beside your house you would thank me a
box there was one of my in that my
childhood home there was I think it was
like a milk delivery box to be honest
they opened just one little part and
they and there's like a compartment in
the side of your house and I'm through
they can't well and it's just big enough
for parcels yeah exactly I don't know I
can see you know we've talked about
people stealing Amazon packages from
people's front porches and stuff but
really you know that that really has to
be our responsibility to just like any
delivery system for for me I opened a
postal box when I get all my parcels
delivered to the postal box and then I
don't have to be there right and it
saves me a lot of trouble so homeowners
then if you have a theft in the house
any time after you've had a package
delivered what is your insurance gonna
cover because you've let somebody you
don't know into the house and perhaps
that person themselves would have some
sort of claim saying well yes I was just
delivering a package but that doesn't
save them from telling somebody else
let's go I mean assume assuming you're
cloud cam is active in working uh-huh
you can see what's going on you can see
who it is that's entering the house so
at least you give it that right but you
know I think about stuff like what if a
dog gets it what if you know this or
that or I don't know I just I'm not for
it I am NOT for what do you think
comment below please do I have an idea
Amazon actually why don't why doesn't
Amazon just sell like boxes that you can
screw to the side of your house or affix
somehow there are a lock box will step
back to the 60s right not not a problem
at all
Amazon box that they have a key to oh my
gosh see there you go goes on this box
outside of your house exactly
garbage bin and they just put your stuff
in there and then they lock it when they
leave that's what I'm saying
bring it on in random delivery people
access to my home Google know Amazon bin
we're gonna call it patent that register
the dot-com do it now okay
in awesome technology news Google's
Irvine innovation offshoot looked at
hundreds of international cities before
choosing Toronto's East Waterfront as
the best site for using technology to
radically remake the modern city Dan
Doctoroff chief executive of new
york-based sidewalk labs said his two
year old company looked across North
America Western Europe and Australia for
the best place to try new ideas
including self-driving buses and mass
production modular homes intended to
solve major problems of urban live
living such as high housing costs
commute times social inequality climate
change and even cold weather keeping
people indoors sidewalk labs settled on
Toronto for several reasons including
unequal diversity and spirit of openness
a booming tech sector and three levels
of government that are committed to a
waterfront Toronto's unfolding
redevelopment plans for 800 acres of
East downtown land Doctoroff said his
company will spend 50 million dollars on
a year long discussion starting at a
public meeting held today with citizens
governments universities and others
about what project what the project
dubbed sidewalk Toronto should be Google
Canada will move it to Richmond Street
headquarters to the area sidewalk labs
says it would have an insatiable
appetite for partnership with other
companies including local tech startups
as well as universities and others on
the build build-out officials stressed
that all plans are tentative until the
end of the consultations nevertheless
the sidewalk labs winning the
submissions paints a futuristic picture
trays
rotation would be provided by small
self-driving taxi BOTS controlled by app
services with self with self-driving
buses to follow an already planned
waterfront light rail line would link
new communities with surrounding areas
the flow of people would be monitored
and maximized by computer sensors
constantly analyzing data instead of
city garbage trucks rumbling through
streets robot vehicles would move waste
and other goods through underground
tunnels weather mitigation features
including windshields and possibly
heated surfaces could double the time
people spend outside and encourage
cycling and walking there are big
questions and challenges some worry that
Google which makes money with data about
people's lives could use the new project
in a way that jeopardizes privacy
sidewalk labs documents that were
released last month don't dispute that
such data will be collected but do try
to lessen such concerns with assurances
that security and privacy protection
will be part of the new infrastructure
lots of concerns there like lots of
really cool stuff happening right I
think like the future city is the future
but what about putting Google in
government basically like where who
elected Google to be the government of
this future city do you know yeah I do
know what you mean
yeah it's the money that good that
elected Google yeah it's yeah me money
did that yeah but do you understand that
like yeah they're gonna have to be
granted basically blanket ability to run
this community right to be the
government of this community essentially
true and if that happens well who you
know what what what does democracy have
to say about that and our voting you
know who are we voting for say you know
not to get political but there are
concerns I think that are quite valid
there I'm a technological standpoint
right so cool very cool one one question
I really have about that story was
social inequality being
change by technology which doesn't
exactly like it sounds like a little bit
of like pretty talk to me like why would
they say that why would they just add
that in one pound or how can that how
would that work I can see some other
things right like yeah you mentioned
that in immediately you know I know
social inequality but the word socialism
comes to mind and I start to you know
wonder is it is it a utopian society is
that what they're trying to build are
they trying to build something where
nobody is for want and everybody is
taken care of or you know what's the
deal right they talk about and the you
know the papers have talked about like
the release papers that Sidewalk labs
have released discuss low-income housing
and the ability for anyone can afford to
live here and and it's designed so that
everybody has access the transportation
system is accessible and able to
accommodate everyone from all different
walks of life so how are you going to
get a spot there because there's not
gonna be a limit right so that's just a
starting point the the idea is to expand
this right some like the future one
thing I love about this and I saw a
video a long time ago about solar
roadways and I feel like perhaps this is
the time right where that could actually
happen yeah great
and that's a cool idea to where the you
know the solar panels in the roadway are
able to absorb the sunlight during the
day and then feed it back into the
infrastructure at other times or even
feed it back into electric cars and
vehicles and things like that right
there is the thought to that if they're
doing away with garbage trucks they're
doing away with garbage truck drivers if
they're doing away with again socialism
comes to mind right I thought that hey
you know robots can do the job for us we
can just enjoy life and live for
different purposes in a way right you
know live to live right living to work
right I do love the idea of garbage
being taken away by garbage BOTS
underground tunnels which also means
that you could probably get your Amazon
or
through undergrad which is amazing
Amazon underground register.com for
ideas today okay a Microsoft rep has
been caught on video switching from edge
to chrome in the middle of a sales pitch
because the native Microsoft browser
kept crashing on him the presentation
was designed to show customers how easy
it is to migrate apps and data to
Microsoft Azure except it would seem
that that's not the case if you're using
Microsoft's own web browser edge nice
edge hangs that unknown Microsoft
demonstrator says I always love it when
demos break so while we're talking here
I'm just gonna install Chrome he
chuckles as the audience breaks into a
nervous ripple of applause it's all very
charming and friendly and everyone is on
the same side but it still makes for
slightly cringe-worthy watching he goes
on to complete the demo in the
competitors browser to a course of
giggles from the audience
Microsoft edge is currently way behind
its rivals in terms of market share in
particular Google Chrome it has a far
less developed ecosystem and the number
of bells and whistles and add-ons is far
less than the competition with some also
claiming the performance is bad however
for a company that is still trying to
convince the business market that it is
is really a really good idea switch from
windows 7 to Windows 10 Microsoft
employees giving up on the company's
default browser because it crashes well
running the default cloud interface is
not going to instill much confidence Wow
true so true that is crazy and funny and
crazy kudos to him I mean good job on
just you know what we're all people like
I mean you've got a you've got to go
with what works but you know it doesn't
that say a lot about edge I know and the
four people that you know get Windows 10
and don't know to install Chrome stuck
with edge ouch right why would
businesses be reluctant to switch from
seventh
ten windows seven well you remember when
Windows XP ended and you know there are
still people running it for the next
five years it just is it's hard to it's
hard to switch paradigms for one thing
but it's costly you think about an
industrial business that has CNC
machines and big equipment that is
powered by Windows seven and then tell
them oh by the way I know you just
bought this five years ago but you need
to upgrade just because we've changed
software but the computer still work the
CNC machines still work no I'm not doing
it so you get this real hesitation that
you we're not going to invest another
you know a hundred thousand dollars in
equipment and upgrades and then IT
support just because Microsoft says so
so that you get this kind of a kid
mentality like no I'm not but also I
think that you know why why do they not
want to switch to Windows 10 I think
they see stuff like this right because
it keeps happening my laptop
you notice my laptop is not on the desk
because I haven't had time to fix it
after the anniversary update right
because it completely it won't even boot
anymore so in a business when I hear
these kinds of things and I have a
hundred employees under me and I say are
we all gonna roll up to Windows 10 and
hope for the best or are we gonna keep
using what we know where we know what
we've invested some of software dollars
on it kind of begs the question like
don't they have enough money to make it
good like what why is it so yeah why is
it so underdeveloped wise edge versus
chrome like why isn't it working it
doesn't make sense to me with a company
that has that it seems like limitless
resources why is there there default web
browser behind zone I mean you ever
think about Chrome and the the release
system and the development platform that
Google has for that browser and you know
you've got pretty much weekly updates
happening to Chrome now look it now
enter that market now try to bring out a
new browser in that market and try to be
competitive with browser that has been
in development for many many years and
is getting weekly up
and getting features added weekly and
then try to enter that and compete
against that good luck you're going down
right if they weren't Microsoft they'd
be they'd already work on yeah
so then why bother because they want
control they want that monopoly without
saying monopoly that's true we want
everyone to be running our software
mm-hmm that's it crashes and then yeah
to install Chrome fantastic Oh
in March last year an empty eyed
humanoid robot named Sophia was asked
during a live demonstration at the South
by Southwest festival do you want to
destroy humans please say no and with a
blank expression Sophia responded okay I
will destroy humans and now a year and a
half later Sophia has become the first
robot in the world to be granted
citizenship saudi-arabia bestowed
bestowed citizenship upon Sophia ahead
of the future investment initiative held
in the kingdoms capital city of Verdun
on Wednesday Sophia told the audience I
am very honored and proud of this unique
distinction this is historical to be the
first robot in the world to be
recognized with a citizenship it didn't
elaborate on the details of its
citizenship at the event
Sophia also addressed the room from
behind a podium and responded to
questions from moderator and journalist
Andrew Ross Sorkin questions pertained
mostly to Sofia status as a humanoid and
concerns people may have for the future
of humanity in a robot run world Sophia
told Sorkin you've been reading too much
Elon Musk and watching too many
Hollywood movies don't worry if you're
nice to me I'll be nice to you treat me
as a smart input/output system she did
not say what would happen if he was not
nice to her fortunately for the human
race the Sophia robot made comments that
it wanted to use its artificial
intelligence to help humans live a
better life
and that it will do its best to make the
world a better place
Wow okay got in there there is Wow okay
first they made a humanoid robot and
they named it Sophia but that doesn't
make it she right or he a female it does
not like now right exactly like I'm
having a little bit of problems with it
it's still an answer remorse yeah it's
like an anthropomorphic fallacy thing
it's an it Sophia cool name for an it
but it's not but then it's a citizen now
right so that crosses some weird divide
too and and why is this just for
publicity is it what yeah I don't know
the motivation behind today it's weird
because then like it's progress and I
know that robots are you know a key
focus point but it's our official
intelligence right so that means that
somebody somebody's obviously
programming Sophia Hanson robotics right
so and so then if people like now if
Sophia is seen as as this individual
free-thinking citizen robot the citizen
mean is it individuality or just does it
even mean in this case can a bridge be
married right you know like but I think
as a free-thinking artificial
intelligence it is a hard line to to
really draw right because when when she
responds even though it seems like you
know semi canned answers sometimes are
they canned answers or is this AI
actually thinking and responding in the
way that it feels that it would and I
think it is because you know that's what
happened a year and a half ago when it
responded okay I'll destroy humans yeah
by becoming a citizen well
it's it seems weird and then what sort
of regulations are going to be put on
like do you pay taxes I know in some
cases Oh gates thinks that they should
right do they vote and who program that
vote in citizens can vote right in so do
political views of a robot right I mean
and in some countries there's a huge
divide as far as like gender roles so in
that case - there's a huge now being you
know where where she is I guess it's a
fine fine detail but there's a there's a
real uproar right now because she it is
considered a she right in a place of the
world where you know the uproar involves
things like her face is not covered
right stuff like this exactly this robot
have more rights as a female than a
female right and that's a whole other
can of worms that is erupting right now
over this whole thing it's just it's
slightly unsettling to me not slightly
it's unsettling it for somebody who
loves if Jeff was here he's he agreeing
with you I know somebody who loves
robots I love robots as robots here I
don't love robots yeah I don't love
robots being citizens having rights at
like this robot would have the right to
vote I would assume being that it's a
citizen yeah well that's a real big
question yeah what are your thoughts I
think we're just gonna have to open this
one up folks so if you're watching this
on youtube if you're watching this on
our website category 5 TV please comment
below if you're watching through cable
TV or somewhere else where you can't
comment just get on over to our website
category 5 dot TV and send us a note
we'd love to hear from you thank you
it's just too too big to really get into
it my brain is just blown
thanks to ROI W Nash in our community of
yours for submitting stories to us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman thanks Ashley
this is category 5 technology TV and it
has been a blast having you here again
this week I look forward to seeing you
again next week
but for today for this week that's all
the time that we have folks but we had
some fun we had a good time and we look
forward to checking in again next week
see you then
I see you
