all right I love internet radio because
it's quite often commercial-free it's
quite often free to listen yes and these
days it's really high quality like it's
like listening to CD quality music so it
actually sounds better in a lot of cases
than FM radio okay yes and I can tune in
from any of my devices so that means I
can listen on my phone and wear my
bluetooth headphones and listen around
the house whatever I want to do I use
shoutcast like crazy okay but show caste
it has gone through so many iterations
of the company and has been bought out
so many times and has changed hands and
you know I I was using show cash way
back in the early days of when app and
null soft and null soft encoders and and
the original shoutcast software those
were the good old days back when
emoticons were a thing it turns out yeah
but recently shell cast which is a
feature that we use quite a bit to
listen to music online has gone
commercial so when you go to the website
it's now all about okay it's all about
the broadcaster try it for free for 7
days it's all the commercial stuff plans
and pricing yeah yeah you got to pay you
gotta pay you gotta pay now you're gonna
find that the original directory still
exists Sasha it's still there we just
can't get turned off by the fact that
when we land on their website it's all
about the monetary end of things now
right now there is a link on their menu
to listen and that's gonna take you
there but I want to show you what we're
gonna do to get around this new homepage
is simply go to the old URL which is
directory dot show cast dot-com
directory dot shoutcast comm and hit
enter and that takes a boom right back
into the old interface just like we
remember it and you can tune into any
live radio station from around the world
that is broadcasting through their
platform so give me a John Ross Asha
ah coffeehouse coffeehouse is that a
genre like are you talking like a
coffeehouse like are you talking like
like folk or yes you're thinking more
like indie rock or something like that
or or coffee house would be like Otis
Redding and and the the great oldies
it's like that yeah yes Indian none of
these things are John Rah's indie rock
yes okay so let's click on rock mm-hmm
and then scroll down and see what they
have so they do not have indie rock
there's like British Invasion
okay classic rock garage rock glam and
it's pretty well organized and usually
we're gonna find stuff that we want now
they're seasonal and holiday which is
great for like Christmas music
Halloween's coming and we like to
actually put on the you know the Monster
Mash and all that kind of stuff is
playing on these radio stations for
Halloween so it's brilliant the kids
love it but let's so you can dig through
these there's classical I'm sure where
you'd find some of these things that
you're mentioning like the acoustic blue
that's close I listened to classical
we'll say let's say you want some
Baroque right so you click on classical
and then Baroque and look at all of
these stations that are available for
you in the Baroque John rrah okay
Vivaldi otos Baroque music went from one
dot F M and you can click on that and
hit play and you'll be listening to that
radio station right just like that
so directory shoutcast comm is how you
get there
[Music]
[Applause]
