[Music]
this is you every day with Jeff Weston
and L'Anse Creuse
welcome to new every day my name is
Lawrence Cruz Jeff Weston is away on
business I almost said vacation and with
us here again for a second episode is
Kendall all the way from Calgary Alberta
Canada and we talked some time about
Calgary there is beautiful city city in
the foothills of the Rockies yes the
Rocky Mountain Range yeah only 90
minutes from the community of bath but
which I understand is the number one
tourist attraction in our entire nation
so it's a very beautiful place
you're right nestled right in the heart
of the Rocky Mountains beautiful I have
an idea
yeah I think you should plan another
conference or something InBev she did it
once before invited me and I went and
might use some of this from there hey
wait a second friends just a moment I'm
getting some inspiration right now that
would be an idea sorry Jeff isn't here
yeah that means you have talked to me
about this you know and so we were
chatting about it but maybe next time
maybe an accent why you'd be able to one
two and three can you imagine well I
can't imagine because one thing that
isn't gonna happen to say well cruise
you had him in Ontario I'm gonna have
Ken and bam if he's going out there so
am i friends if you haven't been to BAM
be a nff Alberta Canada put it on your
bucket list absolutely it is definite
Lake Louise pristine it's beautiful and
hey we're here to talk about whatever
we're here with Ken who has many years
of ministry experience including
pastoral ministry much of that Ken how
many years was it I believe he said yeah
launched out in 1973 so this years 45
years of serving the king yeah yeah yeah
wonderful and I was privileged I
remember when I was a Bible College
student you came and addressed us as
students and it was a life-changing
experience for me to sit under your
ministry God met me at that time and it
great and other times as well as we had
shared how the Lord had used you and and
God spoke to me so clearly through you
and so that and here is about to do it
again today so well it's interesting you
know on your journey of faith you say
okay god I've said yes to you but what's
next right and that's the beautiful
thing about being a kingdom Explorer and
dis ain't God I don't know really where
I'm going but I'm following you
True North yeah I'm staying in your word
which is my compass I'm being led by the
spirit and the word it's very difficult
to go wrong you know you know and people
talk about missing the will of God look
when you're adopted into the family of
God as a child of God it's very
difficult to miss the will of God
because you've been adopted into the
will of God and the will is there and
you just need to get close to the Father
Wow and find the Father's heart and we
find the Father's heart things begin
just to happen you know I had a
gentleman say a couple of weeks ago
something that kind of took me back
there's like a paradigm shift he said
you know what we will probably not even
need to look at the subject of obedience
if we'll move into an intimate
relationship with god the father through
the son and we'll stay in the in the
center of father's love and let his love
be expressed through us me loving him
him loving me how do we go astray how do
we go straight yeah you know the
security of father's love is
over-the-top mmm you know my the
scripture in Colossians chapter 3 verse
1 says my life is hid with Christ in God
you know in such a world of insecurity
and anxiety and people being stressed
out our lives in Christ is hidden with
Christ in God now that's tight
that's tight that's tight and I love
living tight yeah with God my father and
I'm a friend of his and you're a friend
of his
and man abraham was a friend of god he
said to his disciples I call you no
longer servants mm-hmm how's that mm-hmm
I call you friend yeah Jesus says Jesus
call your friends and then he gave him
the rationale why because when you move
out of servitude into friendship
relationship with God he starts sharing
secrets with us and then we get this say
God what's on your heart what's in your
scripture that I'm not seeing open up
the word to my understanding we pray
prayers like this may you grant to me
the spirit of wisdom and revelation and
the knowledge of Christ that I may know
God better
not too shabby Hey nothing so we're on a
journey and those that are watching
today I'll tell you what has
revolutionized my life are the 13
prayers of Paul and I've taken those 13
prayers and to pray them until they're
one with my heart until those prayers
become my purse and you know what
Lawrence when you pray the Word of God
you cannot be any more centered in the
will of God and the purpose of God
mm-hmm because those prayers are
recorded in the scripture as Scripture
for our repetition and our learning Ken
there was a time when I would have
thought oh that's wrong it's just rote
you know my heart's not into it I'm no
longer there you found it value like I
said to literally you take word for word
like your eyes are open and you're
reading the scripture and making that
your own absolutely I've listened to
this one in Romans chapter 10 Paul says
my heart's desire and prayer to God is
that Israel might be saved
so I mean I I've been to Israel I love
the people of Israel ya know I know says
Center at the apple of God's eye I know
all of that but boy when I started
praying it's my heart says I'm prayer to
God is that Israel might be saved
as a nation so part of my repertoire for
3540 years is praying for the nation of
Israel praying for the Peace of
Jerusalem and his
taking a simple prayer like that and
it's a life shaper mm-hmm you know and
then the other one that this God would
grant to us a spirit of wisdom and
revelation I mean I need the wisdom of
God and I need knowledge I need all
those things that Paul was inspired to
write and the Holy Spirit allowed it to
be canonized in the scripture so that
means I can take direction I can set my
life as a compass from that part of
God's Word and just take those
incredible prayers of Paul was written
you can read them all through the word
you know Corinthians of Philippians 1
Colossians 1 Galatians 1 Ephesians 1
Ephesians 3 and you just have a look at
all these crazy prayers and what I found
is this is praying these prayers I've
discovered brings about spiritual
maturity in the heart of a believer
probably quicker than anything else yeah
because it's about enlightenment yeah so
the moment I move into alignment with
the Word of God the Word of God is the
will of God and I start living that out
I find I find great free agreement on
every word can we do that agreement
saying yeah okay
hey I'm praying this I'm wrapping my
will my affections in agreement with
what the Word of God is saying yeah yeah
I don't know how you can go wrong from
that way but centering ourselves in in
praying the Word of God and praying and
then it becomes out of my spirit man I
am articulating his prayers back to him
and there's a sense in which mm-hmm a
sense in which that he's obliged hmm to
pray to answer the prayer that he has
given us to pray well like I said that
we're not commanding God I know not God
he's God I'm son we're not and yet I
hear you hey but Lord did you not say in
your word we could say those things
right yes the strength hey could Lord
did you not say with a with a spirit of
sonship and the respect and an honor and
I mean can you say what God's gonna is I
wonder what he is he's potentially
saying well you know what son I did and
you're right I did say that and so
because my word
okay I said it I'm gonna do do you know
how I stumbled onto this no I don't
people becoming converts to Christ and
not knowing how to pray okay okay just a
second okay win relationship with people
who came to Christ
exactly and meaning you being in
relationship with yeah okay I just gotta
say I love that yeah
so you're formulating answers solutions
strategies even while you're talking
absolutely free saved and brand-new
correctly okay so they came to do the
word says study to answer right so not
be an answering machine
no but you read the word as a god would
you let my life itself be an answer to
prayer everybody wanting answer to
prayer why don't we become answers to
prayer yeah why don't you why don't want
but people come and say hey Ken what you
said today that was an answer to prayer
and I go out of my god yeah thank you
you want us to be an answer to the
dilemmas of people's wives oh that's not
arrogant no no this solution oriented
leadership you know helping them so new
believers is st. Patrick and pastor Ken
I don't know what to pray I don't know
how to pray you know and so here here's
some prayers and see they go well
they're in the Bible I said I know you
can't get it any better
oh my good it doesn't get it any good on
the English right get it yeah yeah Aaron
you start praying God's Word
I'm sorry and what happens here's what
happens yeah the prayers come off the
page they come into my spirit and I
become one with them yeah so these new
believers are saying and what it does
what it does it teaches them how to pray
pray accurately plate biblically and
pray spiritually and and I think every
one of the prayers dis upon me we pray
the Lord's Prayer eight how many times
the Lord's Prayer been great I prayed it
this morning okay Pablo John 17 yes
indeed I our prayer before we pray the
whole thing that really is the Lord's
Prayer right the other two sites life
right yeah so we get that prayer but I
think the prayers of Scripture but in
fact there are books on Amazon
where you can have Herbert luckier has a
book on all the prayers of the scripture
and let me tell you spend a year just
praying the prayers of God's Word okay
okay I got to tell you something I'm
going to get that book because that see
I have experienced the value personally
of praying the the Bible yeah and it's
true when I'm feeling god I don't know
what to say it's always hope well you
don't need to you just need to agree
with me Ken we're out of time we need to
take a break no we can come back I think
we need to pray friends don't go they'll
go away we've got a few messages here
from our sponsors we'll be right back
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today
count 5 dot TV slash shirts my friends
we're back with our guest Ken Gill all
the way from Calgary Alberta and God
richly bless you man oh god it's a
beautiful city by the way yeah Calgary
oh yeah it's beautiful city because it's
surrounded by the Rocky Mountains see
really yeah it's one of Canada's
best-kept secrets
ya know we're but a 1.3 million people
but it doesn't feel like that no you
know it's a beautiful mix of rural and
urban that's why they call you know the
Cowboys or urban Cowboys out there ok
how long have you lived in Calgary
Alberta and our 30th year believe it or
not left Toronto 1989 and we're just
coming up to 2019 well 30 years
yeah for children going out there and
now we got seven grandchildren there
yeah how do you feel about being a
grandfather well you know what it's one
of the most beautiful things in our
marriage share and I are going to be
married 45 years this next year mm-hmm
but watching my wife become a
grandmother it's probably one of the
most beautiful things that I watched and
I hear my grandchildren call her Nonie
yeah and then I hear them call me papi
and I don't know something flips a
switch in the heart
because of faith where we believe in
generational righteousness and so we
both believing parents believing
grandparents and we desire to have
believing children and that their
offspring would be a believing parents
and they did extend the kingdom as we
have but take it further and I'll keep
on talking I'm just over here in my
heart saying thank you Lord for your
richest blessing on my kids is that what
you were praying as well go ahead do
that right you can say it out loud or in
your heart if you're watching it but
yeah oh well I think yeah his name are
at Samuel and Joshua then we've got
Wesley vote on Wesley you know Sophia Oh
Jacob you know beautiful Daniel
how about this one I lobbied for this
Kennedy Kennedy Olivia grace Oh use the
word is believing for our grandchildren
you know to be to be just awesome to
expand the kingdom and Lord we bless ya
in Jesus name and bless all the children
or families as well they rise up call
you blessed his mom and dad come on and
they'd be used to extend and expand the
kingdom of God in Jesus name just like
that thank you
receive it so interestingly earlier as
we are speaking the we were talking
about praying the prayers of the Bible
and and you mentioned the prayers of
Paul yeah and you taught you mentioned a
scripture but wisdom which
I'm wondering if you were referring to
Isaiah but there was a prayer but that's
Ephesians chapter 1 okay
all right he's in chapter 1 just right
here in mixed reason chapter 1 verses 16
17 18 19 20 yeah yeah and so this is the
prayer that you are praying out loud
where you're asking God for wisdom yeah
it says here I keep I keep asking the
god of our Lord Jesus Christ the
glorious father that he may give you
give me the spirit of wisdom and
revelation so that I might know God
better well I don't know God you know
hey you want to know God better you
smiled when you said that yeah you bet I
do because it's one thing to get to know
God but don't you want to know him
better yes I do want to get closer to uh
my own and I met Lawrence that you want
to get to know him better we want to get
to know one a better because our
theology is believers is relational yeah
sure you know we've all been raised in
systematic theology where has it gotten
us there's a shift in the world that the
center of our faith is relational not
systematic didn't everything start
between a relationship between a father
and a son and it's going to end with the
father and the son my goodness so
everything in between you know is
relational and prayer is the epitome of
relational as a matter of fact prayer is
the umbilical cord that attaches me to
God so I think of the role of the
umbilical cord attaching our daughter
Angela to my wife and nine months hidden
and then out she comes and the first
thing that is snipped is the umbilical
cord which was a dependency and so I see
prayer as a as a dependency in my life
on God and I am happy to say I am
dependent upon come yeah phrase God and
His Word and his spirit you always want
to be not trying not to be yeah we're
talking about another book that really
influenced my life and that is an author
by his name is Calvin Miller I don't
know how many books he's authored but
one book I read called the table of
inwardness a beautiful boat talking but
our inner inner man the the core of us
then he wrote another book called a
hunger for meaning then a trilogy of
other books but he wrote this really
interesting book on public communication
on what you're doing on this program is
is really the three things are wrapped
up and what we're doing he talked about
the power of the word of God the
centrality you know the centrality of
the Spirit of God and everything we do
and the power of story Wow that's the
book that's the book that's what it's
called and he took those three things
and said like every program like this or
every Messi's that we preach has those
three salient points yeah that are
important for those that are listening
my prayer is that the Spirit of God will
arrest us yeah and though the Word of
God will adjust us and the power of
story will make it easily translatable
our friend James on its own other
programs that you've had James Burgess
and who wrote that book just the power
of story in his book there he he's using
that as catalytic to help us understand
the principle and it worked it worked as
one who read his book it captivated me
it yeah it didn't does yeah yeah and
we'll continue to do wonderful Ken I'm
gonna say it you're a man of prayer is
that an accurate statement I hope to be
I hope I would want that to be something
that I'll be known for okay so thank you
that's a kind generous answer to because
I'm not looking yeah how can you well
yeah I'm not asking you to how did I get
there how did I get there Ken how did
you get there
take a man after I mother my father were
people of Prayer yeah they demonstrated
to us plus my mother's mother was a
woman of prayer but the realization that
that I had a call my first call to God
was to be an intercessor hmm so most of
us believe that intercession is prayer
well I discovered that being an
intercessor is prayer plus plus plus
plus plus and so by saying yes to God I
look for a man to stand in the gap but I
found none
he's looking for somebody to stand in
the gap well that's what an intercessor
is we're gap men or gap women we stand
in the gap on behalf of and that's a
prayer does we stand in the gap on
behalf of our prime minister on behalf
of our president you can criticize your
president if you want or you can pray
for him mm-hmm
and we take that role of a prayer so I
began to develop that role of Prayer and
I found out that intercession is one
form of prayer but to be an intercessor
is a lifestyle of an advocate we stand
in the gap for all kinds of things so
the Holy Spirit arrested me that I was a
stand in the gap for people from 18 to
32 so you know the many things we've
done in this nation with young adults
mm-hmm well that just became an
intercessor I said yes to God I'll be an
intercessor for who God for this group
hmm so then my journey of prairie said
anything else you want me being an
intercessor for yeah I said I want to be
an intercessor for the poor and for the
orphan and for the widow and for the
refugee and for the prisoner so I got
this assignment from proverbs 31 verses
7 and 8 that I was to he one would speak
up on behalf of those who had no voice
the poor the orphan the widow of the
refugee so we've spent 40 years flowing
out of that called prayer developing a
fuller life of intercession it has
launched us into everything we've done
in the history of missions and in the
world and buying hotels for the homeless
starting schools and beginning villages
of Hope for orphans around the world and
mobilizing the church of the planet
mm-hmm and so prayer it's absolutely
essential to everything because I think
it's a gateway into what father wants us
to do I do too it again thank you so
much and I bless you man of God here you
talk about the lifeline to who you are
these are my words but that that's I
think that's accurate even as an
umbilical cord as a cord as a is a
lifeline you're telling me that prayer
is a lifeline I'm thinking in the few
moments that we have left can there's
somebody here who
who like me can witness and we can bear
witness that who you are is led by the
spirit you're a man with years of
practicing the presence of God I know
you wouldn't say that of yourself but I
think you just work with me you and
prayer is a huge part of that
let's see someone says I want that but
so what what what can someone do to
begin the journey of being a prayerful
person sure well I say this is accept
accept the invitation and so the
invitation to prayer is this it will
automatically you bring you into an
intimate place with God worship will be
the natural outflow and a love for the
loss of humanity will be in the center
of everything you do because we're he's
not willing that any should perish so
he's not willing I'm not so that means I
automatically connect with the planet
and I want to help people forward in
their in their journeys and so when you
I just took up the yes say yes to God
I'm gonna do that I had no idea of
saying yes where this would take me so
the next thing I would do is like look
through the scripture and I found six
different types of Prayer and guess what
they they became an acronym for the word
basics so there's six aspects of prayer
first one is beseeching second one is
asking third one is seeking fourth one
is intercession fifth one is confession
and the sixth one is to slip my mind but
it's right there
supplication and those all through the
Scriptures there's patterns there's
prayers
I'd say embrace the Word of God study
the subject of prayer and then start
praying actually this is an amazing
thing I just love it right even God yeah
and just do is what did the disciples
say yeah teach us to pray not about
prayer so we start praying he leases on
I just so glad yeah thank you so much
again coming not just the first time but
the second time and I'm hoping more
times to come in the future and I say
one last will chase it I sure go ahead
draw near to God he will draw near to
you
that's for friends god bless you thanks
for tuning into new everyday catch a new
episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku cody
plex youtube google play music podcasts
and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
