welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number five thirty-one and
this week we're gonna be looking at some
of the things that may find their way to
your Christmas list this week we're
gonna be checking out the best the
ultimate wireless and I mean truly
wireless earbuds with great sound and
absolutely no wires going to them we're
gonna be checking those out in just a
couple of moments also I've got a
plastic welder which I think should be
in everyone's stocking stick around I'll
be showing you that as well
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsrooms fake news is now being
used by criminals for financial and
commercial gain will tell you how
they're doing it Tesla has launched an
electric transport truck that it
guarantees won't break down for a
million miles drone maker DJI made a big
security mistake and in trying to cover
it up they're going after the guy who
reported it through their bug bounty
programs and a severely dangerous
exploit on Intel CPUs has users
scrambling to update their firmwares
will tell you what you need to do and
why it's so serious for both windows and
linux users stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drive by Kingston technology
revive your computer with improved
performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream wire cast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku cody and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category 5 TV category TV is
a member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash TPN
and the international association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia
IB I know what you're thinking
he's like my twin oh hey its cyber week
folks
ESET is blowing out ESET internet
security if you've got a Windows machine
you got to hear this 50% off go to cat 5
dot TV slash ESET if you've got Windows
you need good malware protection it's
got enhanced ransomware protection it's
got a two-way firewall it's got
anti-spam anti-phishing though works and
you can get it for 50% off this week
only cat 5 dot TV slash ESET are you
ready for a wicked awesome show I am as
we approach the Christmas season we're
looking at your Christmas lists and
we're thinking hmm there's a lot of
stuff on there that we might want to
show you and tonight we're going to be
looking at those wireless earbuds but
we're going to take it to the next level
with something that is perhaps the best
wireless earbuds that I have ever had
the opportunity to play with where we
doing that in just a couple mists I'm so
what's new sash what's new with me um
Dave Star playing on this computer and
loves it yeah what else is new in my
life I feel like that's it
like that's it you've got a gaming rig
at home so that's all you can do now I
did receive my marriage certificate in
the mail
it actually happened Dave legit they
took a little while to get here it did
there was I you don't marry counting on
the other side of the country exactly
they had to mail it they had to be at
the post and the first time I requested
well the first time I requested it they
couldn't find the paperwork Oh
so actually that's not something that
you want them to say on the other end of
the phone requested it twice because of
that because they couldn't find it the
first time but then I guess they must
have found it from the first request so
I actually have to well your story about
marriage certificates yeah what Becca
and I got married in 2001 and her maid
of honor was her sister Rachel and we we
had the ceremony everything went perfect
the weather was a little bit rainy but
good enough that we got our photos done
outdoors and it was it was nice
everything turned out perfectly and then
we got our marriage license and guess
what what I apparently married her
sister Rachel all done in fancy
calligraphy Rob Ferguson married Rachel
so what wait now so then how did they
fix that well I think the certificate is
just kind of like the the final legal
document it was an error on the
calligraphers part I don't know how it
happened to be honest but our marriage
license actually has whiteout on it
actually slightly worse not to one-up in
that in in the spot where everybody is
supposed to be signing yeah in the
moment the mayor I love her but it was
her very last before retirement ceremony
oh yeah okay so she was pointing out
where we needed to sign and do things
and she said right Newfoundland here in
Labrador here because the province is
called Newfoundland and Labrador so I
used to confuse things
I married LaBrie you don't name our
province one name I married Labrador and
for some reason my dad who passed away
four years ago was written down
as the best man so she had done a barren
ceiling she had done a bunch of pre
filling out this this flower so the
whole thing was very but I married my
sister-in-law married married or either
part of a province or a breed of dog how
adorable exactly hey welcome to all of
our new viewers if you have never been
here before just want to say hello
what we do here is a little bit
different because we try to be fairly
interactive we've got a chat room that
you can join us live want to say hey to
our chat room tonight it's nice to see
Garvey and I'll pack soul boo leech and
x1 and a lot of years all joining us
live you can catch us if you go on to
category five on the free node IRC
server hey if you don't know what that
means or you don't know how to do that
head on over to our website category
five dot TV and click on interact and
join the chatroom so cool way to
interact with us but we essentially are
an open tech broadcast we love open
source software we love Linux and so our
bias does kind of lean toward the free
open source alternative so great show
for you if you're interested in saving
some money learning about what kind of
alternatives there are out there and a
great place for you to send your
questions to say hey you know I've been
using such-and-such software on Windows
for so long what can you do for me
that'll save me some money and that's
what category 5 is here to do as well as
expose you to some cool technology like
we're gonna do tonight welcome yes we
can I talk about the dead effects
giveaway please so we've got a winner
tonight as a matter of fact we have a
winner so this is the first week of the
10 weeks right and today's winner is
david master david master watching on
using graduations on on youtube from
australia and we just did a new story
but how Australia's internet is
he's not here with us live tonight he's
watching on YouTube because his internet
has been chewed by so thank you and
congratulation gradual ations debt
Effect 2 is a wicked awesome
first-person shooter it's the VR version
so this is debt effect - VR is available
on Steam we're giving away coupon codes
to give it to you for free
Sasha how can they participate in that
drop email us contest at category 5 TV
and who are you who are you where are
you watching from watching are you
watching on YouTube are you watching on
channel 33 in the high desert are you
watching on roku or Cody or Plex or on
our website where are you watching folks
we'd love to hear from you we'd love to
receive those emails cast your ballots
and that will give you a chance to win
next week and that's dead Effect 2 VR if
you're not familiar where they get onto
our website category 5 TV click on
search and just type in ded effect
that's two words and you'll see a video
there
next week's winner is also named David
then I know that it's Riggs because we
gave until el Peck sends us a ballot
that just throws everything way off hey
I want to say thanks also before we take
a quick commercial break I want to say
thanks to those of you who have been
supporting the show now we're talking a
little bit about Christmas lists and
things like that because obviously tis
the season we've got a lot of cool
product that's been sent in for reviews
for this very purpose
you can shop through our partners and
it's a really cool way to support us
because you don't have to spend any
money you don't have to send us any
money if you're gonna shop on Amazon
eBay gearbest think geek any any of the
shops that are partnered with us all you
have to do is go to our website category
5 dot TV click on partners and simply
follow the link to their website before
you make your purchase and then a
percentage of the sale goes to
supporting category 5 TV network which
supports category 5 technology TV and a
plethora of our other shows so you don't
actually spend anymore that's right the
purchase it just a little portion of it
comes to
exactly it's like a referral kind of
program so we really appreciate that
also want to say big thanks and kudos to
our patrons you can head on over to
patreon dot-com slash category-five to
find out what that's all about
that's when folks Sasha can contribute a
little bit of money for each broadcast
that we do and it's a really cool way to
support us and to keep things you know
like the lights going and and help us to
eventually we were talking before the
show about you know wouldn't be nice to
have wireless microphones that's
something maybe we can do one day and
patronage is something that that helps
us to be able to do those things all
right so we've got to take a really
quick break when we come back we are
going to be looking at absolutely the
wired earbud killer say that I'm getting
a lot of flack over the whole raspberry
pie killer thing but if you've got wires
on your earbuds speaking of wireless
headsets and things like that if you've
got wires on your earbuds stick around
we're gonna be showing you some of the
best ones that are available right now
and they are on sale for cyber week
don't go anywhere we'll be right back
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight we're gonna be
tackling that Christmas list with some
earbuds they're Bluetooth 4.1 completely
wireless and what does that mean you
think about Wireless in your buds right
Sasha yes what do you think of any
definition of a wireless earbud any
definition of a wireless earbud should I
show you mine and then you can maybe
write all right what do you picture when
you picture wireless earbuds these are
the ones I've been using for years okay
there's some that Wireless there
bluetooth oh yeah they connect to my
phone or my mp3 player right and when I
when I'm jogging cuz I jog right that's
what I do
obviously right what are they doing your
job they stay in the cable this thing
here it's got a little bit of a weight
to it and it will actually pull that out
of my ear and it's like ah it's
frustrating as you say it's not quite
Wireless they're great these are great
but they're not quite Wireless tonight
we're gonna be introducing you to Joe
visas new product line we've got the
shield we've got the beat winds I'm
going to show you the difference between
them they are the first the only the
best fully wireless earbuds I'm talking
over the moon about this think about
this wireless in your ears none of this
and wireless charging perfect let's take
a look here we go
this is the box for the shield this is
the box for the B twins now why have we
got both well they are there's a little
bit of a difference in price we're going
to talk a little bit about that but
essentially these are similar devices
they're earbuds right so if you've got
somebody who's an audiophile fan of
music on your Christmas list these are
what you want to be looking at first of
all we're gonna look at the shield now
both of these there there are some real
similarities between them ok Sasha
both of these are truly wireless I'm
talking no wires you're gonna see how
that is accomplished in just a couple of
moments also both of them have been nano
coated do you know what that means
no that means that if you are using
these for workouts if you're jogging if
you're at the
if you're doing your jumping jacks or
jump squats uh-huh if you're sweating
you're not gonna have to worry about
your ear buds basically you know I don't
think they would call them waterproof
but you don't have to worry about sweat
that's for sure so they are absolutely
sweat proof they're going to work for
you you're not gonna have a problem with
that so both of these are like that
they're both wireless they're both you
know they're essentially similar devices
with a couple of differences between
them we're gonna show you so let's get
into the shield and this one goes for
$79.99 now this week for cyber week it's
on sale for just $59.99 so just a heads
up for you and there you go so that's
what's in the box so you see that we've
got some kind of behind the ear hanging
things these are going to help if you
are really roughing it if you're you
know jogging through the forest or
something like that you're doing
something that you really want to make
sure that they're gonna stay on your ear
but these are entirely optional
now the earbuds themselves this is the
jeebies shield just see if I can get one
out here there we go
that's all there is to it oh that's
sharp
that's our left ear and let's get it out
here don't worry you only got to do this
once folks there get underneath and pop
it out there we are
so there's our two ears how do you like
that now both sets of these jobbies ear
buds have just simple touch controls and
they do support things that you know
what you would expect from a bluetooth
earbud these days like being able to
make and take calls being able to
control your phone let's make sure I've
got the right ear here nice you just
talk to me oh it did yeah we'll get into
the sizing in just a moment so these
ones this is the shield and I can hear
that it's kind of muted the sound in
here so that's what they look like on me
and that's just pushed into my ear
there's no behind the ear strap there's
nothing going behind my head there's
nothing hanging but beneath my chin
there you have it so how did they charge
that's the question you see these little
proprietary little ports they look like
and I said they're Wireless right I
promised you that let's take a look at
how this thing works this
is one of those innovations that I love
from Jabez now we saw something similar
with the last set of job easier buds
that we looked at and if you're
hard-of-hearing if you've got hearing
problems you want to check those ones
out there called the jeebies amp sound
you can actually check those ones out at
cat5 dot TV slash amp sound what they do
differently is they also act as hearing
aids so we kind of saw this technology
but this is the evolution of that
without the hearing aid component these
are specifically from use that can and
calls but let's get into the accessories
all right we've got a wire I told you it
was Wireless don't you worry I'll show
you how it works now that's all that's
in the box we've got a little carrying
case now we remember Joby's is very
innovative with their carrying cases
what do we notice we've got a USB input
on the case no USB input on the earbuds
themselves but when you put the earbuds
into the case which is a nice hard shell
protective case right
they magnetically suck themselves into
the case into the right spot you push
the power button and those babies are
charging look at that put that away put
it in your pocket it's really really
tiny there you have it and then when
you're ready to use them there you go so
both sets of earbuds are going to last
for three hours if you're listening to
music for hours if you're making them
taking calls and standby is a whopping
50 hours ok so there you have it you
asked about sizing size yes alright no
problem there we've got 2 different
types of what do you call these like
in-ear adapt doors to make it fit you
more snugly we've got little itty-bitty
tiny ones for the tiny ears and we've
got some larger kind of circular shaped
ones these ones are more or oval like
and then we've got a couple other little
things here these are
like sweat seals and little pegs that
you can plug in where the behind-the-ear
component which we looked at over here
thanks guys here when we're not using
these we can actually put one of these
pegs into the hole so that it keeps any
water or moisture out of that there we
go so that's how I'd probably want to
use it okay so that is the jeebies
shield again $79.99 and they're on sale
this week for cyber week for 59.99 so
let's get into the be twins these are
japaese be twins
now a little bit different here you can
see different presentation a little bit
of a step up in that regard let's
actually get right in there and get a
look at the B twins now their clips are
in fact in the ear clips so these
actually go into the inside of your ear
they don't go around the back of your
ear a little bit different and what I
notice here that you may not notice at
home as far as difference goes is that
the shield are made of plastic a nice
durable plastic with the coating however
these are aluminum they have a really
good you know the the whole design of
Jimmy's the products are fantastic I
love these but there you go so how do
these fit in my ear let's just kind of
get a look here how do these differ from
the shield they lighter weight they look
like perhaps they are super lightweight
so I'm just pushing this little guy up
in here and it just kind of clips in you
feel that area of your ear it just goes
right in there these are definitely
manly ones bright pink there you go so
that's what they look like this is the
bee twins
so the bee twins also have an upgraded
sound driver so the speaker themselves
are higher-end and again they are an
aluminum bodied ear but these also have
another unique feature sacha again they
are completely wireless there is no wire
going between them and the bee twins in
fact act as two
for it Bluetooth devices so your left
and right ear are in fact two different
devices you can mount those to a phone
or an mp3 player that has Bluetooth or
any device with Bluetooth a computer
even and you can listen to your music in
full beautiful stereo with deep lows and
nice crystal clear crisp treble but what
that means to you is that you can also
put this one away
and just use one right then you can
actually use this one connected to a
different device if you would like
so there are use cases you might be able
to think of some places where that would
be you know a neat neat idea right
certainly if you want to share you know
if you want to use one and I'll use one
if you're going on the motorcycle and
you want to be able to talk with Dave
that's perfect there you go perfect okay
so again we know jubie's we know how
they do things we know how their
chargers work this again comes with a
nice little carrying case this one is a
belt clip model and we've got a little
reveal here for the USB input to charge
the case can you imagine that you're
charging the case then when we open that
up take your earbud and just set it
right down in there done and
just align that with the with the magnet
there there we go
close it down and turn it on there you
go so now my earbuds are in fact
charging while they're not in use once
it's finished charging it'll stop
charging and then the next time I open
it up I pull out my earbuds they are
ready to go
that's the jeebies be twins so these
both of these devices are absolutely
exceptional so that we're seeing the
evolution of earbuds here folks if
you're a music fan like myself I
absolutely love constantly listening to
music I've always got music playing I
love I actually use my laptop a lot with
Bluetooth and the bee twins so it's not
just for phones anymore so you can sync
it with your with your computer your
laptop your tablet your phone your mp3
player my son has an mp3 player that has
bluetooth so we use bluetooth on that
and there you have it so any other
points with the difference now oh the
question is coming in about the price of
the beat wins a little bit more regular
price is $99 again these are aluminum
they're a little bit higher end
certainly the drivers are upgraded so
the sound quality on these is going to
be probably yeah I say probably I know
this is probably gonna be the best
sounding year bud you've ever heard be
it wired or Wireless that's a fact
this is the jeebies your be twins
earbuds now at $99 that's a steal but
again cyber week this week if you're
shopping right now for Christmas it's on
sale for just $79.99 okay so there you
have it both come in multiple different
colors are there any points that I've
missed sash I think I I think you got it
all Wow first shot I especially love
because I ride my bike right like a
pedal bike a pedal bike ride my bike in
this spring summer and fall to and from
the studio and I have like I had a like
a Bluetooth just like earbud thing
I was using for fun and music kind of
thing yeah that doesn't sound anything
like these I like the Google Maps just
that tells me where to okay right so
just in case you get lost on your way to
the studio that you've been to a
thousand times but the one that I was
using and I mean it's just the typical
one you would use right so it would
always pop out and like these looks
secure
absolutely oh speaking of secure and and
you mentioned about the size of your
ears so Sasha's got the little ears I
got the bigger ones let's get into the
box here of the B twins and see what
else comes with it here we go okay some
instruction manuals some information
there then we've got same thing we've
got lots of different sizes there you go
there's two more these ones all have the
these ones have that kind of flap that
goes to hold it a little more solidly in
your ear so it doesn't fall out when
you're working out and then we've got
these ones do not so if you prefer not
to have that you've got that option
we've got a registration card some
information and a USB cable oh and some
more adapter things for the ears and the
USB cable again is so that you can
charge the case so you never chart
you're never having to actually plug in
the earbuds themselves you're charging
the case and then you've got a case here
that will actually give you about nine
nine hours of charging so how do you
like that you can get these right now at
cat5 dot TV slash headphones so make
sure you check those out I absolutely
loved what Jimmy's is doing with with
not only their ear buds but their entire
product line we've looked at some of
their products here on the show before
but definitely high-end quality
absolutely something that you want to
pick up it's Ricky cuz I didn't even
know they are nailing it the other point
with these is again I do need to
reiterate just in case the question
arises they are phone compatible so
you're able to make and take calls with
these you can control your phone you can
talk
Ceri you can talk to Google music called
Google Google Voice Google Play Google
now assistant yeah whatever the Google
one is you know what I mean it will work
for you other colors they absolutely do
both sets come in various colors so
check it out cat five dot TV slash
headphones alright we've got to take a
break before we come back we're gonna
just have a quick chat before we hop
into the news but we'll be back right
after this
you've got mad skills now honing them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat five dot
TV slash Lynda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning we'll give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV slash Linda
technology TV and during the break
there's a show we were talking about
well we've got a little bit of extra
time tonight and as I mentioned we've
been sent all this cool stuff to review
and so we've got enough time to show you
one more what I think is a really cool
little gadget something to put in your
tool chest this is something that I
think should probably be in everybody's
stocking you think that a I do the
plastic welder plastic welder right so
what I want to show you is what's called
bondic and it's this little guy here and
you pick these up a cat5 dot TV slash
bondic and all it is is a simple resin
that solidifies only when exposed to
ultraviolet light okay so what could
this be used for so first of all as I
said this is something that should be in
everybody's talking because I have
already used this a million and one
times now we were joking and kind
laughing a little bit there during the
break because I don't have anything I
can show you to fix because it's so easy
it's so quick that I I have fixed
everything so what I love about bondic
is when my kids bring me a toy when they
bring me something that needs fixing and
this has happened several times in the
past couple of weeks since I got it I'm
able to fix it right then and there so
super dad there you go
I'm actually you know I don't have to oh
well I'll put some superglue on it and
I'll let it set overnight and we'll hope
for the best no this is instantaneous
repair and I can fix something really
really quick so that's what I've been
doing for my kids and that's what I've
been doing for myself so I got this
because my laptop I don't know if you
can see this very clearly I'll see if I
can hold this up right here see that oh
that has been bondic so the chassis of
my laptop snapped it broke and so the
cable the charging cable was very very
loose it was jiggly and I was afraid
that it was eventually going to snap off
of the motherboard so I got bondic so
that I could actually replace the
plastic with this resin and then make it
solid and it is absolutely solid and now
my power supply does not jiggle on the
motherboard I didn't have to take the
laptop apart you probably wouldn't have
noticed it even though you know the
close-up it doesn't look super super
pretty because I didn't do you know that
I didn't care that much about making it
look perfect I could have taken the
chassis apart and done a nicer job but
it's functional it fixed it and I saved
potentially a lot of money because had
that broken my motherboard it would have
snapped something off of the motherboard
and could have been a hundred hundred
fifty dollars to get that fixed maybe
more if it was a serious issue so how
does it work
so let's actually build this up just a
little bit I'm just gonna take a little
bit of the resin and just kind of
dribble it on here and it's just a
liquid and you've probably seen bondic
before but if you're like me you're
looking at the reviews and wondering
does it really work is it actually worth
the price to go and get one of these now
that I've put the liquid there and it's
gonna stay liquid until I exposed it to
ultraviolet light as soon as I'm done I
can just you know if I'm half
with the position I can just expose it
to the ultraviolet light how long do you
have to expose it for before five
seconds oh it's instantaneous so now
that is solid it's a little bit tacky to
my fingers so I can just expose the
light a little bit more literally in
that amount of time there that is solid
plastic now so you can see that I built
that up just a little bit more there and
that has saved my laptop essentially so
the other thing that I've done with it
Sasha my son I mentioned earlier in the
show if you're watching the entire
full-length episode that he has a
Bluetooth mp3 player well the buttons
stopped working so I took it apart and
it turned out that on the underside of
the buttons is a little peg that pushes
down on the circuit board and the
circuit board has buttons that get
depressed right well the the back side
the underside of the plastic buttons
were not quite long enough to push the
buttons all the way so he'd have to push
really really hard like just bondic and
I just put a little bit more plastic on
there and then I solidified it with the
ultraviolet light and now his mp3 player
works perfectly the buttons worked
perfectly you're like a magic dad it
really kind of feels that way my
littlest is six years old turning seven
next week and he brings me things like
he has a plastic coin that he broke in
half and I don't know how that happened
but dad just pulls this out fixes it
solidifies it and it's instant fix and
it's just been one thing after another
like that so go get one cat5 dot TV
slash bondic again perfect little thing
to throw into into somebody stalking I
think everybody should have this it's
been a real it's been a real help around
the house for sure it's actually very
cool it works I was skeptical I was
skeptical from the reviews on Amazon
right and it does work I you know what
I'm even thinking in a pinch if you
broke your glasses or something and just
to get you through glasses are another
great example I've got a pair of my
favorite sunglasses got broken the the
basically the side part here got snapped
and I'm gonna use bondic to fix it
they're just in the other van so I
haven't done that yet
that's one of the one of the things I
want to fix way better than tape Robbie
that's how I usually do it masking tape
perfect so we head over to the newsroom
and see what's up let's do it
all right here are the stories were
covering this week in the category five
TV newsroom fake news is now being used
by criminals for financial and
they're doing it
Tesla has launched an electric transport
truck that a guarantees won't break down
for a million miles drone maker DJI made
a big security mistake and in trying to
cover it up they're going after that you
program and a severely dangerous exploit
on Intel CPUs has users scrambling to
update their firmwares will tell you
what you need to do and why it's you're
so serious for both windows and linux
users these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen yelling you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
aren't you your terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias I'm Sacha
Rickman in here the top stories were
following this week according to new
research criminals are exploiting fake
news for commercial gain fake news is
widely assumed to be political or
ideological propaganda or even outright
lies published to sway public opinion
but new research conducted by threat
intelligence firm digital shadows and
released on Thursday suggested that fake
news generation services are now aimed
at causing financial and reputation
damage for companies through
misinformation campaigns so how are they
using this to make money
it's called pump and dump scan these
schemers are aggressively promoting
penny stocks to inflate their prices
before they inevitably crash and burn
the scammers buy low then promote their
stock using fake news social engineering
tactics and media BOTS enabling them to
sell high
then they flee with their loot and
little regard for other investors
Digital shadows also identified more
than 10 services that allow users to
download software that controls the
activities of social media bots the
tools work by controlling large numbers
of bots to post on specific types of
forums on different topics to trick
people into believing their fake news
sites the fraudsters have also resorted
to spoofing legitimate sites by altering
characters on a registered domain such
as replacing the letter
with an RN and using cloning services
they're able to create convincing fake
news sites Digital shadow advises that
you can protect yourself by monitoring
social media for brand mentions and seek
to detect the bots using clues such as
the age of the account the content being
posted and the number of friends or
followers hmm and we tend to use what's
trending as that's where we get a lot of
our news right exactly you know what
they spoke to me a little bit because
Dave's really been getting a little bit
more into the stock market so okay yeah
interested in a stock he does a lot of
research on it using the internet so
what are people talking about well if
there's 10,000 BOTS all talking about it
is it yeah all of a sudden the interest
grows the stock price goes up I it's
dangerous and you see is it going up
right and you know to be honest with you
I kind of give a lot of credit probably
to like the more savvy people I feel
like you could probably tell I mean RN
it does look like um yeah on your
computer it's amazing I feel like there
there are some red flags that probably
you would be able to tell if you were
savvy but the elderly that aren't so
into it and now all of a sudden they're
not getting their news from any other
source except for the internet and
there's that whole like everything you
read on the Internet is true thing that
happens with people's minds I'm
wondering whether or not it's going to
end up being like a lesson that they're
gonna have to learn in schools and stuff
like it's gonna be maybe part of you
know you cite your sources when you're
writing an essay now all of a sudden
you're gonna probably have to take that
extra level because you're gonna have to
cite your source and proof yeah and and
we do this here on the show and other
newscasters do this if they're you know
if they care about the legitimacy of
stories is we look for multiple
instances of the story of the news of
the the topic so if I'm looking at a
stock and I see that it's going up see
this is a tough thing though what is
driving the stock up mm-hmm so if if
news and social engineering tactics are
what's driving the stock up then yes the
stock is going up so every site is going
to say the stock is going up but what's
causing it that's a really difficult
thing now with something like a spoofed
website that is faking news and tricking
people into reading a spoofed
information well I think there are a
couple of things that we can do first of
all this guy over here he set they have
anti-malware that will help - it's
called anti-phishing which will help to
protect you from websites that are
tricking you into going to fake websites
those kinds of things so it helps but
also knowing the difference between the
address bar and the search on your
computer that's a big deal because and I
see this all the time in our industry
and it makes it breaks my heart every
time that I see someone search for
Google they or search for my company's
website address don't do that if you
know you're going to Microsoft com or
BBC co uk
it in the address bar that is the
address when you have someone's phone
number you don't call someone else and
say hi I've got this phone number can
you put me through to Joe at five five
five five five five five it doesn't work
that way so why are we searching for
Microsoft com
why are we searching for the news sites
or our banking sites that's where we get
tricked because we're entering into a
search engine which gives us results and
sometimes tens of thousands of results
for those things and so if somebody
happened to get up at the top of the
list for BBC Co UK
of SEO guess what you're gonna click on
it if that's the way that you surf the
Internet right when you know the address
go to the address in the address bar
don't use your search very good yeah
those are a couple of little tactics but
recognizing the signs - like knowing
that kerning can cause our
and to look like em brightening that
yeah you have to know what the red flags
really are and a big one in social
social media is really like the friends
and followers of the actual person
posting true yeah if you see something
happening on social media that's
trending and it's coming from all of
these accounts and you know thousands of
people are talking about it
view the accounts look at the accounts
and say okay who follows this person who
does this person follow and you can
usually spot fake bought accounts
because they use weird names all the
girls look like supermodels and they're
wearing bikinis you know there's these
kinds of signs that it is BOTS because
they grab photos from various websites
in order to create photos for their BOTS
and so you see those kinds of things and
you know they're they're red flags and
if you see you just gotta kind of watch
for it ask somebody who's really savvy
that's a great way yea there's no shame
in asking absolutely not sometimes I
have phone calls that say I know this is
a stupid question I'm so sorry to
trouble you and I appreciate that I love
it when a customer says that but I have
this pop-up on my computer and it says
do this it says call Microsoft here's
the number mm-hmm
do I call no that's actually an ad
that's coming in for an infected
advertisement so close that and and the
near be safe right so thank you Ravi
asking yes Tesla has launched an
electric transport truck it guarantees
won't break down for a million miles
Elon Musk has launched the Tesla semi
complete with a guarantee that it will
not break down for 1 million miles of
driving speaking at a launch event in
Los Angeles musk said that the truck
will be 20% cheaper to operate than a
diesel truck in part because it will be
faster the truck has a drag coefficient
of 0.36 that's crazy that's less than
some supercars
the bullet-like design means that it can
go from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 20
seconds while hauling a full 80,000
pound
load Oh the truck can reach this speed
up Hills with a five percent gradient
which Lou which Elon Musk says will
leave Diesel's
eating dust range is 500 my the range is
500 miles on a charge with a full load
traveling at 60 miles per hour this is
starting to sound like a word Pro hold
for longer trips Tesla will install mega
chargers that musk said will add 400
miles of range with just a 30-minute
charge
what's more the research facilities will
be solar powered and Tesla will
guarantee the price of recharge
recharges the truck will have one engine
on each of its four wheels a design musk
said will prevent jackknifing as
automation ensures each wheel does what
it takes to avoid such accidents braking
energy will be recaptured to charge the
batteries autopilot will be built-in and
enabled in all trucks musk said that in
doing so it will ensure that the
vehicles always stay within their lanes
if a driver is incapacitated the truck
will park itself and call for assistance
the truck can also run in a convoy where
one or several semi trucks will be able
to autonomously follow a lead semi such
convoy is Max musk said will deliver
Freight at a lower cost and rail
transport musk says the trucks will go
on sale in the year 2019 but declined to
name a price and instead roof referred
to the cost of ownership metrics in
other words very expensive very
expensive but Wow will save you a bundle
of money and safe keep you saving will
call for a help if the driver is
incapacitated it sounds like you
probably don't even need a driver
probably at some point wait some point
they I mean the convoy thing I think
about the the freight liner innovation
truck as an example where the convoy
thing it's so aerodynamic it's so
they're so close together because of the
autonomous driving that it's like a
train and it basically you know you know
that if you get into the wind tunnel of
a transport truck it's gonna pull you
along and you can just kind of coast so
imagine if you've got a convoy of trucks
that are
driving that close together and these
trucks are incredibly aerodynamic as far
as safety goes one of the things that
our that wasn't mentioned in the story
that I had seen in the video is that it
has armored glass as well so the
windshield is armored that is fantastic
so like what trucker wouldn't want this
right and even having something that's
even if a trucker needed to be in the
truck if see I work at a chiropractic
clinic right and because of that I see
people with various numbers of injuries
and ailments especially work-related
additive stress injuries and postures
truck drivers have incredibly by and
large kind of as a rule incredibly
damaged spines and it's because they
have been sitting for a long periods of
time sure with minimal breaks wear and
tear on their body is crazy this this
truck you can stand up yeah there's
standing room this would be a
game-changer you'd become less um I
guess confined to the the wheel right
and more just kind of the overseer
that's a phone I'm not sure how
autonomous it's going to be out of the
box but I know that it's going to have
the ability to stay in the lane so you
know if you're driving and you know
hands are off the wheel and it's gonna
stay in the lane it's gonna have
collision avoidance and automatic
stopping to avoid collisions things like
that that you would expect from Tesla
and you know probably you know that's
just phase one right yeah the first
thing that popped through my head when I
read this news story was a couple weeks
ago on a highway really close to here we
had a massive accident and what was the
cause Sasha it was well it was trucks
trucks
it was trucks and and one a couple of
the trucks were carrying gas gas and so
when they collided it caused a boom it
was like a zit not great it was
catastrophic catastrophic it was I just
one word at a time
yeah there was it
is insanely dangerous people people
could have been completely wiped out
luckily not as many people died as you
would have thought it's miraculous how
few actually died but but it didn't have
to happen at all if these trucks were
already on the road I think as a you
know and if you're a trucker you can
even comment below let us know what you
think but I would imagine as a trucker
you like Sasha said you're working long
hours you're not moving a lot and if I'm
drivin late at night for long hours in
my van
I start to my mind starts to wander and
I and then I snap out of it and realize
oh I better pay attention but you know
how much more so if you're hauling a
load right and somebody all of a sudden
stops in front of you well this truck
will stop so we know about autonomous
vehicles and that's that's great we know
that that's coming we know that it's
here and and it's it's available what
Tesla is doing differently now is it
doesn't need gas right and it will do
500 miles on a single charge like you're
talking a two-way transaction of hauling
a load and zero to 60 in five seconds
that is that's insane that's where the
full load folks so you think about a
diesel truck and trying to get onto the
highway and trying to merge into busy
traffic and that's a danger right there
you try to get onto a highway in Toronto
and you take 20 seconds to get up to
speed or sometimes even longer if you've
got a full load this does away with that
problem I absolutely I'm blown away at
how fast this is progressing 2019 right
like that's tomorrow it's coming it's
coming yeah and kind of out of the blue
it feels like I know they've been
talking about it and they're a little
delayed and in announcing it but it's
certainly gonna be a game-changer I
think so we're starting to see the Tesla
gas stations popping up all around
Barrie as well that's true it actually
it makes me want one very bad well now
you can start to charge it right and to
know that it's solar-powered and all
this kind of stuff and guaranteed
pricing to charge that's kind of cool
well and the more that happens the last
tanker trucks full of gas
are going to be on the highways causing
accidents yes nobody will need gas
anymore here's hoping will not be neat
drone maker DJI has accused a
cybersecurity researcher of hacking at
servers
Kevin Finisterre claims that he access
confidential customer data after finding
a private key publicly posted on code
sharing site github he approached the
firm which offers a bug bounty reward of
up to thirty thousand dollars for
security weaknesses that are discovered
in its systems DJI said that the server
access was unauthorized the data mr.
finis fear was able to see an included
unencrypted flight logs passports
driver's licenses and identification
cards he said despite initially offering
him the money DJI has now in a statement
accused mr. Finister of refusing to
agree to the terms of its bug bounty
program which are designed to protect
confidential data and allow time for
analysis and resolution of a
vulnerability before it is publicly
disclosed
mr. finis terrae an independent security
researcher said DJI tried to make him
sign a nondisclosure agreement
he also published an email from DJI
telling him that security issues with
servers were included in the bug bounty
program cyber security expert Professor
Alan Woodward from Surrey University
said DJ eyes actions were outrageous the
public has a right to know when there's
a security problem that's how a bug
bounty program works my friends
everybody does deserve to know one that
there is a problem but not at the
expense of people's safety if a fix
isn't in place one they published a
private key on github that's a publicly
available website where anyone can view
the code so this guy finds that tests it
to see hey does it actually is this what
I think it is it is oh my goodness I'd
better report this to the bug bounty
program hey guys just so you know you
published this private key which you
need to change me
I was able to using this key access your
server and get this data mm-hmm that's
the right methodology of a bug bounty
program he didn't go out and blast the
world and say hey guys I got all these
credit card numbers and driver's license
numbers hey do you want them I'll sell
them to you for twenty thousand dollars
no that's not how a bug bounty program
works that's when you would sue a guy
mm-hmm
this guy did it right right so what
right do they have to come out and say
okay we're gonna we're gonna give you a
hard now they wanted a non-disclosure so
in other words they're trying to cover
it up right okay so they suspect that
somebody else has also gained access to
it and probably stolen that information
for sale that's a theory but if one guy
was able to do it and you know was the
first guy the the the only guy and the
real fear is if they were actually
trying to cover it up which it does seem
like they were doing that's the thing
right then there are like a nameless
number like of real victims that that
could have been exposed in this and they
would have never owned up to it right
it's not it's not fair or good of a big
company like that to do something
I think DJI there's this problem with
them right now in that they're losing a
lot of trust this is not the time to
mess around with people's trust when the
government has said we're pulling all
DJI products from our our military
because it because we have reason to
suspect that it has tools that are
distributing private information about
the flight plans well suspect it maybe
it's because they were they were right
maybe they found it on github we're able
to access that data who knows all right
not a good time to cover things up and
try to wash them under the under the
bridge but this guy is saying you know
he's he's publicly said you know this is
what they've done we've got a emails to
prove that this is what DJI is trying to
do they're trying to cover up this thing
that I found that's not how the bug
bounty program works they need to pay up
kudos to that for standing up and not
Julie just being swept away and signing
the non-disclosure oh man right it could
have gone the other way and then we
would not be talking about it which is
worse than talking about it yeah
Intel admitted Monday that its
management engine server platform
services and trusted execution engine M
e SP s and T XE respectfully are
respectively are vulnerable to multiple
worrying security flaws based on the
findings of external security experts
the firmware level bugs allow logged in
administrators and malicious or hijacked
high privilege processes to run code
beneath the operating system to either
spy or metal with the computer
completely out of sight of other users
and mints meanwhile logged in users or
malicious or commandeered applications
can leverage the security weaknesses to
extract confidential and protected
information from the computer's memory
this potentially gives miscreants
sensitive data such as passwords or
cryptographic keys to kick off other
attacks on servers and other shared
machines this is especially bad news in
short a huge number of Intel CPUs are
secretly running code that is buggy and
exploitable by attackers and malware to
fully and silently compromised computers
Intel's management engine at the heart
of today's disclosure is a computer
within your computer it is chip sylla's
much-maligned coprocessor at the center
of its vPro suite of features and it is
present in various chip families not
only does this include servers xeon
processors but also sixth seventh and
eighth generation Intel Core processors
Apollo lake and some Celeron processors
the management engine is a barely
documented black box it has its own CPU
on its own operating system recently an
x86 quark core and MINIX that has
complete control over the machine and it
functions below and out of sight of the
installed operating system and any
hypervisors or antivirus tools present
it is designed to
allow network administrators to remotely
or locally log into a server or
workstation and fix up any errors
reinstall the OS take over the desktop
and so on which is handy if the box is
so messed up that it can't even boot
properly
the ME runs closed source remote
administration software to do this and
this code contains bugs which allow
hackers to wield incredible power over a
machine the Emme can be potentially
abused to install root kits and other
forms of spyware that silently snoop on
users steal information or tamper with
files according to Intel it allows an
attacker to impersonate the ME SPS or
TXE mechanisms thereby invalidating
local security features Intel advises
Microsoft and Linux users to download
and run the Intel s a zero zero zero
eight six detection tool to determine
whether their systems are vulnerable to
the above bugs if you are at risk you
must obtain and install firmware updates
from your computer's manufacturer if and
when they become available
yikes a great tool if you are a system
administrator you need to access a
server that is not booting that's not
working it's remote we co-locate servers
all the time but scary fact is you think
about all the web servers that are
running Linux or whatever and Linux is
safe it's got CSF lfd firewall on there
and IP tables and it's all protected and
Fort Knox but guess what this bug
doesn't care if you have a firewall yeah
it doesn't care if your operating system
is up to date because it's another
operating system running in the
background of your computer that you
don't even know is there it has its own
tcp/ip stack they mounted on the network
interface controller so that means that
even if you turn off networking in the
in the OS on your computer this this
backdoor can still access the network
can still access the Internet can still
be accessed through that connection how
many devices are out there running Xeon
processors on an internet connection
directly on the Internet to run web
servers right
that's a scary thought now how how does
this happen like how is this allowed how
can they be releasing these to the
public well it's it's a feature if you
will an under lightly documented
features one that you know not everybody
knows about not everybody use this but
so as a feature that's fantastic I mean
Dell servers have similar kind of like
you think about racks and the ability to
connect into servers reboot them access
the BIOS and change things remotely
through a connection to a subsystem chip
that's kind of like that built into the
processor so it's great from an
administration standpoint it's great for
Intel to be able to fix servers and
things like that you think about
supercomputers and they need to be able
to fix those things without having to
physically go to them and and patch them
and and anything else but now to find
out that it's so readily exploitable
which has been a fear of the Electronic
Frontier Freedom Foundation for a long
time and it's true I find it unsettling
I don't hear a lot in the news about
something that affects Linux users and
when I do it kind of makes me feel a bit
you know well when we mentioned Linux
because it has nothing to do with the
operating system installed in the
computer so understand this is not a
Linux problem this is not a Windows
problem this is a subsystem a
coprocessor chip running an operating
system MINIX on your system at the same
time that you don't even know is
actually running but it is so you want
to definitely use that tool that Intel
is providing we'll put a link below for
you if you're watching this on cable TV
or somewhere else where you don't have
access to those links here it is there
but you can also go to our website
category 5 dot TV and you'll find that
by searching up for episode number 5 31
make sure that you do that and just stay
safe mm-hmm
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Eichmann Thank You
Sasha this is category five technology
TV it's been great having you here with
us again this week don't forget it is
cyber week so we've got some amazing
specials with our partners again
ESET has ESET internet security on for
half price for you that's a Windows
anti-malware suite that includes
ransomware protection anti-phishing
anti-spam antivirus and malware pretty
much anything that you need to protect
you on a Windows system get it at cat 5
TV / ESET and then tonight we looked at
some really cool ear buds from Chubby's
and they are also on sale you can pick
them up at cat 5 TV / headphones but
don't delay because of course cyber week
ends I guess all the sales end a week
from today get shopping get going and
safe travel for everyone who's going to
be doing some traveling this week and we
look forward to seeing you again next
week
until then take care
