hello welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about a
worship sandwich
thanks so much for tuning in again to
another episode of new every day we want
to do this show to share about who God
is in our lives and what we read the
Bible and just to have conversations
about the reality of God yeah and share
stories from the Bible and just talk to
you you know we started this because we
have conversations like this all the
time roommates and we just want to share
with you and I've been so grateful for
the people in my life who have shared
how they've experienced God so we just
welcome you into our space yes to talk
and we've been talking about the book of
Acts and how God changed the lives of
the disciples and empowered them to talk
to heal in the name of Jesus to the
power of the holy spirit and that got
them into some trouble in chapter 4 of
acts that they were arrested and and now
we're moving on from there Jen so where
we at well we are in verse 23 of chapter
4 and what's interesting is we
introduced this as saying we're going to
talk about a worship sandwich okay this
is who to me go ahead I never know what
Jen's going to say I learned with you
okay because we started off this section
of 34 with worship they're going to the
temple to worship and pray so God is the
beginning of this journey so that's this
side of the sandwich then stuff happens
I want to say the meat the lattice I
build my sandwich this way not this way
since I could be very interestin see put
the bread down except if you're building
a god sandwich all right fine samish
goes like this it went up to the temple
then the man was healed he turned the
conversation back to God called for
repentance God in trouble that went to
jail like there's a lot that's happened
right oh yeah from when they went to the
temple to worship God but the way the
parfait I know the way this the section
ends is with worse
Ben God again even though all this stuff
happened in the middle yeah what it
begins and ends with is worshipping God
and it made me think about what happens
during the week right sunday we come
together to worship God together and
then Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
Friday Saturday happens and then we come
together to worship God again like it
just resounded within me the importance
of coming always back together to
worship God to refocus on you know who
God is and so we're going to carry is
going to start reading and Chuck in
verse 23 of chapter 4 down to verse 31
okay so Peter and John were released
from prison yes me so it says and being
like oh they went to their own
companions that's regrouped and reported
all that the chief priests and elders
had said to them so when they heard that
they raised their voice to God with one
Accord and said Lord you are God who
made heaven and earth and the sea and
all that is in them who by the mouth of
your servant David have said why does
the nation's rage and the people plot
vain things the kings of the earth took
their stand and the rulers were gathered
together against the Lord and against
his Christ for truly against your holy
servant Jesus whom you anointed both
Herod and Pontius Pilate with the
Gentiles and the people of Israel were
gathered together to do whatever your
hand and your purpose determined before
to be done now Lord look on their
threats and grant your servants that
with all boldness they may speak your
word by stretching out your hand to heal
and that signs and wonders may be done
through the name of your holy servant
Jesus and when they had prayed the place
where they were assembled together was
shaken and they were filled with the
holy spirit and they spoke the Word of
God with boldness I just I love that
passage because it says they went back
to their own people and reported all
that they had done and I don't know what
why don't we get together like Kerry's
been away for a few days and we
immediately want to get caught back up
on unto what has gone what has happened
over the last few days
and the same is true from a spiritual
perspective when we and often this does
happen with us we'll start talking about
what God has done like will say and God
did this and you know I prayed and God
did this and we start talking about the
things that God has done and I think
sometimes we forget actually um to come
back together and to report about what
God has done yeah and it's so important
to report about what God has done
because then it gets your eyes but back
focused on on who God is so it started
off at beginning of chapter 3 they were
going to the temple to pray and all of
this stuff happens which can sometimes
get our focus off a little bit or just
we get drained right we you know they
interacted with the with the cripple
then they interacted with the bystanders
then they interacted with the the
priests and the temple guards and
Sadducees then they were in jail like
they're just being poured out poured out
pour it out and you can feel exhausted
even though you still are fully you know
fully love Jesus you're just exhausted
spiritually well they were in prison
yeah yeah and then it says on the
release they went back and they reported
all that God had done from and they they
they refilled they were refilled with
the Holy Spirit because they focused on
who God was again they gave the glory to
God the man behind the mission is Jesus
and Jesus doesn't Jesus did not come so
that we could tell other people about
Jesus that's not why Jesus came Jesus
came just have a relationship with you
with me with you that's the only reason
Jesus came he did not come so that we
could then go and do something he came
that we could be in relationship with
that with him and and so even though
we're focusing on the the mission which
is to tell people about him but because
of our relationship with Jesus Christ
there is no other options but to want to
share about how cool Jesus is and Jesus
says because of what I've done for you
now go share that with other people mmm
and so that's what the disciples have
been doing they went they worship God
and then
out of what god I've been doing they are
sharing they are walking for it on on
this mission sharing it with everybody
about the man behind the mission who is
Jesus and it goes on and it says when
they heard this they raised their voices
together and prayed like yeah and it's
interesting what they pray because they
kind of reaffirm in their own hearts who
God is Lord you are God you may have an
earth and the sea and all that is in
them and you actually foretold that
people would come against Jesus and but
then they look at his sovereignty you
caused this to happen to do whatever
your hand and your purpose determined
before to be done so the answer that God
is sovereign and that he's in control of
what happens not only in the past the
present but also the future that's
coming yeah as foretold by the prophecy
that they red is spoken by David in
verse 25 and 26 but then they ask now
look on the threats and grant to your
servants that with all boldness they may
speak your word and I think it's easy
Jen to be disheartened by threats or by
people not agreeing with you or by
persecution but they actually pray for
the boldness to speak and I like that
they worship God for who he is they
recognize the sovereignty in the
situation then they pray for boldness so
how do you pray after the end of being
poured out in Porto and poured out so I
wanted to think about that we'll come
right back after this commercial break
Jeff Weston Yemen you're building a
brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name rousseau your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put that of a papers are just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dreamhost alright we are
back thanks for tuning in and staying
with us we're still in chapter 4 and Jen
I'll let you just jump right back in it
because we ended right before the
commercial break we said well had you
pray when you've been poured out how do
you pray and so often it can be like oh
Lord I did this for you today and I you
know taught those sunday school kids and
their I want to pull my hair out and you
know we can never come to the Lord after
being poured out for him in a very
depleted sort of way like almost a woe
is me life sucks yeah and what's
interesting is that sometimes you know
they're coming back together yeah right
to worship God but sometimes when we
come to come together maybe this is
especially a woman thing but will like
share what happened and be like oh
yeah let me pray for you oh my gosh
that's so hard instead of having the
response at the disciples yes they
raised their voices together and they
praised God right like they were
actually giving thanks for their
hardship and giving thanks for the fact
that they had the opportunity to share
about who Jesus was like they were like
yes they were totally poured out but
they they chose to worship God they just
turned thats perspective right around
prayed for boldness yeah and God gave it
because it says you know stretch out
your hand to heal and perform miraculous
signs and speak wonders to the name of
your holy servant like like Lord bless
us help us it says enable your servants
to speak your word with great boldness
it's like we want more it's like gee we
were just in jail and they're like it's
like that's that's old yeah or like yay
like because we suffered for Christ and
it's like here we are we're going to
worship God we're going to ask for more
boldness and I don't want to be the kind
of friend that when I hear about certain
things going on people's lives to just
kind of like enable them to stay in that
place of having the perspective that
like okay this is I just got to get out
of this I gotta you know muscle through
it blah blah woe is me kind of thing I
don't want to be the friend to enable
that by like oh okay that's too bad I
want to be the friend that then turns it
around Jen yes and says but God yeah he
is the maker of heaven and earth he is
able to enable you to have boldness to
stand s against certain things yes I
don't want to be that I want to be that
friend yes I want to be that friend who
says that yeah because it goes on say
aptly parade the place where they were
meeting was shaken and they were all
filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke
the Word of God bully bam bam it's like
they they were chapter 3 went to to pray
end up healing a man people saw it they
got in trouble they stayed in jail and
then
and they come back and they worship God
and said okay Lord we want more we want
to continue to do this and God met them
it says and they they were filled with
the spirit and spoke the Word of God
boldly so they had been poured out this
you know the spirit worked through them
because it's several times it says and
filled with the spirit Peter and filled
with the spirit Peter so it says and
they were filled again so in order to be
filled again that means you've actually
had to do something to be poured out
like I cannot my my cup is almost empty
right but I cannot fill my cup if
there's something already in it like I
have to actually pour this out in order
to refill it and the thing is if I leave
water in here too long or sometimes
happens then it becomes stagnant and
it's like oh but I want to protect it
it's my water I might not be able to get
more and and we can do that with the
Spirit of God sometimes we can just
protect oh I don't want to share like if
I go out there or if I interact with
other people well then maybe you know
I'll lose some of what I believe or
maybe I'll you know I'll get tired will
be able do what God calls me too but
that's not true when when we pour
ourselves out for God for the purpose of
people coming to know Jesus Christ he
fills us back up again so he didn't call
us to like you know hold on to the
spirit yeah he calls us to actually pour
out the spirit and and I think that when
you want to have that mindset of like
protecting not stepping out there not
helping not giving yeah I think it's a
misunderstanding of the power of the
Holy Spirit because yes the Bible says
that that God Christ Edna's will be like
a well springing up river of living
water there is no emptying animal it's a
it's a perspective thing yeah when you
give he just he enables you to keep keep
going keep going keep going yeah so I
don't necessarily see it as like a
filling back up but it's like that river
of living water yeah but you have to you
have to let it go yeah you have to let
the river go yeah
so there's this continual source it's
not like you use it up and it's gone
right so whether you're of the
perspective of more like a cup of you
know yeah and it fills up or it's the
river and are you actually in the river
allowing it to take you yeah it is a
sense of the Spirit wants to move
through you wants you to you have to be
willing to let the spirit move through
you you can't just keep it to yourself
so what's that look like like it
practically speaking how do we pray that
like I wake up in the morning I go to
work like what is this what does this
thing kind of look like Jen well I think
it comes back to where it says and they
were all filled with the Holy Spirit
spoke the Word of God boldly lord help
me to speak your word bold leave today I
don't know what that looks like because
I work here I work at a gas station or I
work at the ER I work you know as an
engineer you know Lord so I don't know
what this looks like but I do know that
I can't ask you to help me speak the
word boldly in whatever that means help
me to love boldly help me to give boldly
help me to be kind willingly like all of
those things for your name for your
honor for your glory and I think when we
surrender that to the Lord then he he he
honors that yeah because we're wanting
to do it for his honor for his kingdom
so I think we need to surrender that God
I don't know how how you could possibly
show up today but please do it but
please i want to yeah and praying for
that boldness to do it yeah let's just
pray for each other and for our viewers
now that we might be able to do that
yeah father I thank you that you have
not left us as orphans but you've sent
the promised Holy Spirit you can equip
us with this river of living water that
we never have to thirst again we never
have to be alone again and we have
something wonderful to offer to people
and we don't have to come up dry Lord
but you can equip us and I pray for our
viewers I pray for
Scott that each day you would help us to
make the most of every opportunity yes
and just speak your word boldly and just
love boldly because it's not about us
hmm would you give us the words the
ability the insight to see where you're
moving just jump right in I don't know
what that looks like for everyone I just
want to pray for the the person who's
listening who's maybe in a in a
classroom who's having a difficult time
with some classmates who are giving them
a hard time and maybe they're the
teacher maybe they're the student but I
pray that you give them boldness to love
God that they would see that they are
your disciple by the way that they
respond in love and maybe that's them
being bold so I just pray that you would
encourage them we also pray for Asia
Bibi again for freedom for her and for
all the rest of the persecuted Church
Lord that you would encourage them and
help them to love well wherever they are
I pray this in the name of Jesus amen
amen so we encourage you this week to
focus on the man behind the mission
Jesus Christ ask for his help to do what
He is calling you to do was just to
share his love with others around you so
come back next week we will see you have
a great buy
