Henry do you have one for me too the
awesomeness I do I have one from an Andy
Cooper Andy you have been summoned Andy
hi are you doing um hi Robbie
Oh stock knee I'm sorry hi Robbie I was
wondering if you might be able to answer
a question for me which might also be
useful to other viewers of your show a
friend of mine is going from the UK to
start a new teaching job in China she
has been there before and last time she
took with her a Windows laptop with some
kind of proxy software installed to
allow her to communicate with the
outside world yeah the problem is that
since your last visit she's changed her
laptop to Linux machine running boom -
and there doesn't seem to be any good
proxy software for this operating system
so can you give any advice for
traversing the Great Firewall of China
that's actually awesome sorry please and
thank you keep up the excellent work so
it sounds like she was kind of using
some kind of like um proxy or virtual
private network so she's just wondering
if you have any advice about that yeah
thanks Andy so hmm okay on your Windows
system you were connecting through a
proxy what a proxy is is it allows you
to connect to another computer and then
access the internet from there so in
China where they block access to certain
types of websites for example YouTube
because of Western propaganda and things
like that or whatever the reason may be
it's very political in order to access
those sites you can connect to a
computer a server in the United States
of America and then through that
connection access the site because the
site everything thinks you're just
connecting to this server in America and
vice versa so so on Windows yeah you
might need some fancy software and all
that I think maybe I don't know of any
I'm like you I don't know of any on
Linux that are like hey here's a great
GUI for setting up a proxy that's what a
proxy is
so knowing what a proxy is can we do a
proxy in Linux and the answer is yes so
we don't actually need any software
it's Linux it's built for that kind of
stuff so we just got a hack a little bit
Rob Gore says try expressvpn that's one
for example to use on Ubuntu Linux easy
to set up that's a good suggestion thank
you but I know that hey you're a good
friend Andy you don't mind sticking a
Raspberry Pi in the back room you've got
good internet at home so let's use that
as our proxy let's say ok I've got a
Raspberry Pi
it's got SSH and I'm just going to
connect it to the internet and set up a
really good strong password for it so
that nobody because it's going to be
wide open to the Internet you don't want
anyone to be able to access it so the
way to protect it is to set a good
strong password maybe throw CSS lfd on
there as a firewall so if people try to
guess at the SSH password it will block
them after five attempts that's always a
good thing maybe there's a good feature
that we could do I go down from China
your friend could connect from their
linux computer to that raspberry pi it
doesn't have to be a PI it can be your
computer or anything at all on outside
of that firewall and then connect out to
the web yeah
should we try it look yeah let's let's
hack some computers I've got yeah I have
a Linux laptop right in front of me
let's jump into the terminal and first
of all I'm going to bring up my Google
and I'm going to go Google dot CA and
I'm going to type in IP there's my IP
address remember it
okay so now armed with that information
we know that that is my internet
connection here so pretend I'm behind
the Great Firewall of China we want to
get outside of that so that we can
connect ok so all I'm going to do is use
a tool that's built in I need to have a
server or a computer with SSH another
Linux computer basically somewhere out
there there we go who's like what I
couldn't move things you need to have
another computer somewhere out there
that you can connect to from
that China system okay so I happen to
have a server a game server that I can
use for the sake of this demonstration
so I'm going to use that command is
going to be SSH dash D and what we're
actually doing is we're setting up a
socks proxy on our computer using SSH
cool I'm going to SSH to my server
that's in Canada and then I'm going to
connect out from there
so SSH dash D and then I'm choosing a
port so I always like to use three zero
zero one some people use 8080
reason I use three zero zero one is
usually because that's not in use on my
computer because this is opening a port
on my computer my laptop your computer
in China not the remote computer and
then I want to enter the server address
so in my case it's just SSH right so
yeah that's I got that right so okay now
I need to enter a password so this is my
password and now I'm simply connected to
that server with sshd a socks proxy so
now that I've done that I'm going to
minimize that window and just leave it
running and then let's bring up Firefox
so my proxy is open my my proxy is now
running I'm connected but I'm still if I
go to Google it's still going to give me
the same IP address what I need to do
first is I need to go into the
Preferences of my browser I'm using
Firefox but you may use something else
go into advanced network settings it's
going to be a little different for you
use system proxy settings now I want to
use manual proxy settings HTTP proxy is
127.0.0.1 we know that is localhost port
is three zero zero one which is what I
specified that's four HTTP then for Sox
127.0.0.1 and then the port again three
zero zero zero three zero zero one leave
everything else has default that's fine
okay now if all went well and I go to
Google connection was reset
Oh interweb some connections don't like
it test before you but ever you do it
let's see have I got ya I'm connected so
the port is open on three zero zero zero
three zero zero one sure I've got the
command correct I've got the settings
correct yeah okay now that that's that
I'm just going to try close the browser
just in case really want it to work
first try that'd be really nice
do I have a firewall on here
it's the Great Firewall of Robbie's this
is true they just have a status mm-hmm
ufw is installed preferences
it's probably under admin firewall do
you guys see it
firewall firewall you if W dash D know
they would know how to disable you fw i
can't Google it because I'm problem is
HTTP proxy setting disabled and um W
disabled sorry what was that so much
soul boo says the promise HTTP HTTP
proxy setting you have a socks proxy not
an HTTP proxy firewall stopped and
disabled let's try the let's try the
theory here okay good thing about
running a live show oh yeah and we and I
love this about our show is that we can
try things together and then if you
experience these problems and hopefully
hopefully hopefully it will help let's
try it that way
mm-hm and then hit enter try again let's
hope for it hello everybody
let's try Google dot CA yeah he just
killed the Internet sorry guys
oh you know what irony you're right
killed the Internet probably lost my
connection which which I did look I'm
connected to Robbie laptop that's right
okay let's start over see what happened
there we actually just lost the internet
for a moment as as Henry was saying so
I'm going to just kill all - 9 SSH and
we're going to re-establish that SSH
connection is the video still ok yeah ok
SSH - d300 1 and then my server the port
enter Falls happy it's gonna ask me
there we go
they lost my connection due to our
internet going down yeah it's just a
buffering for a second but okay
apparently audio is dropping up for some
people but I think that's just it
buffering
okay so as I apologize for that little
bit of a hiccup there now what we've
done soul boo thank you very much for
mentioning it I am using a socks proxy
this time around not an HTTP proxy so we
changed the setting so that it is only
using socks okay
so I've left HTTP proxy empty now Google
it has come up if I type IP what is it a
different IP look at that okay I'm going
to turn off the proxy just to show you
no proxy okay
then I'm going to do the exact same
search on Google so right now 299 235 a
research research that again I might
have to refresh IP lvl 1 1 4 I have now
successfully created a SSH Sox tunnel
basically through a server in Canada you
can't use that server because you don't
have an account but you can set up a
raspberry pi you can set up a Linux
computer something with SSH so that they
can tunnel through it cool and it's
yours you're not relying on a
third-party service that has advertising
or charges you astronomic range no as
long as you've got this system plugged
into a good solid internet connection
it's good to go
that's what I love about technology
because it's like at the same time
though it's like you could technically
use the same idea and if you wanted to
you could technically make your own like
cloud software if you know what I mean
right like your own Dropbox oh yeah oh
yeah you can yeah there is software to
do that there's a lot of cool
applications of this when I'm gonna have
so much fun this season oh my gosh so
cool
please note Andy that when you set this
up for your friend if
this is the route that you want to take
she will need to know how to enable and
disable the proxy because if she's not
connected to the proxy through SSH she's
not going to be able to access the
Internet if the proxy is enabled in her
browser so you'll need to make sure she
knows how to toggle it on and on and how
to enable the proxy with the SSH command
or maybe you can set up a script or
something like that there's probably a
cleaner way to shut down the proxy I
usually just do a kill all on SSH but if
you have other SSH windows that wouldn't
work ah yeah there you go that's that's
how I would do it okay then yeah very
good question thank you very much and I
think that would make a really cool
feature for a Raspberry Pi episode you
did yes
[Music]
[Applause]
