welcome to category five technology TV
everybody it's episode number 594 I'm
Robbie sash is here and tonight we are
looking at the Kingston DataTraveler
2000 we were talking about this very
briefly on last week's episode but I
wanted to show you what this thing is
all about it's encrypted data storage
that fits in your purse fits in your
pocket and you're only able to access it
if you know the password but there's a
twist you don't need any software in
order to access it when I say that and
we're gonna get into it tonight but just
briefly I mean you punch in the passcode
you can plug it into anything including
your Smart TV or any device Windows
Linux Mac chrome whatever and it's gonna
be able to access the decrypted data on
that drive if you know the password so
stick around we're gonna be showing you
how to how to how that works I'm gonna
get you to unbox it yes just kind of
cool it my first ever unbox first she
loves unboxing folks so you know this is
gonna be good and we're gonna have a fun
time nice to have you here stick around
we've got a great show this
category-five technology TV our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology we revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
on Telestream wire cast and nimble
stream are tuned in every week on roku
Kodi Plex and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everyone it's nice
to see you I'm Robby Ferguson with me
Here I am I know you wanted to say it I
did want to say it I that's right say it
in unison she's sasha Rickman that's
right we didn't talk before the show but
anything new in tech for you this week
anything new in tech for me to know you
kind of gotta see this coming I know
right you asked every week and I'm like
oh this week okay so I had an idea an
idea I know and I actually should have
run this by you danger everybody buckle
in okay so at my work we all have to
like update spreadsheets and everything
and if a spreadsheet is up and open on
somebody's computer and somebody else
opens said spreadsheet and makes changes
then they don't get saved because it's
up right you know what I'm saying like
if somebody else saves and then they say
and then you save your over writing the
spreadsheet exactly their change exactly
okay so you're picking up what I'm
laying down okay so I was just laying in
bed thinking about work like I should
never do but always do and I thought I
have Google Drive yeah you do yeah and
you can make changes you can collaborate
on things sure if that's safe and secure
and everything like it like is that
possible I mean you're using the
spreadsheet example so let's let's
create a new spreadsheet for your genius
idea right so okay I'm gonna call this
shared spreadsheet okay so I can just
put in some text right text and then
let's let's share this so share write
and who can I share this with could I
is it possible to share this with
everyone in the entire world
anyone anyone anyone more so normally
you would be a little more secure about
this you'd share it with people in your
in your company you share it with
specific people that you want to work
with you on this spreadsheet okay let's
see what we can do anyone on the
internet can find access no sign-in is
required okay anyone with the link let's
try that and then let's change it to can
edit now that's pretty insecure because
I'm saying anyone with the link can edit
this spreadsheet but let's let's say
let's try that I'm just going to pop
that over into discord and those of you
who are on Google Docs such as yourself
Sascha right could you bring up that
link on your Chromebook and let's see
what happens okay if you were actually
to open that and anyone else in the
universe who's watching category-five
during the live broadcast right so
you're bringing that up on your if I
just have just clicked the link to the
sprits here yeah I'm new and then open
your browser which is down at the bottom
there she's on a Chromebook so it's a
little bit of a different a different
layout is that working hold on try
copying though maybe try copy link okay
open link oh there's my option sure I'll
just copy link and just go over to
Chrome I do see some folks already
working you can see people moving around
in the spreadsheet you can't okay so
you're all ready and so now so now
Sasha's here and there are folks here
yeah and and so with this with Google
Drive and this is Google sheets we're
actually able to share and
collaboratively work together so I can
say hello like I'm
like as if it's a chat but each boxes
are different people see this so I can
see that that's anonymous Fox over here
is anonymous crow and then we've got
crackin and duck and sheep and that all
of these folks are in the spreadsheet
right now collaboratively working
together on this spreadsheet in Google
Drive and Google Drive is a free service
but you can actually subscribe to make
it better and bigger and give you more
features basically more storage I mean I
like to I pay five dollars a month and I
get my email I get some extra storage so
that I can put things like videos and
things like that but it's a fantastic
way to do it Sascha and you say well
okay this is great it's collaborative we
can work together and you don't have to
worry about overwriting each other's
changes but then what do you do when you
need to move it over to excel and you're
like oh but now it's on the internet in
this cloud service and so what we do
sashes we say file and then we can go
download as Microsoft Excel so now that
we've collaborated together right we can
then download the collaborated ready
finished spreadsheet and boom you've got
that fully edited and ready to go we've
worked together it's great for if you're
in school and you're working with a team
or if you're working at work in your
scenario yeah it's a fantastic product
and tonight we're actually going to be
looking at also Microsoft is is giving
away their Microsoft Office o-chem the
cloud for free Oh
which is a little bit of a competitor to
kind of the Google Drive Google Docs
Google sheets and all that stuff but it
really you know it's nice to know what's
available to us right so I'm super new
to Google I'm not super new but like
super new to Google as a I guess like
I'm not used to doing spreadsheets yeah
you're on slides and now I'm on a
Chromebook so now I'm like this is my
new home right and I love it but I don't
know all of the things yet
right so it's a whole new world and some
people are a little bit hesitant about
the cloud and I can understand that you
you want to keep your data close to your
heart you're right right that makes
sense yeah so with Google Drive you can
install the basically the software on
your computer to be able to back it up
locally so that you've got a local
backup just like you normally would but
still have that collaborative aspect
right which is ideal for business so I
use it here at category five so that you
and Jeff and and Henry can see what's
coming up on the show I don't know if
you even check on it you're learning
you're learning but I but I'd have that
and and so we have an actual folder for
category five and it's all set up and I
see people are still working hard right
so I can make it look like I'm working
hard here because folks are putting up
loads of pricing tables and everything
it's fantastic this is absolutely
fantastic nice from Germany from
Montreal sorry I'm this is yes so if
you're hesitant about the cloud as kind
of an option it just goes to show how
instantly I was able to create based on
your question which we didn't pre-plan
know a spreadsheet and have many
different people that I assigned access
to remember I gave them access right and
now they're able to collaborate with me
so could they like help with my homework
they could right absolutely I would
never I never ever cheat like that
absolutely not
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching my wife Becca
yes in college right now and she's
working through the courses and working
with groups and working in software and
they're very specific about what
software they use and guess what they
use in college yeah Microsoft Word of
course they do
Microsoft Excel and all that kind of
crazy stuff and it's that's what they
learn on and so we've on the show we've
converted LibreOffice into a more
Microsoft Office similarly so it feels
more like Microsoft Office and if you
haven't seen that segment and you want
free software click the link below and
that will take you to a video that shows
you how to do that but lo and behold
Microsoft is in fact releasing their
Microsoft Office suite in the cloud for
free for users who have access to like
Skype for example like who doesn't have
a Skype account I have a Skype account
so for me it was really really easy to
be able to sign in to Microsoft Word
online for example and just kind of
backing up just a little bit I'll show
you what what we encounter here and I
will post the links below but here are
the free office apps online
from Microsoft so we've got Word Excel
PowerPoint and OneNote so I show you
this because we've had the discussion
well what if my files are not quite
compatible with LibreOffice or what if I
have trouble importing them into Google
Docs right which I don't think you will
like keep in mind if I go back to my
shared spreadsheet here and I go file
open I can in fact like I could actually
browse to and I can actually open XLS
files I can actually open docx files and
it will convert them to the cloud format
right so keep that in mind we don't
necessarily need to have the branded
Microsoft product anymore but if they're
gonna provide it for us for free and
you've got your Chromebook and my wife
has her Chromebook and she's sitting at
school and they're teaching in Microsoft
Office and they're showing you how to do
things in Microsoft Word right and
you're trying to translate that my wife
is trying to translate those steps into
libreoffice and sometimes it's a little
ownerís because the commands are not
quite named the same they're not exactly
in the same spot I have a question yes
okay so remember a couple of months ago
I had problems opening and printing some
of the patient four it was like a docx
file that was created in Word but then
you brought it up in libreoffice and
checkboxes were in there yeah they were
like they had like a little n with an
accent
you know inside the bottom so could I
open that in the word online I'd love to
know I'd love for you to bring in that
file and give it a try and maybe report
back right okay could you do that I
could do that everybody hold her to that
yes those who are watching live make
sure you get into discord remind Sasha
two days before the next episode but she
needs to test that and find out I'm at
work cuz it'll be best if I do this at
work since the work question the files
are 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Monday and
Tuesday and a bad story yeah sad story
so just working under paid right so just
yeah send me a message I don't check my
phone often but I do sometimes check it
excellent
let's jump back to the Microsoft
products okay I see you folks are still
working away still working away
don't put patient data on Google
anything thank you for that
of course okay so here we are in
Microsoft's product links are below if
you're watching this on cable TV make
sure you head on over to our website
category 5 TV this being episode number
594 you will find that episode of
category 5 technology TV and when I say
the links are below the links are below
so right here let's bring up Microsoft
Word okay and you're on a Chromebook so
right remember like things are moving
into the browser you've got Google
Chrome on your Chromebook so you can
bring up Microsoft Word which you can't
traditionally install on Linux you can't
traditionally install definitely not on
a Chromebook right yet because of the
technology of the browser and the cloud
we now have access to it through
Microsoft Word online look at that so it
even starts up with templates so you
know like I don't know bring up bring up
a basic template and here we go we're
loading up word online and it's ready to
go and this is you like that it's a
pretty basic like this is a bullet list
folks we have a template for you boy do
we have a template for you if you need
to make a bullet list we have a template
for you I title here list title oh gosh
Sasha but here we are this is Microsoft
Word online and it's saving to docx
files if I save as I can actually
download a copy I can save it as a PDF
or I can even save it as an ODT so now
open document format I can save that and
open it up in LibreOffice and boom BAM
it's already ready to go good right like
it am i right so links below cap 5 dot
TV slash ms-office is going to get you
there as well and
that's I mean that's kind of how things
are going that's what excites me about
the cloud is that we no longer have to
have high-powered computers mm-hmm
you know like my wife's laptop as much
as I'd love for her to have the latest
and greatest most amazing laptop it's
getting a little aged right but it's got
Linux on it she's using the Chromebook
as well and to think that hey you can
bring up these applications through your
browser now you don't need to have a
very powerful system like you used to
because everything's on their server
which is perfect as long as you have the
internet connectivity you're loading it
from Microsoft's server right if it was
slow if it was like clunky and janky
they would they be out of business
because people would go nuts right it
has to operate really well so it's gonna
operate well on my i7 it's gonna operate
well on your 125 dollar Chromebook yeah
yeah you know what I'm saying yes so
that's all there is to it so comment
below about the cloud what do you think
what are you excited about and you know
how could collaboration in your office
and maybe even with your your home usage
of these of these capabilities of the
cloud how is that going to impact your
day-to-day on your computer cool stop
thank you mm-hmm
we've got a lot to cover tonight I just
want to say first you know I I mean
we'll backtrack a little bit I was gonna
say first of all but no we've already
were already partway in the show here
but I do want to say thank you to all of
our patrons on patreon it's been a
really exciting couple of weeks for
category 5 TV with our work with Pyne 64
and all of the exciting things that are
happening there also with my project
NEMS linux i mean it's growing MEMS 1.5
is about to hit if you have a no droid
xu4 make sure you get over to nems linux
comm and you're gonna be able to
download that in as little as a week and
it is mind-blowing how much NEMS has
grown over the past over the past year
yeah I'm very very excited about it if
you're not familiar with what names Lin
is NEMS linux comm will tell you all
about it it's free for the enterprise or
for home use for anyone at all and it
gives you a great monitoring feature on
your network to be able to tell you if
your servers are having trouble or your
computers are out of drive space or
whatever you want to whatever you want
to set up so so thank you to our patrons
for supporting us because that is what
keeps us strong here at category-five TV
as a volunteer organization tonight we
are looking at the data traveler 2000
from Kingston I mentioned these on last
week's show yeah that I was really
excited about these will they have
arrived and this is an encrypted USB
flash drive with an amazing twist and
that is that it does not need any
software in order to operate so we're
gonna show you that in just a couple of
moments we've got to hear from our
sponsors though we'll be right back
stick around for a limited time get your
hands on limited edition shirts from the
category 5 TV Network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5
TV slash shirts to support us and get
your official Network shirt today cat5
dot TV slash shirts welcome back
everyone this is category five
technology TV episode number what oh
this is 594 yeah
594 and this week I mentioned it last
week the data traveller mm I said I'm
really excited about this tech from
Kingston for so many reasons okay so can
I just tell you this is let's let's jump
over to our our special unboxing cameras
actually you show them this this little
piece of kit it's a USB flash drive but
it has a built-in keypad yeah so with
that keypad you're able to encrypt and
decrypt your data using hardware
encryption on the USB flash drive
without having to use any software well
why does that matter Robby I can just
plug in a normal iron key and and set it
up and and BR use Luke's if Jeff was
here to talk about we could yes this one
here yes that I've had for since I the
old school right I don't know it's there
yeah here it is you need to download
software right so if you encrypt the
data on that let's see let's just use I
want to use a really really easy use
case scenario for yay we've all got
Smart TVs these days or maybe a you know
a set-top box that you can plug a USB
flash drive in with your movies and
watch video yes right so with the
old-school way of doing it which
requires software installed on your
computer in order to encrypt and decrypt
yes your data is safe on the flash drive
right but then you take that out you
plug it into another system you've got
to set up the software on that system
you've got to then decrypt the drive and
be able to access it again but using the
scenario of the USB Drive into the Smart
TV mm-hmm a smart TV you can't generally
install the software
No so you're not gonna be able to watch
or your your JPEG images from the
slideshow from your vacation on the TV
if that drive is encrypted right so the
temptation then is okay well I'm not
going to encrypt it I'm just gonna leave
it wide open so why does encryption
matter well if I put confidential stuff
like we're not talking about hiding
stuff that is illegal or anything right
it's just about like pictures of my kids
it has it has exif data that shows the
geolocation those things i want to keep
private things like spreadsheets with my
passwords and things like that i don't
want people to have access to that so if
i have it on my USB flash drive or a
backup of some of my files and then
someone steals that from the front seat
of my car or your purse or something
like that are they going to be able to
read that data well if it's encrypted
then no then no so then you're not
you've like say I had patient
information on that sure I needed to
take some work home for you
from work it has like confidential
patient data I would be legal -
theoretic this is not a real but I I
would be legally like I would be liable
sure if I were to drop this in the
parking lot and then all of a sudden I
would have to do a huge report I'd have
to actually contact each patient that oh
my goodness right and you said with this
one I said what's on it and what did you
say nothing no no I said I don't
remember remember I don't remember I
haven't used it in a while I haven't
used this in so long because I don't
need I don't use on a Chromebook exactly
a cloud yeah so there's like nothing of
importance on it okay with that you
cannot you can't just plug that into any
device and it's up let's get a look I
wanna I want you to actually unpackage
which is our unboxing of the data
traveler 2000 you get these a cat5 dot
TV /dt 2004 once scissors are the
appropriate device for our unboxing
video so here you are so alright
and I do worry yeah it could go all
sorts of ways guys it's not unboxed live
this is an opportunity for you to shine
like hold it under your shot there Sasha
come on how do you do this you're
everything is backwards for us now you
know that when I'm unboxing things
backwards and upside down it's really
challenging and Dave would be saying
well you should probably be able to get
it right now because every time he told
you mean tells you to turn left and I'm
driving I turn right
oh thanks I should have driving
backwards so it's very confusing all
right okay so does it you know you want
to charge this thing up it has a battery
inside it so when you plug it in it's
going to actually recharge itself but
when you push a button does it light up
yeah that's no perfect okay so Sasha the
default password is all right this tell
you this don't tell anyone else okay one
1 two 2 three 3 four 4 so the way that
you get into this Drive also if you plug
this into your Chromebook right now it's
not going to do anything if I plug it
into my Windows 10 laptop it's not gonna
do anything it's gonna basically just be
like nothing is plugged in however as
soon as you decrypt it it's going to be
accessible it's gonna be launched so I
want to show the folks at home if you
could if you push the lock button you're
gonna see can you guys see can you see
the red light actually comes on there
you go so you see that red light
flashing that means it's encrypted site
which one 1 two 2 three 3 four 4 and
then the lock button again and then lock
button green green okay so now it's
unencrypted so right now in this state
you can plug that into your computer
your TV whatever device has a USB port
and it will read just like a USB flash
drive well sure you can okay yeah so
you're gonna plug it in so we don't have
for this but you can see that it's come
up with a removable device exactly
that's on a Chromebook so we wanted to
test it on a Chromebook try opening the
files app ok can you can you bring that
up
you have law there you go this one here
yeah click open files ok clip there you
go
yes so now I don't like clicked on
Garvey Garvey is just popping up
everywhere
shall we see oh there ya on Sasha's
screen and I'll bring it up over on on
my screen as well so that you can see
what we actually have is the drive with
a single file which is the user manual
you can convert you see that on your I
do I do we wanted to bring that up on
the Chromebook because I really wanted
to challenge this drive I wanted to I
didn't want to plug it into a Windows 10
system because it is it compatible with
Windows 10 you know that it's going to
be Windows and Mac absolutely Linda
right yeah yeah absolutely but if it
works on a Chromebook perfectly we've
proven that that decryption is
unbelievably compatible with everything
right plug it into anything and it'll
work now what happens now Sasha if you
can unmount that from your Chromebook so
bring back up the little dialogue and
unmount that I know this is all new to
you you know do I just do that here now
go back to your files there you go so
you see the drive and you see eject
right next to Kingston now watch what
happens to the light and I want you to
tell the folks at home because they
can't quite see it it's just off the
camera oh it's flashing right okay now
unplug it it's what happens sash Oh
locked locked immediately she's doing a
great job of showing it to you but what
happened as soon as you unplugged it
it locked immediately it went into the
red encrypted mode Zak so now it's
encrypted so now if I take this Drive
and I plug it into my device it's not
gonna work if I don't know your password
which right now is the default one 1 two
2 three 3 four 4 right then it's I'm not
gonna be able to read the data do you
know how to change the password well
let's get into it because that's the
next best like that's the thing that we
have to do now that we've confirmed that
it works right all right so try to do
this on camera Sasha oh I want you to
unlock it so you're gonna push the lock
button here we go ok and then you're
going to go 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 and then law
again walk right okay for it to unlock
it's unlocked okay now double tap the
lock and then enter a password that you
want it to be let's make it something
you're gonna change it again but do like
one two three four five okay and then
double click the lock again okay all
right it's still unlocked
okay so now holding the lock button to
lock it and do my a be mindful to that
after 10 seconds if you haven't plugged
it into a device it's going to
automatically lock itself again okay so
now I want you to try pushing the lock
button and use your new password now
that you've changed it was 1 2 3 4 5
yeah so you tell me it was so super
secure and did you do it I don't it
didn't turn green press lock and then 1
2 3 4 5 and then lock again I did I
think it died always the battery because
we didn't recharge it first I do have
one here that is recharging so I'm gonna
unplug it from my computer and I'm gonna
go okay so alright and you guys get the
idea but so lock one 1 two 2 three 3
four 4 lock now get unlocked now lock
lock one two oh you know what I realize
this as we're doing this there are
security measures in place that makes
sure that I don't pick a stupid password
oh is that what happened for the sake of
the TV show today sorry on this show we
tried to do a stupid pass we want to do
a stupid password so what we would do is
we need to choose a better password so
is this still my password then 1 2 1 1 2
2 3 3 4 yes yeah it's still my password
oh I failed the password test yes there
are actually
things in place so it's
it must be between 7 and 15 digits in
length it must not contain repetitive
numbers for example 3 3 3 3 3 it must
not contain consecutive numbers such as
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 ok ok got this ok so
that's a clever mechanism that will
clear them ok your unlock just enter a
password okay so you're entering a real
password here like we need to like mask
this no I'm never gonna use this one for
real ok do you remember what it is
though
yes and then double click double click
and then enter it again so it's unlocked
yeah enter it again do it again ok
and then and then double-click again the
lock okay and now you set now it says
it's locked so now we've entered it
twice oh so now single click the lock
enter your new password and then single
click the lock again and see if it
worked
okay so I need to I need to lock it
whole time hold on here yeah you can
hold in the lock button I learn ok there
we go
no it's locked ok so now I'm going to
click the single click and then I'm
gonna type in this password that I'm not
going to keep and I only put it in
because I know how to spell this oh
you're using the words yeah ok unlocked
unlocked I won't remember a number
especially when it can't be 1 2 3 4 5
I'm never gonna remember it so to change
your password you know out of the box
we're gonna press lock one 1 two 2 three
3 four 4 lock and then unlock the device
then double click the lock enter my new
password
double click the lock again enter the
new password again a second time which
is a confirmation that I've typed it
correctly and double click the lock and
it will lock the device with the new
password now it's encrypted and can only
be decrypted with my existing of the new
password that I have set right amazing
right so now from here on forward in
order to use that drive all you have to
do is enter the hit click lock enter
your new password click lock again plug
it into anything beautiful if somebody
gets ahold of that and then they've
stolen it out of your purse and they
start messing around and they start
pushing buttons and I'm gonna figure
this out I'm gonna hack it if they get
the wrong password ten times
mm-hm it's going to delete the
decryption keys from the device so the
data can never be recovered at that
point oh so I really be certain from a
security standpoint that is genius yes
because I know that even if I lose this
someone's not gonna be able to get
access to my data right so can this be
the sole copy of my data no never never
never
just one copy of your data anytime in
the entire existence of your data no
ever never ever do that
however I've got encrypted storage in my
server that houses my cryptocurrency
keys that example right so that data is
double encrypted the drive is encrypted
the files themselves are GPG encrypted
the drives themselves are Luke's
encrypted so then I could now enter a
password in this copy my decrypt my
cryptocurrency keys onto this which are
a GPG encrypted format as they are so
again double encryption on this device
so now with my password I can then get
access to the GPG files which I can then
decrypt and access or somebody else gets
ahold of this they can never access
those files and if they try 10 times
it's gone right but I haven't lost the
files because they're on my server
exactly right so great at this these are
fantastic I think this is something that
we should all have in our pocket the
data traveler mm you get at a cat5 dot
TV /dt mm we do have one of these to
give away and if you would like to
qualify to win a Kingston DataTraveler
2000 encrypted device make sure you
follow the information in the
description below and again if you're
watching this on cable TV you can you
can go to our website category 5 TV find
episode number 594 of tech TV and follow
through with the links below just a
little bit of specifications for you it
is FIPS 197 256 bit AES encrypted it's
hardware encryption with the keypad no
software needed it comes out of the box
is fat32 so if you want to be able to
access store larger files on it you
might want to reformat it once you
decrypt it you can reformat it as exFAT
or NTFS or EXT 3 or 4 whatever you want
but then you're going to be able to put
larger files on it so out of the box
you're limited to 2 gig files but that's
not a limitation of the drive that's a
limitation of the file system
very easy to change the drive that I'm
holding in my hand and the one that
we're giving away to you is 64 gigabytes
of storage and you can imagine that for
your encrypted data storage that's a lot
of space to be able to carry around in
your purse in your pocket and that is
fantastic it's also it's got like a
water sealed okay yeah you can really
hear it exactly that's like a nice solid
and I really like solid blocky key thing
I really saw the lock e key thing
focusing you heard it here on TV alright
folks so full of the links below I'm
excited about those for obvious reasons
I think it's it's about time there were
consumer products if you will and when I
say consumer products I mean stuff
that's accessible to the consumer like
the average Jo user I don't need to be a
hacker or a Linux guru and understanding
Luke's file systems and encryption and
all this kind of stuff in order to
operate a data traveler mm all I need to
know how to do is press some buttons
with my finger and then plug it in so
that to me is what's so exciting about
this device yeah it's just easy to use
and gives me added security for my files
this is why I got to do the unboxing is
that what I think because it's super
easy there you go yeah boom done super
easy folks you heard it from Sascha and
it has like a thingy it's super fancy a
lock thingy
right dad yes and it's super easy yeah
all right cat 5 TV /dt mm to pick that
up and Sasha yes are you ready to head
over to the newsroom it's that time
already
I know live yeah yes I am all right
we'll jump over here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV newsroom a consumer DNA testing
company has given the FBI access to its
2 million
profiles Microsoft plans to expand Xbox
Live to other platforms including
Nintendo switch and mobile Google's new
Chrome extension automatically checks
that your passwords are still secure and
here's another story about Google but
this one's for mobile their new Android
apps could help the hearing impaired
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
dot TV newsroom covering the week's top
tech stories we put the slight linux
bias
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you right you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman and here at the top
stories were following this week a
consumer DNA testing company has given
the FBI access to its two million
profiles a large consumer DNA test
database Family Tree DNA has quietly
started allowing the FBI to upload
genetic profiles created from crime
scenes and corpses the FBI was able to
compare forensic samples with the DNA of
any of about two million customers of
the service normally used by
genealogists to locate and contact
relatives a spokesperson for the company
said law enforcement agencies have so
far uploaded 22 samples ten were from
the FBI at least one case has already
been solved between Family Tree DNA and
another database being accessed by
police Jed match it means that your
average criminal on the loose probably
has at least a second cousin whose DNA
can be located the FBI created a special
genealogy team to turn those leads into
arrests specialized law enforcement
databases containing DNA profiles of
known felons could soon be irrelevant
natalier am an assistant law professor
at the university of baltimore says we
are nearing a de facto national DNA
database some users are already
expressing anger over family trees
sharing of their DNA data but Family
Tree DNA founder Bennett Greenspan said
in a statement that police only have
access to the same type of information
users already share
his name's initials emails and photos
interesting you had thought about at one
point a couple years back I remember you
mentioning this on the air right you had
thought about doing the DNA test and I
did not you did not I did not do it you
it was were gonna buy it online exactly
and it was like a hundred dollars like a
hundred dollars yeah imagine like how
much is a DNA test
really really it's probably pennies no
no no thousands you think so I think so
oh I got my dog once DNA tested too yeah
yeah just to see your ancestor ox
interesting I know but my my thought is
that if I were to buy a DNA test for
$100 say right like you got you can't be
angry if they're using this data to be
able to track down criminals just don't
be a criminal don't be a criminal right
okay so the point is that it's really
good that they're catching criminals
sure but it's kind of bad that they're
just getting right up all in your
personal DNA situation being that it's
not just you now it's you and everybody
you're related to so right so if they
find your cousin right you're the
criminal they did this they they found
the Golden State killer like this
notorious serial killer that was on a
barrage of killings in California I
think in the 70s I could be wrong they
just arrested him he's next on DNA data
based on DNA because one of his
relatives I wonder if this is the one
arrests that they have at least done one
of his relatives had submitted their DNA
to a DNA testing and so they knew that
of the suspect pool because that person
was related to somebody in the suspect
pool that was the guy and they arrested
him okay so it's like I like it but at
the same time now I probably won't go
get my DNA tested not because I'm a
criminal or I don't assume that I'm
related to your relatives but I just
don't I
okay I know there are about they're all
amazing so say I don't know that I have
let's say I have a half-sister just
floating about out there okay right and
she meets an untimely demise let's say
now they've tested her DNA and my DNA
and now not only are they telling me
that I have a relative but they've
passed away and part of a crime scene or
something right like like it just seems
a little bit - I may be a big brother II
I don't know it seems weird I think this
is a whole if Jeff was here right now it
would be gettin irate right now I just I
feel like this is this is interesting
technology I love it and remember the
FBI is not taking confidential data from
the service
the FBI is submitting DNA samples right
and then they're matching it up and
saying this is matched - okay just like
if you were to upload and this is the
whole purpose of getting your DNA test
done is so that you could upload it and
realize oh I have a half-sister I didn't
know about right right so they're
uploading the data and finding oh this
is related to this person and this
person is in the suspect pool of this
particular crime right so they're not
collecting data they're making
connections based on the DNA profile
that they have right
so is it they still kind of want to be
honest I still kind of want to do it I'm
just still want to do the DNA test
yeah I'm just scared I feel like I have
more relatives out there that I don't
know about and I want it I don't want to
find the but at the same time I don't
want like what if one of my relatives
this is a criminal why oh boy this is
good really don't you want to know you
want to know if your half-sister that
you don't know right a criminal and has
apparently been involved in some kind of
crime yeah you need to know about this
sash
I don't know if I do I think that our
chat room is right on the money like we
are in this weird time where we're so
afraid of our identity theft issues and
like if you had so much as my name and
my social insurance number now all of a
sudden you're getting credit cards in my
name and racking up bills in my name and
and things like that so now you've got
my DNA profile and what else can you
like Robbie clones who knows I it's
interesting and I'm really happy that it
that crimes will be solved by this yeah
that makes me happy makes Sasha happy
then it's got to be good right probably
okay
Microsoft plans to expand Xbox Live to
other platforms including Nintendo
switch and mobile Wow the company says
bringing the network to more consoles
will enable game developers to connect
players between iOS Android and switch
in addition to Xbox and any game in the
Microsoft Store on Windows PCs Microsoft
says that the release of their
cross-platform
Xbox development kit will take Xbox Xbox
Live to over 2 million devices taking
Xbox Live to other consoles seems like
the next natural step after the
cross-platform play that exists within
certain games such as fortnight or
minecraft Sony has been less cooperative
when it comes to cross-platform play and
allowing other services on its
PlayStation Network and it appears this
Xbox Live expansion will not apply to
ps4 as yet however Sony did enable
fortnight cross play as a beta last year
so perhaps further integration of the
major gaming platforms will become a
possibility down the line well no more
following the Game Developers Conference
which takes place from March 18th to
22nd your year more in the games than hi
probably right I would expect ok so I
have a sweat yes and I have a ps4 ok and
I have Dark Souls for both
and do they talk nope Oh see right
because he's PS for what the heck come
on like maybe they're on to something
you could Microsoft be on to something
that maybe things should just write
together I am a horrible at Dark Souls
Dave is the master of it I can't get
past the first boss and I have it on
switch because I find that which is
easier to play okay and he plays that on
PlayStation could you imagine if they
could talk and he could just you could
become big and he could help me kill
like the asylum demon I can imagine
about the internet okay so the world
wide web
imagine if you could only access the
this part of the web from Microsoft
Windows and this part of the web from
Mac and this part of the web from Linux
and so on and so forth right right like
just realize that we're in this time
when everything needs to work with all
of the information and platforms that
are available and maybe Fortnight has
that where you know you can access it
from anywhere minecraft has that and I
can be on my PC and playing against
someone who's on a switch yeah that's
the way it should be that's the way it
should be I really like this news it
feels ya commonsensical like the next
step of course they would have this
PlayStation Sony come on get on board do
it are you a gamer like what's your
opinion on that III think it's silly
that this is not the norm like that it's
news that Xbox Live is going to be
available on other platforms but it is
that's great I mean for Xbox Live
players to be able to access their PC
games and play them on switch and
communicate between them right like you
have a group of people that you're
playing games with and you have a group
of friends in real life that also play
games but unless your friends are on the
same systems then you can't play with
them right it's not that's not fair and
fun I think the kids have kind of
encountered this with our love from mind
test so mind test being kind of like
very very similar actually to Minecraft
but it's free open source and we've got
servers that we can access and play on
but their friends who play Minecraft on
Android tablets say ya find it quite
onerous to be able to connect to mine
test because there isn't a really good
apk for Android so you've got to have a
PC or you've got to have a laptop in
order to play kind of thing so then
they're in that same scenario where they
can't play it with their friends so we
need to have minecraft because it's the
universal compatible with everything
right times are changing though they are
changing that's true Google's new Chrome
extension automatically checks that your
passwords are still secure a new Chrome
extension from Google called password
check up will automatically check
whether your passwords have been exposed
in a data breach data breach once
installed the extension checks any login
details you use google says most US
sites are supported against a database
of around 4 billion usernames and
passwords and warns if it finds a match
password breaches are an unfortunately
common occurrence but so long as you're
using a unique password for each website
it's fairly it's normal
fairly simile fairly simple to deal with
just change the login credentials used
with the breached website and move on
unfortunately when massive breaches like
the collection 1 compromised so many
different passwords can be with so many
different passwords it can be impossible
to know which one the viewers are still
safe that's where Google's new extension
comes in
since password check up relies on
sending your confidential information to
Google the company is keen to emphasize
that this is encrypted and that it has
no way of seeing your data passwords in
the database are stored in a hashed and
encrypted form and any warning that's
generated about your details are
entirely local to your machine Google
isn't the only company to offer such a
service one passwords robust password
manager includes Watchtower integration
to your to compare your passwords
against have I been owns database of
breached credentials Google's extension
is free
you can use Chrome's built-in password
generator to generate a new password if
you find one of yours has been
compromised
that is cool so this whole time I'm
reading this I'm thinking to myself
I have a really bad habit of trying to
come up with a secure password and then
forgetting that password and then being
like locked out or you know I'm gonna
click forget my pass orders and a
password manager I I have just the most
basic password manager thing and I only
have ten password is it called Excel no
no it's on a shared our keynote this is
got written down actually online banking
password one two three start on the
monitor so what happened what happens is
and it's not intentional because I try
and save really important passwords and
really strong ones uniquely but when I
get into a panic like with discord one
time I got into a panic couldn't
remember my password and then I was like
well I'll just put it back to the one
that's tried and true and I know well
that just means that I have quite a few
things with the same tried and true and
I know password oh yeah which is I know
that that's wrong at the very least just
go get yourself a LastPass account
LastPass calm you can use it on your
Chromebook you can use it on Windows you
use it on Linux it's just a chrome
plug-in right I tried to do that on your
Chromebook your chromium browser I will
memorize your passwords and save them in
the in the cloud and a secure I know I
know that to be true and I tried
LastPass and I have to get back to it
but I got to the master password for
LastPass I it in wrong no I think okay
so with something like LastPass yeah you
only have to remember one password right
so you make it a super strong super
ingenious password that nobody would
ever be able to crack but you're able to
remember and that is the only password
that you ever have to remember but
you're in this thing where you're
putting the same password into all
different services so if one of those
services gets compromised all of them
are right right so with LastPass you
remember the one password if LastPass
ever got compromised do you just change
your master password in your back in
business
but Millau see to go to every service
when you're creating your password
generate a new password and it can be
like 32 characters of absolute gibberish
yeah you don't ever have to know it
because it's stored in the last pass
vault and so then and I'm using LastPass
as the example because it works very
very well another 7th a free version
that's available for you little work on
your browser but then you can have
secure passwords and they're different
for every single service so if you find
out from Google's new plugin or from
have I been owned that your password for
say a particular service say your
Twitter password has been compromised
well then you go onto Twitter and you
change the password and it doesn't
affect any other service right and
you're good I need to have a password
changing day you do it sounds like you
need to get yourself an account with a
with a reputable password manager
LastPass is one of those and probably
the easiest to set up we can look at key
pass X we can look at doing our own but
LastPass is online it's available for
you and install it on your browser
easy-peasy set up a free account and
start going through changing all your
passwords and just make a really strong
master password you know I definitely do
need to do that do it
ok I'm check-in on this next week and
see if she's got it done ok what's gonna
do it this week you are gonna do it this
week otherwise we are all hacking your
account you don't know my password
exactly Google's new Android apps could
help your hearing
that's right Google has announced that
it's bringing Android users to new apps
sound amplifier and live transcribe
which are designs to make life a little
easier for those of you with hearing
loss live transcribed takes live speech
and turns it into captions using your
phone's built-in microphone and
according to Google it comes in over 70
different languages and dialects you can
also use it for two-way conversations if
you don't if you can't or don't want to
speak using a type back keyboard within
the app although live transcribe is
being rolled out worldwide is a limited
beta via the Play Store right now Google
says you'll soon be able to enable it
accessibility settings then start live
transcribed from the accessibility
button on the navigation bar the second
app sound amplifier isn't just designed
for people with hearing loss as google
explained in its announcement blog post
everyone can use a little audio boost
from time to time especially in
situations where there's a lot of
background noise like a loud cafe or an
airport lounge you will need to plug in
wire headphones into your smartphone to
use the app which works by digitally
increasing the volume of the quiet
sounds while not over boosting loud
sounds you can also customize this sound
by changing the sound enhancement
settings and applying noise reduction to
minimize distracting background noise
with simple sliders and toggles both
apps will come pre-installed on the
pixel 3 and could potentially make a
real difference to people with hearing
loss by making it easier to communicate
with people around them I love it yes we
talked about how AI in the mobile so in
my phone is going to allow me to do
things like this yes brilliant I love it
so not only is it an accessibility
feature but also a safety feature so if
I can use dictation to be able to send
text messages or emails well now it's
done away with the the issue of people
texting while driving ah because I can
exactly JIT amelie and and accurately
dictate to my phone and and you know as
things get smarter and better to be able
to control it by verbal command right
and you know what even uh from a health
standpoint you see people on their
phones like this right and that is so
incredibly than that yeah so if you're
gonna wait exactly if you can just come
out with things like this that really
just help you to have your body upright
and your eyes alert you are going to
save your spine and probably your life
when you're crossing the street
she works at a chiropractic clinic so
she knows what she's talking about I
love that
now the technology in our pocket so we
know that it's getting more and more
intelligent it's getting faster and it's
getting better and like I say the AI
technology is making its way into phones
and the SOC s that are built into the
phones so now we're seeing things like
that we're gonna next we're gonna start
seeing even better translation services
so we've got the hearing impairment
thing covered so now we're able to hear
better now we're able to speak in other
languages with other people from around
the world in real-time incredible like
have you seen tidying up with Marie
Kondo yes so you see how her translator
she is amazing she sits off to the side
and she's like she's so like just meek
and mild in the background and just so
humble in her presentation she's and as
Marie Kondo is is speaking in her native
tongue
she's translating in real-time like and
people are carrying conversations in
languages that they don't speak yeah and
its natural its intuitive absolutely to
watch it is even natural and it's like
this is amazing I saw Marie Kondo
interviewed on on Colbert show mm-hmm
and same thing
it's like translators there and they're
talking and they're carrying on and it
was goofy but it was amazing right from
the perspective of wow that's actually
coming to our phones as well like that
entire process of being able to carry a
conversation in another language right
is unbelievable but this is just looking
at the accessibility aspect if you're
hearing impaired if you have trouble
with distinguishing voices in a busy
environment well this is something that
could really really help yeah absolutely
I like that the focus is on this because
there are people that yeah I mean you
you might not be even diagnosed as
hearing impaired but you do have trouble
in situations like that mm-hmm
I know sometimes I do so when sometimes
I just want to put on a pair of
headphones and just pretend that I
can i I gotta here trying so hard to
hear you
let's jump right into our cryptocurrency
report for this week coin gecko says as
of 1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
February 6th 2019 that Bitcoin is down a
little bit lost about fifty nine dollars
and 85 cents a u.s. down a 3402 49
litecoin is the only riser this week as
far as the coins that were monitoring it
rose just 97 cents a u.s. so hey that's
the one who invest in folks that are not
now totally I would never say that
is that a 104 or 57 a little bit of a
loss so we're kind of seeing that things
are still fluctuating and they're meant
to right but it's not like a massive
rise and a massive drop it's just like
things are just kind of ticking ticking
along right now in cryptocurrency Manero
as well I mean it was 43 46 last week
it's 40 to 70 this week in u.s. dollars
terms so it lost 76 cents it's just kind
of everything's hovering along like this
right the little guy stellite is down at
1.7 ten thousandth of a cent turtle coin
is at 1.0 to ten thousandth of a cent
per turtle coin and remember you know as
I share these numbers the cryptocurrency
market is always volatile it never
closes and it could be going like this
right now
it could later go like this and it could
then go like this as we've seen over the
past year we don't know and it's just
fun to monitor and watch and learn from
the trends it'd be really good if you
could see into the future with those
wouldn't that be good wouldn't it as I
said I mean hey folks litecoin is up 97
cents right have you invested $1 let
yesterday you'd have almost 2 today
that's right
thanks for watching like oh you know you
would have had to invest 32 to 32 Jesus
yeah Davis better at knowing these these
invest $100 and you'll have that it and
be up like $3 it's not a lot it's not a
lot sorry I interrupted thanks for
watching the category 5
TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
i'm sasha Rickman and i'm robi ferguson
hey thank you so much for being here
with us again this week looking forward
to having you back with us again next
week same place same time we'll see you
then take care everybody
[Applause]
