this is available in the category 5
costume store which you'll find on our
website category 5 TV there are links
there up until Halloween if you're
looking for a costume this bad boy
includes shirt collars pips communicator
pen pin communicator pen communicator
pin so it's all in here and I got the
size medium available sizes are small
medium large and extra-large so
hopefully the medium will be about right
for me there's the packaging got it
looks like this is gonna need some
ironing I could use some help but we'll
see alright let's take a look I you can
just do you smell the geekiness
seriously these are actually not bad
these are metal hips that were included
I honestly thought I was going to be
buying pips separately there's the the
black one and I've got four gold ones
there they are and these are pins okay
with clasps so that's going to actually
puncture the uniform so you want to
choose your rank so that you don't end
up damaging the uniform and then nice
little reflective metal pips that look
kind of like the genuine article quite
impressive actually
there it is that looks really sharp
if you're interested in dressing up with
me at Halloween this year as a Starfleet
officer you can order these these
uniforms off of our website category 5
TV visit our costume store and you'll be
able to also get one of these for
yourself
what you're a go to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 158
oh there I go already hundred and fifty
eight of them 158 category five
technology TV that was like an 8 / cough
well I'm here to cover for you all at
the same time Eric and cough medicine is
here to help me out of the night
superantispyware coffee well I need some
superantispyware to get this virus gone
ha you're supposed to go but um try left
the kid at home yeah tonight we're gonna
be looking at data security leave my cup
alone your cup is right there Deus
nothing wrong with the the germ yes no
okay I'm gonna just don't touch that pen
cuz now let's cut the germs tonight
we're gonna be looking at data security
what you should do with your computer if
you're gonna recycle it or give it away
or sell it we're gonna be checking that
out and lots of cool features coming up
we've got lots of questions I don't
you've got a new computer here tonight
yeah true together for you I have a
keyboard tonight let's go to keyboard I
have a key look at that keyboard what
are all these letters tonight is the
23rd anniversary of Star Trek The Next
Generation in case you're wondering Wow
live long and prosper
yeah to all the viewers brilliant hey
everybody welcome in the chat room
category 5 TV good to see you alright
cool so you've got you've got lots of
email I don't know if you've seen all
the IIC there's quite a few things in
there we'll have to have some questions
for you definitely and a bunch of other
stuff going on tonight is the first
episode of season 4 of category 5
technology TV it's great to have you
here joining us for this special day
thanks akimoto cool all right what do
you got coming up in the news all I can
tell you what's coming up in the
newsroom shares and research in motion
dropped today following yesterday's
announcement of their iPad alternative
the PlayBook browser sync service x
marks is going to shut down dr. mark
wright is using his position as city
councillor to fight the good fight on
behalf for open source software in
bristol city UK and Twitter's latest
exploit redirected users to offensive
websites hmm and gallium has introduced
its directx 10 / 11 implementation for
linux stick around for the latest news
from the category 5 TV news room
brilliant something we've got lots come
we've got lots coming a couple of people
in the chat were mentioning that they're
having trouble with the justin tv feed
so just quickly before we get rockin the
questions i want to take a look just
make sure everything's working for us on
this end let's see how she's going and
of course we do have other feeds on the
site we've got the WMS feed which if
you're on linux will open right up in
totem but looks like justin TV is
functioning just fine Oh might have some
problems maybe not Oh Justin doc TV with
super delay all right everybody let's
let's try to kick this into fast gear
watch this
there we go let justin.tv kept shop all
right you'll give it a second there hey
let everybody for those of you ever seen
this after and for those of you who are
just coming back on with chestnut TV
hello well add we've got a semi live
feed on justin.tv tonight that's great
welcome this is a delay just in case you
start cussin stuff I think that was no
no she all right great to see y'all hope
you didn't miss too much there but for
those of you who are trying to catch us
on the justin.tv feed there was like I
don't know there was like a five minute
delay there for some reason so well
we'll blame that one on the on the free
service for tonight and that looks like
it's back up and running so here's
hoping all right if you're having too
much trouble on justin.tv try our WMS
feed and if that's not working out for
you pardon me feel free to catch the the
show on the dl you can pick it up after
the fact on our website category 5 TV
you can also get it through our RSS feed
that vodcast dot category five dot TV so
hopefully everything will will come
together for you I see gadwal office
says the stream was buggy very frequent
stubbles he's not talking about my lack
of shaving this effort that's not what
he's talking about that kind of stubble
more certain okay we'll just uh you know
I'll kick a couple of things here is a
suggestion of starting and stopping the
justin.tv might help that oh I did that
well and that's what God is kind of up
and running here okay this is exciting
viewing on Miro right now you know the
first five minutes of the show well
hello but let's see what happens if we
if we try to let's see what happens
that's the best we can well I'm here
we'll see we're here oh and people are
saying God wills mentioned that WMS feed
is much better so my guess justin.tv
having some kind of issues tonight sorry
gang Chris Rock once how do we change to
WMS right on our website category five
dot T
v you'll see on the homepage during a
live broadcast there's actually this
watch category 5 live you've got
justin.tv pop-up player that's the one
you're trying to watch right now that's
not that's not working for you there's
the backstage pass and then there's WMS
in your own player what that's going to
do like I say if you're on linux that's
gonna pop up in Totem windows is going
to bring it up in the media player Mac
will bring it up probably into itunes or
some other player but that will play
cross-platform so shouldn't have any
trouble with that one all right so hey
Yamato put a put a little link there for
you go thank sekimoto okay cheers all
right so we'll die will rock on here
we're sorry gang that you're having
trouble justin.tv is a fantastic service
but you know we can't complain when they
if they have issues once in a while so
we'll just kind of plow through and I'm
glad that we're able to offer some
alternatives for you okay so how you
been I have been well I survived hockey
last week yeah I survived your pretzel
party here last night was exciting I
survived lots of stuff last week good
yes sir we should say hello to some new
viewers love to have a list of some new
viewers here this looks like a lot of
letters dgtl DNA from the USA hey that
is here m40 from the US a new term on
from Seattle which I guess is USA and
walk closer from Toronto where is that
trauma um autumn blanchard 20 from
Colorado nice to have you and you're
gonna have to help me with that one hi
what's up with your eyes tonight well I
think it's your writing is that what I
think it might be good be and hello to
be four sites from Barry Wow Barrett
nice to have a local here ignazio 82 is
out there um from places unknown and
while didio from Northumberland monist
overland where's
I don't really know where y'all remember
the Northumberland Strait runs between
New Brunswick and pei but I don't think
that's it I don't know does anybody out
there somebody in the chat rooms gonna
tell us sooner united kingdom oh well
there you go yeah there we have it and
nice to have another new viewer from the
United Kingdom and I really want to get
this right from french polynesia it's
mahi a no nu uh Matt man yeah yeah new
Mannion okay we're blaming John wrote
that down for us that's from french
polynesia it's nice to have you here no
given us difficulty ons aliases but what
about money and new new faces this week
Newsom Robbie and Eric hmm if you look
at the French you're so fancy canadiana
um if you're new here if you haven't
already registered on our website
category five dot TV just make sure you
sign up it's a free service and being a
registered user you're gonna get some
bonus features off of our website
especially as we move into season 4
we've got two more and more features
that are going to be predominantly for
registered users so make sure you do
that at category 5 TV will they get a
TNG over for a 40 bucks oh sure well
that's a heck of a deal to twice the
price rubbing it I think John should be
wearing one too yeah they're they're
pretty great and our partnership with
with party mark they're gonna actually
support the show in a bit of an army in
an affiliate role so for everybody who
buys their costume from from that link
on our website then you'll actually be
so indirectly supporting the show at the
same time so very cool
all right good to see everybody in the
chat room I'm gonna try not to miss miss
your questions make sure you send them
attention to Robbie F or Eric kid hey
how do you know okay hey yeah okay he's
lying as I learn this lawyer huh it's
all good you know your way around I'm
you're looking at me like I'm fine on my
way around it i'm gonna read this sure
yeah well we have a couple questions
here one from Raj Gopal what is the
impressive oh I was just saying hey
saying hi and I walked all over dinner
I'm sorry for before you read it a dad
will office wondering if if the camp
five store part me it's gonna ship to
the US and yep absolutely so make sure
you check out sir hey ranch he wants to
know what the importance of Wi-Fi
technology and TV is ah the we fee
whiffy we fee wow you're you're looking
at you know category five dot TV is a
service that's available through the
internet it's like a TV program that's
viewable strictly through internet
mediums right so with a Wi-Fi enabled TV
these television devices parmi whoa you
even try to work through tonight yeah
just slapping back these these TVs are
coming out to be more connective you've
you know it's kind of like back in the
80s seen in the future that the fridge
with the touchscreen and stuff like that
so now the TV being basically a computer
and an of itself becomes a media
receiver for a media server so if you've
got for example of PlayStation 3
connected in wirelessly tier to your
network things like that or if you've
got an unread box or files in your
network or on the internet that you want
to be able to play on the TV the Wi-Fi
support on the TV is going to give you
access based on what what's off what
software and abilities come with that
particular model you're going to be able
to watch TV shows through
wireless networking you can have a
server with with all your movies on the
server so that you don't have to worry
about swamp and disks all the time and
things like that but especially stuff
like being able to watch internet-based
television programming such as this show
so well you need to do more of the
talking tonight sorry my friends well
earlier today I was like I don't even
know like cuz I I always stick it out
with the show I'm trying not to breathe
on you but when we appreciate it okay
yeah but this morning I was I was if he
I was like am I gonna be able to do it
tonight swifty if he if he okay it was a
suggestion that um one of us were Beldar
conehead outfit for halloween that
sounds like something kuru would say no
if you wanted to buy me the outfit I'll
wear it yes sir yeah and I'm in count me
in that'll be for next year or mix it up
Starfleet and going heads a Starfleet
conehead officer oh my wrong galaxy
any questions in the chat in the
travelin oh well let's see we have
another one here from the email you guys
are gonna get sick of that sound the
coffin alright well we have another
question here from Dan Murphy hey dan hi
dan hey I got an okay to dual-boot my
laptop installed ubuntu a while ago on
it tried to get updates today and failed
I got a weird error message about having
a blocked IP address I think we might
not and then not again not sure but I
think the repository servers think I am
coming from 10 dot X dot why I got sat
or Z for you American folks out there
how can I work around this and get my
updates other than taking my laptop home
hmm it's a laptop take it home it's
portable that's why it's a lot oh oh
yeah that's the whole idea of affordable
considered an that was an easy answer
let's move on okay we're gonna be that
apt on CD comes to mind oh let's see if
you pull it up apt on CD dot
sourceforge.net
basically just lets you get the
applications downloaded at home switch
them over I like burn them to a CD take
them to work and install the updates on
your computer another thing though if
you if you have a similar similarly
similarly configured computer at home i
corrected myself because I knew he was
going to correct me so if you have a
similarly configured contender at home
they can similar speech impediment yes
you could you could run the updates at
home and then copy your apt cache folder
which would give you all the Debian
packages for the updates you can burn
those two CD throw them on a flash drive
or something bring them back before you
know we don't know the background maybe
din doesn't want to go home doesn't mind
taking tap into the neighbor's Wi-Fi but
I want to know what's causing that kind
of behavior because that's a little bit
on the odd side if it's reading an
internal IP address when you're trying
to run your updates a little bit strange
but those are two suggestions that you
might wanna look into apt on CD
sourceforge.net i'll post the link in
the show notes for episode number 158 or
grab your apt cache folder from a
computer that's that's getting the
updates like like your home computer but
it would have to be the same version of
ubuntu good let us know and if anyone
has any other suggestions or better
suggestions in the chat room please post
those and i'll just mention that you can
check the chat logs for episode number
158 and you'll find this at about 7 19
p.m. in the locks thanks for the
question are they are they sending a
French la francais but tool is America
some modeling you're gonna have people
with your pronunciation I'm pretty much
a uni lingual Anglophone who knows
a few choice words um mr. hangin hangin
I'm gonna get myself in trouble here I
had a you know can't be said on the on
the show well it probably candy yeah um
although okay oh yeah you're wrong
rubbing your hands no I have another oh
yeah I saw this one I like this I just I
don't even know what the question is it
just like the way it starts out well we
we started looking at this one a couple
weeks Oh a few weeks ago oh but question
number three in the trio of questions
usually when when somebody sends it when
you send us a question live at category
5 dvi-i always ask break it up like send
us a separate email for each question in
this case the user had broken it up into
three parts so we'll we'll try to answer
all three parts breaking it town but
it's always easier and it ensures that
we can get you on the show if that if
you break it in two separate emails okay
so we don't miss stuff but just what
happened I did want to address something
that just came in in the chat room
they're telling me that not all
Americans are monolingual or union
lingual that's not what I was pointing
at I was saying americans pronounce the
26 letter of the alphabet z whereas here
in canada in the united kingdom is
pronounced sinned and less your Robbie
and he says z sometimes I'm just him
back to Z modem that could have it as if
modem couldn't have been your drivers at
28 or z28 don't even know what that is
no I'm a geek I'm not into cars ok ok so
we'll go back to sorry I gamoto um we
were going down to question number three
were we yes this is a gym Kerwin hey Jim
but I do like the way Jim started this
out feel free to Rita Oh co-host 'less
one so three increase the size of a
virtualbox VDI file / drive is it
possible to increase the size of a
virtualbox virtual hard drive a dot VDI
file and I had allocated 30 gigabytes
which seemed to be a good guess at the
time for running XP home and a couple of
Windows only programs with
large greater than 5 gigabytes data
files alas I'm now thinking that it
might have been better to allocate 40
gigabytes do I have to create a new
larger virtual machine and reinstall
everything or is there a way to grow the
current VDI or transplant it into a
larger pot Wow I think the easiest user
is lovely brilliant wording we can't go
wrong with this I think best way to look
at it is approach your virtual machine
as if it's a real physical computer in a
real computer if you wanted to increase
your hard drive space what you would do
is you would install a new hard drive
and then you'd use imaging software to
get the data off of the old drive and
transfer it over to the new hard drive
so looking at that in a virtual machine
environment if you were to take your
your virtual box with the power of the
virtual machine turned off it would
create a new basically a second hard
drive in that computer make it the size
that you want 40 60 gigs whatever you
like and once that's created boot up
from a clonezilla CDI so weird my CV go
it's over there okay i can actually you
don't even need to burn it to CD because
this is all that happens if you do the
burn process won't fun the burn process
one went fine just get it home to Eric's
place and it's destroyed it didn't
install so well if you download the
clonezilla I so you can use you can use
the iso mount it without even having to
burn it so you don't have to waste a CD
I say waste a CD because that's what
Erik does and can use that for a coaster
man so you boot up from that I so right
you've got two hard drives virtual hard
drives connected to that that virtual
computer and clonezilla will see the to
drive so then you copy from one to the
other clone the hard drive and then
you'll be able to then remove the
virtual hard drive from VirtualBox boot
the system from the new 40 or 60 gig
drive and everything will be in place
you don't have to reinstall things
you're just going to have a larger hard
drive when you boot
from the new harddrive quote-unquote
hard drive it's virtual but treat it as
if it was a physical system and I think
that'll work really well for you and
don't drop your CV don't even bother to
burn it ok ok just use the ice all over
you know i'll post some links for
clonezilla stuff like that in the image
and the show notes rep so number 158
made it through Dahlia nicely done Chris
Wright is wondering if you could explain
the difference between an NVIDIA GeForce
consumer video card and in video nvidia
that was a pronunciation problem nvidia
quadro workstation video cards if you're
from eric land its end video i'm
thinking the workstation cards are more
geared towards if I've got to write more
geared towards like cat applications
well be nice i'm getting worked up ready
to go to hockey so what's that mean the
like the quadro cards and stuff i I
think the way that I would compare them
just to put it real really into lay
terms I would look at the geforce card
as the home user the gamer the self
broadcaster i'm using a geforce card
here that type of user it's a different
type of card designed for that kind of
usage however if you get into the quadro
line of stuff you're talking about
animators people who are really drawing
a lot of power off of the GPU people
that need to be rendering 3d CAD
drawings people that are going to be
rendering say video like animated video
cartoon and cartoon or stuff like that I
think that's the most basic and that's
really all that I know as far as as far
as specs go there are differences in
what you know the size of the chips on
the cards
stuff I don't think that's what you're
looking for but essentially for the home
user g-force is the way to go if you get
into the cuadros you're looking at more
professional application but not talking
professional as in office use I'm
talking stuff like the CAD work in the
and the 3d animation actually generating
not talking gaming I'm talking about
actually creating somebody who creates
games will want to go with the quadro
somebody who plays games will want to go
with a g-force so I hope that kind of
house I don't know a whole lot about
about that line of cards but does that
help we're a gamoto sang think light
wave or blender so that would be I would
put that into the quadro and the things
somebody who's rendering 3d creating
their own 3d you're going to get much
better performance out of a quadro card
versus the geforce card which is
designed to be you which is meant to be
used with pre-rendered 3d
cool
hope that helps I hope is a lot I should
I should just say there you have it I
should have like a catchphrase there it
is I'm not asking for you to invent a
catchphrase 50 I saw the eye and you
could see that could you okay keep him
to the chat room look let's see somebody
had a command line version of how to
clone a virtual box oh yeah yeah I'm
sure there could be there could be a
tool did they actually post so check yes
check that out all right yeah there's a
there's a suggestion in here p box
manage I seem to have lost it already
vbox managed clone HD well that's cool
so step away from needing the third the
third party software and just use the
stuff that's built in with virtualbox
indeed but that's that's the command
that who was not that was saying that
that was good guy good guy the box
Amanda she's he's alone I just don't
know I've never used a chat room before
he says oh boy huh from chapter 8 of the
virtual box manual
vbox managed clone HD hey that's even
better this command duplicates a
registered virtual hard disk to a new
image file with a new unique identifier
okay so check that out that old uh
that'll give you some help there too
either or is gonna function for you and
I've I've done it using the clonezilla
method and that you know that always
works but but this looks great built
right in the Box managed remember on
your linux system that me box managed is
case sensitive so when you see it like
that yes and it's kind of funny because
depending on who the package distributor
was will change how the case sensitivity
is but usually it's like that capital B
capital B 0 X capital m an edge know if
you're not really paying attention it
almost look like conehead if you slip
some letters around there sorry clone HD
yes it's like that all lowercase clone
HD ok so this indeed just remembers case
sensitive oh look at that it's time for
the news are you ready for it i think i
am gonna round alright isn't could
happen jot it could happen okay from the
category 5 TV news room as i mentioned
shares and research what just happened
okay move on keep going okay read well I
thought it was near today I heard a
thump I heard okay shares in research in
motion's makers of the blackberry
dropped by four point four points today
following yesterday's announcement of
their playbook a tablet device rim
hopeful compete with the Apple iPad it
was a little a and a big a while it
first glance the playbook sounds
exciting enough with specs like dual
webcams a gig of ram and full support
for adobe flash rim seems to have jumped
the gun on their announcement as the
PlayBook is not even near ready for
release in fact demo units are not even
available for testing by media personnel
so chances are
the hype surrounding the new tablet will
die off even before it sees release for
all we know the PlayBook may be a pretty
cool device and here's hoping it is but
seeing as most people who are interested
in buying a five-hundred-dollar tablet
will already have done so by the time
it's released we just don't have high
hopes browsers sync service x marks as
announced it will shut down in january
the service despite having over two
million active users was unable to
monetize and will begin sending out
email to advise its users begun in 2006
is Fox marks it was initially only a
bookmark syncing service but expanded to
sync passwords and open tabs across
multiple platforms and browsers
including Firefox Internet Explorer
Chrome and Safari similar features are
now offered as part of the Firefox and
Chrome browsers but no other tool offers
them across multiple browsers the
service did support the usage of any
server to host the sink to content and
many users hope that x marks will choose
to open source or software so that me my
supported by users CEO and
Founder todd oh we're gonna have fun
with this Oh a goal neck thanked his
investors colleagues translators and
users for their support of the product
quoting Douglas Adams so long and thanks
for all the fish dr. mark wright who was
elected to Bristol City Council in 2005
is fighting the good fight in promoting
the use of more open source software
within city council in discussing the
council's plans to get more open source
software into bristol schools right is
quoted as saying we want the next
generation to learn about other IT
options and make sure they don't suffer
from the kind of technology blindness
that so many of the current generation
suffered from Bristol's attempts to use
open source software instead of
microsoft on its desktop computers have
been hampered by the widespread use of
proprietary microsoft standards in
Britain's public sector but Wright is
determined not to give in the city of
Bristol will give up its open-source
ambitions in breaking free of Microsoft
over my dead body says right following a
political meeting this past Thursday
a security flaw introduced into
Twitter's service following a recent
update allowed users to spread spam
tweets and automatically redirect users
browsers to offensive and pornographic
websites being credited with discovering
the flaw in August Japanese web
developer Masato kanagawa used the
exploit to make rainbow colored tweets
but later that exploit would be utilized
by a Scandinavian developer who wanted
to see how far the flaw could go and was
astonished to find his code spread at a
rate of about 100 users per second
affecting around 500,000 twitter twitter
com users more recently curious
curiosity again struck as a 17 year old
australian boy inadvertently caused a
major hack attack on twitter last week
when he decided to see if the rumors
were true having posted a tweet with
malicious code to redirect users to
pornographic websites and replicate
itself simply by being viewed the users
tweet brought Twitter to his knees last
week and affected possibly millions of
users the massive amount of spam caused
confusion and even annoyance as users
were redirected but Twitter reassures
its users that the exploit did not
reveal any private information such as
your user account passwords so no action
is required by the users Twitter
developers have patched the exploit and
do not intend to pursue legal action
against the individuals who exploded the
problem wine is an API which allows
Linux users to run applications designed
to run exclusively on the Microsoft
Windows operating system at present
wines implementation of DirectX 3d
support is limited and does not support
DirectX 11 applications this means
limited or no support for Windows Direct
X power games or 3d applications under
Linux last week however galleons d3d 1x
was committed adding direct3d 10 / 11
support to Linux the developers are so
confident their work on the API that
they claim direct3d will inevitably
surpass performance of OpenGL on Linux
thanks to the dramatically smaller API
and the
segregation of all non-trivial work to
object creation that the application
must perform ahead of time says Luca
barbieri who made the comment last
Tuesday well this is only an early
release most of the main code is in
place to make direct 3d gaming a future
reality on Linux time will tell how this
is implemented into projects such as
wine as well as graphic card drivers as
gallium 3d makes this direct3d support
freely available to all get the full
stories at the category 5 TV news room
category 5 TV news room is researched by
Roy w Nash with contributions from
gadget wisdom guru Becca Ferguson and
our community of yours if you have a
news story you think is worthy of on-air
mention email newsroom at category five
dot TV well there you have it Robbie
can't face this guy can't faze him
tonight's episode of category 5
technology TV is brought to you in part
by planet calypso please do check out
the free download that's available at
cat five dot TV / Calypso awesome game
have you seen planet calypso I we're
gonna have to get this guy hooked up I
it's a free download I think I did see
it I think you were playing it at work I
probably I probably do ha ha check out
twitter.com slash Robbie Ferguson
tonight we are starting up with our new
feature recent tweets here at category 5
technology TV and this week comes from
jamie oliver keema chef the naked chef
no not gonna day it says it's a baby boy
guys I'm shocked too we're all very
happy mum was amazing and both are well
and happy for kids what that's Jamie
Oliver him and his wife had a baby boy
than they could chef naked baby oh yeah
there you go there he is and a link to
the to the image itself we on paddle
says hey Robbie great program agile
TV I happen to connect at you because of
wire cast problem and I found a really
interesting program thanks for the for
the comment at twitter.com / Robbie
Ferguson nice to see ya and I'm glad you
found the show fantastic wil wheaton
from Star Trek oh I saw the look in your
eyes you're like who so the ipad is a
fun toy and a great media server I love
that fun toy while traveling but it
isn't going to replace a proper computer
anytime soon for me self-explanatory
there you go i said i'm i'm making some
organic porcupine meatballs for dinner
getting them in the slow cooker now yum
can't believe Becca has never tried them
to which levada said what the and the
conversation went on where I had to
explain that no these meatballs are not
made from organic porcupine meat yes
it's it's farmed and there's a lot of
chemicals no a porcupine meatballs
course being beef with rice next time
you're making that up no I'm serious
Cass far says nice show hello from
Germany I love Toronto just have been
there once there for four weeks my best
time in life nice to have you joining us
here on the show we're about an hour
north of Toronto um so unless Robbie's
driving it's about an hour and a half
but what he's the guy who's behind me
honking his horn saying pick up the pace
pick up the pace speed limits 90
Christie sorry so nice to have you
joining from from Germany brent Spiner
also from Star Trek this is a Lieutenant
Commander data Oh data I wish I knew
when the when star trek TNG premiered in
1987 I know it was sometime around now
it's bit of a kidder that of course
was on this day I said to ram Fran sis
suck I'm human born and raised on earth
but spend some time at Utopia Planitia
well my parents were stationed there Wow
and Corey klaxon to wrap things up for
tonight the great part about linux is i
can't use internet explorer so no broken
web pages yes sure it was helped into
that we all say yeah yeah yeah you
haven't had any good any bad experiences
with internet explorer before I mean
heavens no I've coated a few websites in
my day so I know what you're talking
about Corey classroom you can message us
twitter com / Robbie Ferguson our
hashtag is category 5 and we'd love to
hear from you on Twitter cool so talking
about well you've got you've got a
question that you want to take a look at
yeah well I can tell pretty long one is
that yeah let's come back to the ok well
hit will hit it one question then we'll
start looking at data security
he goes okay well here we go anyway this
is also from mr. Kirwin when you posted
a link in the chat room to the ubuntu
forums discussion about the shutdown
restart problem in ubuntu 1004 I was a
bit disappointed because I had read that
discussion before writing to you however
I thought perhaps I missed something in
the first reading and it won't hurt to
review what's being said I'm glad I went
back because on the first page of the
discussion someone reported that their
problem had been caused by the
openoffice.org load at boot time option
as soon as they unchecked that feature
in OpenOffice there who boon to problem
disappeared I had skimmed over that
first line but the light bulb went off
during the second ring of course
shutdown hadn't been a problem the first
few days after the ubuntu install but a
few days into the new installation i had
a lot of tweak and early one morning i
set openoffice.org to load at install
since i use writer constantly my neck
shut down about 12 hours later that day
was the first one that didn't work but
it had been so many hours since the
preload option had been changed that I
didn't make the cause and effect
Association but thanks to you this isn't
really in fact a question at all Ravi
it's fixed at last they do bunt to 10.04
is now perfect fanta one cause and
effect Association one cause and effect
Association I do make is that Robbie
Ferguson and category 5 TV make for a
happier savier proprietary OS free
computing experience regards jim thanks
Jim that's good to hear back I always
loved and you hear me say it on the show
let me know if this helps you because
sometimes I'm not sure and that's a case
that particular question was the case
where there were so many possible
scenarios of what could be the problem
openoffice auto start the quick start of
openoffice is known to have that kind of
effect on on many systems so brilliant
that you figure that out
very glad that that that helped so and
for anyone else who's experiencing
problems on shutdown maybe that's maybe
that's your problem double check just
make sure that open office that option
is turned off in openoffice.org and that
should hopefully fix it thanks for
thanks for letting us know I'm curious
if if we have or have not received any
viewer testimonials this week I want to
take a look here because and it doesn't
look like we've got any this past week
so I just encourage you to visit our
website and that's category five dot TV
click on interact and submit a
testimonial we'd love to hear from you
just to let us know what you think of
the show even just to say hi and and
just say that's where you're viewing
from and we'd love to hear from you and
of course if you on the other hand are
looking for an answer to your question
you can do so and get your question in
the chat room category five TV during
the live show where Eric and I are both
watching the chat room or if you're not
watching this live or for some reason
you can't join us in the chat room make
sure you email us live at category five
dot TV that'll be good we definitely
encourage user interaction with this
show I'm sure you're finding you mind a
few weeks it's very interactive he's
flipping screens here as you also should
see this hey yeah fighting are you using
on the ice too later but I'm not know
well okay way to go that's your find
your way around I'm finding my own hair
out yeah it's kind of nice actually
having a keyboard as opposed to that are
8 laptop that was just out of reach it
seems that this is gonna actually work I
was a little concerned I don't know if
John can maybe put this in the shot but
you've got this big monitor sitting on
the desk and I was a little concerned
that it was gonna kind of block the view
of the kid man it seems to be working
out you know what I haven't done what's
not there's a little shout out to
Hillary and say cool beans ringing well
you should in a big smile show at least
at least once a show yes indeed cool
beans all right I just as I see myself
coming on the camera
help but think of my my wife saying that
I look like a leprechaun this week do I
look like a leprechaun you know
seriously I was thinking maybe for st.
Patrick's Day we could work something in
there I could maybe work on something
along those lines yeah mm-hmm but that
we're not bringing any okay anything
from the st. james gate brewery on the
show rah okay okay fine what's in the
mug no its water with lime tonight
Cheers so I on the weekend Becca had me
running around doing a couple of things
we had some you know the honey-do list
well yeah kinda well we the kids were
home sick on Sunday and so it was like
okay we can't really go do anything so
take this time to kind of tidy up what
do you think John it's looking pretty
good in here looking pretty good it's
looking good John said John gives the
thumbs up yeah it's pretty clean it's a
lot of work to keep the studio clean
when he gotten hardware coming and going
but so one of the things that I had to
do was take some e waste to green go
recycling facility green girl mm-hmm
sounds like gringo Liz green green go
there you have it right here and bury
their their down yeah just off of there
on John Street now for me found that out
the hard way cuz I drove all the way
down our da which is other end of town
south end to bury and then found out
that they had moved so it wasn't too far
but with the construction downtown okay
madness all that said went there had an
old TV that was not working so i have to
dispose of that green go is a free
recycling facility that does he wastes
so i don't want to put this in a dump
because that's bad for the environment
what places like Ringo will do is
they'll dissect that hardware they'll
take out any of the precious metals
things like that melt them down and make
them into you know they'll sell them off
as new components so that you're getting
a new photo is that your tooth or
something yes whatever I have titanium
filling yes absolutely so one of the
things that I noticed as
I'm dropping off my TV and I'm sure this
is completely illegal but there was a
gentleman who was loading up his car
with components that people had dumped
in the bin I casually said you know what
are you up to how's it going how's your
day he's like oh I'm just taking apart
some of these computers pulling out any
of the hard drives or Ram that is
reusable thinks he'll take them home and
build up another computer or something
from the parts right so I'm thinking
we've got your hard drive in your
computer with all the data on it you've
may be deleted your files and then
you've dumped this thing in a waste and
this guy who who knows who he is is
taking the hard drive out of that
computer putting it in the backseat of
his car and driving off with your data
all kinds of death anything or debit
card numbers whatever we're not talking
about an Android we're talking about the
data files oh honey okay so when you
delete files off your hard drive you you
know this that the data is not the files
as he's gonna grab me the files are
still they ones and zeros are still
there exactly so because when you when
you write a file to your hard drive data
is stored in ones and zeros so if you
delete the file all you're doing is
you're just deleting from the reference
of the drive basically from a hidden
part on the drive that says okay you'll
find this file here on the platter but
the file itself is still there even
after you delete it sometimes even after
you format if the data is still there so
this guy could take that hard drive home
even even if you have wiped out the hard
drive could probably recover a lot of
the files and secret stuff off of there
I just kind of seeing the chat room here
and and just to explain that think about
forensic data recovery so you know you
hear they can well you hear on the news
about people who are doing things with
computers that they shouldn't be in
stuff and of course forensics come in
they confiscate the equipment and
they're able to recover the data
off because when you delete a file files
not actually gone so in a case like this
guy if I'm going to be dropping off my
computer at green go recycling facility
I want to make sure that the hard drive
doesn't contain any data if I in fact
leave the hard drive in because when
buddy does the dumpster diving exact at
your drive Oh he's got everything that's
on that drive mm-hmm not just everything
that was on that drive a week ago when
you disposed of it everything that's
been on the drive for potentially years
if you've never you know if you've
deleted files a year ago those files
could still be there if you haven't
overwritten this sector space on the
hard drive and with a large dr say
you've got a 250 gigabyte hard drive
chances are pretty good that that little
200k Excel spreadsheet that has all of
your personal data whatever that file is
is still available on that drive so I
want to keep my dad a safe from from
that guy not that he's doing anything
malicious necessarily but he could so I
want to bring your attention to an
application called Derek's boot and nuke
heard of that no but D then there's some
other suggestions here in the chat room
mmhmm yeah I see gadwal is actually
mention that as well well somebody
mentioned out somebody mentioned a
hammer somebody else's well torch um
hammer idea though is it it's kind of
you know units as messy and some nasty
percussive maintenance well you you
could have a piece of shrapnel fly up
and hit you in the eye 357 is also
suggested here we don't necessarily
control in that condone that idea this
is a Derek's Putin hook the website is
very very basic it's a free download and
what this does I'm just going to read
straight off the site it's a
self-contained boot disk that securely
wipes your hard drive with most
computers dban will automatically and
completely delete the contents of any
hard disk that it can detect which makes
it an appropriate utility for bulk and
emergency data destruction so that said
you burn this desk don't ever put your
computer
that whoops whoops I left it in the
drive let's think about the name of the
software boot boot and nuke consider as
soon as you fire up that computer it's
going to start wiping your data off of
any of the drives that are in there if
you're going to be selling a computer on
ebay if you're going to be giving a
computer to a friend or donating it to a
charity I've even done there are some
school programs that teach kids to
rebuild computers so I've donated some
computers to that and you want to make
sure that you completely wipe out that
hard drive if that's not possible if you
can't wipe out the data from the disk
for any reason for example the computer
doesn't actually boot maybe the computer
so far gone that you can't turn it on to
use Derek's Putin accordi been in that
case what you can do is you can take
this during regular business hours to an
e-waste recycler such as green go will
do it for you and they'll actually shred
this they'll turn it into powder hmm and
they'll put this through a special
machine that's going to take this Drive
and completely turn it into just
absolutely unusable so and then they
will separate the components and recycle
them as needed John once you can
demonstrate the program hmm thank you
God we're not going to demonstrate boot
and nuke you download the ISO it's a CDI
so you burn it to the disk and you label
it very clearly do not boot from this
instant data destruction this is
strictly for if you if you want to wipe
out a hard drive completely it's going
to zero out everything on the drive so
that the data is no longer recoverable
so even if you took that Thun out of
recovery lab everything's going to be
gone if that drive contains data or
could contained Adam make sure you keep
backup obviously because there's no get
my data off of that drive it back at
that point what about a big bulk eraser
magnetic electromagnet some would say
that that's possible but how do you
confirm right because a bulk eraser is a
strong electromagnet
which could wipe out if it's powerful
enough it could wipe out the data on the
drive but in such a way that is actually
damaging whereas butta nuke is just
wiping out the data correcting
everything back to zero because remember
everything zeros and ones so instead
what we're doing is everywhere there's a
one we're calling it a zero so
essentially that's to put it in real
late terms with a bulk eraser you're
actually sector wiping by removing all
available data from the drive if if what
happens though is that the
electromagnetic field instead damages
the circuit board but actually leave
some of the data on the drive then
somebody with a little know-how could
take that circuit board off with a
couple of screws put on a new circuit
board and still access your data because
you've got no way to know whether the
data is actually sector-by-sector erased
maybe it got most of it maybe I got it
so that the drive no longer work well
certainly managed so it didn't work I
did that with the bulk eraser TV station
which we used to do with yam beta tapes
and yeah for sure a lot of guys debit
cards and credit cards didn't work after
they stood too close to the thing um no
seriously yeah yeah so um that I figure
the bulk erasers are more for analog
stuff like you're talking about analog
yeah or even that tapes would probably
do because you're because you're gonna
be writing over it but but for this I
would I would stick more with a
sector-by-sector or a shredding
somebody's suggesting a product called
terabytes uh copy whites hmm or copy
wipe sure so there there are many
suggestions that that are in the chat
chat logs for episode number 158
different different suggestions all
together butta nucca specifically just
wipe out the drive make it fast and then
throw it in the bin take it to e waste
recyclers or give it you know reinstall
windows and give it to charity or
whatever you want to do but that gets it
so that all of your data is gone but
unlike the magnetic racer the drive is
still usable right
so you're not actually damaging the
drive you're just completely purging all
the data so i'll post links again for 4d
ban in the in the show notes for episode
number 158 and just reiterating that you
know just remember the story of the guy
that i actually saw and he was just
taken apart these computers right there
and i just it just made me realize that
wow this this whoever dropped off these
computers had no idea that this guy that
I'm looking at right now is gonna be
taking their hard drives home with him
so you know let's hope that that he's
not compromising personal data this we
don't know how sadly this guy is we
don't know he looked pretty savvy he
knew what he was doing he knew he's
looking for harder dumpster diving and
he looked saviola dumpster ok ok it's a
bin but it's a waste so you've got TVs
and printers and woke a computer chassis
Xand components and things so it's
perfectly perfectly reasonable that a
guy would go and start picking out
components because maybe he's got an old
p3 at home or p4 and it uses somebody is
for 80 60 wanted to donate for the cause
you're there you go will demonstrate
I'll get all your information off of
that drive so little word to the wise
cool that's that's that's my spiel lets
your spiel what's good speed check it
out dban dot org is the website for
Derek's Putin ook and of course in the
chat logs for episode number 158 you'll
see all the suggestions that come from
our wonderful chat room this is category
5 technology TV will find us online
triple w category 5 TV and i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Eric Eric Kidd
and I'm going to hockey now you're off
well very same time oh it's almost well
it was hammer time earlier when we were
talking about so he fixes hard drives
few the youngest guy on the team I am
NOT in fact the youngest guy on the team
no you don't say no no I
what hold you think of him boy oh boy
okay I'm gonna get myself in trouble
here quick move on yeah so
do-do-do-do-do-do yeah anything else for
me we got like a minute a whole minute
it's been fun having everybody here yeah
everybody's had a good time you do
realize you can go to a category five
dot TV / newsroom and get that's all
they knew all the news later yeah
podcast will be up this evening all the
last podcast I did it at seven o'clock
in the morning and my voice was almost
as deep as yours well I was like I I
like this live in the category 5
newsroom yeah this guy okay well
somebody suggested I might be 29 thank
you 30 years ago but apparently I'm not
as a hold of drumstick oh boy good times
good times well we're right out of time
yeah other time I had a great time to
time yeah learn your way around the
system the commander work i'll be a
chatting chatting up everybody next week
John how are you doing here having a
good time we've got a camera over there
that is a remnant of last week I think
that I could like the idea we need to
get it we need to get this guy a
microphone so it doesn't have to yell
but uh always nice to have you here and
thanks for joining us for episode number
158 the first episode of season four
thanks for having hard to believe that
we're here we are season four room can't
wait for all the exciting stuff episode
34 me three 158 for me actually we've
done a couple of extras on top of that
2.5 so here we go all right have a great
week everyone will talk to you again
next Tuesday night seven o'clock take
care no blade
you
