the Happy Meal is one of the world's
most iconic boxes what is this and this
is a happy that's dinner I mean it we're
it's 7:15 so it's time for dinner so
this is this comes to us from McDonald's
Sweden and McDonald's Sweden is
transforming their Happy Meal boxes into
virtual reality goggles meet how cool is
that
they basically well they're celebrating
their 30th anniversary of having the
Happy Meal in Sweden and this is what
they've done so we actually have one of
only 3,500 of the original this is the
first printing in the world so these are
brand-new you can find out more at happy
goggles dot s e if you're in Sweden
maybe you've already seen them I know
some of the stores there on the 15th and
had some to hand out meat they also have
launched their 360-degree VR skiing app
which is really really cool teaches kids
to avoid obstacles and things through
virtual reality and it's in fact
endorsed by the Swedish National Ski
Team what it does
their goal with this and it looks just
like a happy meal right
their goal with this is to make virtual
reality accessible to to everyone so it
doesn't matter you know if you've got a
cell phone that has the ability to you
know like a modern smartphone the
ability to run virtual reality then it's
accessible to any any person there's no
cost involved it's super cheap so this
is kind of the way of the future and
they're saying hey let's include it in a
Happy Meal how great is that we used to
get there like the little Donald Duck
yeah kids these days are getting virtual
reality headsets with their Happy Meal
the thing is like a hundred percent
recyclable
they love that and so you know the box
is cardboard the and the only thing that
that it comes with is this a lens check
that out
pretty new its mix makes it great
Halloween costume right so let's should
we do this we can make it yeah let's
actually make it I've got a cell phone
here this is just a Samsung entry-level
phone but I do have some 3d stuff on
there and the box itself is actually
perforated you can see here and I'm not
sure if you can see that at home but at
the right angle yeah you can see the
perforations there so there's the the
mask and at the sides so you just
basically once you're done eating your
meal you punch it out and and there you
go and there are instructions on the
back on how to do this but I have I have
a second one here so I lied technically
I've got two two of only 3500 in the
world
okay so there's what it looks like when
it's punched out yeah happy think it'll
look happy in just a second okay so
we've got the lens thing I thought this
was cool because when I first read about
the happy goggles aha which is making
international news at this point because
it sounds very innovative and clever and
it's really Google cardboard but done
right and and and cheap right as I said
it's recyclable so the lenses are
actually a recyclable plastic and you
can see at home that there there are
actual lenses there it's not just a
piece of plastic they they actually
magnify and fix the the angles and stuff
then there's an interesting touch here
you see this metal strip of tape because
it's conductive it actually allows us to
control the screen so if I touch the
metal tape it will actually pause and
start video and stuff so if I'm watching
a 3d video I can do that without having
to take the phone out so let's assemble
it so everything's just perforations so
I just kind of push that out put that in
here there we go
okay cool
well that was easy right there we go now
the box itself let's move that aside
have you ever done have you ever tried
any of the VR stuff that's available no
there would be Google cardboard or
oculus rift or anything like that
so I'm just assembling this just like
any cardboard box and you can see that
I've already done it once just to try it
out haven't shown the kids yet they're
gonna love this yeah but what a neat way
to reuse the box from your happy meal
and then if it gets damaged or whatever
if it's all recyclable so you could
pretty well redo it go how easy is that
okay cellphone let's turn it on and
bring up a virtual reality bike game
there you go okay
okay so now I'm gonna put the phone
right here put that down in there and
simply there we go
so phones in there it's vibrating and
going crazy hall cool
you ready okay find the right way I'm
holding this wrong so mum and dad you're
gonna have to help Lil Jimmy and Billy
and Sally put this in so you don't want
them to drop your phone on yeah there we
go
almost there Google cardboard is a
design that was that's available for
free and you can actually build your own
but they when you do that you don't get
the lenses and stuff like that so it's
not quite as good of quality there we go
okay so it's in it's like an apple pie
it looks like an apple pie from
McDonald's but it is now a virtual
reality headset with full 3d okay so I
got a all right game over
okay here we go
ready okay put your Google cardboard on
if steer by tilting your head
oh that's so cool okay you ready Nate
I'll give this a try sure there you go
don't crash don't crash oh dear I
crashed crashed already you are heading
me into a blue car okay go
Oh
or
are you winning oh man
it's actually really cool it's 3d I
don't even know where it was doesn't it
look like I'm looking at a screen that's
probably you know like this big in front
of me and is popping out and 3d and
really gives the the depth perception so
that is pretty cool if you happen to be
lucky enough to get your hands on one of
those let us know what you think that's
the happy goggles from McDonald's and no
word yet if we're gonna start seeing
these in Canada in the u.s. right now
it's just it's a promotion that's going
on in Sweden and I I think that you know
because the world has really taken
notice of it I think we're gonna see it
that's that's my prediction so it's cool
I mean yes that's probably the best
experience all yours is a gyro a this
phone actually doesn't have a gyro it's
just left right this is just so this is
just left and right now if you do have a
phone that has a gyroscope then then you
can get into 360-degree video 360-degree
games so then you don't just have the
this actually you can also go up and you
can look over here and you're actually
looking around in the game okay so that
is dependent on the game itself whatever
it is that you're playing right because
this phone doesn't have a gyroscope I
have I can only do like a that action
but if yours has more than this does it
work yeah all right so check that out it
is happy goggles dot s e to find out
more about what it is that they're doing
and I think that's super cool innovative
way to revolutionize the Happy Meal oh
yeah unfortunately it didn't come with a
burger what gives I guess it probably
would have been really gross by the time
you got here
we're in Canada it'd be green yeah I
went through Canada Post so it probably
wouldn't been a good idea check that out
okay Google cardboard I started to
mention is pretty cool we've got links
for you I'm gonna set those up if you're
watching live they're not quite ready
yet but cat5 dot TV slash cardboard head
on over there and we're
have some information for you and a
couple devices that you can get and all
you do is you slide in your earphone and
and you're good to go now if you if you
happen to be lucky enough to be able to
get one of these Happy Meals then it's
free it comes with your burger and your
fries yeah how cool is that Sweden
