hello it is Tuesday December 16 2014 and
hear the stories of covering this week
the Pirate Bay has been cloned by a
competitor a software glitch caused a
bunch of amazon products to be sold for
just 1 pence the umbrella is receiving a
tech overhaul and Microsoft is fighting
to keep their users that are private
from the US government but they're not
alone in their fight these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
operation christmas child is one of the
great stories it's unfolding in our
lifetime
we are only seeing just the beginning of
this project and these children will
change the world
sapphic your medicine here the top
stories from the category 5 tvnewser
isohunt a website providing access to
mostly pirated material has cloned the
database of its competitor the Pirate
Bay after it was shut down last week the
clone site is online and fully
functioning according to users the
Pirate Bay one of the world's most
visited websites has been closed since a
police raid in Sweden last week isohunt
which was banned in the UK last month
said it made the move in order to save
the freedom of information on the
internet if the Pirate Bay returns the
clone site will be taken down isohunt
added Pirate Bay offered an expansive
list of links to pirated content
including films TV shows and music the
Swedish police carried out a raid near
stockholm last week's using servers from
the Pirate Bay following an
investigation which had lasted years the
force set while its founders have
already been convicted of copyright
infringement offences and some have been
jailed the site has proved difficult to
close down permanently in 2012 the
pirate bay changed its structure to make
itself more portable and easy to clone
reprice ER express automatically changes
the cost of an items for sale on amazon
marketplace to keep listings competitive
24-7 without constant attention the
company responsible for development have
had to apologize for a software glitch
that led to hundreds of items being sold
for just 1 pence on Amazon 1 pence the
glitch affected prices for an hour on
Friday and involved firms who use the
repricing Express tool that's an
incredible deal the company's chief
executive Brendan Doherty said he was
deeply sorry for the disruption amazon
said most orders were cancelled after
the error was spotted the orders were
placed on its marketplace service which
allows third-party companies to trade on
Amazon so if I'm reading that correctly
Robbie that means that
that no matter what you ordered on
amazon for one hour it would cost one
penny so you could order like what are
some of the larger ticket items would
they have really amazon they let it fly
though would they not like refund your
don't imagine imagine no just for a
moment that the glimmer of hope if you
went to go buy like what can you buy
this a big-ticket item on amazon i don't
like that capture it in TV yeah we're an
entertainment system 1 pence hmm lovely
we don't have pennies anymore I know
pennies don't exist um here's a great
story the design of the umbrella is
pretty much stayed the same for years
except for various size changes however
all of that may be about to change and
drastically developers in China have
designed something quite incredible
called the air umbrella it has no canopy
or metal spokes instead it uses air to
divert the raindrops from hitting you
huh it currently comes in three
different sizes in the battery lasts for
about 30 minutes when continuously
running the area of protection it
provides is about three and a half feet
in diameter which would be like you or
someone else holding a normal sized
umbrella the company recently ran a
kickstarter campaign and fully funded
the project we can expect shipment in
december of next year so Robbie this
umbrella is the most amazing thing I
have seen probably ever yeah yeah that's
pretty impressive yeah so I want one
okay next Christmas I wonder I got to
wonder how heavy this thing is i mean
it's it's the chef at Jean several I
don't know C or D sighs battles that
only lasts 30 minutes that's kind of
wasteful actually well but would they
love it is it rechargeable chargeable or
something good has ever happy I just
disposable isn't I love the idea of like
things that could go wrong with this
like what if it just started obnoxiously
like wouldn't turn off what where would
you store your anchor makes me wonder
how noisy is it yeah I really nice
man people's Mouton like hair is blowing
here's our happen oh listen everybody
looks like a dog with your face out the
window good idea tech giant like Apple
and Amazon as well as media companies
and civil rights advocacy groups are
standing behind Microsoft as it wages a
legal battle that could have a big
impact on digital pirate privacy in the
United States and abroad the US
government is trying to force Microsoft
to turn over an individual customers
emails that are stored on servers in
Ireland the case relates to drugs and
money laundering but the name of the
account holders identity and nationality
are not known Microsoft refused to hand
over the information even after being
issued a search warrant from the
government because the data is kept
outside of the country in July a federal
judge ruled that the company had to
surrender those emails to the American
government Microsoft appealed Microsoft
has argued that the US government should
respect international laws if Microsoft
ultimately had to hand over the emails
based on a US court order alone it would
do so without any input from the Irish
government that could be dangerous
Microsoft argues that the US has already
us already has treaties in place with
countries like Ireland that exists
precisely for situations such as these
if it's reckons that if it circumvents
them what would stop other countries
from doing so what a slippery slope that
would be so good job Microsoft now for
all your tech news is a slight Linux
bias visit the category 5 TV news room
at newsroom category 5 TV but the
category 5 TV news
I'm Sasha tomatoes
