this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson and tonight
I'm joined by Jean Leggett and it's a
pleasure to have you here you know what
I'm so excited to be here it's so cool
that you and one more story games are
from Barrie Ontario I know I I feel
sometimes like we're the only game
studio north of Newmarket Toronto you
say that now all of a sudden there's
going to be all these emails oh we're in
you know Barry and there's like 10 of
them and I would really like to meet the
other people and because what we're
doing is already challenging enough to
be a game studio north of Toronto and it
would be really great to meet the other
people cool we are big on retro gaming
and your platform really you know I know
that it's modern I know that you've got
a real modern spin to it and we'll talk
a little bit about that but it does take
me back back to the days when gaming was
storytelling yes okay tell us a little
bit about your company what it is that
you do sure so my husband is sort of
like the visionary behind the company my
job is the evangelist I go in like older
people right so I spread the word of one
more story games yeah and you know Blair
really started making his first game
when he was eight years old and he
played a lot of the Ultima series so do
remember there you go yeah yeah yeah and
there was a period of time where in 2009
he had worked for EA for almost eight
years and they laid a lot of staff off
so in his spare time he I guess he had a
lot of spare time he recreated Ultima 4
in flash and if you ask nicely we might
tell you where that is could we like
link to it ha no who is it is a
proprietary or is it oh well good old
games has the rights for it now oh right
right yeah yeah that storytelling
recreated yeah it really is it goes back
to you know what what matters and Games
characters events relationships and for
me I would much rather play a game where
I'm interested in what's happening then
be there's some really visually stunning
games that are happening sure yeah
and the game developer conferences is
happening right now in San Francisco
more sort of like we can't be there
right now they're really focused on
virtual reality sure its like before you
can even get to virtual reality I really
think that you need to have strong
storytellers in there first isn't it
true though with virtual reality we are
going to have to have a shift back to
storytelling because when we look at
things like Microsoft's offering and the
ability to enter an immersive
environment within your home what would
be better than storytelling in that
environment to have a murder mystery
happen right before your eyes and
participate in it it's kind of creepy
actual it's creepy but awesome I can see
it happening it's it's true you know so
what we've done is we've actually
created a Blair calls at a fancy word
processing you know it's like fancy word
that you can enter your people your
place is your location so you're just
like uploading graphics and typing your
new text and saying okay so here are the
fundamental things that tie events
together so if you've been to our
website and played some of our games
you'll know what i mean by that and then
there's a little bit of a scripting
component using Lua scripting and okay
you know for writers what we're hoping
to do is help them transform from
traditional writers where they're
writing linear stories into narrative
designers so does it almost become an
education process as you've provided a
platform for for a writer to learn to
create a game based on their writing
absolutely because they really have to
think about am i creating something
where I'm just creating a visual
component of my novel or my creating a
sandbox world where you as the audience
like do column readers we call them
players we just call you the audience so
you as an audience member get to go in
does it matter what order I explore the
world in right am i creating something
that's an open world for exploration am
i creating what we call branching there
it is
one choice here affects how the rest of
the story goes so really it is
absolutely an education of the writer
and getting to think differently about
narrative there's obviously two facets
to it you've got your users what do you
call them the audience the audience so
the audience is really the reader and
the the game player and then you've got
the writer so can I as somebody who and
this is not me myself Robbie Ferguson
but can I if I was a writer say okay I
want to take my existing book and turn
it into a game or let's actually write a
story line for a game you can do a
number of different things we are
currently in beta where an open beta it
just means that if you are interested in
coming and writing with us right now you
need to be a little bit patient while we
sort out a few things and we're starting
to do webinar courses so that will sit
everybody will join in on a conversation
and we could brainstorm what your story
might look like in a living breathing
interactive world are using like a
google hangout or I notice that you do
have a youtube channel will put that
below and on that channel you have a
really great assortment of step-by-step
guides hey if you want to be a game
creator just follow these guides and we
so we don't have to get into the
technical stuff here tonight because
you've already done that you can go to
the YouTube channel we've tried to make
it as easy as possible they really right
now the only thing that's missing is the
scripting but there's a software there's
actually I must Lou acumen it is Lou at
which is cool yeah and it's you know for
the people who are really into
programming it's there's intelitan stuff
there so I think it's really cool and
it's you could create something that's
like 5-10 min 10 minutes of gameplay you
could create a prequel to your novel if
you wanted to promote your stuff are you
going to play you can shoot photographs
it doesn't have to be 3d worlds and it
doesn't have to be illustrations you
could create a murder mystery in your
own house cool this is category 5
technology TV and I'm speaking with gene
Leggett check out their website is one
more story games.com
what birthed the idea of one more story
games hmm well as i mentioned blair had
worked at EA for eight years and so he's
got the experience but something must
have made you go you know what let's
let's do this let's make this into an
actual platform that people can use i
think going back to the the time that he
spent on recreating altima i think what
he really wanted at that point was to
create something to let other people
create other altimas i think that was
the genesis of it and he worked at Zynga
for two years and to sort of see how the
games industry has been changing and
evolving Blair and I both have English
degrees we're kind of nerds that way but
he also has the computing science
background right well and when it comes
down to it who are we as humans that's
the one thing that we have is we have
storytelling we've been telling stories
since caveman walls and I think that's
really the thing that's missing right
now is quality storytelling and why
don't have writers create the content
sure so what kind of stories are there
on your platform right now right now we
have a murder mystery set in Barry we
have Mary right here I'm you tell us a
little bit about it just brief sure it's
your first day on the job isn't that how
they all are you like your first
interpret I superhero are just a plain
old detective okay a plain old detective
is there such a thing maybe there's a
plainclothes detective oh you never know
I might be spying and so there's a
murder at the construction site and you
need to figure out it's it's a homeless
person but it doesn't seem right to you
and wants to write it off as a suicide
and they're like me I don't think so so
you gonna look for the clues you gotta
figure out we put some subtle clues in
there and universe they were too subtle
so Michael cable guy doesn't care amp it
up a little that's interesting because
you don't get that feedback when you
write a novel uh maybe something's a
little lacking but I guess you would see
that in your platform you're gonna get
the feedback that hey I couldn't you
could almost see people going through
the process where are they getting hung
up where are they getting stuck
and hey let's improve it it's actually
have an analytic system in the
background noise so we can see what
mouse click you made so you as a third
will eventually have access to that
information yeah and so say you're
creating something that has maybe eight
different outcomes maybe the analytics
will show you that ninety-five percent
of people choose path bead like isn't
that interesting interesting yeah and so
maybe that will challenge you to uplevel
your writing as a narrative designer we
have to sort of sci-fi we a lot of we've
three stories that have female
protagonist because that's something we
feel very strongly about is diversity
and the latest game that we have and I'm
incredibly proud of is called mandatory
upgrade x marks the spot and it's a
cyberpunk mystery I want to talk a
little bit more about that in a couple
moments time I want to give the
opportunity to you viewers if you're
watching live join us in the chat room
Jeff Sasha you're over there and i'm
sure you have questions for us as well
for gene in particular and if you have
any questions Sasha's watching the chat
room and able to get those in to us here
in the studio so far there's really only
one suggestion and it's a story related
to Sasha and spilling things oh we've
actually got a story writer in the chat
room yeah they want to write a story
about Sasha spilling things all over
electronics and what happens to her in
the studio so gene the question then
becomes what can what can somebody who
is has ideas do to participate in your
platform as a writer I want to talk
about the game or two because a lot of
people are going to be thinking I'm not
a writer I could never write and and
that's probably me and and I don't have
the time to write so I'd like to sit
down and just enjoy the platform so I
want to talk about that too sure but for
the writers and people who have ideas
how do they get involved number one I
always say check out the games that we
have first so that you have a nice idea
of what we mean by story good suggestion
yeah because I feel like we live in that
hybrid space between ebook meets
computer game and if we're going to be
publishing things on your behalf because
we do actually pay the writers kind of
crazy right so you guys should write
game do I have to pay me right well you
get our software for free
for a couple of months and so it's a
trial and it's a trial period and then
it's a very reasonable fee so do you
almost and this is the kind of
sidestepping a little bit but just to
understand a little bit do you almost
become a virtual publishing company in a
way yeah so you're watching for those
good stories you want to buy those
stories that's really fantastic I'm
pumped because now that the software is
more or less solid and complete we now
are looking to publish new content solid
content because there's a difference you
know there's going to be everybody else
and there's going to be like the stellar
people sure and we think fit over the
next six months we have six new story
games so every four to six weeks we have
new stories coming out something from
like a an indigenous space adventure to
a supernatural horror to some comedic
journey through Dante's Inferno like
just a wide variety and as far as your
audience goes so what is the age
spectrum you know what's funny because
most people don't realize this half the
people who are buying games are women
and the largest chunk of that is women
over 30 really uh-huh so is that and
that's a that's there also readers a lot
of times not to stereotype but that's
true so are the games appropriate for
younger audiences so we have a rating
system on there so right now we have
some games that are for like 10 and up
great where there might be like a
suggestion of violence but it's just
mentioned once because maybe it's the
dead body sure but it's not like CSI
where it says you know this would be in
a program yeah yeah there is one game on
there that was written by a berry police
officer it's called a pocket in the ring
there is an explicit torture scene of a
suspect in there so it's rated M for
Mature right and yeah that's great yeah
but we we try to put that on there
because we don't want while we want to
be able to say to the parents you should
be watching what your kids are playing
in the first place sure yeah and that's
not always easy so having the rating
system in place is a great idea Jeff any
questions for us in the chat room or do
you have any of your own actually yeah
there's one
in the chat room from revenue jank and
he's asking is there way to give
suggestions to a creator for ideas for
future versions of a game so existing
writers on your platform is there a way
to to give them feedback or provide them
with some kind of edits suggestions that
is something that we're going to be
developing as we move forward so right
now there's no way for you to give a
rating on a game that you've played
right but that is a feature that's being
built in or building and you know how
twitch has the tip jar yep so there's
going to be a tip jar in there so if
you're like you know what I paid money
for this game but this was fantastic
right so we're still support the author
then yeah absolutely I think one of the
core problems that's happening in the
games industry is we have created a
freemium model where everybody is like
I'm gonna give you your first hit for
free okay we know what model that works
under the mmm anyways so that's not what
we're trying to do we're trying to say
listen people spent a lot of time to
build these stories they should be they
should be paid for their work and we
should start to appreciate artists and
writers more sure absolutely and and I
think that's and the rating system
strikes me something that would do very
nicely as a if I was a writer I'd like
that feedback I love my wife as an
author and and we watch we watch the
Amazon ratings because those are
important to yes to us as publishers and
to her as the author to to get that
father oh it's important it's is
verified purchase sure you know we
really want to could you say there would
be a wage or suggestion made it to the
end of the book yes actually so that's
what i was thinking cuz it wouldn't
really be fair i was i saw on Goodreads
somebody had trashed a friends yeah read
the back and she said she read different
15 pages of it Oh mom didn't even get
into it and I thought this is actually
one of the best books I've read a really
long time and I read the whole thing
yeah so wouldn't it be cool if you could
say listen maybe you gave it two stars
but you only play too
10 minutes of it and other people are
like sure to the end oh my god this was
amazing yeah that's important knowledge
for sure it'll be interesting to see how
we can track that over time this is
category 5 technology TV I'm Robbie
Ferguson and i'm joined by jean Leggett
and she is from one more story games.com
the technology behind your platform
right now your website is predominantly
flash-based yes I understand that
there's some transition happening there
but what other technologies are
available or are in line to be brought
to your product right so right now the
authoring tool you know thanks chrome
Chrome no longer supports Silverlight so
for people who want to do the authoring
component of it they actually have to
open up Firefox okay so it's a
Silverlight app it's a Silverlight app
that you download and we pretty much
updated maybe once a week when we
implementing new features and stuff like
that so it's like that's the only reason
I have firefox on my computer sure
that's fine so it will work on Windows
Mac or Linux them it works on windows
right now and we are working on Mac
development that's been on the list for
really long so be something other than
silverlight or mono so we are looking to
upgrade the entire system so right now
you have the software and they don't
have the game portal and softwares in
silverlight in the game portal is in
flash okay both of which are not where
we want to be sure year or two from now
so they'll both be integrated into an
html5 great loud based program so what
happens for iOS players on the phone
where flash is oddly they cannot play
our games just yet ever if you play the
facebook app because we are on facebook
really well if you play the facebook app
on anything other than safari so if you
have mac chrome and you play the
facebook version do you know what i need
like a little bit roundabout sure yeah
these are the things these are the
things that you know you encounter as a
tech company and as a start-up and and
just getting the ball really rolling and
great you know Firefox is blocked flash
yeah you know it's like ah so these are
the growing pains but we do have you can
play our games wearing the google play
store I always go 600 on Android yes I
always tell people they should use the
quotation marks and look for story
worlds otherwise they'll be like
shuffling okay a lot of yes for sure
yeah and so that's they can download
every world really awesome on tablet it
was like made for tablet perfect honest
you've got to check it out it's one more
story games.com story world in the
Google Play Store straight world's
worlds they're all in quotes multiple
world what's the next in line for one
more story games ah well we made a
pretty exciting announcement last month
that we are working with a number one
New York Times bestseller did is that
I've read about it oh oh yeah I don't
have the inside skinny but you can give
it to me now oh that's just between you
and I so nobody else here yes nobody
else here the lady that wrote the
novel's the sookie stackhouse series
yeah which became HBO's True Blood you
know the vampires right yeah the adult
romance yeah we'll call that that yeah
I'm totally into that so her knee but
you're 30-something ladies maybe you
know what that is she has sold to date
over 36 million novels and she's working
with and she's more story my story games
Eden any startup studio north of Toronto
because what we want to do is we're
taking a couple of her older mystery
novels and turning them into story games
so if you haven't texted her novel you
will still supplement a new experience
of the world and if you've never
encountered her before you'll be like
wow I really loved I love the characters
love what's going on here will read a
novel and see how it's different that's
cool tell me about your latest release
mandatory upgrade x marks the spot was
designed by a game designer in victoria
and we like to try to keep things as
canadian as possible but we do have some
really great people outside of canada
and the next one could be you it could
be you know and what's really cool is
you go in and you play Special Agent
Rachel barley it's your face first sweet
I've always wanted to be Rachel Varley
it's your first day on the job you've
been going through training and there's
this hideous murder that's happened and
they're trying to figure out how this
happened because there's it's a
cyberpunk thing there's some cool
technologies when we get to dress up
like that ah no there's no dress up I I
don't know if that's your these are not
these are not text based entirely we've
got a lot of imagery yeah it's got
soundtracks round and it's very
immersive it I never when we started
playing because we've been developing
the engine and we've been making the
games as we've gone along yeah so the
more recent games obviously have
benefited from the more recent features
so when I go back and I play some of the
older games that don't have the music
right I'm like these are okay yeah but
now that you play the ones with the
music and like hard vacuum lullaby we
released and i think it was november and
it's the space adventure it's free it's
half hour and all of a sudden there's a
moment where you have to decide you're
gonna use a metal metal metal Locker
door or your arm to stop the machine oh
my and the sound effect will be very
different all moaning on what you choose
yeah okay so you're gonna have to check
that one out as well as you know check
out the synopses that are on the website
find out which one is of interest to you
and then just click the play now button
yeah this as simple as that fun have fun
we leave if you get stuck there's little
help buttons there and we're very open
to feedback we're on facebook on twitter
youtube where everywhere very good well
thanks for being here gene and do check
out our platform it is one more story
gamescom and give us some feedback let
us know what you think about the
platform and what it is that gene and
her company are doing and make sure you
you do check that out today so thanks
for being here with us thanks for and
congratulations on launching this this
is I mean I know you're a few years in
and it's really snowballing now but
there are some exciting things to come
for you and we're really excited too I
think
that'll be a local yeah this is it all
the best thank you thanks
