[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and imagine that in this
little box is a server huh this is the
world that we live in a Raspberry Pi 3
you can pick them up at camp five dot TV
slash PI it'll direct you to all kinds
of sources like you can buy them on
Amazon you've got one I have one I've
got several a lot of us have several but
they're an inexpensive SBC any guess on
what SBC stands for it SBC yeah put me
on the spot hmm
super super bitty computer sync single
board computer very close so it's like
the size of a credit card and it is all
built into one circuit board right so
the processor the RAM everything is in
there the only thing that you have to
really add is you've got to put it in a
case which I've done here
you all can you can kind of see that
under my monitor build I did don't won
in an episode episode yeah previously
you've done a lot of Raspberry Pi
features and last week was no exception
we did the comparison of the X u4q to
the Raspberry Pi 3 in past episodes
Sascha's built one go onto our website
category 5 dot TV and click on the
search up at the top and you'll be able
to just type in Raspberry Pi and you'll
find a bunch of stuff okay put that
right there just to remind you of what
we're talking about speaking of having
done Raspberry Pi features in the past
yes
episode number 4 59 Jeff and I were on
the air you were in the news room and we
did the very same feature that we're
doing tonight however things have
changed things have change ever so 4:59
that was almost 2 years ago right and in
that time now that demonstration was on
debian jesse raspbian jesse in this case
and now we're using raspbian stretch so
we've had a really great response if
you're watching this on youtube you know
that you you may have found this through
our previous feature from two years ago
and
now being 20 18 a lot of the technology
has changed it's improved it's gotten
better and it's also broken some of the
steps in the tutorial from our video
from a couple years back right so it's
high time for us to redo the
demonstration but a refresher and show
you how to do it sascha one of the
things that has changed since that
initial demonstration is we've been
watching the comments on YouTube we've
been watching the comments on our
website category 5 TV and one of the
rezoning comments well it's basically
one of the resounding themes is coming
from people who are brand-new to single
board computing brand new to Linux and
they want to try it out but it's so
complicated to go through all these
steps yes this is kind of a two piece
demonstration in this one video we're
gonna get to the DIY let's break it down
and walk you through all the steps step
by step show you how to set up your own
Raspberry Pi plex media server but we've
also taken the time to create a ready to
deploy image for Raspberry Pi 3
it's called Plex Pi and you can get it
at Plex PI dot-com I think that you're
very lucky that I am the co-host today
because if you are a brand new user I
have the right question she's got the
questions for us such as what is Plex
it's what it starts with right folks
yeah the bare minimum question going
into a demonstration of how to create a
Plex server is what is Plex
what is Plex plex media server
think of it this way Jeff and I like to
call it our home brew Netflix take all
of your videos put them on a drive I'll
take all of your you know the part of
the video podcasts that you watch like
category 5 TV if you download our
torrents put them on that drive put them
into a folder and plug it into plex then
plex media server in our case on a
Raspberry Pi 3 creates an environment
that looks and feels a lot like Netflix
it keeps track of what episodes you've
seen it allows you to rate episodes it
shows you the description and a
thumbnail image of each episode in each
movie and as you watch things it it
marks them as watched so if you're
watching something like category 5 TV
and there are 11 seasons of this thing
right you can actually see where you've
gotten to so if you're binge watching
anything it makes it really easy okay
same with like in the middle of an
episode like you can turn it off and
then you come back to later and it's in
the right spot in the other nice thing
about Plex Media Server along that vein
is that it works with all your devices
so oh this device will be plugged into
your TV no doubt and you'll be streaming
video directly on the device but then if
you have an Ethernet cable plugged into
it you can be using your tablet and
watching it on your tablet you can have
you can have it on your computer
upstairs or the TV in the living room or
the bedroom and still and not have to
move the device around it streams that
through your network to any of your
devices through the web browser can it
be multi-use okay within the limitations
of a Raspberry Pi because it is a very
small micro server it doesn't have the
same amount of power as a supercomputer
but yes you can you can definitely
stream to multiple devices so if you're
watching it on your TV downstairs mm-hmm
and you pause it because it's time to
make supper you go up to the kitchen you
pull out your Android tablet or your
phone and you set it up and you push
play it starts right where you left off
while you were downstairs that's a
magnificent homebrew Netflix with your
own content works with home movies works
with mp3s and your music library and it
plays web streaming we have an actual
plex channel an add-on that you can put
into your plex deployment and it gives
you access to all of our back episodes
plus live streaming during the live
broadcast so it is very well-rounded
solution and we're going to learn how to
set that up on a PI perfect why why
would we do this why would why do we
ever use a Raspberry Pi 3 because
they're amazing they are amazing they're
inexpensive they are very inexpensive
sacha they are
easy not only easy to use but easy to
procure yes and I may not have and you
may not have a server at home that has
HDMI output and can fit behind your TV
that's mounted on the wall this you can
just tape onto the back of the TV and
plug HDMI cable in and the power cable
and you're done right this is a very
easy like it's a palatable beginning
step right like I feel like that like if
you are new to all things Linux if
you're new to all things tech and your
this is the first episode you've ever
seen you're lucky because this is a
great first step all right all right
so speaking of first step for those of
you who do not want to do it yourself
comes Plex pie right Plex pie comm will
take you to well currently it just takes
you to a forum and I'm gonna bring it up
on my computer screen for you I've got
my laptop here and let's just see if I
can bring it up see if that comes up yes
okay so Plex pie comm and when I go
there right now we haven't built a
website for it yet it just takes you to
the category-five community forum and
you'll see a development forum here
because it is under development right
now and if you scroll there are three
sticky posts one of them is introduction
to Plex pie and download Plex pie images
and when you go there there's a brief
introduction as to how it works how to
follow along with the steps and of
course where you can download it as well
and this is going to evolve over time we
are going to create a website at plex pi
comm so that it's you know more
attractive and easier to find what
you're looking for but in the meantime
it gives you free access to the image so
what that means is for those who don't
want to do it yourself
if you're not a Linux guru and you don't
want to go through the steps and figure
it out and follow along with the steps
that we're gonna show you tonight you
can just fire up this image use
something like etcher that's the program
that I like to use right so you install
etcher I've got a link below if you're
watching this on youtube or on our
website or anywhere where we've got
comments and things follow the link to
etcher and that will allow you to burn
the image
to a USB flash drive or in this case a
micro SD card that you're gonna put in
your Raspberry Pi right once it's in
there we can put it up you ready okay
let's turn on our Raspberry Pi 3 so this
is happening in real time and I've
already burned the image for Plex pi 1.1
the current version on my on my
Raspberry Pi 3 so here we go
so from downloading and burning it to
now booting it for the first time it is
this easy to get up and running with
Plex so you see the the raspbian desktop
there now wait for it wait for it and
wait a little Lexa's a load and you're
gonna leave this thing running on your
TV you're gonna fire it up and it's just
gonna be running connected to your TV
you don't have to wait for it and things
like that and then we're gonna be up on
the screen here where it's gonna ask us
how do you want to login now how do you
want to sign up that is a fully
functional plex media server from plex
pi comm it's ready to go
we just booted it up there exactly how
you're gonna see it so you need to sign
up for an account I use my email address
to sign up and just like any sign up
just give them your email address and
enter a password and that is what you're
going to use on all of your devices to
connect to your plex media server and
you can access it from outside of your
network if you've got high-speed
Internet those kinds of things are all
possible this is not a tutorial on how
to use plex media server that's
happening next week but what we're doing
here is showing you how to get set up
with a plex media server on your
Raspberry Pi so there it is it's as
simple as that that's Plex PI dot comm
from there if you want to get out of it
you hit alt f4 that takes you right into
your regular like desktop mm-hmm and you
can just shut her down just like that
okay done
and now we've got an opportunity to
change the card I've already created a
raspbian stretch installation here so
for those of you who are interested in
DIY here it is it's just raspbian
stretch nothing has been done to it it's
out of the box ready to go we're gonna
learn how to create how to build how to
install everything we need to have this
become that we're gonna check that out
right after the break stick around
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play I don't
know you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash DreamHost
and we're back with raspbian stretch on
category five technology TV now
everything that's gonna happen from here
on out is for the DIY wanna do it
yourself and we're gonna install set up
Plex Media Server on this bare-bones
Raspberry Pi 3 if that's not you if
you're not the DIY just rewind this
video learn all about flex Pi calm
forget about everything you're about to
see here today that's right we're gonna
get real geeky here we're gonna get into
the Linux terminal and we're gonna see
how we can get this set up so let's do
it okay alright so speaking of Linux
terminal we're gonna bring it up there
we go and we're gonna go sudo apt update
that's the first thing we want to do on
Linux to make sure that things as far as
our repositories are up to date now do
we know what a repository is a
repository is something that Linux uses
in order to install software
it's a place on the web where a bunch of
software resides and anytime we want
software all we have to do is use that
apt command here on raspbian or a debian
derivative and then it will download it
and install it we don't have to find
their website we don't have to compile
anything we don't have to figure it out
it's all there for us ready to go so now
I'm gonna go apt and now notice that it
says that there are some things that can
be upgraded so we want to do that apt
upgrade not update notice it says hey
couldn't lock the file that's because I
forgot sudo because I need to be super
user now it's gonna go through and it's
gonna upgrade anything that is ready to
be upgraded so are we ready to do that
yes let's do that
this is now downloading all of those
programs off of the web and this just
shows you how bare-bones my installation
of raspbian stretches here tonight
because there is a ton of stuff to be
upgraded here I see things like like
Python and even my timezone data is
being updated so that's all happening
through those repositories that's also
how we're going to install plex
Media server tonight so let's check on
the status here it looks like it's
working away and it can take some time
especially you know if you've got a
slower connection we're gonna use the
magic of television to kind of speed
this up for you tonight let's see how we
can do that okay so in real time we're
sitting here and this has so far taken
about 20 minutes or so to get to this
point in that amount of time marsh man
in the chat room says while this is
going on I downloaded and burned an SD
card and booted up the new Plex pi comm
mm-hmm
and now back to our post-processed
accelerated apt upgrade on the Raspberry
Pi 3 and boom it's done just like that
and it took no time at all actually it
really did you're gonna have to dedicate
yourself some time on the Raspberry Pi 3
because it does take a lot of time to
update so really quickly now that that's
been updated upgraded now we need to go
apt dist
upgrade that's gonna be the next step
again superuser do sudo apt dist upgrade
and I'm not I'm so happy to see that it
doesn't need to do any because that took
a while to get through ok now we need to
go sudo reboot and that's gonna restart
our Raspberry Pi 3 because now that
we've got all those updates to the
software we need to make sure that we
get the basically those load right they
need to load up on the system so here we
go we're rebooting into the updated
raspbian stretch now if you're not
familiar with raspbian you can head on
over to raspberry pi dot org
don't forget the silent P in there rasp
berry pie dot org and as P I like the
number not I like the edible and you can
download it for free from there it's
based on Debian now it tells me okay hey
your upgraded to the latest version
congratulations thank you took long
enough
okay so now next step because now that
we're up to up to date we can finally
get into installing deploying our plex
media server now a real case for Plex PI
comm comes from realizing how much time
this
can take to do this yourself right so
we've done the work for you folks Plex
Pike ami and just download it run it
you're good to go so let's let's see how
it's done no let's actually get in there
and make this happen so all right in my
terminal which thank you to the
community who has let me know hey
control shift plus allows me to actually
zoom in on the terminal so folks if
you're watching at home and having
trouble seeing that on your 60-inch TV
well that's gonna help you out a great
deal there we go so first thing I want
to do now that we've rebooted is we need
to make sure that apt remember we did
app update and I'm tired of typing sudo
so I'm gonna go sudo su and now I am
route done now remember how when I do
apt update and everything else it
connects to the servers and gets its
updates well we need to make sure that
apt is able to use HTTPS SSL encrypted
Transport in order to do that we need to
install a package which may on the new
stretch already be in existence but
we're gonna do it anyways just to be
sure it doesn't hurt anything remember
that I am now root okay that's what sudo
su did so I don't have to type sudo apt
install and we're gonna just make sure
apt Transport HTTP hit enter if you
don't have it it's going to install it
if you do it says app Transport HTTP is
already the newest version so now we
need to actually get our plex media
server the repository it's a PPA so
we're going to add that to our system
here I'm not sure if there's a stretch
one let's give it a go so let's go let's
go over here let's do it this way et Cie
slash apt and we're gonna go into
sources dot list dot D and we're gonna
create a new one so I notice I'm in the
folder etc' slash app slash sources dot
list dot d this is where I can add all
kinds of things I'm gonna call this PMS
dot list and you can follow along with
these this whole tutorial at cat5 dot TV
slash PMS and to be sure stands for plex
media server
mm-hmm I'm creating a new file with nano
if I am route so I can do this and I'm
gonna go Deb HTTP now that we've got
HTTP transport and we're gonna go dev
today dot de / PMS stretch main and then
I'm going to output that with ctrl o and
then ctrl X to exit app update let's see
if there is a stretch repository there
if all goes well it's gonna it's gonna
tell me that the key can't be found
there we go that's good
so it's found a stretch all right
perfect
okay so the public he is not available
we need to get that so W get - oh do I
have a pipe this time I do not okay you
guys ready for this number last time on
episode number what was it for 34 59 we
had that trouble so let's see if I can
change my keyboard settings preferences
medicine mouse and keyboard settings my
mouse is very sluggish by the way so
that's why I'm moving in slow motion
here keyboard keyboard layout Raspberry
Pi being based in the UK they've
defaulted this to a UK keyboard now I
want to change to a United States
keyboard you may need to change to
something that's more appropriate to you
and I'm gonna choose English you yes now
I'm gonna have that pipe character
unlike last time okay and then okay wow
is that every sluggish Wow
okay do I have pipe yes okay W get -
capital o that is the letter O and then
- yes that's intentional we're gonna
output this and import it into the next
command HTTP colon slash slash dev - day
dot de / PMS slash dev - Day - PMS GPG
ki don't worry even copy and paste that
at cat 5 TV / PMS and then pipe and then
sudo apt - ki add - so what we're saying
is grab that key and output it to -
we'll say from dev today dart de /p
gbgt blah blah blah then pipe it into
sudo apt key add - that's gonna download
and import the key all in one fell swoop
without actually putting the file on my
hard drive now if I go apt update if all
went well
we will not see those error messages
this time because the private public key
is now available right and it worked
ok so now we're ready to install plex
media server this is where things have
changed a little bit in Debian stretch
or in raspbian stretch in our case the
package name has changed so we're gonna
go apt install plex media server
- installer ok now before I hit enter on
that I'm gonna bring up my browser here
so that you can just see what is going
to be different and you can see that
little bit of sluggishness to the
Raspberry Pi 3 that's what I was talking
about when when we were talking last
week about how performance feels more
like a desktop on the Xu for Q if I go
HTTP colon slash slash localhost colon
32 400 slash web it's going to tell me
that such a thing does not exist okay
that's where Plex is going to live in
just a couple of moments time I'm going
to hit enter and it's found it it's
installing it fantastic
so again repositories save the day makes
it super super easy and it's grabbing a
couple of extra packages that are needed
that's fantastic
while we wait for that you know what
this is not even taking very long as
well
this is motoring along I'm gonna bring
up another terminal window and we're
gonna zoom in on that one and we're
gonna go sudo su and I gotta get started
with the next step while I'm waiting so
I'm gonna go nano
slash et Cie default and plex media
server which the file already exists
because it's halfway done installing so
this is my configuration file and I need
to tell it what user to run as you see
how plex media server user is currently
set to Plex well on the Raspberry Pi the
user is called pi so output that with
control o and then control X now that is
ready for us so it's going to be running
as that I also need to change the
ownership of that file just so that
we've got access to its CH own not the
file pardon me but the the folder which
is going to contain plex media server
but I need to wait until this process is
done because it's still adding some
files but I can get ready for at CH own
- R which means recursive pi PI so
that's the PI user and the PI group
because that's who we're gonna be
running as VAR Lib plex media server so
I got to wait for this to finish before
I hit enter because there are still
gonna be some files that are gonna be
dropped into that folder and then we'll
be good to go
once again feels like I want to speed
this up for ya it's moving along anyways
a little better than the last one
but it is not an exciting process to sit
there watching it you'll feel so much
better just to boot up Plex PI I
guarantee it but there's a certain
thrill that comes from doing it yourself
isn't there and you can really customize
it now that that's ready let's zoom in
again so I'm going CH own recursively
we're gonna go pi pi which means pi : pi
PI user PI group that folder so now that
folder belongs to
so it's ready so now system CTL restart
plex media server because we've changed
the user that we want it to run as so we
need to restart it
system CTL status plex media server and
we see that it is active running well it
could this be true let's go back to our
web browser and we're gonna hit f5 on
the page that says cannot be reached and
ladies and gentlemen we now have plex on
our Raspberry Pi 3 amazing quite a bit
more onerous than just downloading plex
pi comm and installing it on a flash
drive and getting up and running but as
I say such a victorious feeling to do it
yourself learn along the way you could
go to the store and buy lasagne or you
could make a lasagna at home I'm not
even gonna talk about the robot grandma
who could make that lasagna for you and
it would be just like grandma used to
make there it is folks that is Plex on
the Raspberry Pi three two different
ways to do it DIY or just download it
and go check out more you can get your
pie at cap 5 TV slash pie that's the
device that you need nice and cheap nice
little piece of hardware that comes like
that get yourself a power supply for it
an SD card something that has a
reasonable amount of space say 32 gigs
or so to get up and going then you're
gonna use usb with an external hard
drive or an ass share or something like
that in order to store your media we're
gonna look at how Plex actually
functions next week we're going to take
it from here and show you how to use it
that's Plex on Raspberry Pi find out
more Cat five TV slash P and s
you
