I
to name the category find technology TV
this is episode number 37 believe it
already tonight we've got a lot going on
very very busy show as you can see the
framerate tonight is quite exceptional
compared to previous episodes with in
spending a lot of time working on
improving the quality and speaking of
that I want to thank everybody so far
who has gone over to category five dot
TV and purchased a downloadable ISO of
the show that the money that's being
raised from that is helping us to
further improve the stream quality just
speeding right through this tonight
we're going to be looking at how to make
windows XP feel a little bit better just
kind of enhance the look of it a little
bit and also just kind of make it feel a
bit more like Linux in the way that
you're able to move your windows around
using the alt key we're going to be
doing that all with free tools tonight
so nothing out of pocket that to make
that happen and also we're going to be
tuning up our Bluetooth system making it
into an incredible powerful multimedia
server for our home we'll be able to
watch movies do photo slideshows play
our music all from one centralized hub
and the quality is going to be
exceptional and again we're using free
tools tonight you're watching category 5
technology TV and i'm your host Ravi
Ferguson
just on our website critical w category
five dot TV if you're not already there
please do join us in the chat room it's
right there on the homepage of category
5 TV and this is a free service so any
questions that you have tonight for me
all you have to do is get over to that
website and I'll be happy to answer
those for you joining us in the chat
room so far how Catman good to have you
along great to see us a couple of people
named view streamer if you're coming
into the chat room in your name is
Ustream rican that you can just type /
Nick space and then the nickname that
you would like so / Nick space Robbie is
what I would use so if you'd like to set
your alias so that we know who it is
that's showing us tonight and again if
you have questions for me either send
them by the oh there's lots of ways that
you can get them to me you can get them
there in the chat room at category 5 TV
you can call this number down here 70
5739 1056 and of course you can also
email me at live at category five dot TV
let's take a look at the mailbox so far
this evening I've got a couple of emails
coming in how will actually send me an
email earlier this week actually just
yesterday so just looking over your
question right now how all right hoping
that I could give you the simplest way
to remote connect to somebody else's
computer over the Internet by simplest
means by simple you mean from the point
of view of a novice user from the client
perspective had the experience of
talking such a user through setting up
port forwarding on a router to
accommodate VNC whilst we got there in
the end it was time consuming the
process to get that done I understand
that completely how I've been through
that many times what he's talking about
here is being able to provide tech
support through a router through a
firewall to an end user and usually you
know quite often the end user is
actually asking for your help because
they're not sure how to set up those
kinds of things so to have to walk them
through manually over the phone without
actually seeing on the screen what you
know what they're seeing in the router
that can be a challenge so
it says here that how looked a
teamviewer I haven't ever seen that
software before but let's talk about
kind of what your needs are and how we
can go about this wow so you're joining
us in the chat room how just let me know
that you're there and from the sounds of
it it sounds like you're just trying to
set this up so that you can provide tech
support is that right you're just hey
how good to see ya so you're just trying
to provide tech support to to a user be
able to kind of remote desktop into
their computer and I'm presuming that
okay for occasional use to help friends
and family perfect so in that case
they're probably people that you're
going to you know that you're going to
see or be able to you know provide
service to on a regular basis right for
friends and family I would almost say
get into their house and and you know
when you're there next time actually set
up port reading for if they're using
windows XP remote desktop is a great way
to do it then that way from your ubuntu
box you can actually just go into your
let's see we've got GUI i don't usually
use the i use the command itself but
applications internet terminal server
client and there's remote desktop viewer
as well but anyways i install our
desktop just like it sounds so in your
bluetooth system you can take our
desktop space and then the name of the
server like the IP address or the domain
name that they have associated to that
IP and a good way to get around dynamic
ip's is to use something like din dns
org or another one that I use quite
frequently let me just pull up their
website
change IP com that's my personal
favorite for doing the for working
around the dynamic IP when you know
every time what a dynamic IP means is
that every time you connect to the
internet with an adsl account you're
getting a new IP address so somebody
like how who wants to help your computer
you've got to find your IP address and
then send it to how so this gets around
that how but if you can set it up on
site that's perfect if not there's a
program called ultra VNC if there and
I'm assuming that they're using Windows
ultra VNC you can just send them an exe
file by email or something like that
they open it up and then it connects
into your system through their firewall
because it actually sends the data
rather than connecting and like having
you connecting to them so there's no
ports that have to be opened up on the
firewall so but the catch there is that
you've got to have a Windows receiving
system so again we can go back to your
email where you were using a virtual
machine in order to get around that
problem you boot up into a boon to run a
virtual machine with windows XP install
the at the server software and listen
mode and then just send them the
executive all and you'll be able to you
can set up the port forwarding and stuff
on your router and get around the you
know having to teach them how to do it
it's probably the easiest way there are
commercial applications out there that
you can that you can set up that will
allow them to go to a website subscribe
to the service unfortunately off the top
of my head I'm not too sure I think one
of them is don't want to say it before I
know the URL go to my pc com that is a
reliable service that is provided that
allows you to install a client server
side program on their computer and be
able to access it from outside other
than that is it is this point in the
right direction I think ultra VNC is my
preference for for what you want to do
where you send an executive and then
they connect into your system and you're
able to control what's on the screen it
also has a nice GUI file transfer engine
so in the back
on regardless of the fact that you know
they can see when you move the mouse and
things like that but you can be
transferring files to their computer at
the same time downloading files from
their computer to fix them and then
upload them again but it's nice let's
say you want I've used it to for example
install panda internet security so I've
signed into their computer using this
remote desktop tool a remote control we
call it using ultra VNC and then I
upload the Panda installer to say their
desktop and then I take control of their
system and and do the installation for
them for the client that's extremely
handy because they don't have to figure
out how to set up their their antivirus
and certainly they don't need to set up
port forwarding on the firewall so hope
that helps good place to start anyways
how's your saying you didn't realize
that the client could connect and I'd
still have control of their desktop that
sounds easy yeah basically what because
the problem with the firewall is that
you're quite often when we try to
provide support this way using remote
desktop or something there's a server
application on the client computer and
then you are trying to connect into that
computer so their firewall is
intercepting that connection stopping
you from being able to connect so the
way around that is to actually install
the server on your computer in listen
mode and then they connect into your
computer because you've already opened
up all the ports and stuff in listen
mode and then it when it connects rather
than you downloading the data from their
computer the screen and all that stuff
they're actually sending that data to
you so it goes right through the
firewall because there's nothing to it
because it's a send operation rather
than a receive operation yeah definitely
easy you know of course you've got to
set it up on your end and you've got to
have a Windows virtual machine or a
windows box actually just this laptop up
here i usually have just windows XP
running on it that came with it I think
it's just windows XP home actually and I
just installed the server end of the
application there and it just sits right
next to me here on the desk so if
somebody pages me to provide remote tech
support I can just bring it up right
here and then I actually VNC into this
system so that I can see it on my main
desktop monitor cat man is saying that
the video is smooth tonight hope so
we're actually we're clocking about 11
frames per second last week we were only
at four frames per second just to give
you an idea how extreme the upgrades
this week have been and for those of you
who have already purchased the DVD iso
czar who are planning to purchase the
DVD is isos one of the things that we
wanted to do is really improve and
increase the quality of those dvds so of
course the older episodes there's
nothing we can do about those because
the the you know the older episodes were
recorded off of the stream so the stream
itself if it was running at say four
frames per second than the DVD even
though it's going to be full screen and
it's great because I mean really you
don't need to have full animation but
it's nice but on the DVD even you're
going to be seeing it in four frames per
second so right now we're actually
clocking at 27 frames per second on the
DVD end so the web stream is 11 frames
per second and we've got the DVD
encoding at 27 frames per second so this
is the beginning of a new chapter for
the DVD iso is starting with that with
the disc that this episode is going to
be on and into further episodes we're
going to see much much higher frame
rates close to DVD frame rate phil was
just mentioning KR DC for managing
remote desktop and VNC thanks for that
Phil I haven't used that so I don't know
we'll have to look into it usually now
that sounds like a Linux tool that runs
under KDE usually when something starts
with Kay and Phil is the KDE man no
problem how
I was right another question coming in
by email from David David it's good to
have you along for the show just take a
quick look here to see if I can answer
your question David is about to build I
need to stop doing this we could see
what happens is I start to stutter
because I change the perception I should
just read the email I it makes it a lot
less complicated because I'm here
changing the perspective okay I'm about
to build myself a file server and was
going over a few options firstly what
suggestions would you make for building
a file server is a boon to server
running Samba Samba the right way to go
I know the price is right for one thing
definitely secondly do you have any tips
or tricks that would be good to know on
how to set the server up I've already
read and will definitely use the your
one about mounting Samba file shares at
the desktop and cheers david david
thanks for the email firstly now I'm
just I'm immediately thinking about my
ssh document if you go onto our website
at category 5 TV stuff to read and then
under stuff to read is tips and tricks
and there's one called mount a linux
drive via ssh that's the way i prefer to
do file shares on my network but that's
mainly because a lot of my systems here
are actually linux so it works well
because i'm connecting in and you know
one thing that i did this week is i set
up my multi media server at the TV and i
mounted my computers like my desktop
computer down here my production system
i mounted its movie folder as the movie
folder the videos folder upstairs so i
didn't have to do any downloading or
transferring files it was all automated
so that was really really nice so that's
one of the things we can do with ssh if
you're looking at sharing it with a
windows environment then definitely
sound as Samba is the way to go but i
would probably if it sounds like you're
just kind of feeling you know feeling
the waters of linux i'd probably suggest
just going with the desktop edition of
of a boon to just so that you can get
the feel because jumping direct like if
you were to take that leap
windows GUI directly into ubuntu server
you're going to be encountering the the
prompt the just the black screen so
you're not you know it could be a little
intimidating so what I would suggest you
do is get the desktop edition of a boom
tube once you've got it installed on the
server system that you want to use for
your file server it's going to make
mounting your drives a lot easier if
you're not familiar with how to mount
drives in Linux and things I'm not sure
from your email about where you are with
with regards to your Linux knowledge if
you're in the chat room of course let me
know maybe respond to me but essentially
using the GUI then you can use synaptic
package manager to install the programs
that you need one of them that you're
going to want to install is is strictly
SSH go to go to your terminal and type
apt get a pardon me sudo apt-get apt
dash gapped space SSI install ssh I
should actually do this on the screen so
that you can see what I'm talking about
so I'm just going to go sudo app that
okay maybe I'll do that apt-get install
ssh so that is going to install ssh
which is going to allow you to setup
file sharing things like that using the
document that i have on our website how
to mount an ssh drive but again if
you're using windows ubuntu out of the
box is going to give you file sharing
two windows and again very very nice to
be able to do with it using the GUI if
you're fairly new to linux and what you
can do then is let's say for example you
just right click on your desktop on the
server let's say that this is where you
want to put your shared folder so we'll
just call that shared and then we just
right click on it and we go sharing
options you can't see it very well over
my ticker but it is they're sharing
options
there it is okay so then we just set
that to share this folder and then it
says sharing service is not installed
you can go through the installation let
that install the sharing service it's
going to prompt you for your root
password so just let that go so I'll
actually do this on the screen so that
you can see how this works so this is
you know this couldn't just simplify
things for you you're watching category
5 technology TV with your host Robbie
Ferguson and I'm here just to answer
your questions with regards to any form
of Technology my specialties are indeed
windows and linux as well as PHP
development joomla and things like that
software especially under what
circumstances would you want to use the
server Edition for the file server Red
Raider certainly if you've got some
Linux experience and you're not
intimidated by the by the console or the
terminal then i would go ahead and do it
if if we're fairly new to linux it's
going to be a lot easier to use the GUI
usually you're going to stay away from
the GUI if you're putting this server
into a production environment where it
needs all the resources it can get but
even in my environment here i tend to
use the desktop edition only because i
find it quicker and easier to set things
up don't have to use text editors nearly
as much and it just you know in this
environment i don't need all of the
resources for the computer dedicated to
the server environment so so essentially
if you're if you're going to be setting
up a server that is in a production
center that's you know like let's say a
web server that is designed for a
company to be specifically their web
server or their NT domain or something
along those lines then you're looking at
the server edition but if you're going
to be using this you know if it's for
home and you're going to be using it as
a file server you may want to install
frostwire and do some downloading you
may want to get azureus and do some
downloading things like that so it's
nice just to have the GUI so that you
can do that kind of thing and then
you're not locked into the two
the command prompt or the prompt itself
so just simplifies things at home pretty
much can stick with the desktop then
yeah absolutely I would say so unless
you're I mean like I say it all depends
on how much of the computer's resources
you want to dedicate to the to the
server itself you can install because
because you can install the desktop
Edition and then install all of your you
know standard stuff like if you want to
put Apache on there it's no problem you
can do it through synaptic package
manager so you know it's it just get it
simplifies things because you've got
that GUI desktop so let's kind of sleep
that way because you don't need the
dedicated resources of a solid like one
hundred percent server you can use it
for other stuff yeah I'd say I mean cool
thing with that too is like you can take
that down and let's say you want to
install the multimedia center you'll be
able to do that and you know you can
have all your downloads going to that
file a server then have you know you're
ripping from your computer if you're
ripping dvds you can put them on the
file server and then just bring up the
multimedia application and start plan
makes it pretty clean let's see okay so
that's a folder sharing it didn't even
prompt me for anything it's already
installed there so you can see now share
this folder and I'm just going to call
it shared now I don't touch any of these
other options as long as you know your
username and password you're going to be
fine so I just share the folder and then
from my other computers I log in using
the the login and password for for my
ubuntu system and that's going to give
me access to that share it's definitely
a lot safer to do it that way as well I
should say David because if we were
doing a windows file server then we got
to worry about antivirus and we got to
worry about protecting the file system
and things like that and then we got to
get into what kind of storage medium you
want to use whether you want to use a
raid just a strict large hard drive
things like that so we're going to be
getting into that over the next couple
of months as well so if you have any
questions about storage this is the
place to come as well
alright well moving on to windows XP and
we're not going to get to die hard into
setting windows XP to be like Linux so I
mean that's not what we're doing today
more than anything is just making it
feel a little more comfortable for me
because you know I don't particularly
like the interface I don't particularly
like the way that it interacts with my
mouse and things like that so and we've
looked at programs like top desk in the
past and desk space both beautiful
applications but their commercial
applications so today I really wanted to
stick with free software so we're going
to be looking at a program called XP
eyes as well as win mover those two
applications are both available for free
as free downloads off the internet XP is
is going to give us basically a theming
system that's going to give Windows XP a
much nicer interface it's going to
improve a lot of those icons within the
system you know like when your data is
moving back and forth just little little
things that Microsoft is kind of left
out of the mix with windows XP that they
could have updated since windows and 3.1
and they didn't so that's going to
improve that when mover on the other
hand is just a very simple application
that lets us holding the Alt key on our
keyboard and move just move by like any
window just by clicking anywhere on the
window and moving it around much like
Linux and because I'm so familiar with
that interface on Linux I really you
know I got frustrated with having to
click on the the top name bar that like
of the application itself and move it
that way so we're going to just kind of
clean that up a little bit and so I've
got just my laptop here with windows XP
base install so this is just a very
clean installation of Windows XP home
edition I haven't even touched it so
this is right out of the box and on my
other desktop because for some reason my
laptop won't allow me to clone but I'm
just going to go through this
installation for XP is and i'm going to
post the links for this software after
the show in the show notes for episode
number 37 so so this is going to just go
through very very straightforward
installation procedure I'm just going to
click Next on my screen here
go through a normal installation is the
way that you want to do and I let's see
I'm going to switch back here so the
prompts that I'm getting our choose
installation method do I want to do a
normal installation or create an XP eyes
windows I so that's pretty cool if you
want to distribute this or share it with
with family like if they've got
legitimate licenses but I'm just gonna
go with a normal installation patch my
currently installed windows XP asking me
if I want to create a restore point what
that is is if you want to be able to go
back just in case this mess is something
up with your system I'm going to turn
that off because this is a fresh install
of windows XP we don't need to take the
extra time you ex theme patch is
required windows XP microsoft basically
for bad any companies other than
microsoft from being able to add themes
to the windows XP system and yet then
they never released any good-looking
themes so we use that you ex theme patch
which is included here with XP is in
order to allow XP is to skin windows XP
and then i leave the rest as well files
and extras are both checked and then I
just go next on the next screen I've got
a couple of different prompts here and
i'll just show you kind of what we're
looking at and i can't zoom in with with
windows XP but there are several options
here i'm just going to read through
these so that you on your screen can go
through these as well if you're going to
be installing this on your Windows
machine first option is keep system
files updated with the XP iso resources
automatically I'm going to check that
off what that does is it leaves a little
well it runs a program during system
boot-up that will automatically check if
for example you've run a windows update
and it's set your us theme patch back to
normal so it would therefore disable
your theme that happens quite frequently
you install a service pack and you lose
your theming system so that program is
going to automatically set it back if it
finds that Windows has chain of reverted
things back to normal enhance older
dialogues fonts using tahoma we're going
to set that to ya because basically I
want to let XVI's kind of do its thing
and make my system beautiful so it does
a really nice job remember my current
visual style cursor theme and wallpaper
configuration I don't want to check that
because I've just got the default and I
want XP eyes to take over that
add XP I settings to the control panel
I'm going to check that and then add XP
iso am branding information in system
properties we don't need to do that you
can if you want that's just going to put
their logo on your system properties and
I've hit next and that's installing so
that's just going to go through take a
few minutes how many people in the chat
room right now will have a windows XP
machine at all I mean that you use
whatsoever because this is a really neat
you know it's a handy tool it's easy to
install it's easy to configure you can
put it on any windows XP machine whether
it be at work cat man's one so you know
this is just a really nice way to simply
beautify windows XP and because it's
free you can't go wrong it's not a shell
replacement I there i should mention
like this is not replacing explorer.exe
where some programs do that and it can
cause problems with certain applications
i know we ran into that with the web
stream as well because i had changed
explorer.exe and couldn't find out why
mini cam was crashing all the time so
and it turned out it was because of my
explorer replacement so with XP is it's
strictly just like a skinning engine and
it patches different dll files and
executive all files in the windows
subsystem that you know to replace the
icons that are built into those programs
and and really just beautify things make
it a lot nicer so Catman dual boots phil
has a windows XP system for the kids to
play games and a virtual machine as well
I even like to beautify my virtual
machines i mean i like i like all of my
systems i like them to feel as
comfortable to me as possible I don't
like to you know I don't leave anything
out of the box it's like I customize
everything so this is kind of a cool way
to do it hey you boo Nix what's up good
to see you
first-time visitors tonight I see at
least one maybe two did I say your name
right boob unix or would it be ubi unix
that's a tricky one or you Buicks okay
does any of the above where you from
Houston Texas well good to have you
along how do I do
yeah great you wanna on ustream or have
you find us okay XP eyes is installed
let's take a quick boo here well alright
so it just is prompted me that it is
complete I'm going to hit go ahead I
actually need to see this yeah I can't
really it's asked me if I want to reboot
so I'm going to go through that that's
no problem boom so I'm going to let that
laptop reboot noob unix says watch the
show for a few weeks but this is the
first time coming into the chat well
great to have you here there's a lot of
people who who don't join us in chat
like I see that you know the numbers are
amazing for category five and and it's
like I know that you guys are all
watching and you know join us in the
chat room it would be a little
overwhelming but it would be fun but it
is amazing how many people just watch
for the sake of watching they don't
actually ask any questions Red Raider is
watching on his nokia n800 okay I'm
going to have to google this okay cool
cool let's take a look at how category 5
is being watched here that would be
really neat
come on
oh there we are so this is what what's
being used there so how's the show come
up on that device that's pretty sleek
Phil is watching on his epc actually
fill ran into me a couple weeks ago and
showed me his epc and the first thing I
did was brought up category 5 just to
see how how it looked on the machine and
it was pretty nice really really nice I
think that are you know the whole
multimedia integration and communication
on the internet is just going to just
boom with all these portable devices
that you you know pop in your pocket the
EPC is just so tiny you're looking at
you know up to a 9 inch screen fills as
a 7-inch so I mean the thing is just
petite you can pretty much stick it in
your back pocket but and then yeah it
looks like Red Raiders system is even
smaller so says that the n800 is a
little jumpy with with the video but but
that's still very very cool are you
watching it actually through a mobile
network are you watching through Wi-Fi
that system has rebooted now so I'm just
going to jump right back to our windows
system and you can see how and I'm going
to just quickly disable my my footer
there so you can see the revised start
menu and I do regret that windows XP
doesn't allow me to zoom in however we
can see that you know this is quite a
lot more beautiful than the
out-of-the-box windows it includes a
nice screen saver and also has some nice
nice stuff from a you know just from a
back-end standpoint to I'll just bring
up a couple windows here so that you can
see a few things that I'm talking about
let's just get the default out of the
box Internet Explorer up there see if I
can get like notepad I'm actually
looking at this on like a three-inch
little window so I'm doing pretty good
so now alt tab is has been oh and
wouldn't you know what it's on the wrong
screen
I wish I could show you but what you'll
have to do is actually install that
system XP ice and the alt tab is quite a
bit nicer they've really really improved
it with with live screen captures of the
applications themselves so you can
actually see a task list of all the
programs that you have open and I don't
think that there's a way that I can
transfer this over to the web capture
but definitely give that a go on the
other application that i want to install
is called win mover and it's just a
really really quick straightforward item
and i'm going to now the original
programmer of this software's
disappeared off the face of the earth if
anybody knows where i can find the
software like a legitimate source like
an official website please let me know
but in the meantime I've got to copy the
software it is free so I'm going to
upload it to the category 5 TV website
and place a link to the actual file
download in the show notes for episode
37 so we'll actually host it on our
website in the meantime so if anybody
knows the original authors website that
would be great otherwise we're going to
host it ourselves so I just basically
bring up the installer and hit next and
next boom and finish and it's done so
that's as quick as that was so let's
just jump back over to that system and
you're not going to see much of that you
know much happening with that but if i
click on my start menu and just bring up
win mover see how well I do with a 3
inch screen that looks like win mover
all right so this is the configure
window I'm just going to bring it over
to my screen so that I can see so that I
can walk you through this start win
mover when you log on you want to turn
that on and then that's it so then hit
OK and then we want to actually start
the wind move or programs so that's
found on a start menu as well under win
mover
and just go start wind mover and I'll
say the wind movers started so now let's
say this notepad see how on Windows
you're used to having to click on the
title bar here and drag your window
around but I'm going to actually click
down here see where I'm dragging there
I'm just holding in the Alt key and
moving that window around much like you
would in Linux so that's something that
I really you know I really really like
so free software i'm going to put a link
to that at category five dot TV you're
watching category five technology TV and
i'm robi ferguson your host here to
answer your questions with regards to
technology and a form of Technology
whatsoever you can visit us in the chat
room category five TV or give me a phone
call 705 739 1056 and of course you can
email me at live at category 5 TV red
raiders using Wi-Fi and typing on a
portable bluetooth keyboard very cool
Phil is asking what kind of laptop I'm
using that won't let me clone screen
that it's just a generic a machine amd64
with an ati mobility radeon 9600 so i
think it's my radeon drivers it just
wouldnt let me clone and i wasn't pretty
pressed for time today so i actually
wiped this thing out it had to boone to
on it so I wiped it and put a windows XP
on there just for the demonstration so
I am sure that the the option is there
but I didn't have a chance to figure it
out have you ever done a section on this
like dd-wrt it's my version buffalo
wireless router not quite dd-wrt is that
a service provider I'm not familiar with
that term unless it's an acronym that
I'm just not catching let me know I'm
going to google it in the meantime free
linux based firmware for several
wireless routers okay I've never used it
but that's cool so to be an open open
software I'm sure now we've never done a
feature on it we should maybe yeah
that's cool put in a feature request
form you loonocks just go to category 5
TV click on to interact and then go into
the forum there's a there's an actual
forum for feature requests for upcoming
shows that'd be great and it looks very
cool
yeah we haven't really got into a lot of
like hacking devices or peripherals and
things like that flashing firmwares or
anything because it is pretty specific
but that looks like it might be kind of
fun any other questions forming the chat
room category 5 TV let's see what else
is coming in here
yeah it's great having everybody here
and stream quality should be you know
pretty smooth tonight pretty cool and
we've got a new monitor back here as
well so you can actually see my system
as I do
if you haven't already purchased the DVD
iso downloads it's pretty cool we've
gone out and put 10 episodes of category
five on a downloadable I so so you can
download it burn it to DVD r and watch
category 5 on your television system and
you know everything all the information
is on our website a category 5 TV but it
does you know we're using all the money
that comes from category 5 to go
directly back into the show whether it
be purchasing new items for review
whether it be doing simple things like
doing the upgrades that we did this week
to improve the stream quality things
like that all of the money that's raised
through category 5 goes directly back
into it so so it's a dollar in episode
you get it on DVD that you burn yourself
and of course i do want to offer that if
anybody doesn't have the connection or
the bandwidth to download it just drop
me an email and maybe throw me a
donation to cover expenses i'll burn it
to a DVD and mail it to you that would
be fine as well did we ever get that HP
site to work Cat Cat Man is asking let's
take a look it worked offline it was it
was just during the broadcast last week
that it's that it was down so let's
bring it up
yeah see it's up today so see how that
just came right up so what you're seeing
here is just it's just loading this kind
of window here with totem and you can't
push play or anything you can't open it
in the movie player and this is due to
pardon me this is due to cat man I hate
to say it but it's a poorly designed
site the developer has has missed
program the ASX files so they're they're
actually not to format it and be like
you know making a file that's just a
text file and calling it dot XML but it
doesn't follow XML standards it's the
same sort of idea so the developer is
created the site some browsers and some
operating systems are able to interpret
it and so you know they get they get by
probably without getting too many
complaints but as soon as you get you
know we're on Linux and it's looking for
a proper ASX file and there isn't one so
so let's just look at how because it is
up tonight we can look at how to
basically break through this and even
download these files locally would you
be interested in putting these files on
your local computer with that would that
kind of be a good workaround for you or
how should we do this
yeah we'll definitely look at that Phil
just mention that he he bought a
particular device specifically to hack
it so it would be kind of fun to take a
look at on the show and I'll have to see
if I have any hardware that's compatible
as well so make sure you put in that
request to Phoenix Catman just waiting
for an answer there with regards to
download in these files do you want to
save these locally get them on your
computer would that work guess it
depends on how often they manipulate the
files right
Catman fell asleep on us
okay cabin I'm asking just how we should
do this now we gotta crack around the
poor coating so one of the things that
we can do is we can download the movie
files locally do you want to have those
on your hard drive I just need to
determine how you want to work around
this and we'll work around it together
we can save them locally yeah okay that
would work so you can use this site
before the text information but let's
let's work into let's let's start with
battery up here let's figure out how we
can crack this all right so let's take a
look so i just clicked on battery and
just for the record this is we're
looking at HP services media library
this is something that Catman uses for
work and it doesn't play in a boon to
linux so what we need to do now this is
a framed site so we need to just right
click on the frame where it says if this
video does not play just right click on
that text and go this frame I'm going to
zoom in so you can see this this frame
and let's just do we can either show
let's show only this frame just to give
you the heads-up so now we've got just
the player window okay so now we can
push control you to view the source code
of that file alright and I'm just doing
this as we as we go we want to just do a
ctrl f and find the file that is playing
where's my control oh okay my fine
dialogue is at the bottom so dot ASX so
the file that is trying to play is
called mer battery ASX so i'm going to
copy that okay and that's in the current
folder so just like files on your
computer that means that the file is
going to be located in the same folder
as this HTM file because there's no
there's no link to outside you know
outside of this directory so I paste
that in there and that's going to give
me the ASX file which is corrupt it
doesn't play that's bad so now I can
control you on the no I can't control
you what i can do is i can go file save
page as because this is the actual ASX
file I'm just going to save that to my
desk desktop mer battery ASX save it
okay now I can just get out of that and
so there's my mer battery ASX and you
can do this for all of them right click
on that and go open with other
application because it's not going to
play a movie player because again it's
correct it's not properly formatted open
it with your text editor and hit open
okay so there now we have the wmf WMV
file so we're going to copy that WMV
file ref and we're going to put that
into our browser same folder okay taste
that in and hit enter and now here's the
video so now to save this now we can go
file save page ass and then save and
when we say this time it's actually
going to be saving oh and i think i
accidentally taste it it's going to be
saving the WMV so let's put that on our
desktop just for the sake of doing it
those out of that and now on our desktop
we can delete that ASX file but there's
the WMV file right there so now we can
just double-click on that any time we
want that file and there we go so I know
I kind of motored through that pretty
quick because you know I know I know how
to get through but you can refer back to
the video and of the show episode 37
that's going to help you get that then
so it's a little inconvenient obviously
but it's not our fault it's theirs so at
least that will help you through sound
good can that work it's pretty cool to
just looking at oh I guess it won't show
on that display they have pretty cool
screen saver that came with XP ice as
well it's kind of nice but it doesn't
seem to show on the secondary display
one day they're going to get that right
the interaction between the two displays
you're watching category 5 technology TV
and i'm your host Robbie Ferguson I'm a
technologist from Barrie Ontario here to
technology and you can visit me online a
category five dot TV that's our website
address join us in the chat room during
the live broadcast after the fact you
can always join us in the forum this is
episode number 37 if you want to ask any
questions with regards to things that
I've mentioned on this show or of course
if you're watching live you can ask in
the chat room Catman is asking if the
ASX file is the only way to find the
file name the ASX file is their script
that is supposed to play the file so it
contains the I noticed that the WMV file
was the same name as the ASX but the
chances of that being the case all
throughout is you know that's that's up
to them so by opening the ASX file
you're going to be able to see what the
actual file name is yeah so just a
little bit of a crown so save them to
your desktop and you're good to go or
make a folder and you know set it all up
yourself but we are just kind of hacking
around the poorly coded site
whoa all right so lots of people are
interested in setting up ubuntu to be a
multimedia supercenter and i set up to
do that very thing this week and very
impressed with the results with ubuntu
hardy heron there is a program called
elisa and this program has been around
for a while but as far as as soon as
Hardy came out it has been included in
the repositories from the ubuntu so
we're able to install this strictly
through add/remove so very very nice i'm
just going to actually pull up on my
screen the installation procedure and as
you know this you know with the boon to
it's so simple just go applications and
then add remove
and then up here we're just going to
type in elisa and you can see that i've
already installed it but all we need to
do is check off that box for elisa media
center and then go down to the bottom
and hit apply changes now again I've
already done it so just to give you a
little bit of an idea of what this
software is capable of now I set out to
find something I've just been using
totem for the longest time VLC and
playing my movies that way but I have a
CRT TV and so you know 27 inch TV it's
fine but really really hard to read text
and so when I'm moving around on the
screen you know things just it was never
comfortable it was never convenient so
I've got my little computer setup right
next to my right next to my television
upstairs and connected through I've got
a d sub converter to convert it over to
s-video and then going into the back of
my DVD player so using that setup I
wanted software that's going to give me
easy access to networked movie files
home movies photographs my wife really
wants picture that you know the ability
to bring up pictures of the kids as well
as listening to music we've got a pretty
massive I used to work in Christian
radio and so when I was in that you know
I've just accumulated tons and tons of
cds and i set out to import them all on
my computer so i've got 17 gigabytes of
mp3 files which doesn't sound like a lot
but it really is a lot of files and so
you know to have the ability to play
those on the multimedia system through
our 5.1 surround sound upstairs is a
beautiful thing so using a Lisa we're
able to pull off exactly what we were
hoping to do so this program is just now
found once you've installed it you're
going to find it under applications
sound &amp; video and then Alisa media
center and when you click on that we're
just getting this little splash screen
there and then it brings us right up to
the main menu now one of the things
about this too is that it kind of
prompts me to keep my files organized
and I was talking earlier about how we
can actually you know map stuff off of
the network using SSH so I've got my
video files in my videos folder on my
computer I've mapped them to my
multimedia system as well so that I can
open those movies Oh
those videos as well directly through
wireless networking in my house so using
the Lisa now let's just pull it up sorry
I did close it to show you but under
places you'll see that you've got music
and you've got videos and you've got
pictures so that's where ELISA is going
to pull the files from so up here places
music pictures and videos so if you
click on any of those three items if you
put your pictures into the pictures
folder there's the pictures that I've
got in my pictures folder um so just
some family pictures there's pictures of
my wife and myself and the kids so those
are there I've got a couple of videos
that I've been ported to my videos
folder and certainly I'm now that I've
got elisa i want to start importing our
DV movies as well with the kids so let's
just bring it up demonstrate a little
bit about how this software works really
really simple just a beautiful interface
I'm very very happy with this comes out
now this is on an nvidia 70 70 e 600 i
think just a basic card it doesn't
really need a whole lot i was actually
able to get this to work under an
integrated graphics adapter as well and
it worked just fine it plays audio and
it automatically downloads the cover art
from amazon things like that I just I
threw a Madonna song in there it's a
horrible cover but just to show you how
it works and then we've got our videos
you just bring up your folders videos
how easy is this I just imported a few
episodes of season one of heroes and you
can change the view to be kind of like
the Mac style system so we kind of like
that it automatically generates
thumbnails we can see that a thumbnail
hasn't been generated for that one just
yet but just by hitting Enter it's going
to automatically start that video the
navigation is very very sleek I want to
fast forward I just push the right arrow
I want to increase the volume is the up
arrow you can just kind of hold that in
and then space is always to take you
back and you can see that the interface
overlays the video
top so you can actually keep going back
if you like and the video will continue
to play in the background until you know
you get right back to the main menu and
then when you push space it's going to
take you right back to the main menu
don't push escape in this program
because any time you press escape it's
going to actually abort the program it's
actually going to quit out now one of
the things I would love to see is the
ability to change the hotkey assignments
in the system I'm sure it's something
that's going to come but it's not there
yet so as it is right now space is to
bring up your menu or go back enter is
to select whatever you want to do so
looking at those photos the pictures
that I have in my pictures folder you
can see that it automatically puts them
into a nice little thumbnail index you
can go up to the top and change the
interface again there's a couple of
different ones that you can use there's
just a list style thing and it shows the
thumbnails as well with the file names I
kind of like this guy so there's my baby
boy Zechariah Todd and I just hit enter
there and it brought them right up on
the screen so I press space to go back
and I can change photos there it is
trying to watch so if I like up at the
top here just by using the up arrow on
my keyboard it takes me up to this top
menu where you can change the view or
you can press play and it's going to put
these into a slideshow so now all of the
photos that are in my pictures folder or
whatever folder i'm currently browsing
are going to automatically be added to a
slideshow there's no having to configure
it there's no having to import anything
and then of course I can get back to go
back to wherever I was so that is ELISA
and it's a free application available on
a boon to hardy heron directly through
the repositories you can go to
applications and then add remove and
I'll also have a link to the product
website at category five dot TV in the
show notes for episode number 37 you're
watching category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie ferguson technologist
from Barrie Ontario it's good to have
everybody here tonight and great to see
so many familiar faces a couple new
faces in the chat room as well and if
you have any questions for me tonight
we've got just about 8 minutes left at
the broadcast and I'm here to answer
your questions live at category 5 TV and
of course in the phone number down at
the bottom of your screen seven two five
seven three nine ten
56 anybody in the chatroom have a
question for me at this point I'm out of
water oh my good timing i just a couple
minutes left of the show so we are in
the future going to be looking at
actually building multimedia Center
systems like i'm talking like that
system elisa is designed to be used with
a multimedia remote control so you can
actually install a nice little system on
your computer in front of your TV and
actually use just a handheld remote
control wireless device and definitely
cool I have a wireless keyboard on my TV
so you know I just use the controls that
I just gave you there just watch out for
that escaped eat took me a bit of
getting used to because escape usually I
think that that's going to take me back
instantly closes out of the application
when you're playing you're at movies or
any any music or anything like that just
push enter is going to pause it and then
just push enter to re restart playing
for me are there many other tweaks for
windows to make it more boon to like
there's definitely a lot I mean we can
even go as far as installing linux
interoperability into windows and as I
kind of mentioned at the beginning the
show I didn't really want to get that
far into it tonight because we've got so
much on our plate and you know a busy
showing me and I really wanted to get
through all of the features tonight but
definitely something i would like to
look at in the future is is making
windows feel a lot more like linux but
then again i kind of em in the
understand like kind of in the thought
that anybody who is on windows who wants
to be on linux is probably just going to
install linux it's not quite the same as
you know making Linux feel more like mac
OS or making it feel more like windows
because that's more for users who want
to be on linux but are uncomfortable
with the linux interface with windows
it's more i have to use windows
sometimes so i would rather have it feel
more
customized but definitely if that's
something that compiz fusion for Windows
is not an option but there is a program
called what I said it at the beginning
of the show top desk and desk view and
we actually featured it on a very early
broadcast so if you'd like to see how
far the stream quality has come
definitely go back and watch this and
you'll be amazed I okay there's actually
a review for it it got a 9 out of 10 so
it's quite excellent category five dot
TV stuff to read product reviews nine
out of ten desk space and top desk
there's a little bit of a video there
but if you'd like to actually see it on
the show because you know I love to
demonstrate software and I'd love to
actually show you what it's going to
work like in a real environment you know
the promotional videos are never true to
life you know so episode number four if
you believe going way back we're talking
about October sixteenth 2007 is called
add a 3d cube to Windows XP and that was
using top desk and desk space so that
software is a commercial application
that's why I didn't want to feature
tonight but it is you know it's it's
really phenomenal in and it's actually
improved since I featured on the show
back in October of 2007 so check out
episode number for that will give you
the desktop cube for windows XP as well
give you even more of a Linux flavor
there and give you the productivity as
well just having that cube is so
productive I actually always have at
least six faces on my cube and it just
helps me to be productive I've got you
can see that i always have several
applications open so unlike windows I
don't have a million things on my
taskbar use you can see on this side of
my cube I've only got three items open
on this side I've only got three items
open and so on and so forth so it just
really helps keep things clean so you
can use that desktop cube using that
software on your Windows XP system as
well and that's going to really improve
productivity on Windows XP no problem
Kemosabe good to have you here tonight
just a couple of minutes left so we
don't have much time to get into any new
questions but if you have something
quick for me category five dot TV and
just join us in the chat room or if
you're there just drop me a question
how cool is that Chet is asking if I've
ever used solaris um way back I mean so
far back that I couldn't honestly give
you an honest opinion of it cfl great to
have you here Phil is off chat on
solaris I haven't touched in so many
years that it just wouldn't be fair to
talk about it I could try it again but
is that something that you use i just
downloaded solaris 10 and is going to
try that as well let us know what you
think of it and you know if there's
anything that you in particular about
the operating system you'd like us to
feature i'm always willing to
demonstrate other distributions of linux
my distribution of choices abloom too
but you know we as you can see from you
know past shows i try to feature as much
as possible because it's not about a
boon to it is Linux and a lot of the
software is very much similar so want to
see boon to server headless with
virtualbox yeah we could try that so
what are you thinking like beyond seeing
into the virtual machine so if we don't
have a monitor on the server and have to
have a way to control this the virtual
machine
I actually don't have a head on my
server at the back and I use VMware but
I had I had a head on it for the
installation and then I just I remote
desktop in to each of my servers which
are just virtual machines but it's a
dual xeon so it runs really really well
is there a reason that you didn't use a
virtual XP on your main machine to demo
XP is instead of an actual machine we
made so many changes to the to the
system this week so my my desktop system
is actually now the stream system you
can actually see here remember last week
how things were set up this was my
production system this is now obviously
the stream system so I've got many cam
ustream viewer and debut according to
the bde so things have changed there so
I don't actually have any virtual
time to set it back up again right hand
side of mine now
production
but I could maneuver
I wanted to get it on yet
well thanks everyone for joining me
tonight on category 5 technology TV and
I look forward to seeing you next week
and definitely you know check out our
website category 5 TV again we've got
those DVD I suppose they're really
appreciate your support when you buying
those and downloading them and again if
you prefer to have them sent you just
drop me an email will set up discussion
a you want to donate some cash to to
help me afford to be able to send it to
you or whatever then that's great I'll
burn enough for you outside up the ISIS
raise your local and they're like four
gigs take a while so so all the best
have a wonderful week it's been great
having everybody here and I will see you
again next tuesday night at seven
o'clock eastern time
you
