for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies laughs this is
category 5 technology TV
greetings world wide web world wide web
and everybody here in Barrie Ontario for
our live studio taping with our awesome
audience of what show category 5
technology TV you are watching pretty
wild stuff today is Tuesday September
25th hour episode number 2 62 and it's
our fifth anniversary partay now let's
throw it over to the man of the hour who
has made this all possible for the past
five seasons Robbie Ferguson everybody
thanks for being here tonight and great
to see my wonderful team joining us
tonight as you know category 5 has now
been on the air for five years we're
going to talk all about it and kind of
introduce you to the show I know a lot
of you possibly well how many people
here have not never seen an episode of
pedigree
actually seen the show my raise of hands
compared
well it's wonderful to have you here one
of the people that you may have you
technically have heard on the show and
and have never possibly seen before is
Jodi Crangle to join us tonight she's
the image voice and she's up behind me
here jodia does all the voiceover work
for category 5 technologies who you
heard her voice there at the beginning
awesome presentation tonight to take us
into the evening and kind of give you a
glimpse at what the shows although where
we've come from past five years Jodi
take it away in September 2007 Robbie
Ferguson started a humble little online
program designed to provide free
technical support to all who wanted it
starting from a webcam in the basement
of his family townhome category five
quickly grew viewers began tuning in
from all around the world this week we
broadcast from Barrie Ontario was
offering a fun new way to learn within
the first year we were reaching viewers
in Australia the United Kingdom and
Germany with the growing global
viewership and over 60,000 viewers per
episode a team of volunteers soon joined
forces with Robbie to help take category
5 technology TV to even more areas of
the world Karrie Webb was the first
co-host of the show followed by kristi
burton and the group you see here today
plus our absent tease Rachel's you and
Erica lalonde some of our co-hosts have
really grown on the viewers here's a
clip from Krista's file oh gee I think
you've got a fan toward oh also sent a
picture of a cake that he created this
week oh dear why does nobody make a
stick we've got gadwal who who says this
shirt has a caption on it you can't
really read it in the picture but it
says I overpay for Mac OS 10 instead of
using linux and and there's the shirt
where did he get that picture also says
make sure to bribe Krista with cookies
to keep her on a show after it ends you
know I was considering staying around
anyways but now that I see this I think
I require the cookies it's funny that
you should say that
can we meet me keep them there oh my
goodness Rory 5 made its way through the
Great Firewall of China and is now
watched by thousands of viewers where
many western broadcasts are typically
blocked in only a few months of being
accessible in china mainland viewership
is on par with that of canada with
syndication partners in the united
states joining forces with category 5 in
the past year our American viewership
has skyrocketed to nearly a quarter
million viewers per episode which makes
the United States our number one viewing
country followed by Canada China the
Russian Federation United Kingdom
Germany Ukraine Sweden France Australia
to name the top 10 and we're also seeing
a lot of viewers in Spain let's take a
look at our viewer location data updated
just moments ago what i'm doing here is
i'm bringing up map cat five dot TV and
this map i'm going to see if i can show
this to you through our little webcam
here as it loads if you go to map cat
five TV you can actually see a live
representation of where our viewers are
from during this broadcast you bring
that up on the laptop for me if you
could map cat five TV here comes it
takes a while to load especially during
a broadcast like this here we go I don't
know if you can see this this is an
actual representation of where our
viewers are from at this very moment and
you can see that pretty much all of
Canada the US into we've got lots of
yours over there in Germany right now UK
Ireland straight over into China and
everywhere in between how cool is that
that cool or what pretty rad that's
pretty good
I'll take it away doing okay the focus
of category 5 is on providing free
technical support in a fun way that is
both enjoyable and educational to both
novice and expert computer users we have
a big focus on saving our viewers money
by presenting alternative technologies
such as the Open Office suite in place
of microsoft office or the linux
operating system instead of Windows or
Mac OS we've had many great guests on
category five in the past five years
including mark shuttleworth who was the
second person in the world to self-fund
a trip to space what struck us about mr.
Shuttleworth was his philanthropy having
founded a nonprofit organization aiding
in education programs and the open
source movement in South Africa mark
also launched the company canonical
which built and continues to develop you
Ubuntu Linux operating system here's a
clip from that very special broadcast as
we spoke to mark shuttleworth nearly
four years ago the things we strive for
in a bun to our ease of use in making it
really easy for for any user to get it
installed to have access to the low
hanging fruit you know an easy easy
on-ramp to the web easy access to two
web browsers email racing office
applications and so on so and we also
stream strive to make it robust and
secure and reliable for power users but
fundamentally that the focus is the next
for human beings right right and
speaking of like just kind of the focus
of how you program the software like
you've got the server operating system
you've got the desktop operating system
and you it also put a lot of work in
with intrepid with that making it work
on on portable laptops and things like
that very small laptops like the epc
kind of are you keeping on with that
direction of having kind of three bases
for a boon to yeah at least at least
that many and and what I'd also like to
have a sec is a service all small
handheld device version as well because
it seems to me that that that we're
moving to a world where your data your
experience of technology is increasingly
out there in the cloud and you want to
be able to access
have you know from a device in your
pocket or from a laptop or from your
desktop at home and have access to the
same data used in the same way so if
we're able to provide people with that
common platform and in future that will
be a that would be a wonderful thing
thank you so much mark it was definitely
informative and I know all the viewers
certainly appreciate your idea of
philanthropy and and how you just want
to help everyone out it's really
appreciated definitely well if we can
bring together amazing technology
amazing sort of social processes and an
interesting new business model i think
that's that's a win so thank you very
much guys and a nice to meet you mark
thank you very much for being on
category 5 TV take care stay away this
is category 5 technology TV and tonight
we're looking back at five years of
broadcasting from Barrie Ontario as we
celebrate our fifth anniversary all
right mark shuttleworth I mean almost a
visionary when it came to tablets and
things and we've got an audience member
there do you still have that up on your
screen
here we were back in 2009 always got it
up now back in 2009 they were talking
about it and and as a visionary mark
shuttleworth has really been seeing a
boon to through to to become just an
incredible desktop operating system for
those of you if you don't know what a
boon to is come talk to us after the
show it's a it's an alternative to
Microsoft Windows and Mac OS and it's
absolutely free and Mark is is kind of
at the forefront of that and then still
overseas things over a canonical so my
name is Robbie Ferguson and for those of
you who don't know me I started this
show back in two thousand seven and here
we are five years later incredibly hard
to believe because this was never meant
to grow to the size that it is into the
viewership scale that it is at at this
point really when when this show started
it was it was a project out of our
family's basement and and it was
designed just to help the occasional
person with their computer problems and
and grew into something that's being
watched all over the world on a regular
basis so that's that's me that's my
involvement in the show I'm a computer
programmer by trade and we are actually
all volunteers here at category five and
and we do this just just for the viewers
and and for this year fun of being a
part of such a cool project well my name
is Hillary Rumble I've been a part of
the show for I think about three years
now a sidekick to Robbie and the whole
motley crew here it's been pretty rad a
pretty wild ride we've done tons of fun
stuff um so I enjoy the show people make
fun of me sometimes they say I'm cool
beans but I'm okay with that so yeah
take it away goodness um my name is
Krista wells I've been on the show for a
year and a half now I think um I guess
what brought me here Robbie lured me in
we worked together a few times music
graphic designer him as the web
programmer and then he said hey come on
the show I promise it'll be
by the way it's a year and a half later
and I haven't left so yeah mr. cookies
see I gave her cookies cookies cakes
garrix good Jodi ok Eric will come back
to her her microphone takes a moment to
warm up all right I'm Eric um heck I've
been doing this I i was working with
robbie at the time and that cool beans
Hillary here decided to go AWOL one
night and he said I need a co-host can
you come and do it I said well I'm
really shy and I'm kind of scared to be
in front of people I really and I said
sure and was that a couple two three
years ago easily yeah yeah he keeps
coming back can't get rid of me know
it's good coffee yeah I was wondering
where the coffee was tonight but yeah so
anyway yeah I've been doing this for a
while and it's a it's largely because
what Robbie does is such a good thing
and he helped so many people in so many
ways with that his advice and everything
it just seems like a little thing that I
can do to help support him so that's why
I'm here and it's kind of fun all right
i am sasha i have been on one episode so
i'm super knew Robbie only had to ask me
47 times to come on before I said yes
I'm super happy he did um I love it I am
new to everything technical so the chat
room has been really nice to me and yeah
anyway that's about it ok um i'm jody
painful and I I think we met through my
songwriting website we usually way back
yeah the news is news yeah God how long
ago was that that was easily 10 15 years
ago 15 years ago about 15 I would think
so I was doing some programming for Jim
yeah it isn't programming for me and
uh we've kind of stayed in touch and I
can't remember when I started doing it's
funny though because we had a we had
never actually met no we hadn't it's
really nobody covers the phone yeah
considering you know the website was for
all over the world kind of like this but
I can't remember how long I've been
doing the imaging here now it's at three
years i would say three or four years
yeah okay yeah yeah very good Jodi what
is your website for those who are
watching Oh voiceovers and vocals com or
a yummy voice calm yeah yeah has
everybody who's here have you helped
yourself to snacks make sure you grab
coffee ready you guys think coffee is
ready part of our show is based around
food we usually talk about food the
chart room is always buzzing about what
they're eating for dinner what's in the
oven so it's only fitting that we have
food right now for our glorious audience
Andrew Jameson in the chat room is upset
that he didn't get any snacks from us
tonight should have flown here for the
big event category 5 TV / chat if you
would like to join in the chat room I
don't know if if it's possible to just
kind of turn or one of oh no that
wouldn't really work oh really chat
rooms where it's at people if you can't
watch in real life so here here we have
get on the chat room viewers from all
over the world chat room say hi so these
are viewers who are tuned in from
anywhere in the world let us know maybe
in the chat room there where you're
viewing from and we'll we'll kind of
recite a couple of places there well I'm
I'm very honored to have my team here
this is basically our current team we
also have Abigail Smith who is going to
be joining us during season six of
course season six starting next week
maybe we read through some of these sure
greetings from Pennsylvania Melbourne
Australia we got robbed gore there who
else Manchester Florida Illinois this is
just kind of flying
n so this is happening right now and
it's it still blows my mind that we're
in I started broadcasting when I was a
kid and and back then we didn't have the
technology to be able to broadcast like
this and one of the things that just
still just amazes me is that this is
possible here we are in a in an
auditorium in Barrie Ontario where we
broadcast you know we broadcast from
very anyways but here we've moved
everything over and we're able to
broadcast to a global audience tebow
also joining us from Western Australia
nice to have everybody joining us in
chatroom thank you for being here we do
need to take a very very quick break and
then we've got some prizes for you are
in studio audience so stick around we're
going to be right back as soon as oh
there we go I found it fantastic we'll
be right back at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
you'll find our website at triple w
category five dot TV now we have eco
alkalines as one of our wonderful
sponsors of the show we love products
that are environmentally friendly or
that makes some kind of a difference and
having an outline battery that is not
only by basically biodegradable in a way
like I mean it doesn't leak any harmful
chemicals into the earth but also the
fact that they are carbon neutral so any
carbon footprint that you have they
offset it and so it's a real privilege
to have a sponsor like that because
that's something that's very close to
our hearts here category 5 so we have a
year supply now this is for the chat
room this is where our viewers in the
mood champion we have a year supply of
eco alkalines batteries we're talking a
pack a week 52 packs I need you to punch
it in the high number there 34 for me so
what we're that's that nice V 1 and then
34 yeah so chat room we have a program
called robot which I brought up on my
ipod touch here and hillary is just
going to generate our first winner here
so if you could read the name then oh
we're gonna have to draw another one
because this you this viewer actually
won a year supply so if you just wrote
an invincible mutant it's good to have
you in the chat room but I can't
possibly don't yeah random he's still in
the middle of his year i believe number
yeah there we go and the winner of a
year supply of you guac line batteries
is none other than Brad underscore
underscore rad underscore underscore one
of our winners
is pretty rad Brad lucky guy the value
of this considering each pack of
batteries this you know four or five
dollars or so we would estimate about
two hundred and sixty dollars per prize
so here's a scene our next winner
according to the interwebs randomness is
rapper as he appears in the chat room
rapper you are our second winner I rapid
a chat room where you guys are from all
right where are you from I wonder let us
just take a little look-see this is
category 5 technology TV as we're saying
category five dot TV that's you Sasha Oh
category five sorry I'm new category
five technology TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here and the International Association
of Internet broadcasters awesome we have
a great prize table here I hope that
everyone was able to get over there and
see some of the prizes that that are
there if you wouldn't mind bringing
bringing us up those to level up gaming
Ottomans these are an ottoman for
storing video game console peripherals
the games themselves yeah very cool up
so we're going to be drawing one of
these do we have the draw stuff up here
oh here comes Becca thank you
thank you so much you better i only have
one of their art give away i'm so
excited i love free stuff this is my
favorite partner are ya guys my favorite
part everyone get excited then we get a
drumroll here hang on all right number
86 5695 very happy looking winner whoa
come up and claim your prize come on up
a complete random winner completely
random I promise you want a folding
right Ridge ottoman very gullo one
mortgage okay I have a dish if those
tickets out people it could be you get
ready okay 865 696 oh wow that is pretty
well whoever got their ticket
very qual skiing all right we better
confirm this ticket number here all
right congratulations well that was fun
that was fun now there are more prizes
the next one really it kind of kind of
excites me a lot because how many people
here have an HDTV at this point right
technology as got us to the point where
a lot of us have an HDTV but one of the
things that we want is we want to be
able to hook up Netflix we want to be
able to watch youtube videos on our TV
we don't want to have to run cables from
the computer am I right Carol yes yep so
we have a couple of DS media plays from
xios to give away these are a really
cool little box that hooks up to your TV
very cool krista is gonna draw for these
bad boys get your tickets ready these
are 1080p HD eight six five six seven
seven big winner right here cold
congratulations audience members of all
ages awesome where to should we maybe
you ever do it look 086 5673
congratulations on your big win there
you go congratulations for your
scrapbook put in your scrapbook yeah as
if for those of you who are just joining
us make sure you get a ticket so that
you can be involved or background just
ignite if you just see back up my
glorious wife back there in the purple
shirt she'll hook you up with a ticket
and and put those in here for us because
who doesn't love to win a free stuff
especially technology Hilary over the
course of five years of broadcasting we
just we've been through so much here
category five and we all have I think
memories that that we can look back on
fondly you know because when you do you
know I've done 262 episodes now
including tonight and so you sometimes
it runs together but then sometimes
there are things that really stand out
in your mind so far usually in the time
that you've been here with us at
category 5 TV are there any memories
that you can say oh how much time do you
have well okay one memory of mine that I
thought was kind of fun and crazy
because often I feel like you make me do
the weird and crazy things yeah um I do
this was controlling a computer with my
head not using my super powers of course
but actually using my noggin with a
special little something-something from
smart nav to control a computer so let's
take a trip down memory lane shall we
maybe I don't have the mobility in my
upper body or maybe I don't have the
mobility in my arms hmm so here's a
chance for you to actually control your
computer just like normal but without
having to use a mouse right but what
what do you use Robbie well what do you
use well I'll say a stylish baseball cap
oh look at them and I'm going to sport
it so you all you see yeah this is your
new smart nap I'll get you to close down
your windows there oh yeah see what's
certainly ok ok thank you just
minimize here so that people can see so
I have the Hat okay something bad and
what's actually happening here already
like instantly it's pretty wild I'm just
okay this is like me trying to keep my
head straight and this is just me move
along do you look at my arrow girl
that's actually Hillary some cursor this
is for real really happening so I'm just
I'm just moving along here and it's
essentially like following my my eye
line like with the my head movement so
there you have it that was well a little
treat for me I thought that was pretty
cool and I felt kind of like a robot
with mine powers I don't know it was
pretty cool she says it like I said her
up to embarrass her by making her go
like this but you are a little bit of a
silly poo well it's possible sometimes
and then we'll send you a product and
safe in your little socially poo on the
air well that's the censored version you
know but the fact is is that will send
you a product to review and and Hillary
in her hilarious way will that will put
together a review for us so that was
another one of my special memories was
doing just that for liquid image mmm um
it was pretty rough pretty crazy yep so
I think we have a little something for
you to live this memory with me with
image video camera MX goggles in I like
to wear them everywhere
oh I could really go for a sack hi could
I have one medium decaf with cream and
half of sugar and a regular medium i am
rigor yep winter cream and half a sugar
oh yeah girl thank you crazy kids come
to hear that crazy kid I call me crazy I
don't believe it
thank you I really do wear them
everywhere
it's quite possible that i am in love
well there you have it folks I was
waiting for the white value that was one
of my best memories I and I should be
wearing those goggles right now but I
thought um everybody I should so you
couldn't see my real face well nice job
yeah how about you Sasha you're new here
you've you've only been on one show
you've already mentioned that so you
have any fun memories or my favorite
memories as I walk down memory lane to
two weeks ago um i would have to say
being super new to all of this it was
the chat room for sure i set the scene
it was crazy nervous going down to the
studio drank far too much water um and
sat re going with that totally
completely nervous and the cameras i
guess the backstage pass cameras were on
before a hand and it was the chat room
that totally calmed my nerves because
they are so sweet hear that guys so
super sweet and even after the show was
wrapped up they were just I mean it
moves fast I'm still yeah a chat room
just flies by a piano you are now their
favorite oh thank you she's just wait a
minute I was my what's my favorite thing
it's dennis kelly and drumstick and
everyone around the world that was a
good answer thanks Sasha and it's
wonderful having you on the team as well
thanks you're out with everything in the
season six Krista and I have been
through a lot together on the show Oh
only fun things only fun thing yeah fun
memories oh yeah and you know I don't
know if I would be so fond of this one
um a lot of reviewers know I'm a very
avid mac fan I love my neck and I used
to bring it on the show all the time and
use it to read the news and talk to the
viewers and everything by it Robbie
thought it would be hilarious if he
would censor my mac logo so
not so hilarious yeah let's let the
audience decide we did get a lot of your
complaints this week we had a
conversation last week we are talking
about how I was trying to push a boon to
linux on you and they felt bad for you
that well the ears are just not so sure
you know so I changed your mug this week
I don't know if I'd advise can see that
it is indeed yeah it's a spongebob mug
now i think yet again with the
endorsements i would rather it be in a
boon to vote in order to make that
compromise we also have to viewer said
you know we're so offended about this
one particular thing on the show and you
really need to start censoring some of
the content of the show so happy to
oblige our viewers we are introducing
censorship this week which we don't like
to do but we are gonna censor the show
just a little bit so there we go oh
you're kidding I don't approve oh my
poor Mac that's for you that was a great
moment
yes it was it's great for some people I
have nightmares I go home and curl in a
little ball and she rocked myself back
and forth and cry for hours on end
that's fine it's fine it's all fun um I
know when I when I first started I guess
Robbie thought it would be fun to do a
parody on the Rebecca Black song Friday
um so I got lured into that as well and
I think I have some awesome dance moves
I know it's kind of overdone now but
when we did this Rebecca Black was just
becoming the craze and you know that the
song Friday and it gets stuck in your
head and everyone thought she's gonna be
just as big as beanie babies and we were
right on top of it with a parody and
thought that we would be just as big as
you know every other parity so yeah here
is a clip right here
get in the cart again
yesterday was Monday Tuesday is Tuesday
fantastic so fantastic we're gonna have
a good time tomorrow is Wednesday and
Thursday comes afterward we had so much
fun doing that that's the last there was
actually a second music video that we
did later because we thought oh well we
did so well with Rebecca Black let's try
maroon 5 when moves like jagger came out
I'm just saying the show you like a ball
who's like a Vulcan how need to try to
come true you look into my eyes now show
you all the moves like a ball can get
all the moves like a Balkan gotta move
who's like again
because we all know how much I love Star
Trek I mean this is about to get nasty
when Robbie says things that we do on
our spare time he really means things he
does on the spare time and I feel so bad
for okay that was my son by the way is
ech and he was cute it was a chopper
with I was just free of any inhibitions
or fried thank you you know actually
that was more like I spent way too much
in a Halloween costume when I had to
justify to my wife so i made a video
with my son great and everything on
youtube is justifiable so that's okay um
what else um well i'm awful at reading
the news absolutely horrible um and
there was a very unfortunate news story
that did not deserve to be laughed at
but i just kind of broke down and you
know and how the dropbox security has
become a concern after a frightening
exploit was discovered yesterday
seriously oh yeah beside it just anyway
why are you so serious be careful here
your message on facebook it in mail
Angie Angie supposed to be funny you
stick around stars are coming up in
under 30 minutes now you got me
this is category 5 technology TV I have
no idea what you're laughing at it's
hilarious thanks for that little brief
interlude you've got to get through
those stories you realize i'm crying a
little bit my sorry good guy he's very
offended that you're having so much
sorry okay do I dare ask you you read me
some questions okay seriously like
assist you I know I teared on my hand
already like actually trip down okay I
can do this I can't wait too much it's
still going keep going and going so
first question yes send your questions
in live a category five dot TV to get
them to Krista to hear her read them and
laugh and wow you're not serious also
get into the chat room category five TV
join us on freenode and the chat room is
called category 5 ahh we're good alright
great so first question is from Richard
is the bottom Marsh people actually
watch live for his things like that I
know that's like a blooper that wasn't a
blooper because we're always live yeah
that's unfortunate imagine that this
show we go we start at seven and we end
usually at about eight and and that's
that's the show and it's something how
does that happen d you notice that I was
trying to get her to plow through it
actually you were giggling just about as
much as she it was pretty tough actually
jenison the chat room was wondering if
that was an episode of tickle me krista
kind of seemed that way and actually you
were not the only person that that
happened to in fact there's that there's
a bit of a stigma around new co-hosts
and the news at this point right got me
thank God pogoplug the remote access
service that lets you connect your
hardware has officially launched their
own cloud
hey I just imagined them releasing a
cloud into the sky you free go free okay
so they've launched a cloud right the
cloud has been launched people this is a
free online storage service that offers
uses five gigabytes of space to store
whatever data they'd like unlike pogo
plugs remote access services or cloud
offering does not require any hardware
components from the user I'm sorry I
can't get the image outta my good what
is it with the news and new co-host
people hey hey shabu dish service pin
augment products like the pogoplug
device and pogoplug software for
computers but won't replace them if
users would like more than five
gigabytes of storage it's not funny at
all okay hi we're gonna talk about a
little cart canonical yes then they can
upgrade to paid accounts 50 gigabytes of
star shore girlfriend having 95 I can
through this right okay I'm fired okay
they will go for 995 100k can fight will
be 19 k oh my okay but of course you
just can add their own wood stove
laughing it's not don't make my mother
but of course users can also add their
own pogoplug device to add their own
storage to the cloud using USB hard
drives and a high-speed internet
connection all right we got through it
you did whew Wow
memories what was that episode about I
have no idea at this point but my head
hurts oh boy Eric what about you you've
got some fun memories I was no memory at
all I'm not like a goldfish less expense
of my life is about all I got actually
no I've had some fun times here um
actually fond memories I do recall the
time you tried to do the automatic
closed captioning that was always a fun
one that's right should we take a look I
don't know you really want to see that
hillary was involved in it it's not true
we'll talk after this clip we've been
experimenting with YouTube I know I
recall this from yes before I'm very
excited about it thank you what do you
think about YouTube and Google's
speech-to-text engine that's really cool
it takes a video like one hour broadcast
like category 5 scans the file audio
right and creates closed captioning
automatically based on the words that we
say that's pretty rad pretty rad indeed
because there's a whole audience out
there who can be accommodated this way
and like tune in and be able to
understand what we're saying without lip
reading you were mentioning is that you
were mentioned last week that you have
friends who listen who are deaf I do are
they are they watching and lip reading
her some are like someone will follow
the chat room some have like just some
hearing loss or hard-of-hearing so
they're able to to hear bits and pieces
obviously not the same level as you or I
but those who are profoundly deaf would
rely solely on like lip reading and just
the strict visuals so here it's
interesting to know yeah that people are
watching who can't necessarily here
that's very nice to have you here now we
have them working with YouTube's and
Google's speech to text and I'm very
excited about what the service couldn't
but I'm not too excited about the
accuracy Oh like is it like okay you
know how on ye olde television when you
were to put closed captioning up it
wouldn't recognize some words gonna be
like more like that kind of let's just
say they've gone one step further and
they've compared the room where we're
off to a dictionary oh and said
phonetically hmm this sounds like this
oh and it just starts randomly slapping
in words gotcha but don't really have
anything to do with what's being said so
let's say maybe the word Ubu tube
wouldn't be found in the dictionary it's
quite possible or if for example say
something just anything cool and I'm
talking at the same time oh and then
google says okay I don't know what this
word is I'm gonna make something up haha
gotcha okay I've got a little bit of a
demonstration this is last week's
episode I would like to see just the
intro all right pay attention okay
what you're a go to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
ontario canada we broadcasting live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin
here's your host or I'll be Ferguson
welcome to this episode number 169 of
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Ravi Ferguson and I'm Eric
oh that was awesome that was just one of
those moments I got stopped at the
border after that anything else come to
mind air well you know it was kind of
fun the end the whole Rebecca Black
Friday / tuesday thing was kind of fun
as I recall Rachel and I had a little
fun at your expense one day that was
kind of fun I even had to go to the
thrift store and get him an argyle all
over you knows that's amazing it's kind
of special do you have that clip I do Oh
shall we rolling here we go maybe duct
tape was up there just it's no one's
gonna care if this ball thing isn't
perfect so you want me to write a
postcard episode 2 26 peg to Tuesday
January take three it's Tuesday January
17th 2012 one saw a fabulous hockey
player last week that her kid was out on
the ice just dazzling the folks huh were
you able to make it i was there and i
seem to recall a big belly flop well
it's a big belly but don't tell her I
said that okay so what's coming up in
the newsroom today
join the community chat room at triple w
category 5 TV or email us at live at
category 5 TV and now let's begin here's
your host Rob you Ferguson it's Tuesday
January 17 2012 this is episode 226 I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Rachel shoe
welcome nerdlings to category 5 TV okay
we have a question from Garvey here
Tiger be okay stop interrupting um he
wants to know how do i get rid of my
cookies how do you get rid of cookies
that seems like a pretty straightforward
question for which we have the answer we
have i'm just going to bring this up on
the screen here all right oh thanks hmmm
this could take him in up oh you can't
always get them all in one fell swoop
sometimes it takes a little more time if
you have small kids in the house you
could put the cookie jar down where they
can reach it that always helps get rid
of cookies I hope this is helpful we're
just gonna take a minute here
what we can't throw the whole cash right
now you have more questions this is
category 5 technology TV and just to do
a quick round my name is Robbie Ferguson
I'm your host well I'm Hillary rumba oh
I'm crystal wells I'm Eric kidney I'm
Sasha dramatis I am Jodie Crangle thank
you to our wonderful studio audience
make sure you get a lot of refreshments
and stuff and we're gonna stick around
after the show and and have a bit of a
meet-and-greet as well Ravi yes what
about you and you've been around longest
so five years what are some of your most
memorable moment well I like I say that
262 episodes it's amazing but I think
that one of the things I really enjoy
doing I love doing stuff like this i
love getting out into the community
because we're we're a studio based show
so we're we're live but we basically are
looking into the camera we know that
there are people watching because
they're interacting with us but we don't
get to see you and and so it's so
wonderful to have people here I love
being out doing reviews I think you have
a lot of fun with reviews as well and
and just getting out into the community
and
and doing things that involve other
people rather than just sitting in a
dark studio somewhere right one of the
clips that I brought with me tonight
that was a very special time for me it
was actually from season one and that's
you know as viewership started to grow
we started receiving a lot of products
to you know and we still receive
products to do reviews and things like
that and so it's it's it was one of our
first where they sent us a really cool
innovative product it was called the
jawbone they still make them today but
this was the first generation of their
product with military-grade noise
cancellation technology so I did a
review of that and I actually went out
into the city of derry and talked to
local people and with them interacted
and demonstrated the product so I'll
show you what that's all about right
here here we are to the juice mango
magic
okay all right
that looks really good actually this is
the advantage to doing these kind of
reviews there we go is that all the
noise you can make come on the jawbone
can do better than that okay good good
so here I am with the jawbone headset
you can hear now let's switch back to
the camera so you can hear what's
actually going on here
could you hear me now yeah isn't it
awesome I love the old technology stuff
that just like the technology just blows
your mind it's amazing and then on the
flip side I also loved one of the things
I love about category 5 because we're
not a part of any big networks or
anything like that we're not on your
traditional you know cable TV we don't
have people telling us what we can and
cannot do and on the flip side of
technology i love being able to
broadcast from anywhere here we are in
an auditorium Jerry Kowalski is here
from Silver Beach developments it's nice
to see him all the way from Halliburton
and we've broadcast from there and I
have actually been able to take the show
into the forest at my cottage at our
family cottage that we were just able to
do that how amazing is it that that we
were able to do that and to me that's
something that's amazing and in this
clip from you know this was 34 years ago
we were demonstrating a very very cool
product which was a snorkel mask that
lets you see recordings lets you record
what you're seeing when you're
snorkeling or scuba diving we've got
some of those to give away tonight so if
you love to snorkel make sure you know
you get your tickets ready but I'm going
to show you this clip one of the things
that I love about the show is just being
able to go anywhere
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson and thanks for
joining me tonight of course this again
a very special episode very different
from our usual format if you're new here
if you've never joined us on the live
show tonight we are broadcasting from
the cottage in Eagle Lake does that need
that I can take the equipment anywhere
and we can we can do the show and and
that product i absolutely love it's the
liquid image video camera underwater
mask and we saw a clip of Hillary
wearing the emx version I guess up here
you guys have got a couple of those to
give away we do see this yeah actually
I'm going to give away can you see this
it actually has a point of view camera
right above your goggle so you're cool
with this excellent quality snorkel mask
or scuba mask if you want it out it does
have the attachments for lighting you
know if you want to add lighting to your
your mask and go deeper you can do that
and it's got the camera and everything
so I've always really so it's actually
that it's inspired me to take up
snorkeling I love doing that so that's
great you're such an athlete Robbie yeah
get your tickets ready we have some
divers in the audience who I know are
super keen to potentially win this prize
is I'm keeping my eyes on them oh do we
have where are the tickets has everybody
entered a ballot bill I saw you come in
um Jana let's let's get a ticket make
sure that everybody has put a ticket in
yeah okay good back on the Bob all right
Becca's got us covered okay we're dead
what that one okay we have number eight
six five six seven one all right
congratulations come on up
congratulation
there you go lucky guy okay gratulations
that we've got another one of these mass
to give away as well that's it i'm not
giving tickets to the whole family again
liquid image canada.com and yeah there's
there's the the ideas bring your kids
give them all tickets and walk away a
winner ready for the other 10 did did
something actually claim up Oh sash is
gonna wear it on the way home likely
i'll break yeah i'm driving the police
station wearing it okay ticket number 86
5672 is it really okay hold on wait no
can I have it if you win it it is pretty
cool some bossy turned out to be that's
not off eight six five six seven eight
okay we gotta give it another shot the
winning family yeah I'm pretty much
gonna blame this prize i mean it's it's
generous of you to let everyone else
have a bit like a race but you know it's
yours no okay okay next up there what
they're working at it no one's picking
this that's amazed that city on it's
just okay I've got one I'm not looking
ok ok 8 65 70 8708 are the last three
numbers all right all right
but it's still the same side of the room
congratulations and this is yours you
should keep it keep it for now has
anybody joined us from listen Terry you
can hang on to that ticket I took the
other half out of the bottle so it is
everybody who's with us tonight from
Barry anybody from outside of Barry who
traveled the farthest to be here we've
got family from bracebridge great to
have you here thank you is that the
furthest that we that we have tonight we
have Halliburton I presented dawn I mean
Australia Oh blimey yeah very cool all
right what's next we have keep this
party going a gift basket oh cool from
Ellie I electronics inc this is another
prize for you our audience this is the
perks of flying here for the live taping
all you the flu hair true fans we got
the big one this is pretty spectacular
this is this is valued at over a hundred
thirty dollars everything we've got AG
two natured compostable bin bags we've
got eco alkalines batteries we've got a
rechargeable flashlight that is
rechargeable by crank from free play as
well there's a whole bunch of stuff in
there and you've already drawn the
number who is a animal okay what do we
got are you okay it's 8 65 70 for all
right aren't you glad I suggested that
you get a ticket when you came in
congratulations congratulations to all
of our winners tonight and can those of
you in the chat room can you hear me ok
just want to make sure it has been so
wonderful having everybody here I
encourage you to please fill up on
goodies after this show just have a bit
of a meet-and-greet come up and talk to
us about category 5 or anything at all
I'd love to share some stories with your
if you have any questions about how we
do what we do feel free to come up and
look at the equipment as well I mean
broadcasting live to the world it's
amazing that we can do this with a 400
ollar consumer camera it's we don't live
in a world anymore where you have to
have hundreds of thousands of dollars
worth of equipment in order to do a show
if you have a talent or skill that you
want to showcase whether it be YouTube
or a live broadcast like this you can do
it with just a lot of the stuff that you
have at home so feel free to come up and
you know have a look at the server talk
to me about how we do what we do and of
course pick up business cards business
cards of our co-hosts myself if you want
to send in your questions what category
5 is unique for is that it's like a TV
show and you see some of the clips we
review products we have a great time
doing it we do tech news but we have a
lot of fun and it's about getting your
questions in and being able to ask us
things about technology well what
printer should i buy I mean I walk into
the store they've got a hundred
different laptops which one is the one
for me that's an overwhelming question
for a lot of people and so we're here to
be able to answer those questions for
you so would you consider sending us an
email and B being a part of the live
show on a weekly basis every Tuesday
night seven o'clock and just to
encourage you we in fact have more
prizes which we're going to be giving
away hold on to your tickets but we're
not giving them away tonight we're going
to be giving these away over the next
three weeks we have for example a year
service with magicjack which provides
you with unlimited long distance to camp
done canada and the US for an entire
year I've used this by the way it's
really cool we use it exclusively at the
studio and I think it's a fantastic
product the products worth about eighty
dollars but you can imagine if you
cancel out your phone bill you would be
able to you would actually be able to
save hundreds of dollars each year I
think for us we're saving about 800 so
we've got those to give away we've got
thermaltake eSports headphones they're
very valuable they're brand-new they're
not even on the thermaltake website yet
we're going to be giving those away over
the next couple of weeks we've got a
laid on gaming mouse pad from
thermaltake a battle dragon bag for land
parties and things like that we've got a
ton of great prizes that we're gonna be
given
way so encourage you to pick up our
business card visit our website its
category five dot TV and over the next
couple of weeks certainly make sure you
join us and join the chat room and watch
for your number to be called those of
you who are here in the studio we're
going to actually be calling out numbers
over the next few weeks so now Justin
handed this from a wonderful highly
recommended realtor and a small atoms
from here and bury this is a
complimentary real estate market
analysis valued at about two hundred
fifty dollars so let's let's draw for
this as well right you know Robbie while
you're mentioning how economically
you're able to do this show yes you
think perhaps we should mention that it
is viewers and the like who actually
enabled us to be able to do this and we
do in fact have a spot on the website
and will graciously accept any kind of a
donation yeah I appreciate your so
you're mentioning that we are donation
supported we do have a limited amount of
advertising on the show as well as on
our website and it all helps with being
able to do things like this being able
to purchase parts for servers when they
go down and things like that so we are
donation supported we also cookies for
events and yeah these cookies yeah help
yourselves and it's all provided free of
charge and that comes to you from from
our ad sponsors people who businesses
who have purchased advertising from our
website and if you have a business and
you're interested in advertising with us
then please talk to us as well our rates
are extremely good so for a
analysis from Anna small atoms of exit
realty drumroll please 65 you can help
690 865 690 alright
we have a real estate recession well
thank you very much thank you to all of
our sponsors thank you Anna thank you to
Ellie I electronics inc we just love
Ellie I we love eco alkalines as one of
their products as I mentioned earlier I
want to say thank you to hamleys tea and
coffee co from right here in berry they
actually roast the beans for that coffee
that you're going to be drinking tonight
that's roasted right here in berry
they're located on right at monette's
point check them out I'm loving the
coffee there and thing is is that it's
fair trade organic coffee they're
roasting it right here in berry and you
know that that it's it's fair trade and
and it's organic so that means a lot to
us as well also Simcoe north Rebecca is
here with us tonight she's been pitching
in and I'd encourage you to go over and
say hi to her ask her about what she
does she I can never get my head around
all the things that you do it's amazing
she was very very helpful with us
getting our press releases put together
for this event and we appreciate her
very much so I'd encourage you to check
out a single North they located a 166
Saunders road unit be right here and
Barry do you have a phone number that we
should give out there it is 70 581 276
37 active on Twitter fantastic so please
do show your support for the the
companies that support us select the
calls they can't hear you when you don't
hold the microphone do you accept
collect calls I mean we have viewership
and trying to know also a very big
thanks to our photographer of the
evening Sheila Burgess she's a fantastic
photographer you see her walking around
there she is
she's actually laying on her stomach to
get that perfect shot as I mentioned her
so you can email her Sheila Burgess
that's felt vu rgess @ mac.com if you'd
like to find out about having
photography done for your event 705 718
1484 we appreciate her being here and
all the work that she does for us a
category 5 thank you also i want to say
thank you to my co-host and you guys
know that i think you're awesome i mean
i can do the show with show us Robbie
yeah have a coffee Eric yeah but I mean
that's that's what makes the show it
would get really really boring if this
bald-headed nerd was just on the screen
all the time so I'll say thank you
everybody and really looking forward to
what we have for you in season six if
you're a business owner in berry or the
surrounding area one of the things that
we're really hoping to do is to branch
out and be more active in the community
with the production of videos being able
to produce your commercials for you or
even broadcasting's directly from your
venue in order to promote your products
or services and also to welcome an
audience which in turn welcomes people
into your business place so if you're
interested in that check out our website
category 5 TV our press contact
information is all there and as viewers
please go to our website category five
dot TV check it out this week everybody
have fun here in the studio audience
tonight
thank you so much for being here I know
it's a bit of a look back at a show that
is new to you we have so much fun with
it and we so much appreciate you
celebrating our fifth anniversary with
us tonight so thank you for being here
make sure that you enjoy thanks
everybody yes otherwise
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 to
be broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV checking for local show
times in your area at category 5 TV and
find out where you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigious
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
you
