your your kind of get you're getting
into graphic design how far into that
area
ah so I've done see so it's been an
interest of mine for a long period of
time probably about a decade and I did a
year of schooling for it at George Brown
College two years ago so and I've done
some freelance work some for like
organizations related to the City of
Toronto I had a billboard up at Queen
Street West at one point in time so I
don't know I've done a little bit come
here and there yeah you Photoshop user
oh yeah Photoshop Illustrator InDesign
kind of the basic getting in the vector
yeah I mean that's illustrator
illustrator is all vector and related to
the more the logo design that kind of
thing but a little bit of web design as
well so that's what I'll be diving deep
into this next year have you ever heard
of the GNU image manipulation program
aka GIMP no really how so yeah it does
sound familiar but please explain well
think about Photoshop and it is a very
pricy application the GIMP is
essentially a an RGB only alternative
but it's absolutely free it's open
source okay so kind of like how Linux is
an open source alternative train to
microsoft windows or even mac OS if you
wanted to go there okay so where would
you like could you get it is it just
directly accessible through the internet
yeah we download gimp org so you can
head on over to there to get the GIMP
yeah it's available on Windows Mac or
Linux okay so we're using it on Linux
one of the neat things about Linux is
that because it's free and and GIMP is
also free people think hey it would be
really good to be able to do this and
then someone codes it and then releases
it for free okay on Windows it's not the
same because it's a proprietary
environment the people who make it have
to say oh we yeah we agree that's a
great feature so we'll add it in the
next big release there's something like
that
so one really really simple comparison a
little Linux tip for you is Unicode
characters are we familiar with Unicode
at all Unicode is so you think about the
keys on your keyboard you've got a
through Zed and everything else
those are unicode characters but our
keyboard only can handle 104 keys or
whatever it happens to be because of
space restrictions and of course you
wouldn't want a keyboard that wraps all
around you but Unicode itself so the the
amount of letters characters numbers and
figures that are available to you are
vastly larger than what's available on
your keyboard so you think about for
example an em-dash or the pound sign for
the for the currency or the euro like
these are all characters how how do you
type that into a keyboard right right
and that's where Unicode comes in so is
this available let's say in Microsoft
Word is one of the language like not
languages but one of the scripts or well
you can that's a bit you could change
your font to a Unicode enable yeah the
ability you know word has a special
character selector or something like
that yeah yeah but we can actually type
Unicode with our keyboard okay so it's
absolutely possible in word using that
as an example and this is where Windows
is very much different than Linux it's a
bit of a pain in the butt or it's not
quite as well on Windows it's not as
Universal it works in Word and pretty
much in nothing else okay maybe WordPad
but not notepad Unicode characters have
to be inputted in a special way so you
have to first of all know the unicode
character so I'm just gonna I'm just
gonna hop onto Google here and type
Unicode characters and you can just do
that and find some of the characters
that are available to you so eunuch or
Unicode - table comm is a huge
repository of them and you'll just be
blown away at what's available so it
starts with the normal alphabet and then
you get into kind of
characters and accents we see a lot of
that in the French language in typing so
you know being able to do accent
circumflex those kinds of things all
right so once you know the character
codes that you want you see all those
it's just huge like it's just loading
and loading and loading now on Windows
in order to do that I need to bring up
Microsoft Word and then in order to type
it I have to press alt X right word yep
punch in the unicode number right hit
enter and then it converts into the
Unicode okay but it doesn't work in any
other application right right on Linux
on the other hand all I have to do is
press control-shift U and it works
universally so to demonstrate that even
in let's say my address bar I wouldn't
be surprised if it works there it did so
see what happens in Linux it creates a
you with an underline so any application
that I am in so if I head over to let's
just bring up pluma for example my text
editor and if I hit ctrl shift you now I
have an underlined you and you know
that's an underlying to you well it's
not it's actually waiting for me to
input a Unicode number okay and then I
can input it so we know for example an M
dash is 2014 it's really easy to
remember because the Year just passed so
if you ever need an M dash it's 2 0 1 4
number is universal so if you're on
Windows wow you it's still 2014 but you
just have to go about inputting it a
little bit more roundabout because
you've got to go into where and hit all
decks on Linux I don't care what
application you're on control-shift you
and it's waiting for a number so it's
waiting right now I'm gonna hit 2 0 1 4
and then hit enter and it immediately
turns it into an M - Wow so similarly
control shift you and if I want to use
let's say the Euro symbol so 2 0 AC
enter and there it is Wow ok so in terms
of the types of professions or people
that use Unicode most frequently who
would that be
well is it just for general users and
the convenience of being able to create
all of these different kinds of I guess
tight characters that you don't and
that's how and thank you for the
beautiful segue because at the beginning
of this segment we started talking about
graphic editing and how does this relate
to graphic editing and so we're gonna
look at a web what is traditionally used
as a web developers tool and it's called
font awesome it's just like it sounds so
we go to font awesome dot IO and what
font awesome allows you to do and we've
seen this on the show before font
awesome allows you to use icon sets
within a font so on the web we do this
using CSS classes right so if I need a
snowflake or if I need a little fire
logo or an ID card
all of these things can be used in our
web design or in our demonstration
tonight they can be used in our in our
graphic design mm-hmm
but how do we translate something that's
built for web into something that we can
use now in the GNU image manipulation
program or Microsoft Word I suppose
because if you're on Windows you could
install this as well the same way we're
going to do it here on Linux but then
you'd have to hit alt text and use the
unicode character because watch what
happens here as I'm looking at these so
let's say the you know let's just pick
one if I want the envelope and if I
scroll down a little ways so that's what
it looks like and you see here Unicode
f2 b6 so as long as we have font awesome
we can use the unicode character f2 b6
and it will create an envelope okay
because it is a TTFN of font it can be
any size it's vector and we can scale it
to any size and it will be it can be
huge it can be part of our graphic we
can use them as bullet list images icons
those kinds of things so in order to get
it let's just go back to the home and
you'll see a button called download nice
and straightforward and scroll down a
little bit here and we can just say no
thanks
just download font awesome for unless
you would like to support them by
purchasing the commercial release
okay so font awesome is downloaded just
like that we've got fonts and we have
all kinds of stuff here it looks like
we've got a TT F which is a Windows
TrueType font and then we've got an OT F
which is an open tight type font and
that is you know we can use either or on
Linux both are supported if I open that
let's see here I may have to extract it
first so I'm just gonna extract that
throw it on my desktop and on Windows
it's it's no different now let's try
opening this let's see open with font
viewer let's see if it comes up no I've
got a few different font viewers
installed but well hopefully that one
will work
I love how smoothly you're going through
this it's like watching someone do magic
or something like that magic I get a try
installing it I just hit install and
let's see if that if that actually did
it so I can check that by going into
thanks for the compliment by the way oh
yeah you know let's just make sure that
we've got the fun I'm just using this to
see so if I type in font awesome it is
there
okay so again here I am in LibreOffice
writer this is a free alternative to
Microsoft Word and I am using it in
Linux and because I am using it in Linux
what's the key combination I can use
anybody remember f to be six that's good
all that salt X in words if that's only
if you're in Windows oh and windows on
Linux doesn't matter what ctrl shift and
then what was the code that you gave me
Oh F to be six I'm not sure let's try it
enter Oh way to go okay so now I've got
that graphic in because I've selected
font awesome as my font and I can set it
to any size I'd like and it's going to
be lossless because it's vector right of
course so bringing that over to the
graphic design end of things we
go into GNU image manipulation program
and one of the things that we find and
you you see this in Photoshop and other
applications as well is that bullet
lists can sometimes be not very pretty
because there's really no like there's
no ul Xin Li is there's no bullets per
se it's all done through graphics so
let's create a really quick graphic I'll
just make something that's about a
thousand by a thousand square and then
I'm going to create a text layer this is
the GNU image manipulation program it's
absolutely free and available at
gimp.org so once I've created this I can
say hello alright I'm really creative
with my lorem ipsum z-- I can yeah there
we go okay so if I want bullet points
now you know traditionally we're we're
gonna do a hyphenation or something like
that well what I can actually do is we
can hit let's change our font for this
particular spot we're just going to type
in font awesome and then I'm gonna type
control shift you and what was the code
Oh F to be six right there you go okay
so then I can I can either continue to
copy or continue to type that or I can
copy and paste it well just like that
and now now we're using an envelope but
it could be a check mark or it could be
anything else and because it's a font
it's going to be it's gonna be nicely
matched up to the the pixel height of
the font that you're using and those
kind of things so that's font awesome
from font awesome dot IO definitely a
great tool for web design because it is
a web font you can use it just by
specifying the CSS class and we've shown
that again on the show before so head on
over to category five dot TV and do a
quick search for font awesome sounds
like I named it this would be something
that you could use in business yeah
you've had it happen where you know
formatting is different on one computer
or something and bullets aren't looking
quite right remember the checkboxes yes
so you you you know you had a form where
in one application it had a nice square
for people to check off
I'm a printout and then on the other one
it the Box already had an accident
everything has already been checked off
so you could install font awesome the
font and then use the Unicode character
for the square and you've got it I love
it fancy fancy awesome fantastic you
just you just got a raise
[Music]
[Applause]
you
