we're using an app called faith a lot of
live Sasha get over here a little bit
because you're getting cut off there
we've got Face Swap live here we've got
the ability to swap faces or swap faces
in a photo Wow now face swap live is a
bail available as a free version on
either iOS or Android here we're on
Android on my phone and when i click on
it to face swap you'll see that i start
to see a border around my face do you
guys see that now it tells me okay move
two faces into the scene Sasha you want
to get in on this action oh yeah okay Oh
what's my fav they swap face swap oh you
had my face protection oh no oh did I
get it no phased out okay hold it back
hold it back there we go we are lovely
okay that's beautiful ah there it is
okay turn a tenon get in on this action
this is faithful I'd point hahaha but
actually we're gonna miss amazing having
too much fun I the show so they face la
blog in real time allows you to swap
faces with your friends the kids
absolutely adore it you can download it
for free and of course there is a
commercial version that gives you some
extra features that you don't normally
have in the free version that is Face
Swap live.com make sure you check it out
it is so much fun I have identical twin
sisters yeah that Colleen before yeah
riot out have you met happen no well
they have done a face swap yeah and it's
funny because there they are I look I
than they are identical imporant want a
swap it's still kind of creepy really
yeah I really sorry pop it's like
slightly uncomfortable at all times it's
painless that's a goodness yeah it
doesn't hurt we're going to do things
like put like kiss rock star kind of
face on yeah and do the rock star think
there's a ton of stuff you can do with
that app that is so much fun even put
yourself you can actually in
real time you can actually change your
own faith using math so watch this I
switch to a mask oh oh my gosh the
kitten is me okay there we go that's
going to skate there's me as a kitten
that's or a puppy dog or what am I going
to look like when I'm old that's awfully
get so you can see how it kind of phases
in and out but it is really really good
for real time and then I can just take a
snapshot and boom I've got a picture ok
never mind through that Halloween
special you ready faster and yeah it
kind of does new profile picture oh gosh
nice you guys mustache sweet ok what is
it yeah that's the math teacher we can
do stuff like this in real time I like
this one oh ok yes I look like a fat
panda manage that Oh gone are the days
where you have to spend a whole lot of
time in Photoshop or something like that
it's to achieve on taneously its rate
all the spa boom just like that it's a
lot of fun
[Music]
